  II

l.U.l,
     '{'I'.'

rriofkwH
            REPORT

       SEVENTH MEETING

BRITISH ASSOCIATION

  ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE;

                HELD AT LIVERPOOL IN SEPTEMBER 1837.
                                      VOL. VI.

                  LONDON:

       JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.

                                                  1838.
riUNTED BY RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR,
      RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.

                     /
CONTENTS.

Objects and Rules of the Association                         Page
Officers and Council
Treasurer's Account                                            v
Reports, Researches, and Desiderata
Address of Professor Traill                                    viii
Communications to the General Evening Meetings
                                                                xi
                                                                xii

                                                      .~. xxv

                                                              xliii

REPORTS ON THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

Report on the Variations of the Magnetic Intensity observed at     1

   different Points of the Earth's Surface. By Major Edward

   Sabine, R.A., F.R.S

Report on the various modes of Printing for the use of the Blind.

By the Rev. William Taylor, F.R.S               ' 87

Account of the discussions of Observations of the Tides which
   have been obtained by means of the grant of money which was
   placed at the disposal of the Author for that purpose at the last

  Meeting of the Association. By J. W. Lubbock, Esq., F.R.S. 103

On the difference between the Composition of Cast Iron produced

by the Cold and the Hot Blast. By Thomas Thomson, M.D.,

F.R.S., L. & E., &c, Professor of Chemistry, Glasgow               117

Notice of the Determination of the Constant of Nutation by the

Greenwich Observations, made as commanded by the British

Association. By the Rev. T. R. Robinson, D.D                       127

Report of some Experiments on the Electricity of Metallic Veins,

  and the Temperature of Mines. By Robert Were Fox .... 133
                        CONTENTS.

                                                                   Page

Provisional Report of the Committee of the Medical Section of the

British Association, appointed to investigate the Composition

of Secretions, and the Organs producing them                       139

Report from the Committee for inquiring into the Analysis of the

   Glands, &c, of the Human Body. By G. O. Rees, M.D., F.G.S. 149

Second Report of the London Sub-Committee of the British Asso-
   ciation Medical Section, on the Motions and Sounds of the Heart 1 55

On the present state of our knowledge in regard to Dimorphous

Bodies. By Professor Johnston, F.R.S                               163

Special Report on the Statistics of the Four Collectorates of Duk-
   hun, under the British Government. By Colonel Sykes, F.R.S. 217

On the relative Strength and other Mechanical Properties of Cast
   Iron obtained by Hot and Cold Blast. By Eaton Hodgkinson 337

Report on the Strength and other Properties of Iron obtained from

the Hot and Cold Blast. By William Fairbairn                       377

Report of the Committee on Waves, appointed by the British As-
   sociation at Bristol in 1836, and consisting of Sir John Robi-

    son, K.H., Secretary of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and
   John Scott Russell, Esq., M.A., F.R.S. Edinb., (Reporter) 417

Note by Major Sabine, being an Appendix to his Report on the

Variations of the Magnetic Intensity observed at different Points

of the Earth's Surface                                             497

Report from Mr. James Yates, as one of the Committee for ma-

king Experiments on the Growth of Plants under Glass, and

without any free Communication with the outward Air, on the

Plan of Mr. N. I. Ward, of London                                  501
      OBJECTS AND RULES

                THE ASSOCIATION.

                            OBJECTS.

The Association contemplates no interference with the ground

--occupied by other Institutions. Its objects are, To give a

stronger impulse and a more systematic direction to scientific

--inquiiy, to promote the intercourse of those who cultivate Sci-

ence in different parts of the British Empire, with one another,

--and with foreign philosophers, to obtain a more general atten-

tion to the objects of Science, and a removal of any disadvan-
tages of a public kind, which impede its progress.

                          RULES.

                                     MEMBERS.
   All Persons who have attended the first Meeting shall be
entitled to become Members of the Association, upon subscri-
bing an obligation to conform to its Rules.
   The Fellows and Members of Chartered Literary and Philo-

sophical Societies publishing Transactions, in the British Em-

pire, shall be entitled, in like manner, to become Members of

the Association.

   The Officers and Members of the Councils, or managing

Committees, of Philosophical Institutions, shall be entitled, in

like manner, to become Members of the Association.
   All Members of a Philosophical Institution recommended by

its Council or Managing Committee, shall be entitled, in like
manner, to become Members of the Association.

   Persons not belonging to such Institutions shall be elected by
the General Committee or Council, to become Members of the
Association, subject to the approval of a General Meeting.
                       RULES OF TIIE ASSOCIATION.

                                       SUBSCRIPTIONS.

   The amount of the Aunual Subscription shall be One Pound,
to be paid in advance upon admission ; and the amount of the

composition in lieu thereof, Five Pounds.
   Subscriptions shall be received by the Treasurer or Secre-

taries.

   If the annual subscription of any Member shall have been in

arrear for two years, and shall not be paid on proper notice, he

shall cease to be a member ; but it shall be in the power of the
Committee or Council to reinstate him, on payment of arrears.

                                        MEETINGS.

   The Association shall meet annually, for one week, or longer.
The place of each Meeting shall be appointed by the General
Committee at the previous Meeting ; and the Arrangements

for it shall be entrusted to the Officers of the Association.

                           GENERAL COMMITTEE*.

   The General Committee shall sit during the time of the

Meeting, or longer, to transact the business of the Association.

It shall consist of all Members present, who have communicated
any scientific Paper to a Philosophical Society, which Paper

has been printed in its Transactions, or with its concurrence.

    Members of Philosophical Institutions, being Members of
this Association, who may be sent as Deputies to any Meeting
of the Association, shall be Members of the Committee for that
Meeting, the number being limited to two from each Institution.

                             SECTIONAL COMMITTEES.

    The General Committee shall appoint, at each Meeting,
 Committees, consisting severally of the Members most conver-

 sant with the several branches of Science, to advise together for
 the advancement thereof.

    The Committees shall report what subjects of investigation
they would particularly recommend to be prosecuted during the
 ensuing year, and brought under consideration at the next

 Meeting.

    * The constitution of the General Committee was discussed at Liverpool,
 and at the close of the meeting notice was given, that attention would be
 directed to the reconsideration of the laws of the constitution of the General
 Committee at the next meeting of the Association in Newcastle.
RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION.  Vll

   The Committees shall recommend Reports on the state and
progress of particular Sciences, to be drawn up from time to
time by competent persons, for the information of the Annual

Meetings.

                  COMMITTEE OP RECOMMENDATIONS.

   The General Committee shall appoint at each Meeting a Com-
mittee, which shall receive and consider the Recommendations
of the Sectional Committees, and report to the General Com-

mittee the measures which they would advise to be adopted for
the advancement of science.

                              LOCAL COMMITTEES.

   Local Committees shall be formed by the Officers of the Asso-
ciation to assist in making arrangements for the Meetings.

   Committees shall have the power of adding to their numbers

those Members of the Association whose assistance they may

desire.

                                            OFFICERS.

  A President, two or more Vice-Presidents, two or more Se-

cretaries, and a Treasurer, shall be annually appointed by the
General Committee.

                                           COUNCIL.

   In the intervals of the Meetings the affairs of the Association

shall be managed by a Council, appointed by the General Com-
mittee. The Council may also assemble for the dispatch of
business during the week of the Meeting.

                     PAPERS AND COMMUNICATIONS.

   The Author of any paper or communication shall be at liberty

to reserve his right of property therein.

                                         ACCOUNTS.

   The Accounts of the Association shall be audited annually, by
Auditors appointed by the Meeting.
      --SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

OFFICERS AND COUNCIL, 1837-38.

   Trustees {permanent.)--Charles Babbage, Esq. R. I. Mur-

chison, Esq. John Taylor, Esq.

 --President. The Earl of Burlington.

   President elect.--His Grace the Duke of Northumberland.

  --Vice-Presidents. The Bishop of Durham, F.R.S., F.S.A.

The Rev. W. Vernon Hareourt, F.R.S., &c. Prideaux John

Selby, Esq., F.R.S.E.

  --Vice-Presidents elect. The Right Rev. The Bishop of Nor-

wich. Rev. William Whewell. John Dalton, LL.D. Sir
Philip Egerton, Bart., M.P.

  --General Secretaries. R. I. Murchison, Esq. Rev. Professor

Peacock.

    Assistant General -Secretary.-- Professor Phillips, York.

  --Secretaries for Newcastle. J. Adamson, Esq. William

Hutton, Esq. Professor Johnston.

  --Treasurer. John Taylor, Esq., 2, Duke Street, Adelphi.
  --Treasurers to the Neiucastle Meeting. Rev. W. Turner.

Charles Bigge, Esq.

Council-- Francis Baily, Esq., Treas. R.S.  Professor

Christie, Woolwich. Professor Graham, London. J. E. Gray,

British Museum. G. B. Greenough, Esq., Regent's Park.

Professor Henslow, Cambridge. Dr. Hodgkin. Rev. F. W.

Hope. Robert Hutton, Esq., M.P. W. S. MacLeay, Esq.

Professor Powell, Oxford. Dr. Roget. Colonel Sykes.

--Secretary to the Council. James Yates, Esq., 49, Upper

Bedford Place, London.

 --Local Treasurers. Dr. Daubeny, Oxford. Professor Hens-

low, Cambridge. Dr. Orpen, Dublin. Charles Forbes, Esq.,
Edinburgh. William Gray, jun., Esq., York. George Ben-
gough, Esq., Bristol. Samuel Turner, Esq., Liverpool. Rev.
John James Tayler, Manchester. James Russell, Esq., Bir-
mingham. William Hutton, Esq., Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Henry Woollcombe, Esq., Plymouth.
OFFICERS OF SECTIONAL COMMITTEES.                       IX

OFFICERS OF SECTIONAL COMMITTEES AT THE
                  LIVERPOOL MEETING.

SECTION A.--MATHEMATICAL AND PHYSICAL SCIENCE.

--President. Sir D. Brewster.            F. Baily, Esq.

Vice-Presidents.-- J". W. Lubbock, Esq.

Rev. Professor Peacock.                  Professor Stevelly.
   Secretaries.--Bar. Professor Powell.

W. S. Harris, Esq.

SECTION B. CHEMISTRY AND MINERALOGY.

--President. Dr. Faraday.                Professor Graham.

Vice- Presidents.--Professor Daniell.

Dr. Apjohn.                              Dr. Reynolds.  Pro-
    Secretaries.-- Professor Johnston.

fessor Miller.

--SECTION C. GEOLOGY AND GEOGRAPHY.

President.--Rev. Professor Sedgwick. (For Geography)

G. B. Greenough, Esq.
   Vice-Presidents.--Leonard Horner, Esq. Lord Lole. tl.

T. De la Beche, Esq.                                    (JJor

    Secretaries.--Captain Portlock. R. Hutton, Esq.

Geography) Captain H. M. Denham, R. N.

                --SECTION D. ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY.

  President.-- W. S. MacLeay, Esq.       Professor Graham.

    Vice-Presidents.--Dr. Richardson.    W. Swam. son, Esq.

Professor Lindley.
    Secretaries.--C. C. Babington, Esq.

Rev. L. Jenyns.

                     SECTION E. MEDICAL SCIENCE.

  President.--Professor W. Clark, M.D.

   Vice-Presidents.--James Carson, M.D. Peter Mark Roget,
M.D. Robert Bickersteth, Esq. Professor R. T. Bvanson,

M fecretaries.-James Carson, Jan., M.D. J. R. W. Vose,

M.D. James Long, Esq.
                           SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

                              SECTION F. STATISTICS.

 --President. Lord Sandon.
  --Vice-Presidents. Col. Sykes,Esq. G. R. Porter, Esq. James

Heywood, Esq.

  Secretaries.--W. R. Greg, Esq. Dr. W. C. Taylor. W.

Langton, Esq.

                 SECTION G. MECHANICAL SCIENCE.

 --President. Rev. T. R. Robinson, D.D.
  --Vice-Presidents. Dr. Lardner. Professor Wheatstone.

Professor Willis.

  --Secretaries. Thomas Webster, Esq. Charles Vignolles,

Esq.

              CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.

   Professor Agassiz, Neufchatel. M. Arago, Secretary of the

Institute, Paris. Professor Berzelius, Stockholm. Professor

De la Rive, Geneva. Professor Dumas, Paris. Baron Alexan-

der von Humboldt, Berlin. Professor Liebig, Giessen. Pro-
fessor CErsted, Copenhagen. Jean Plana, Astronomer Royal,

Turin. M. Quetelet, Brussels. Professor Schumacher, Altona.
          09HHH

o
w
oi--

CO

o

H
ow

w         r^ CO © O O © © © ©«D (M CO
w
H         . CO © © © © © ».CO©«>.«>.

PS H      ^i*oo^ rtO^CONcoMooOo>o-j1oIjTScnlO
          ©^> tO                   eo
O
     P            >-H              i-l  rH CN
     oO

O

ot--  en                                CN ^j
o
      w                                 2 * >·
CO    gP
                                        Z 5oi ec
CO 02
                                        (o o o o o
a     w                                 « .tn -t3 .^ .tn
      M
CO H                                    OT 't? *t3 ""D 'O

          ppoa ontCoOot»0~os0- 00
          « 22

          _,

          ·s s 5

          " ° h5

          MO3
--xii SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

The following Reports on the 2»'ogress and desiderata of dif-
  ferent branches of science have been drawn up at the request
   of the Association, and printed in its Transactions.

                                          Vol. I.

  On the progress of Astronomy during the present century,

by G. B. Airy, M.A., Astronomer Royal.

  On the state of our knowledge respecting Tides, by J. W.

Lubbock, M.A., Vice-President of the Royal Society.

  On the recent progress and present state of Meteorology,

by James D. Forbes, F.R.S., Professor of Natural Philosophy,
Edinburgh.

  On the present state of our knowledge of the Science of Ra-

diant Heat, by the Rev. Baden Powell, M.A., F.R.S., Savilian
Professor of Geometry, Oxford.

   On Thermo-electricity, by the Rev. James Cumming, M.A.,

F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, Cambridge.

  On the recent progress of Optics, by Sir David Brewster,

K.C.G., LL.D., F.R.S., &c.

  On the recent progress and present state of Mineralogy, by

the Rev. William Whewell, M.A., F.R.S.

  On the progress, actual state, and ulterior prospects of

Geology, by the Rev. William Conybeare, M.A., F.R.S.,
V.P.G.S., &c.

  On the recent progress and present state of Chemical Science,
by J. F. W. Johnston, A.M., Professor of Chemistry, Durham.

  On the application of Philological and Physical researches to
the History of the Human Species, by J. C. Prichard, M.D.,

F.R.S., &c.
                                         Vol. II.

   On the advances which have recently been made in certain

branches ofAnalysis, by theRev. G. Peacock, M.A.,F.R.S.,&c.

   On the present state of the Analytical Theory of Hydrostatics

and Hydrodynamics, by the Rev. John Challis, M. A., F.R.S., &c.

   On the state of our knowledge of Hydraulics, considered as a

branch of Engineering, by George Rennie, F.R.S. , &c. (Parts
I. and II.)

   On the state of our knowledge respecting the Magnetism of

the Earth, by S. H. Christie, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of Mathe-
matics, Woolwich.

   On the state of our knowledge of the Strength of Materials,

by Peter Barlow, F.R.S.

   On the state of our knowledge respecting Mineral Veins, by

John Taylor, F.R.S., Treasurer G.S., &c.
DESIDERATA, ETC.  Xlll

   On the state of the Physiology of the Nervous System, hy
William Charles Henry, M.D.

   On the recent progressof Physiological Botany, by John Lind-

ley, F.R.S., Professor of Botany in the University of London.

                                        Vol. III.

  On the Geology of North America, by H. D. Rogers, F.G.S.
  On the philosophy ofContagion, byWm. Henry,M.D.,F.R.S.
  On the state of Physiological Knowledge, by the Rev. William

Clark, M.D., F.G.S. , Professor of Anatomy, Cambridge.

   On the state and progress of Zoology, by the Rev. Leonard

Jenyns, M.A., F.L.S., &c.

   On the theories of Capillary Attraction, and of the Propaga-

tion of Sound as affected by the development of Heat, by the
Rev. John Challis, M.A., F.R.S., &c.

  On the state of the science of Physical Optics, by the Rev.

H. Lloyd, M.A., Professor of Natural Philosophy, Dublin.

                                        Vol. IV.

   On the state of our knowledge respecting the application of

Mathematical and Dynamical principles to Magnetism, Electri-

city, Heat, &c, by the Rev. Wm. Whewell, M.A., F.R.S.

  On Hansteen's researches in Magnetism, by Captain Sabine,

F.R.S.

  On the state of Mathematical and Physical Science in Bel-
gium, by M. Quetelet, Director of the Observatory, Brussels.

                                         Vol. V.

  On the present state of our knowledge with respect to Mine-

ral and Thermal Waters, by Charles Daubeny, M.D., F.R.S.,
M.R.I. A., &c, Professor of Chemistry and of Botany, Oxford.

  On North American Zoology, by John Richardson, M.D.,

F.R.S., &c.
   Supplementary report on the Mathematical Theory of Fluids,

by the Rev. J. Challis, Plumian Professor of Astronomy in the

University of Cambridge.

                                        Vol. VI.

  On the variations of the Magnetic Intensity observed at dif-

ferent points of the Earth's Surface, by Major Edward Sabine,

R.A., F.R.S.

  On the various modes of Printing for the use of the Blind,

by the Rev. William Taylor, F.R.S.

   On the present state of our knowledge in regard to Dimor-

phous Bodies, by Professor Johnston.

   On the Statistics of the Four Collectorates of Dukhun, under

the British Government.
         SEVENTH REPORT-- 1837,

The following Reports of Researches undertaken at the re-
   quest of the Association have been published, viz.

                       Vol. IV.

On the comparative measurement of the Aberdeen Standard

Scale, by Francis Baily, Treasurer R.S., &c.

  On Impact upon Beams, by Eaton Hodgkinson.

Observations on the Direction and Intensity of the Terrestrial

Magnetic Force in Ireland, by the Rev. H. Lloyd, Capt. Sabine,

and Capt. J. C. Ross.

On the Phaenomena usually referred to the Radiation of Heat,

by H. Hudson, M.D.

Wm.Experiments on Rain at different elevations, by  Gray,

jun. and Professor Phillips.

   Hourly observations of the Thermometer at Plymouth, by

W. S. Harris.
   On the Infra-orbital Cavities in Deers and Antelopes, by A.

Jacob, M.D.

  On the Effects of Acrid Poisons, by T. Hodgkin, M.D.
   On the Motions and Sounds of the Heart, by the Dublin Sub-

Committee.

  On the Registration of Deaths, by the Edinburgh Sub-Com-

mittee.

                                       Vol. V.

   Observations on the Direction and Intensity of the Terres-
trial Magnetic Force in Scotland, by Major Edward Sabine,

R.A. F.R.S., &c.
                    :
   Comparative view of the more remarkable Plants which cha-

racterize the Neighbourhood of Dublin, the Neighbourhood of

Edinburgh, and the South-west of Scotland, &c; drawn up for

the British Association, by J. T. Mackay, M.R.I.A., A.L.S.,
&c, assisted by Robert Graham, Esq., M.D., Professor of
Botany in the University of Edinburgh.

   Report of the London Sub-Committee of the Medical Section
of the British Association on the Motions and Sounds of the

Heart.
   Second Report of the Dublin Sub-Committee on the Motions

and Sounds of the Heart. (See vol. iv. p. 243.)
   Report of the Dublin Committee on the Pathology of the

Brain and Nervous System.
   Account of the recent Discussions of Observations of the

Tides which have been obtained by means of the grant of Money
which was placed at the disposal of the Author for that purpose

at the last Meeting of the Association, by J. W. Lubbock, Esq.
DESIDERATA, ETC.  XV

    Observations for determining the refractive Indices for the

Standard Rays of the Solar Spectrum in various media, by the
Rev. Baden Powell, M.A.,F.R.S., Savilian Professor of Geome-
try in the University of Oxford.

   Provisional Report on the Communication between the Arte-
ries and Absorbents on the part of the London Committee, by
Dr. Hodgkin.

   Report of Experiments on Subterranean Temperature, under

the direction of a Committee, consisting of Professor Forbes,

Mr. W. S. Harris, Professor Powell, Lieut. Colonel Sykes, and

Professor Phillips, (Reporter.)

   Inquiry into the Validity of a Method recently proposed by
George B. Jerrard, Esq., for Transforming and Resolving
Equations of Elevated Degrees : undertaken at the request of

the Association by Professor Sir W. R. Hamilton.

                                        Vol. VI.

   Account of the discussions of Observations of the Tides
which have been obtained by means of the grant of money which
was placed at the disposal of the Author for that purpose at the

last Meeting of the Association, by J. W. Lubbock, Esq.,

F.R.S.

   On the difference between the Composition of Cast Iron

produced by the Cold and the Hot Blast, by Thomas Thomson,

M.D., F.R.S. , L. & E., &c, Professor of Chemistry, Glasgow.
   On the Determination of the Constant of Nutation by the

Greenwich Observations, made as commanded by the British
Association, by the Rev. T. R. Robinson, D.D.

   On some Experiments on the Electricity of Metallic Veins,
and the Temperature of Mines, by Robert Were Fox.

    Provisional Report of the Committee of the Medical Section
of the British Association, appointed to investigate the Com-
position of Secretions, and the Organs producing them.

   Report from the Committee for inquiring into the Analysis of

the Glands, &c, of the Human Body, by G. O. Rees, M.D.

F.G.S.

   Second Report of the London Sub-Committee of the British
Association Medical Section, on the Motions and Sounds of

the Heart.

   Report from the Committee for making experiments on the
Growth of Plants under Glass, and without any free communi-
cation with the outward air, on the plan of Mr. N. I. Ward,
of London.

   Report of the Committee on Waves, appointed by the British
Association at Bristol in 1836, and consisting of Sir John Robi-
--Xvi SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

son, K.H., Secretary of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and
John Scott Russell, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., Edin. (Reporter).

   On the relative strength and other Mechanical Properties of

Cast Iron obtained by Hot and Cold Blast, by Eaton Hodgkinson.

  On the Strength and other Properties of Iron obtained from
the Hot and Cold Blast, by W. Fairbairn.

The following Reports and Continuations of Reports have been
   undertaken to be drawn up at the request of the Association.

   On the progress of Electro-chemistry and Electro-magnet-

ism, so far as regards the experimental part of the subject, by
P. M. Roget, M.D., Sec. R.S.

  On the Connexion of Electricity and Magnetism, by S. H.

Christie, Sec. R.S.

   On the state of knowledge of the Phaenomena of Sound, by

Rev. Robert Willis, M.A., F.R.S., &c.

   On the state of our knowledge respecting the relative level

of Land and Sea, and the waste and extension of the land on
the east coast of England, by R. Stevenson, Engineer to the

Northern Lighthouses, Edinburgh.

   On the Botany of North America, by Jacob Greene, M.D.,
and Professor Sir W. J. Hooker, M.D.

  On the Geographical Distribution of Insects, and particu-

larly of the order Coleoptera, by J. Wilson, F.R.S.E.

  On circumstances in Vegetation influencing the Medicinal

Virtues of Plants, by R. Christison, M.D.

  On Salts, by Professor Graham, F.R.S.
  On the progress of Medical Science in Germany, by Dr.

Graves.

  On the Differential and Integral Calculus, by Rev. Professor

Peacock, M.A., F.R.S., &c.

  On the Geology of North America, by H. D. Rogers, F.G.S.,

Professor of Geology, Philadelphia.

   On the Mineral Riches of Great Britain, by John Taylor,

F.R.S., G.S.

   On Vision, by Professor C. Wheatstone, F.R.S.
   On the application of a General Principle in Dynamics to
the Theory of the Moon, by Professor Sir W. Hamilton.
   On Isomeric Bodies, by Professor Liebig.
   On Organic Chemistry, by Professor Liebig.
   On Inorganic Chemistry, by Professor Johnston, F.R.S.
   On Fossil Reptiles, by Professor Owen, F.R.S.
  On the Salmonidae of Scotland, by Sir J. W. Jardine.
   On the Caprimulgidaj, by N. Gould, F.L.S.
   On theGeneraof Fossil Insects, byRev. F.W.Hope, F.L.S.j&c.
                                    DESIDERATA, ETC.

Reports requested, Researches recommended, and Desiderata
    noticed by the Committees of Science at the Liverpool
    Meeting *.

                       ASTRONOMY.

    For the reduction of observations on Stars in the Histoire
Celeste and the volumes of the Academie des Sciences for
1789 and 1790 (see vol. iv. p. xv.) 500/. was placed at the dis-
posal of a Committee, consisting of Mr. Baily, Prof. Airy, and
Rev. Dr. Robinson.

   For the extension of the Catalogue of the Astronomical So-
ciety, so as to include all the stars in Bessel's Fundamenta
Astronomiae, as well as some other stars both in the north-
ern and southern hemisphere, which have since been found to
come within the original scope and intention of that Catalogue,
or which from peculiar circumstances of position, magnitude,
discordance, or proper motion, might advantageously be in-
cluded therein (the whole of the stars to be reduced to the year
1850, and the constants of precession, aberration and nuta-
tion to be computed for that epoch, with their secular varia-
tions), the sum of 500/. was placed at the disposal of a Com-
mittee, consisting of Mr. Baily, Prof. Airy, and Rev. Dr. Ro-

binson.

  A Committee was appointed, consisting of Rev. Dr. Robin-

son, Mr. Baily, and Dr. Traill, to apply to the proper authori-
ties for the establishment of an astronomical observatory at
Liverpool.

  A Committee was appointed, consisting of the President,

the Earl of Burlington, Mr. Lubbock, the Astronomer Royal,

Mr. Baily, Prof. Rigaud, Prof. Challis, Prof. Sir W. Hamilton,

Prof. Peacock, and Rev. Dr. Robinson, for the purpose of re-
presenting to Government the importance of reducing the
Greenwich observations of the moon.

                                  TIDES.

   For completing the discussions of Tides of the port of Bris-

tol, under the direction of Rev. Wm. Whewell, the sum of

75/. was granted.

  A committee was appointed, consisting of Mr. Whewell, Mr.

Lubbock, and Dr. Traill, to apply to the proper authorities for
the establishment of tide observations at Liverpool.

* In addition to or extension of those contained in vol. iv. and vol. v.

vol. vi. 1837.  b
--xv ji SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

                            WAVES.

    For continuing the experimental investigations on Waves,
100/. was placed at the disposal of Sir J. Robison and Mr.

 Russell.

                METEOROLOGY.

The Committee for Meteorology and Subterranean Tempe-

rature received a further grant of 100/.

   For hourly observations of the Barometer and Wet-bulb
Thermometer a grant of 50/. was placed at the disposal of Mr.

W. S. Harris.

   For the construction of an Anemometer, on Mr. Osier's plan,

the sum of 40/. was placed at the disposal of Mr. W. S. Harris

and Mr. Osier.
For the repairs of an Anemometer, on Mr. Whe well's plan,

W.10/. was placed at the disposal of Mr.  S. Harris.

Application was directed to be made to the Dock Committee

of Liverpool, requesting that body to direct Meteorological

Observations to be made and recorded at the lighthouses and

telegraphs under their direction, in conformity with any instruc-

tions they may receive from the Meteorological Committee.

                                  OPTICS.

   For the purpose of an inquiry into the action of Gases on
the Solar Spectrum 100/. was placed at the disposal of Sir D.

Brewster.

   For the purpose of constructing a Telescopic Lens of Rock
Salt, the grant of 80/., at the disposal of Sir D. Brewster, was

renewed.

   Prof. Wheatstone was requested to present a Report on
Vision to the next Meeting of the Association.

   Prof. Sir W. Hamilton was requested to consider and re-

port on the question of the practicability of applying his gene-
ral method of Dynamics to improve the Theory of the Moon.

                          CHEMISTRY.

   For experiments on substances present in minute quantities
in Atmospheric Air the sum of 10/. was placed at the disposal
of Mr. West.

   For a continuation of his Table of Chemical Constants the
sum of 30/. was placed at the disposal of Prof. Johnston.
          DESIDERATA, ETC.                    XIX

   For the institution of a series of experiments on the great
scale on the chemical and mechanical effects and changes pro-
duced on Cast and Wrought Iron, by the continued action of
Sea Water at various temperatures, and of foul River Water,
whether fresh or salt, the sum of 201. was placed at the disposal
of Prof. Davy and Mr. R. Mallet.

   For the prosecution of experiments on the Action of Heat of
212° on Organic and Inorganic Bodies the sum of 10/. was
placed at the disposal of Mr. R. Mallet.

   Prof. Liebig was requested to prepare a Report on the pre-

sent state of our knowledge in regard to Isomeric Bodies. He
was also requested to prepare a Report on the state of Organic

Chemistry and Organic Analysis.

   Prof. Johnston was requested to prepare a Report on the

state of Inorganic Chemistry and Inorganic Analysis.

          GEOLOGY.

   For the purpose of carrying on the inquiry into the per-

manence of the Relative Level of Land and Sea, the sum of

2121., the remainder of the vote of last year (500), was placed

at the disposal of a Committee, consisting of Rev. W. Whewell,

Col. Colby, Mr. Greenough, and Mr. Griffith.

For the purpose of advancing our knowledge of Fossil Ich-

thyology, by assisting the publication of M. Agassiz, the fur-
ther sum of 105/. was placed at the disposal of a Committee,

consisting of. Dr. Buckland, Prof. Sedgwick and Mr. Mur-

chison.

For the purpose of making excavations in the Peat Mosses

of Ireland the grant of 50/., at the disposal of Col. Colby, was

renewed.

   For the purpose of making experiments on the quantity of

Mud in Rivers the grant of 201. was renewed, and placed at

the disposal of a Committee, consisting of Mr. James Yates,

Mr. De la Beche and Capt. Denham.

It was stated to be desirable that a Report should be drawn

up on the present state of our knowledge of the effects of Volta

and Thermo-Electricity in the production of Crystals and the

modification of Mineral Substances, and the Council of the As-

sociation was requested to take steps for obtaining such a re-

port.

   Prof. Owen was requested to draw up a Report on the pre-

sent state of our knowledge of the Fossil Reptiles of Great

Britain.

          b2
--XX SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

    It was stated to be desirable that Engineers and Proprietors of Railways
should be requested (where it is necessary to cover up sections) to preserve
Notes and Drawings of such sections, and to collect the Organic Fossils, if any,
and to transmit the same to the Geological Society of London.

   The attention of geological observers was directed to the different varieties
of superficial Gravel and Detritus ; their origin, whether fresh-water or marine
their composition, whether of erratic or of local materials ; their position with
respect to the present form of the surface and one another ; their organic re-
mains, and other peculiarities.

                  NATURAL HISTORY.

   The following reports and monographs were requested in

addition to such as are mentioned in vol. v. p. xv.

     On the species of Salmonidae found in Scotland by Sir W.

    Jardine.

      On the Caprimulgida?, by Mr. Gould.
     On the Genera of Fossil Insects belonging to Great Bri-
  tain and Ireland, by the Rev. W. F. Hope.

   For the purpose of collecting materials towards a Fauna of
Ireland, a Committee was formed, consisting of Capt. Portlock,

Mr. R. Ball, Mr. W. Thompson, Dr. Coulter, Mr. W. A.

Eyton, and Mr. Vigors, who was requested to act as Secretary

to the Committee.

   Mr. J. E. Gray and Mr. R. Ball were requested to investigate
the mode by which Mollusca, Annelida, and other marine In-

vertebrata excavate rocks.
   Capt. Ducane, R.N., was requested to continue his researches

concerning the Crustacea of the waters of Southampton.
   For the purpose of experiments on the Growth of Plants in

Glass Vessels, on Mr. Ward's plan, the further sum of 50/. was
placed at the disposal of a Committee, consisting of Mr. James
Yates, Dr. Daubeny, Prof. Henslow, and Mr. R. Ball.

   For the purpose of experimenting on the best modes of Pre-
serving Animal and Vegetable Substances the sum of 251. was
placed at the disposal of a Committee, consisting of Prof. Hen-
slow, Mr. Jenyns, Dr. Clark, and Prof, dimming.

                   MEDICAL SCIENCE.

The following Committees were re-appointed

   For investigating the Anatomical Relations of the Absorbent
and Venous Systems in different classes of Animals, with 501.
at their disposal ; for inquiring into the Effects of Poisons on the
Animal Economy, with 251. at their disposal ; for the Chemical
DESIDERATA, ETC.  XXI

Analysis of the Animal Secretions, with 251. at their disposal *;
for investigating the Pathology of the Brain and Nervous Sy-
stem, with 251. at their disposal ; for investigating the Sounds
of the Heart, the Committees of London and Dublin, with 251.

at the disposal of each.

  A Committee was appointed, to consist of Dr. Carson and

other Members of the Association resident in Liverpool and
Manchester, for the purpose of making experiments on the
Lower Animals labouring under Diseases of the Lungs, to de-
termine the influence of local or general remedial means in the
Cure of these Diseases, with 251. at the disposal of the Com-

mittee.

  A Committee was appointed, to consist of Dr. Williams and

other Members of the Association, to investigate the Physiology

of the Lungs, and Bronchi.

                              STATISTICS.

    In furtherance of inquiries into the actual State of Schools
in England, considered merely as to numerical analysis, the

further sum of 150/. was placed at the disposal of a Committee
consisting of Lord Sandon, Lieut.-Col. Sykes, and Mr. G. R.

Porter.

   In furtherance of inquiries into the Condition of the Work-

ing Population, specified in the form of numerical tables, the
sum of 100/. was placed at the disposal of a Committee, con-
sisting of Lord Sandon, Lieut.-Col. Sykes, and Mr. G. R.
Porter.

   For the purpose of drawing up instructions for the Advance-
ment of Statistical Science a Committee was appointed, consist-

ing of Lord Sandon, Col. Sykes, Mr. Porter, Mr. W. Langton,
Mr. W. R. Greg, and Mr. J. Heywood, with power to add to

their number.

                MECHANICAL SCIENCE.

   For the prosecution of experiments on the Strength of
Cast Iron, produced by the application of the Hot and the
Cold Blast, and the extension of the same to Wrought Iron, the
Committee, originally composed of Mr. E. Hodgkinson and

Mr. W. Fairbairn, was enlarged by the addition of Prof. Willis,

Mr. Donkin, and Mr. P. Clare, with 100/. at their disposal.
    For procuring, printing, and circulating periodical statements

                        * Mr. Gokling Bird was added to this Committee.
XXli SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

of the Duties of Steam Engines in Cornwall and elsewhere, the
grant of 50/., at the disposal of Mr. J. Taylor, was renewed.

   For ascertaining the Amount of Duty actually performed by
the consumption of one bushel of Coals in Steam-Engines em-
ployed in pumping Water, not in the Cornish districts, a Com-
mittee was appointed, consisting of Mr. Bryan Donkin, Mr. G.
H. Palmer, Mr. James Simpson, Mr. John Taylor, and Mr.
Thomas Webster, who was requested to act as Secretary, with

 100/. at their disposal.

   The Committee was requested to report all the circumstances
affecting the Amount of Duty in each case.

   For instituting a series of experiments to determine the mean
Value of Railway Constants, a Committee was appointed, con-
sisting of Mr.Hardman Earle, Dr. Lardner, Mr. Joseph Locke,
Mr. G. Rennie, and Mr. John MacNeil, with 50/. at their dis-

 posal.

    For obtaining a series of observations on the average loco-
motive Duty of a ton of coals per horse-power in Steam Ves-
 sels, a Committee was appointed, consisting of Mr. Fairbairn,
 Dr. Lardner, Mr. J. S. Russell, and Mr. J.Taylor, with 100/.

 at their disposal.

   The Committee was requested to report all the circumstances,
 nautical and mechanical, which may affect this Duty.

    Should the Committee above named find it expedient to ex-

tend their researches to the other side of the Atlantic, the

further sum of 50/. was placed at their disposal for such pur-

 pose.

                                  ARTS.

   A Committee was appointed to superintend the exhibition of

Mechanical Inventions, Manufactured Articles, and Processes
 in the Arts at Newcastle ; viz. Sir D. Brewster, Mr. Babbage,
 Prof. Wheatstone, Prof. Willis, Prof. Powell, and Prof. John-

 ston, who was requested to act as Secretary.

                 GENERAL REMARKS.

    In grants of money to the Committees for purposes of science,
 the Member first named is empowered to draw on the Trea-
 surer for such sums as may from time to time be required.
 The General Committee does not contemplate in these grants
 the payment of personal expenses to the Members.
                             SYNOPSIS.

SYNOPSIS OF SUMS APPROPRIATED TO

               SCIENTIFIC OBJECTS.

BY THE GENERAL COMMITTEE AT THE LIVERPOOL MEETING.

(Drawn up for comparison with vol. iv. p. xl. and vol. v. p. xx.)

Reduction of Observations on Stars (vol. iv. p. xv.

vol. vi. p. xvii.)                                                                                                           £500

Continuation of Tide Discussions at Bristol (vol. v.

    p. xx. ; vol. vi. p. xvii.)                                                                                              75

Meteorological Instruments and Subterranean Tem-

perature (vol. iv. p. xix.)                                                                                               · 100

Comparative Level of Land and Sea (vol. iv. p. xxvi.

vol. v. p. xvii., part of the former grant renewed) 272

Lens of Rock Salt (vol. iv. p. xxii.)

Hourly Observations in Meteorology (vol. v. p. xvi.)

Investigations on the Form of Waves (vol. v. p. xvi.)

*Astronomical  Society's  Catalogue  (vol. vi.  p.  xvii.)                                                                .
                                                                                                                    i
                                                                                                                       _

*Action of Gases on Solar Spectrum (vol. vi. p. xviii.)

*Osler's Anemometer (vol. vi. p. xviii.) . . .

*Repairs of an Anemometer (vol. vi. p. xviii.) .

Composition of Atmospheric Air (vol. v. p. xvii.)

 Chemical Constants (vol. iv. p. xxiv.) . . .

*EfFect of Water on Cast and Wrought Iron (vol

      p. xix.)

*Effect of Heat of 212° on Organic and Inorganic

     Bodies (vol. vi. p. xix.)

Mud in Rivers (vol. iv. p. xxvii.)

 Fossil Ichthyology (vol. iv. p. xxvii.)
 Peat Mosses in Ireland (vol. v. p. xviii.) . .

 Growth of Plants under Glass (vol. v. p. xviii.)
*Preservation of Animal and Vegetable Substances

    (vol. vi. p. xx.)

....Absorbents and Veins (vol. iv. p. xxxi.)

Sounds of the Heart (vol. iv. p. xxxi.)
Effects of Poisons on the Animal Economy (vol. iv.

    p. xxxi.)

Pathology of Brain and Nervous System (vol. iv. p.

xxxii.)

Chemical Analysis of Animal Secretions (vol. v. p.

       xix.)

....*Disorders of the Lungs (vol. vi. p. xxi.)
Xxiv  --SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

                                          Brought over. . . £2357
 State of Schools in England (vol. v. p. xix.) . .
*Condition of Working Population (vol. vi. p. xxi.)
  Strength of Iron (vol. iv. p. xxxii. ; vol. vi. p. xxi.)
 Duty of Cornish Engines (vol. iv. p. xxxii.) . .
*Duty of Pumping-Engines not in Cornwall (vol. vi

       p. xxii.)

Railway Constants (vol. vi. p. xxii.)
*Duty of Steam Engines in Vessels (vol. vi. p. xxii.)
Conditional Grant to ditto (vol. vi. p. xxii.) . .
             ADDRESS

       PROFESSOR TRAILL, M.D.

--GENTLEMEN, The duty of addressing the British Association, on

this occasion,was originally confided to one admirably qualified to do jus-
tice to the task; and few persons have more cause to lament the circum-
stances which deprive us of the services of that gentleman than the indi-

vidual who now addresses you. To those who know me only as connected
with my present domicile, my position at this Meeting may appear un-

warrantable or presumptuous. I can only plead, that though highly
honoured by the office, it certainly was neither expected nor solicited

by me ; and that, unless twenty-eight years' residence in this place,
and the existence of numerous and valued local attachments, may be

considered as conferring the privilege, I fear I can advance few claims
to be received as one of the Secretaries for Liverpool.

   The objects and nature of the British Association for the Advance-

ment of Science have been so eloquently handled by my predecessors,
that to some members the subject may appear to be exhausted ; but,

--as the Association is necessarily a fluctuating body as many have
--now joined it for the first time and as there still seems to be con-

siderable misapprehension in the public mind regarding its objects
and utility, a few remarks on the purposes which it is intended to ac-
complish may not be altogether misplaced.

   The British Association was undoubtedly suggested by the successful
efforts of the philosophers of Germany, within the last few years. The
obstacles to free intercourse between scientific men, in that part of
Europe, had always been felt as a great bar to the advance of science.
Under such a system, those who, in sequestered regions, had long
pursued laborious investigations, had often the mortification to discover
that they were following paths trodden by others, or in which they had
been completely anticipated by more fortunate inquirers. To obviate
such grave inconveniences, and to promote social intercourse among
men of science, scattered over wide regions, separated by physical and
--XXvi
SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

political obstacles, though connected by one common tongue, were the

objects of that great Continental Association; and that these have
been, to a considerable extent, realized by the annual assemblages of
the illustrious sons of Germany, is generally admitted.

   In our more united and highly-favoured land, the facilities of inter-
course between its most distant points, the less isolated position of our
philosophers, unquestionably render the progress of science less de-
pendent on such general associations of its cultivators than in Ger-
many : yet it has never been doubted, that the personal intercourse of
men engaged in similar pursuits is favourable to the progress of philo-
sophical investigations, by the direct assistance derived from the ex-
perience and suggestions of others, and by fostering that generous
emulation in the search after truth which imparts a wholesome stimulus
to mental exertion, while it tends to smooth the asperities occasionally

engendered by controversy, even in the abstract sciences. Men ac-

customed to meet and act together for one great end, naturally and

--insensibly imbibe the social spirit scientific jealousy and personal

rivalry are softened by mutual approximations ; and individuals com-
posing the Association, like members of the same family, learn to
temper the pursuit of personal distinction by an honest exultation in
whatever redounds to the honour and celebrity of the body to which

they belong.

   These advantages the British Association shares in common with
many other societies ; but it possesses characteristics peculiarly its

--own. It can scarcely reckon a period of infancy; it sprung at once

from the conception of its founders, like Pallas from the head of Jove,

--in the perfection of youthful vigour secure in the panoply of rectitude

of purpose against open or secret hostility. It quickly numbered in
its ranks the elite of the philosophy of the United Kingdom ; and,
strengthened by the accession of foreign associates of distinguished
reputation, it has extended its views beyond its original horizon, and
has attained a colossal magnitude that distinguishes it above every

other scientific association in the British empire.
    This Institution ought not to be considered as the rival of any of

the previously existing philosophical establishments which give lustre
to these kingdoms. It, indeed, receives communications on every
 branch of scientific inquiry, but it professes to publish none of the
numerous contributions which have given rise to the interesting and
animated discussions in its different Sections : a short abstract of these
papers is all that it attempts to promulgate ; but the distinguishing

features of its publications arc those invaluable Reports on the pro-
ADDRESS BY PROFESSOR TRAILL.  XXVU

gress of science which the Association has confided to some of its
members, especially selected for that important duty.

   The advantages thus conferred on general science will be best ap-
preciated by persons whose studies are directed to any of the subjects
discussed in the Reports, and who have once felt the want of an ac-
curate analysis of what had been recently added to our previous stock
of knowledge; but it would be impossible to calculate in how many
instances those abstracts of precise and useful information have saved
the time, and abridged the labour, of the retired student, in tracks al-
ready explored by other philosophers. Another peculiarity in the

publications of the Association consists in the circulation of desiderata

in different branches of science. The attention of their cultivators,
thus drawn to the principal deficiencies in each, has already filled up
various chasms in the paths of intellectual exertion, and stimulated to

inquiries that cannot fail to lead to important results.
    It soon became apparent that the British Association must exercise

a powerful influence on the general diffusion of science, and could
undertake, or materially promote, investigations to which individual
research and unaided exertion are utterly inadequate. Its annual
migrations, and the comparative ease of admission into its ranks, have

unquestionably increased the taste for scientific disquisition ; and,

although it would be absurd to suppose that all who seek for enrol-
ment in the Association are destined to extend the boundaries of
science, who can believe that familiarizing large masses of the com-
munity with such investivations, and exhibiting how the highest
branches of philosophy may be made available to the purposes of life,

will fail to promote the avowed purpose of our meetings? Who will

 venture to deny, that the contemplation of the galaxy of illustrious
 men, mustered on occasions similar to the present, has often proved
 the first impulse to the secret aspirant after honourable distinction
 has afforded the Promethean spark, that kindled the sacred flame in
 the breast of slumbering genius ?

    The Association has not failed to use its influence in stimulating
 our rulers to aid the progress of science. At its instigation, the
 British government has taken up the task of the reduction of the
 enormous mass of observations on the heavenly bodies, accumulated

--since 1750 at the Greenwich Observatory which, though col-

 lected at a great expense to the nation, and by the exertion of con-

--summate skill in the observers which, though pronounced by the

 highest authorities in Europe to be of the utmost moment to the

 --future progress of astronomy, have been permitted to remain a rich,
XXviii                                 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

but unexplored, mine of facts. The voice of our petition has been

-- --heard the work has been auspiciously begun and 5001. have been

assigned by the Treasury for the commencement of this great national

work.

The subject of the Tides, so strangely neglected in this great mari-

time country, from the period of the promulgation of the Newtonian

Theory to our own times, has engaged the attention of the Association

from its commencement. The advances which have recently been made

on this subject, and which have greatly altered the aspect of that branch

of science, had chiefly for their original basis the very valuable tide ob-

servations made in this port, many years ago, by Mr. Hutchinson, a

dock-master, embracing an interval of above thirty years. The ori-

ginals are preserved in the Lyceum Library of Liverpool ; and, by the

liberality of the proprietors, have been confided to the hands of Mr.

Lubbock, under whose direction the discussion of them, ordered by the

Association, has thrown a new light on the laws of Tidal phenomena.

Since that time, the earnest representations of a distinguished Asso-

ciate, whom this county claims as a native, have given rise to a most

important set of observations on the tides. Mr. Whewell, by personal

application to the chief of the coast-guard service, and solicitation to

the Admiralty, has procured the completion of a continuous series of

observations, at upwards of 500 stations, along the coasts of Great

Britain and Ireland. They were continued for a fortnight in June

1834, and again in June 1835, when they were extended from the

mouths of the Mississippi to the northern extremity of Europe. These

observations have been discussed at the expense of the Admiralty ; but,
as I shall presently mention, the Association has voted a large sum to

be applied by Mr. Lubbock to the same object.

These discussions have, within the last few years, led to very curious

results                                for instance, to the fact of the rise of the mean level of the tides,
                                    ;

in proportion to the fall of the barometer, and the existence of a diurnal

--tide i. e. the difference between the morning and evening tides of the

same day. This diurnal tide, it may be interesting for the inhabitants

of Liverpool to know, was first marked in the tide tables constructed

by a young ingenious townsman, Mr. Bywater, jun., who has, unfor-

tunately for science, died since the last Meeting of the Association.
   The importance of the subject, and the success already obtained, have

encouraged the Association to direct the discussion of the Tidal obser-

vations recorded at the port of Bristol, and at the London Docks ; and
to supply the means of defraying the necessary expense.

The influence of researches on tidal waters to navigation and to com-
ADDRESS BY PROFESSOR TRAILL.  XXIX

merce are too obvious to require illustration : but perbaps it may not

be unsuitable, in this place, to refer to the deductions of our eminent
associate, Captain Denham, on the capability of the Mersey " to com-

mand a navigable avenue to the ocean, so long as its guardians preserve
the high-water boundaries from artificial contraction." It may also be

stated, that in our Transactions, this gentleman has recorded his most
important general inference (drawn from a connected series of observa-
tions on the tides, which the liberality of the Dock Trustees of Liverpool
enabled him to carry on) that there is one invariable mean height, com-

-- --mon to neap and spring tides the Half Tide Mark a point from

which engineers, geologists, and navigators will henceforward com-
mence their calculations, and adjust their standards of comparison.

   The Association made application soon after the meeting at Edin-
burgh for the resumption of the Trigonometrical Survey of Scotland
a work imperiously demanded by the imperfect state of our best maps
and charts of that part of the island, either for the purposes of geology

or navigation. It is needless to give further proof, than that parts of se-

veral of the large islands at the mouth of the Clyde are laid down se-
veral miles out of their true position. The magnificent scale on which
the survey of Ireland is now carrying on, emboldened various scientific

societies of Scotland this year to memorialize the government on the

subject. I am happy to add, that the applications have been successful,
and the triangulation of Scotland will recommence early in 1838.

   The British Association may also boast, that at its instigation, our
illustrious associate, Arago, moved the Bureau des Longitudes to soli-

cit from the French government the publication of the series of obser-
vations on the tides at Brest, and a reduction of the astronomical obser-
vations made at the Ecole Militaire. The Brest observations have been
printed, and a copy of the valuable documents put in the hands of one
well able to appreciate them.

   At the Dublin meeting, a committee was appointed for representing
to our own government two objects important to science ; which can
only be accomplished in a satisfactory manner by the rulers of a power-
ful nation, or by an union of governments in the cause of philosophy.
The first related to the establishment of Magnetical and Meteorological

Observatories, in different parts of the earth, furnished with proper in-
struments, and in which the observations should be conducted on ac-

knowledged and uniform principles. The extent, and the variety of
climate of the British possessions, indicate them as favourable points
for such establishments, which have already been commenced in France
and its dependencies, and may hereafter, by the co-operation of the
XXX SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

several governments of Europe, and of our Trans- Atlantic brethren,

be extended over a large portion of the civilized world. The second

suggestion was the importance of an Antarctic Expedition, for prose-

cuting discoveries and observations in Geography, Hydrography, Na-

tural History, and, above all, Magnetism, with a view to determine the

positive southern magnetic pole or poles, and the direction and intensity

of the magnetic force in antarctic regions. The East India Company

was likewise to be requested to favour the same objects, especially at

their establishment at Madras.

The General Committee some time ago made application to the au-

thorities, both in France and this country, respecting some mode of in-

stituting a reciprocal protection to literary property. Might I venture

here to allude to a recommendation which I hope the Association will

not fail to leave in Liverpool, for the promotion of a scientific object of

--immense consequence to this port the establishment of an Observatory

in or near Liverpool ? The adoption of such suggestions, while con-

ferring an incalculable benefit on science, would rear a proud, impe-

rishable, and bloodless monument to national greatness.

   These statements might be a sufficient answer to a question, some-

--times put in tones of captious sarcasm, What has the Association di-

rectly contributed to the progress of useful knowledge ? Without

again appealing to the very admirable reports on the progress of science

published in our Transactions ; without again claiming merit for the

--suggestions and efforts already noticed, I should fearlessly answer

such cavillers, by an appeal to the value and number of the communi-

cations, which have occupied the different Sections, at each annual

meeting, and which contain the application of pure science to important

questions in Physics, or of experimental investigation to numerous

branches of knowledge. I would point to the valuable researches

which have been undertaken and completed at the request of the
Association, among which it may be permitted to indicate the fol-

--lowing memoirs : The comparison of the standards of Linear Measure,

made by the late Mr. Troughton, for the town of Aberdeen, and the

Astronomical Society of London, which were confided to Mr. Baily

a comparison of much consequence, as the standard yard, by the same

artist, was lost in the fire which consumed both Houses of Parliament

On the Investigation of the Impact upon Beams, when struck by bodies

of different weight, hardness,  and  elasticity,  by  Mr.  Hodgkinson                                                On
                                                                                                                  ;

the Direction and Intensity of the Magnetic Force in England, Ireland,

and Scotland, by Professor Lloyd, Major Sabine, and Captain James

Ross ; On the influence of Height above the Sea on Magnetic Intensity,
ADDRESS BY PROFESSOR TRAILL.  XXXi

--by Professor Forbes from which it appears that the horizontal inten-

sity diminishes -j- 000 °f tne wno^e> f°r every 3000 feet of vertical ascent

On the quantity of Rain falling at different heights above the surface of
the Ground, made at York, by Professor Phillips, and Mr. Gray ; On

the determination of the mass of the planet Jupiter, by the Astronomer

Royal ; On the Horary Variations of the Barometer, Thermometer,

--Hygrometer, and Whewell's Anemometer, by Mr. Snow Harris part of

which has already appeared, and of which the sequel will be laid before

this annual Meeting ; On the Duty performed by Cornish Steam En-
gines, by Mr. Enys ; On the Ratio of the Resistance of Fluids to the

--Velocity of Waves, by Mr. Russell and Mr. Robison of which we ex-

pect to receive an account on this occasion.

   We may also be permitted here to allude to some highly-interesting

investigations, still in progress, under the auspices of the Association,

--such as Observations on the Temperature of Springs and Deep Mines,

by Instruments procured and verified by the Meteorological Council,

which are already placed in various districts of Great Britain and Ire-

land, and also in Peru, under the direction of our scientific associate,

 Mr. Pentland, from which results most interesting to Geology are an-

ticipated ; On the Temperature of the strata at different depths near

 Edinburgh, by Professor Forbes, for ascertaining the rate of the trans-

Amission of Solar Heat downwards; continuation of Mr. W.Vernon Har-

 court's experiments on the effects of long-continued Heat on Rocks and

 other bodies ; Experimental Investigations into the Fabrication of Glass,

 by the same gentleman and Dr. Faraday ; A Systematic Catalogue of

 all the Organized Fossils of the British Islands, by Professor Phillips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;

 An Experimental Determination of the Strength and other Mechanical
 Properties of Iron obtained by the Hot and Cold Blasts, undertaken by

 Messrs. Hodgkinson and Fairbairn ; Analysis of Iron in the different

 stages of its manufacture, and an Extension of the Tables of Chemical
 Constants, by Professor Johnston ; Statistical Returns of the State of

 Education in our great towns ; An Examination of the Statistical docu-

 ments preserved in the India House, by Professor Jones ; besides the
 discussion of numerous very interesting contested points in Natural
  History and in Medicine.

     These are satisfactory evidences of the activity of the Association
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;

 but it has not scrupled also to afford pecuniary assistance, when such
  aid appeared requisite to ensure success. It is true, that the moderate
  sum, payable on admission into the Society, seems more suited to the

  finances of the majority of philosophers, than to the support of ex-
Xkxii  --SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

tensive enterprises yet the numbers annually desirous of admission
                                                                                       ;

supply funds, adequate to important undertakings ; and the power
thus given to the General Committee is acknowledged to have been
exercised with a sound discretion.

    Without descending to minute particulars, it may be well to state
some of the appropriations for various scientific inquiries.

    The application to the French government already noticed, was ac-
companied by a vote of the General Committee of the Association to
appropriate 5001. for a duplicate reduction of the Astronomical Obser-

vations, with a view to secure the utmost accuracy in these important
computations. This offer proves the value attached by the Association
to whatever can improve Astronomy, and the zeal which carries its
scientific views even beyond the limits of the British Empire. This

sum is still devoted to the reduction of Astronomical Observations.

701. have been devoted to the determination of a constant numerical
expression for Lunar Notation, as deduced from the observations made
with the Greenwich mural circle: 250/. have been appropriated for
the Discussion of the Tides ; besides 150/. voted last year for the Dis-
cussion of the Observations made on Tides at Bristol : 100/. were set
apart for meteorological instruments, and experiments on subterranean

--temperature, the last a problem of the highest interest to Geology, as

involving the question whether or not there be a general source of ter-
restrial heat, independent of solar influence : 500/. have been voted
for ascertaining the permanence or fluctuation in the relative level of
the land and of the ocean, on the coasts of the British Isles. This sub-
ject affords matter for the highest speculations in Geology ; but it is
doubly interesting to a maritime people, as affecting the permanence of
our river navigation, and of our naval stations : 210/. were given to

enable M. Agassiz to include the fossil fishes of our islands among his

interesting Researches on Fossil Ichthyology, a publication which forms
a new era in this department of Geology : 100/. have been assigned for

Investigations on the Form of Waves, and the mode of their produc-
tion : 150/. for the experiments on Vitrification, and the improvement
of the manufacture of Glass : 80/. for experiments on Lenses of Rock
Salt ; a subject of much interest to Optics : 50/. for determining the

specific gravity of Gases: 60/. for an experimental inquiry into the
strength of Iron : 50/. for ascertaining the Duty of Steam Engines :
50/. for an inquiry into the Origin of Peat Mosses : 250/. for con-
ducting various Physiological Rearches : 1 50/. have likewise been voted
for investigating the Statistics of Education in our large towns. While
ADDRESS BY PROFESSOR TRAILL.  XXX111

on tins subject, I must not omit to state that the Statistical Societies of
London and Manchester trace their origin to this Association ; and that
the laborious investigations of Colonel Sykes, on the Statistics of India,
founded on materials chiefly collected by himself, and undertaken at the
request of the Association, are now happily brought to a close, and will

be presented to the Association.
   These appropriations are exclusive of several minor sums devoted to

the encouragement of investigations into various branches of Physics,
Chemistry, and Natural History ; making an aggregate of upwards of
26591. set apart from the funds of the Association, in the past year, for
scientific objects--a larger sum than has been appropriated, in so short

a period, by any other Society, to purposes purely scientific.
    While stating these facts, we ought not to conceal a circumstance, cre-

ditable to the disinterested zeal for the cause of science elicited by these
grants. Though the voteshave been liberal, this circumstance has never
induced inconsiderate expenditure. In many instances, far less than the
sums appropriated have been actually expended ; and in various in-
stances, the individuals intrusted with the funds have refused to draw

on the Association, when their own labour could save its finances.

    It has been usually considered a part of the duty of the Local Secre-
tary, to give a short account of the Reports which are just published.

   The first in the volume is the masterly report ' On Mineral and

 Thermal Waters,' by Dr. Daubeny. After glancing at the nature of
 atmospheric water, the author has pointed out the connexion of the
 foreign ingredients, detected in the atmosphere, with the production of
 meteoric stones, the formation of nitric acid under certain circumstances,
 and the presence of the organic principle found in air, even when col-
 lected on great elevations, to which the name of Pyrrhine has been

 given. He considers the existence of the elements of meteoric stones
 in the atmosphere as doubtful. The nitric acid may sometimes arise

 from the effects of electric explosion on its oxygen and nitrogen ; at
 other times this union is seemingly produced by causes not yet ascer-
 tained. The researches of the celebrated Ehrenberg have shown, that

 pyrrhine probably owes its origin to the ova of polygastric infusoria,
 raised by evaporation and by atmospheric currents induced by changes
 of temperature. In considering the ocean, the author directs particular
 attention to its gaseous contents ; as confirming or invalidating the opi-
 nion of Arago, that oxygen predominates in all waters, even to con-
 siderable depths. This law is well known to hold good in the more

 superficial portions of the ocean, and seems intended to support the

  respiration of aquatic animals ; but the preponderance of oxygen at

vol. vi. 1837.  c
XXXIV  SEVENTH REPORT IHo/.

great depths cannot yet be considered as absolutely determined, on ac^
count of the imperfection of the modes of obtaining unmixed water from
such points. The water of springs is more especially the object of Dr.
Daubeny's Report.

   In considering the saline contents of mineral springs, he gives some
ingenious speculations on the origin of these salts ; especially of the
carbonate of soda, of the sulphates, and of boracic acid. The common
salt he derives from the same source as the saltness of the sea ; and he
considers rock-salt as a deposition from the waters of the ocean ; a view

--confirmed by the presence in saline deposits of iodine and bromine ele-

ments first detected in marine productions. Dr. Daubeny regards the
absence of these two bodies in the lowest and purest bed of the Cheshire
rock-salt while they abound in the upper saliferous beds, as proofs that
rock-salt was deposited from a saturated solution. The salts of io-
dine and bromine, as well as the earthy muriates, from their greater
solubility, would remain longer in solution ; and thus be mingled with
the more hasty mechanical deposits from the waters. The brine
springs of Droitwich, which are found to contain neither iodine nor
bromine, he also considers as derived from a salt deposited from a sa-

turated solution.

   The siliceous earth, so often detected in thermal springs, he con-
ceives to be dissolved by alkaline matter, aided by a high temperature.
Both alkali and silica may be afforded by felspathic rocks ; and Dr.
Daubeny conjectures, that silica may be more soluble in hot water at
the moment of its separation from its combinations in the rock, or ere
it has its aggregation increased, by assuming the crystalline texture.

He states, that it may be interesting to try, whether hot water lias a

stronger action on such bodies as opal, in which the molecules do not
seem to have a true crystalline arrangement, than on quartz. Since I
came this time to Liverpool, I subjected a fragment of wood-opal for
fourteen days to a temperature estimated about 280° Faht., in the boiler
of a fixed steam-engine ; but it had neither lost nor gained the smallest
 weight in that time.

    The author combats the opinion of Anglada on the origin of the or-
ganic matter termed Glairine, now found to be a very common ingre-

 dient of thermal springs. This substance Anglada supposes, with little
 probability, to be derived from the interior of the earth ; while the ob-
 servations of our author on this substance, as collected from above fifty
 springs, especially from the thermal sources of the Pyrenees, sliow, that
 Glairine is probably derived from the decomposition of organic bodies,
 such as confervce and infusory animalcules.
ADDRESS BY PROFESSOR TRAILL.  XXXV

   The author's speculations on the source of the heat of thermal
springs, partake of his views on the origin of volcanoes ; namely, that
it depends on the penetration of water, through fissures in the external
crust of the globe, to the regions where he conceives the elements of
earthy and alkaline bodies to exist : that the intense heat, generated

during the oxidation of these elements, converts a portion of the water
into steam ; which, under compression, obtains a high temperature, acts
on various earthy bodies, and communicates its heat to subterranean
waters which issue in thermal springs. This view he supports by nu-
merous instances observed by geologists; especially by Professor Forbes
in the Pyrenees, where thermal waters gush out in the vicinity of dis-

ruptions, or upheavings of strata by ignigenous rocks. The author be-
lieves that, unless in countries agitated by volcanic action, the tempe-
rature of thermal springs is subject to little variation ; and that, where
the contrary has been alleged, it may generally be ascribed to the im-

perfection of the thermometers employed.
   The temperature of copious springs has generally been observed to

vary little, and is about the mean temperature of the country where
they occur. Thus the magnificent fountain at Vaucluse has the mean
temperature of that part of France, and scarcely ever varies one degree
of Reaumur. It is, however, worthy of remark, that I found the tem-
perature of St. Winifred's Well, the largest spring in Britain, by dif-

ferent observations during twenty years, to experience variations of
more than four degrees of Faht., always to have a temperature several
degrees above the mean of Flintshire, and at all seasons superior to that
of another very large spring, Fynnon asa, about five miles distant.

The variations may perhaps arise from surface water, directly finding
its way into the Holywell spring ; but its constant superior tempera-
ture may be accounted for, on Dr. Daubeny's principle, from the dis-
turbances in the strata produced by the numerous mineral veins in the

adjacent Halkin Mountains.

   The second report is ' On the Direction and Intensity of Terrestrial

Magnetism in Scotland,' by Major Sabine.
   The experiments were made at numerous stations, both by the sta-

tical method of Professor Lloyd, in which the dip and intensity are as-
certained by the same instrument, and by Hansteen's method, of mea-
suring intensity by the number of horizontal vibrations in a given time.
It is interesting to know, that the intensities estimated by both methods
nearly correspond ; and that we therefore may place confidence in either
mode of observing, when allowance is made for changes in the force of
magnetism in the needles employed. Major Sabine experienced, on

                                                             c2
XXXvi  --SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

several occasions, what has been remarked by other observers, that
magnetical experiments are liable to be affected by the vicinity of Trap
rocks. This was particularly noticed by him at Oban and Loch Scavig,
so as to render his observations at the latter of no utility for his calcu-

lations. Two of the most familiar examples of this quality of ignigenous

rocks are afforded by the powerful effect of a column of the Giant's
Causeway, as mentioned by Professor Lloyd ; and by the strong polar-
ity of the basaltic cap of Arthur's Seat, near Edinburgh, which is ca-
pable, in more positions than one, of causing complete inversion of poles
of the pocket compass. These instances show how carefully the vi-
cinity of considerable masses of Trap rocks should hereafter be avoided,
in all delicate experiments on magnetic dip and intensity : for the errors
they occasion may be more considerable than the effect of a ship's local
attraction on azimuths, and are far less easily compensated.

    Major Sabine has considered it best to give no other designation, on
his chart, to the isodynamic lines in Scotland, than what expresses their
relation to each other, until we have more fully investigated their rela-
tion to magnetic intensity in England. The differences between the
deductions, in regard to the Isodynamic lines in Scotland and in Ireland,
are very considerable, and apparently too great to be due to any dif-
ference in the lines themselves : but future observations will probably

disclose the cause.

    In a former volume of our Transactions, appeared a valuable report
on North American Geology : in that just announced is an excellent
essay on the Zoology of that portion of the globe, by Dr. Richardson,
 the intrepid friend and companion of Sir John Franklin, in their ha-
 zardous exploratory expeditions to the shores of the Arctic Ocean.
 After some general remarks on the climate of North America, he pre-

sents us with an extensive Table of Mean Temperatures, calculated for

 periods of six and three months throughout the year, for the hottest and
 the coldest months, and for the months with a mean temperature above
 52° Faht., taken at forty-four different stations, and collected from his
 own and Franklin's observations, combined with those of Humboldt,
 Ross, Parry, and Scoresby. The results are very important, and show,
 in a striking manner, the very erroneous deductions on the mean tem-
 perature of any place, if investigated by Mayer's formula, especially in
 very low or very high latitudes.

    The geographical position of Mexico constitutes the point at which
 the Faunae of the northern and southern regions meet ; and hence it is

 the place in which the general laws regulating the distribution of animals
 can be most satisfactorily studied. There the Wolf of a northern cli-
                ADDRESS BY PROFESSOR TRAILL.                                                      XXXV11

mate is seen with the Monkey of tropical regions ; the Bunting and
the Titmouse nestle near the Parrot and the Trogon ; the Phalarope
of the North seeks its food on the same beach as the Jacana and the

Boatbill of Brazil.

Dr. Richardson states, that though colonization has, in America,

restricted the range and modified the migrations of wild animals, we

have no evidence that a single species has been there lost within the

records of history. The Quadrumana, or Monkeys, of America are

peculiar to that continent. None of them have what may be called

a perfect hand, with the thumb opposed to the ringers. Their thumbs

are small, sometimes only rudimentary, or even wholly wanting. Not

--a single Ape  not one true   Baboon     is to  be found                                  among  them                       but
                                                                                                                          ;

many are furnished with prehensile tails, admirably adapted for ani-

mals moving among thick forests, and almost as serviceable for grasp-

ing as the proboscis of the Elephant.

   Almost all the Mammifera, considered as common to the New and

Old  Worlds,  belong  to  the  order  of  Carnivora                                   yet  it is by no means
                                                                                   ;

improbable, that a minute examination of species now considered as

the same, may detect specific differences among them. I would par-

Myticularly recommend attention to the skulls of animals.                                         late in-

genious young friend, Robert Jameson, of Edinburgh, had acquired

great tact in discriminating the Carnivora, in particular, by the form

and position of the sutures uniting the bones of the face, which differ

much in each species. It is believed by many naturalists, that the

proportions of the skulls of Indian birds, in other respects similar to

our own, as compared to their bodies, differ from those of Em-ope.

Similar differences may occur in other parts of the skeletons of qua-

drupeds, which have escaped the superficial examiner, yet sufficient to

constitute specific characters. This would be particularly valuable in

determining the species of weasels and amphibious Carnivora, which,

at present, are very perplexing to the naturalist.

   All the existing Marsupial animals are confined to America, Au-

stralia, and some other South Sea Islands : yet, at one period, animals

of this order must have been very generally distributed over the earth,

as their bones occur everywhere in a fossil state, and are formed in the

oldest deposits of mammiferous remains.

   The number of Rodentia in North America is great, and all seem to

be peculiar to the New World : of the Edentata, one only is found in
North America. Two or three species occur in Africa and India; all

the rest are South American. It is singular, that of the existing Pa-

chydermata, two species only are considered as indigenous to Ame-
XXXviii  --SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

--rica the tapir and the peccary ; and of these, the last only is found

in North America. Yet no region can boast of more numerous, or

--more gigantic species of fossil animals of this order as elephants and
--mastodons and, what is remarkable, though the present race of horses

is acknowledged to be not indigenous, fossil bones of the horse were

found on the N.W. coast by Capt. Beechey mingled with those of ele-
phants. Of the Ruminantia, two only seem to be common to the Old

-- --and New World the reindeer and the elk unless we admit that the

argali of Siberia is the same as the sheep of the Rocky Mountains.
   The Celacea, as might be expected from their mode of life, may be

considered as common to both worlds. The Rytina Borealis and
Manatus Americanus are found in North America, but not in the seas
of Europe. Temminck estimates that we have 930 well ascertained,
and 140 doubtful species of Mammifera; of these 207 are in the New
World, and 169 in North America. The birds of North America are
most numerous, and have been illustrated by the successive labours of
Pennant, Wilson, the Prince of Musignano ; but, above all, in the Fauna
Boreali-Americana of Richardson and Swainson, and the superb work
of Audubon. The similarity between the birds of Europe and North
America is marked by one third of the species being common to both
Faunae. These are chiefly to be found among the Grallatores and
Natatores, two-thirds of which orders are common to both : of the
order Rapaces several are common to both continents. The Insessores
are very numerous, and a great number are peculiar to America. The

Rasores, in all countries, are little disposed to migrate ; and almost all
of this order found in America are peculiar to it, with the exception of
some pigeons and a few Arctic grouse.

   The Reptilia of North America are exceedingly numerous. All,
with the exception of some sea-turtle, are distinct from those of the
Old World. Two genera equally fitted to live in water and in air, as
possessing both gills and lungs, and represented by the Siren laccrtina
and Menopoma gigantea, which abound in North America, have only
one analogous animal in the Old World, the Proteus anguinus of the

lakes and caves of Carniola.

   Many species of the fishes of the American seas are found else-
where ; but the only fresh-water fish, common to both worlds, appears

to be the pike ; yet it is singular, that it does not occur in the waters
to the west of the Rocky Mountains, although there the two continents

are more approximated. Some of the family of the Salmonidae and
Clupiada?, which visit America, have much resemblance to those of

Europe.
ADDRESS BY PROFESSOR TRAILL,.         XXXIX

   Tliis Report is an excellent specimen of the method of comparing
the Faunae of distant regions, and presents a model of a philosophical
disquisition on the geographical distribution of animals.

   The Association has, at different times, received three able Reports
from Professor Challis, of Cambridge, on the Mathematical Theory of
Fluids. In the first he showed how the application of mathematical

analysis to investigating the properties of an imaginary fluid, supposed
incompressible, or so compressible that the density should always be
proportional to the pressure it sustains, admits of comparison with

facts observed in the equilibrium and motion of water, or in the exist-
ing mechanical qualities of air. In the second, the author considered
the modifications which these theories had, in later times, sustained by
the introduction of certain molecular hypotheses on the constitution of
matter, and how a comparison of the consequences of these hypothe-
tical speculations with experimental results, served to establish the
basis of the mathematical reasoning, and to make known properties
and conditions of bodies not cognizable by our senses.

    The present Report treats of several very important points in the
Mechanical Theory of the Atmosphere. Mr. Atkinson's* attempt to
ascertain the law of variation of temperature, at different heights in the
atmosphere, would seem to require, for its establishment, a more ex-

 tensive series of observations over a greater portion of the earth's sur-

face than we now possess.
    The difference between the velocity of sound, as determined by ex-

 periment, and Newton's deduction from Boyle's and Mariotte's law of
 elastic fluids, amounting to one-sixth of the whole, has given rise to
 many attempts to solve the problem, especially by Euler, Lagrange,
 and Laplace. The latter gave the true solution of the discrepancy
 namely, that it arises from the evolution of heat, and its absorption,
 which accompany every sudden compression or expansion of air. The
 application of analysis, to afford a formula of correction, was first at-
 tempted by Biot and Laplace, and more lately by Ivory ; but when we
 compare the theoretic deduction with the best experiments on the
 propagation of sound by Moll and Van Beck, at Utrecht, by Golding-

 ham at Madras, and Parry and Foster in the Arctic regions, the slight
 discrepancies between experiment and calculation are more to be at-
 tributed to some imperfection in our formulae than to error in experi-
 ments, which in their results agree so nearly, though made under very

  different circumstances.

* Trans. Royal Astron. Soc, vol. ii.
--xl SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   Under the liead of Theories of Elastic Fluids, the author has intro-
duced some valuable remarks upon the memoirs of Poisson, on the
equilibrium and motion of elastic bodies, on the equilibrium of fluids,
and the pressure of fluids in motion ; and also on Laplace's theory of
Capillary Attraction ; for which I must refer to the Report.

  We have next two reports on the Comparative Botany of Scotland

and Ireland, by Mr. Mackay and Professor Graham, of Edinburgh.
The first indicates the more remarkable plants that characterize the
neighbourhood of Dublin and Edinburgh. In the second, Mr. Mackay
points out the effect of climate on the Flora of Ireland. Ireland, il is

true, has fewer species of plants than Great Britain, and possesses fewer
alpine plants than Scotland. Its position and moister climate, how-

ever, put it in possession of many plants not found in Great Britain,
but of species occurring in Spain and Portugal, among which may be
noticed Erica Mediterranea, Erica Mackiana, Pinguicola grand/flora,

Arbutus unedo, Menziesia polyfolia.

   The Reports from the London and Dublin sub-committees on the
Motions and Sounds of the Heart, in this and the last volume, will
interest the physiologist and the physician. Ever since the application
of the stethoscope, by Laennec, to the investigation of pectoral diseases,

--the sounds of the heart have been anxiously explored its normal

sounds studied, and its abnormal bruits eagerly inquired into, as im-
portant diagnostics of health and disease. The causes of those sounds
have been matter of dispute ; the investigation was recommended by
the Association ; and a sum appropriated for the expense of experi-
ments on the subject. The Reports are the results of the labours of
two sub-committees,who agree on the principal points,viz., that the first
sound is produced during the systole, or contraction of the ventricles:
and that the second sound is produced by the sudden check which the
action of the semilunar valves gives to the current of blood impelled
against them, by the elasticity of the arteries. In the second Dublin
Reports, the abnormal sounds are illustrated by some ingeniously-de-
vised experiments : but both sub-committees admit, that the motions
and sounds of the heart require further investigations.

   The Dublin Committee on the Pathology of the Brain and Nerves
express their opinion, that to arrive at any accurate conclusions on so
extensive and difficult a subject, a very large number of cases must be
first submitted to examination, their symptoms during life accurately
noted, and minute examinations instituted after death. One hundred
and seventy-eight males and two hundred and ninety-four females,
labouring under nervous affections, are in the Dublin House of In-
ADDRESS BY PROFESSOR TRAILL.  xli

--dustry and Hospitals of whom forty-one have already been accurately

examined, for the object just alluded to.

   The results of the Discussion of the Observations on the Tides, ob-
tained by means of the grants of the Association, have been reported
by Mr. Lubbock.

   Mr. Dessiou was employed to discuss the Tides observed at Liver-
pool, so as to ascertain the diurnal inequalities in their height, and also
to classify the errors of prediction for a year in Liverpool and at the
London Docks. The result is, that Daussy's deduction from the ob-
servations at Brest is confirmed, viz. that the height of high water is
diminished when the barometer is high, and increased when it is

low.

   The various discussions of nineteen years of observations at the
London Docks, amounting to 13,370, for the purpose of deducing the
diurnal irregularities, and examining the effects of the moon's transit
immediately preceding high water, and those of the two previous days,

lead to the conclusion, that Bernouilli's theory of Equilibrium " satis-
fies the phenomena nearly, if not quite, within the limits of errors of
the observations," and that it leaves very little to be otherwise ac-
counted for.

   A short statement is made by Professor Powell, of Oxford, on the

Determination of Refractive Indices for the definite rays in the Solar

Spectrum, from direct observation. The investigations recommended
in the third Report of the Association have been commenced by Pro-
 fessor Powell, who continues his observations.

    Dr. Hodgkin reported from the London Physiological Commit-
 tee, that their investigations have not established the views of Lippi,
 respecting the communications of the absorbents with the veins ; but
 they do not warrant a rejection of his observations, nor amount to any
proof that the thoracic duct is the sole medium of communication be-
 tween the lacteals and the veins. Direct communications between
 absorbents and veins have been observed by the reporter : but he is
 disposed to consider these as deviations from the normal structure.

   A short Report on the best methods of ascertaining Subterranean

 Temperatures, and the proper form for Registers of such observations,
 is published by a Committee appointed for the purpose.

    The last Report in the volume is the very profound Examination, by
 Sir William Hamilton, of the Validity of Mr. Jerrard's proposed me-
 thod of Transforming and Resolving the higher degrees of Equations,
 as contained in his ' Mathematical Researches.' Mr. Jerrard's method
 may be characterized as consisting in rendering the problem indeter-
xlii SEVENTH REPORT 1837«

minate, and in employing this very property to decompose certain of
the conditions into others, for the purpose of avoiding that elevation
of degree, that would otherwise be the consequence of the elimination.
The ingenuity of the principle, and the talent displayed in the re-
searches, are freely admitted by Sir William, who contends that the
process is valid, as a general and unexpected transformation of equa-
tions of elevated degrees, though it fails as a method of resolving

--them ; and who thus sums up the result of his investigations on the

subject : " This method of decomposition has, however, conducted, in
the hands of Mr. Jerrard, to transformations of equations, which must
be considered as discoveries in algebra ; and to the solution of an ex-
tensive class of problems in the analysis of indeterminaies, which had
not before been resolved : the notation, also, of symmetric functions,
which has been employed by that mathematician in his published re-
searches on these subjects, is one of great beauty and power."

   On the very valuable matter contained in the proceedings of the
Sections time will not permit me to enter, and I must refer you to the

volume just published.

   In conclusion, allow me, in the name of my respected colleagues and

of our Liverpool associates, to offer a sincere and hearty welcome to
the distinguished strangers whose presence confers additional interest
to this meeting ; and secondly, to congratulate the town of Liverpool
on the exertions it has made, worthily to receive an Association, which,
aiming at the diffusion of a general taste for scientific investigations,
and their application to the improvement of society, seems calculated
to perform an important part in the future destinies of our country
which, as co-operating with all other scientific bodies, and the rival of

--none, but including in its lists representatives from each which, distin-

guished by the freedom of its discussions, the liberality of its assistance,
and the importance of its recommendations, has been happily charac-
terized, by an eloquent secretary of a former year, as a Fourth Estate

in the Realm, and may be aptly designated Her Majesty's Parlia-

ment of Science.
                   COMMUNICATIONS.                       xlhi

Communications to the General Evening Meetings.

  On Monday evening Professor Traill read his Address.
  On Wednesday evening Mr. W. Snow Harris delivered a

Lecture, illustrated by experiments on a large scale, on the

application of Lightning Conductors to Ships.

  On Friday evening Reports were received from the Presi-

dents of Sections of the communications which had been read

during the week.

  On Saturday evening, besides the official business, the Pre-

dent noticed the gift, by Dr. Manni, of Rome, of a Colossal
Bust of Maecenas, as a mark of respect for the objects of the
British Association. This magnificent Bust was forwarded
for presentation to Dr. Bryce, of Liverpool, who has given

the following account of the circumstances which render this

Bust interesting to the public :

" It was long a cause of wonder and regret, that no gem, medal, or

statue of a man so illustrious had ever been discovered. At length,

the Duke of Orleans, Regent of France, early in the last century, by a

happy conjecture, fixed on one of the gems in his collection, an ame-

thyst of small size, marked with the name of the engraver, Dioscorides,

as being the representation of the head of Maecenas. Another gem,

bearing the name of Solon, the engraver, evidently representing the

same person, was afterwards found in the Farnesian Museum ; and a

third of the same, a sardonyx, also engraved by Solon, has since been

discovered in the collection of the Prince Ludovisi. The features

given in these gems agree so well with all that has been handed down

in the Roman Classics concerning the personal appearance and habits

of Maecenas, that the suggestion of the Duke of Orleans has been

Aadopted by all subsequent antiquaries.  few years after the recogni-

tion of the head of Maecenas on the gems of Dioscorides and Solon,

both artists coeval with Augustus, an antique fresco painting was dis-

covered in the ruins of the palace of the Caesars on the Palatine Hill

at Rome. This painting represents Augustus surrounded by his

courtiers, conferring a crown on the Persian King Phraates, an event

spoken of by Horace. In the front rank of the courtiers stands one,

evidently the Prime Minister, in the act of speaking, whose features

strongly resemble those on the gems of Maecenas above described.

Next to him is Agrippa, who is readily recognized from medals, coins,

Aand statues of him. Horace also is found in the group.  copy of

this painting was bought by Dr. Mead, and brought to England by

him ; and an engraving of it may be seen in Turnbull's Essay on

Ancient Painting.

" This was the extent of antiquarian research and acquisition con-
xliv SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

cerning Maecenas during the last half century, when, in the spring of

1 830, a Bust was found in an excavation made by Professor Manni, at

Carsoli, the ancient Carsuli, about seventy miles from Rome, on the

Flaminian Way. This place is situated in what is esteemed the most

beautiful and romantic district of the Roman territory, being near the

cascades of the Nera, at Terni, and midway between the towns of

Terni, Todi, and Spoleto.

" The Bust was of colossal size, the same as that presented to the

Association, of pure Parian marble, and perfect in every feature. On

being cleared of its incrustation, the modelling of the work was seen to

be of that masculine firmness which characterizes the style of the

--epoch of Augustus, excelling in what is called a broad manner the
--execution that of a master with the greatest severity and grandeur

the emaciation by age of the individual represented being faithfully

preserved. The striking resemblance of the Bust to the gems and

picture of Maecenas was at once recognized by the most eminent anti-

quaries and learned men at Rome.

" It may be interesting to state, in further confirmation of the high

value which has been set upon the Bust, in Italy, as also because the

circumstance enhances the gift of Professor Manni, that it has been

t\vice copied by Thorwaldsen. One copy was presented to the Grand

Duke of Tuscany, and by him placed in the Hall of the Academy of

Petrarch,  at Arezzo,  as  being the presumed birth-place of Maecenas
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;

the other to the King of Naples, who caused it to be deposited in the

Borbonico Museum at Naples."

   The following is an extract from the letter of Chevalier

Manni, forwarded with the Bust to Dr. Bryce :

   " The town of Liverpool shall possess a third copy in marble. You
will exhibit it at the Meeting of the British Association, and express
my very great regret, that I shall not be able to be present, as I was
last year at Bristol. You will say, that the friendly civilities, received
on that and on other occasions in your country, moved me to offer

some tribute of my gratitude and of my respect ; and to manifest these
feelings, I am delighted to place in your hands this Bust of Maecenas."

   In conformity with the wish of Dr. Manni and a rule of
the Association, which provides that gifts of this nature to
Meetings of the Association shall be transferred to some sci-
entific institution or public body at the place where the Meet-
ing is held, the Bust of Maecenas will be placed in the Town-

hall, in Liverpool.
               REPORTS

                                       ON

          THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

Report on the Variations of the Magnetic Intensity observed

  at different Points of the Earth's Surface. By Major

  Edward Sabine, R.A., F.R.S.

                                                                                                                                            [With Plates.]

It has been justly remarked by M. de Humboldt, " that the

phainomena of the earth's magnetism, in its three forms of

variation, dip, and intensity, have of late years been examined

with great care, in the most different zones, by the united ef-

forts of many travellers                                                                                                                    and that there is scarcely any branch
                                                                                                                                         ;

of the physical knowledge of the earth in which, in so small

a number of years, so much has been gained towards an ac-

quaintance with its laws, though not perhaps with its causes."

{Ann. der Physik, vol. xv. p. 320.)

Be it here remarked, that it is to the example and the

writings of this illustrious philosopher that the accelerated pro-

gress in this, as in so many other branches of physical science,

is eminently due. His writings exhibit, in the most pleasing

manner, the delightful, the never-failing interest which such

pursuits afford, awaken thereby a taste for them in those who

were previously unconscious of its existence, and stimulate its

exercise in all. It is in this respect that M. de Humboldt has

been not only a great promoter of science, but a moral be-
nefactor to many ; for it is the privilege of such pursuits that
tedious hours are little known to the mind that engages in them,

and the enjoyment which they yield is unimpaired by advancing

years *.

M. de Humboldt's remark is particularly true in regard to the

magnetic intensity. At the commencement of the present cen-

   * The surviving friends of the late Major Rennell have, in their recollection
of that true philosopher, when engaged in his latter years in his important work
on the currents of the Atlantic Ocean, a memorable example of this power of

physical research, to preserve its interest vivid and unbroken amidst the infirmi-
ties of declining years.

vol. vi. 1837.                                                                                                                              b
--2 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

tury, the bare fact of there being any difference whatsoever in

the intensity of the magnetic force in different parts of the

earth was unattested by a single published observation. The

maps attached to this memoir exhibit the progress which inves-
tigation has made in the years that have since elapsed. They

contain 753 distinct determinations, at 670 stations widely dis-

tributed over the earth's surface ; leaving, it is true, much still

--to be desired ; but in what has been accomplished, leading

to conclusions so remarkable, in regard to the phaenomena of

magnetism, on the largest scale presented to us by nature, as

to stimulate greatly to more extensive research.

I have sought to embody in this report on the variations of

the magnetic intensity, all the materials which have been ob-

tained by the labours of observers of all nations, in all parts of

--the world ; to present them in the form best fitted to add to
--our knowledge ; and to call attention to the general conclu-

sions, to which we are conducted by an attentive consideration

of the facts of observation, when thus brought together in one

Aview.  large portion of these determinations are here pub-

lished for the first time. The observations of Capt. de Frey-

cinet, Capt. King, Mr. Douglas, Capt. Fitz Roy, Capt. Ross,

and Major Estcourt are wholly new, the original observations

having been recently communicated to me by the respective

observers, and calculated and arranged by me. Messrs.

Hansteen and Due's Siberian observations, and M. Erman's in

the Pacific and Atlantic oceans, have been furnished to me by

the liberality of those gentlemen, calculated as they appear

here. Of the results previously published, the greater number

are collected from different foreign works which have little cir-

culation in this country ; and some of these, as well as apart of

my own observations published in this country several years

ago, have required additional calculations, for the purpose of

bringing them into the general comparison.

I have divided the report into three sections ; the first, con-

taining a condensed historical notice of each of the several series

of observations, by which our knowledge of the magnetic in-

tensity has been progressively advanced ; the second, comprising

the whole of the results, classed according to the values of the

intensity, and arranged in a tabular form ; and the third, con-

taining a summary of the principal general conclusions in regard

to the system of terrestrial magnetism, which are deducible

from the facts thus collected.

I have endeavoured to confine the historical notices in the

first section within the narrowest limits compatible with the pri-

mary object, that of including in each notice all the circum-
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.  6

stances required to be known in order to estimate rightly the
value of the results. In the case of observations which are
either wholly or partly new, these particulars are not to be
found elsewhere ; and in the case of those series, the published
accounts of which are contained in foreign works rarely met

--with in this country, it has appeared desirable, whilst giving
--every direction which may facilitate a reference to the original

publication, to make the account here given complete in all

particulars essential to a just estimation of the value of the

results, independently of such reference. The details neces-
sary for this purpose may render this portion of the report
occasionally tedious to the general reader, who will be princi-

pally interested by that section which contains the general con-

clusions.

                      Section I. Historical Notices.

   It is to France we owe the first rightly directed experimental
inquiry on this subject. The instructions, drawn up by the
members of the French Academy of Sciences for the expedition
of La Perouse, contain a recommendation that the time of vibra-
tion of a dipping needle should be observed at stations widely

remote, as a test of the equality or difference of the magnetic

intensity ; suggesting also with a sagacity anticipating the result,

that such observations should particularly be made at those
parts of the earth where the dip was greatest and where it
was least.

   The experiments, whatever their results may have been, which
in compliance with this recommendation were made in the ex-
pedition of La Perouse, perished in its general catastrophe

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;

but the instructions survived, and bore fruit in the earliest re-

corded observations of the variations of the magnetic intensity,

which are those published by M. de Rossel in the second volume
of the Voyage de Dentrecasteaux in search of La Perouse.

 --Rossel, 1791-1794. These observations, though made in the

years above-mentioned, were not published until 1808. They
were made with a needle vibrated in a dip circle of Le Noir,

coming to rest disadvantageously soon for the purpose of experi-

ments on the intensity. The needle continued in vibration little

more than three minutes; consequently incidental errors would
bear a very large proportion to the total time of vibration ; a
disadvantage which appears to have been in a great degree coun-
teracted by the very great care bestowed on the observation.
The needle was vibrated at Brest in 1791, before the voyage

commenced ; and, successively, at Teneriffe ; Van Die men's Land,
                                       b2
--4 SEVENTH REPORT 18.37-

in May 179^; at Amboyna, in October of the same year; again at
Van Diemen's Land, in February 1793 ; and at Surabaya in
Java, in 1794. With this last observation the published results

terminate ; there is no record of the vibrations having been re-
peated on the return to France, for the purpose of testing the
constancy of the magnetism of the needle, a step which subse-

quent experience has shown to be most important. The con-
nexion of all the foreign stations with Europe is consequently

imperfect ; and the values of the intensity at those stations, re-
latively to any standard value in Europe, could only be com-
puted, subject to the uncertainty arising from the possibility

of a change in the magnetic condition of the needle. The
conclusion drawn by M. de Rossel, of the increase of the inten-

sity in receding from the equatorial to the higher latitudes, was,
however, fully borne out and substantiated, in regard to the

southern hemisphere, by the observations at Van Diemen's Land

in 1792 and 1793, compared with the intermediate vibrations at
Amboyna. These form a comparison complete in all respects,
and to the certainty of which nothing is wanting. It is inde-
pendent of any change the needle may have undergone before
or afterwards ; the correspondence of the time of vibration at

Van Diemen's Land in May 1792 and February 1793, proving
the needle to have been steady in that interval. The increase
in the intensity between Amboyna and Van Diemen's Land was

in the proportion of 1 to 1'67, a difference far too great to be
attributed to any supposable errors or accidents of observation.
Jt is this determination which unquestionably entitles Admiral
de Rossel to the distinction which he has always enjoyed, of

having been the first who ascertained that the magnetic inten-

sity is different at different positions on the earth's surface : al-
 though his observations were not published until after those of

M. de Humboldt in 1798-1803, by which the same fact was
 more largely established.

    As M. de Rossel's observations have not, I believe, been pub-

 lished in any English work, I have subjoined a table containing

 an abstract of all their essential particulars.
    ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.

Station.
--6 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

fore M. tie Humboldt's departure ; but as the needle was left in
Mexico, those observations could not be made on the return to
Europe, by which its magnetic invariability might have been
assured. The circumstances are greatly to be regretted, what-
ever they may have been, which deprived a suite of observa-
tions so extensive, and on which so much care and labour had
been bestowed, of a final confirmation, which can hardly be
supplied in an equally satisfactory degree by any less direct
evidence. Fortunately, indirect means are not altogether want-
ing in this case, and we may infer from them that up to the
beginning of 1800 M. de Humboldt's needle had undergone no
change ; and that if subsequently to that date it lost magnet-
ism, the alteration was not considerable. The observations in
Paris were made in 1798. Between August 1799 and February
 1800, M. de Humboldt made thirteen determinations of the
intensity on the Spanish main, between the latitudes of 10° and
11°, and the longitudes of 292| and 296|. The mean of these
is an intensity of 1*196. In 1822 the value of the intensity at
Trinidad, in lat. 10° 39' and long. 298|, was determined, by
observations made by myself (to be discussed hereafter), to be
1*204<. The result of this comparison is extremely satisfac-
tory; and being derived, on M. de Humboldt's side, from obser-
vations with one needle at several stations, and on mine from
several needles at one station, a fair conclusion may be drawn,
that in the beginning of 1800 his needle retained its magnet-
ism unimpaired. In January, 1801, M. de Humboldt's needle
gave for the intensity at Havannah 1*359 ; mine, in 1822, 1*499.
In this comparison the agreement is less perfect ; there is a
greater difference than is usual between the results of different
observers at the same station ; and it is such as would be occa-
sioned by a loss of magnetism in M. de Humboldt's needle, but
not to an amount that would impair in a material degree the
 value of his important series. Against any precise inference,
 however, to be drawn from these comparisons, there is, 1st,
 the difference of the dates at which the respective intensities
 were determined ; 2nd, a small difference in longitude of the
 localities of the first comparison ; and 3rd, those circumstances
 of a local and instrumental nature which must affect every

 such comparison.

    In the account which M. de Humboldt has given of his ob-
 servations there is no mention made of corrections having been

 applied for the arcs of vibration or for the temperature of the
 needle ; but in such an extensive series, corrections on these
 accounts are of minor importance.

    The number of land -stations at which the intensity was ob-
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.  /

served appears to have been 77, all of which are entered in
the general table in this memoir.

    Besides the land-stations, there are 12 geographical posi-

tions, in which M. de Humboldt observed the vibrations of the
needle on board ship. There are two great and obvious dis-
advantages in such observations, compared with those on land,

viz. the motion, and the iron, of the vessel. On the other side

should be noticed, the space interposed between the instrument

and the solid materials of the earth's surface, many of which
are known to exercise a very considerable disturbing influence
on the needle. As opinions may, and I believe do, vary in re-

gard to the degree of relative value to be allowed to observa-
tions of intensity made at sea and on land, and as it is not a
point on which, from personal experience, I feel qualified to
decide, I have placed the sea-observations in a separate table,
and subjoin them here.

Latitude.
--8 · SEVENTH REPORT 1 S3 7-

were made during a tour in France, Switzerland, Italy, and
Germany, with a needle suspended by fibres of silk, vibrating in
the plane of the horizon, and measuring the horizontal compo-
nent of the magnetic intensity. The dip was observed at the
same time with a dipping-needle of Lenoir (the same that had
been used in the Voyage de Dentrecasteaux), supplying the
means of computing the total intensity from its horizontal com-

ponent. An account of these observations was published by
M. Gay Lussac in the 1st volume of the Memoires de la Societe
d'Arcueil. The values of the intensity were given in reference

to the force at Paris, where the needle was vibrated at the close

of the series, but not at its commencement. M. Gay Lussac

infers that no change took place in the magnetism of the needle
throughout the series, from its having had the same time of vi-
bration at Milan on two occasions, viz. in going and in return-
ing, at six months' interval. As no dates are given, the stations
at which the strict comparability of the force was thereby en-
sured can only be conjectured. It is probable that no correc-
tions were applied either for the arcs or for differences of tem-

perature, as neither of these circumstances is noted in the

record. The number of stations of known geographical po-

sition is 19, 16 of which are inserted in the general table in

this memoir. The other stations were in the crater, on the side,

and at the foot of Vesuvius, where the results were considered
by the observers to be affected, as no doubt they were, by the
proximity of the lava.

 --Sabine, 1818, 1819, 1820. These observations were made

in the first and second voyages of northern discovery to Baffin's
Bay and the Polar Sea. Aware of the magnetic importance of
the regions to be explored, and anxious duly to improve such
opportunities, I sought diligently to provide myself with instru-
ments adequate to the occasion. Those furnished by Govern-

ment were by no means so ; but it fortunately happened that my
brother-in-law Mr. Browne possessed and entrusted to me a
dip circle and needle of very superior character, made by Nairne
and Blunt, and similar in all respects to the one made under

Mr. Cavendish's directions, and described by him in the 66th

vol. of the Phil. Trans. The needle vibrated about eight mi-

nutes before coming to rest ; and probably, from its age, had
long acquired the state of steady magnetism which it was proved
to possess during these voyages, its time of vibration being
almost identical when observed in London in March, 1818, in
March, 1819, and in December, 1820*.

   * The observations of March, 1819, and December, 1820, are recorded in
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.  9

   The observations of the voyage of 1818 were published in

the Phil. Trans, for 1819 ; those of the voyage of 1819-20,
partly in the appendix to the narrative of that voyage, and

partly in my work entitled Pendulum and other Experiments,

published in 1825. In these publications the results were
deduced without any corrections having been made for the

arc of vibration or the temperature of the needle. On this oc-

casion I have introduced both these corrections. That for the
arc has been computed by means of the table published in the
Voyage de Dentrecasteaux, which I find to reduce the vibrations

in the different arcs so nearly to an equality as fully to justify

its employment. The arcs themselves are stated in the printed
record of the observations. The temperatures on the different

days of observation ai'e taken from the record of the external
thermometer in the Meteorological Journal, and the corrections
are computed by the usual formula for that purpose, in which
the coefficient "OOOi has been determined by experiments with
the same needle in high and low temperatures.

    In the voyage of 1819-1820 I furnished myself, besides the
dipping-needle, with three horizontal needles, and an apparatus
for their vibration. These would have been of great use had it
been our good fortune to have returned to Europe by the way of
the Pacific; but the method of deducing the total intensity by
means of horizontal needles almost ceases to be available in coun-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      %

tries where the dip so nearly approaches 90°, and where small

incidental errors in the determination of the dip will so greatly

affect the conclusion as to the force. Accordingly, I have at
no time brought the observations with the horizontal needles
in this voyage in comparison with the results given by the dip-
ping-needle. There is, however, an incidental purpose of some

value which they may serve, which did not occur to me when

the record of the observations was printed, and which is worth
noticing, as it may be useful on similar occasions, should there

be such. The horizontal vibrations, though inappropriate in

such circumstances to furnish the total intensities, give as cor-
rect measures of the relative values of the horizontal component

the Appendix of the second Polar Expedition. From the circumstance of the
narrative and appendix of that voyage having been published at an interval of
some months apart, the copy of the narrative which reached M. Hansteen was
unaccompanied by the appendix, which it seems he has never seen. The abs-
tract of the results, published in another work from whence he has taken them,
refers to the full record of the observations in the appendix, and omits their
dates, and Mr. Hansteen has consequently been at a loss to know whether the

--vibrations were observed both before and after the voyage of 1819 1820. By

consulting the original account, he will see that this necessary care was not

 omitted.
10 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

of the force at any two stations, as the vibrations of the dipping-

Tneedle do of the total force. If, then, is the time of hori-
Dzontal vibration, and the dip at a primary station, where the

--total force is taken as unity, and if T' and D' are the same

quantities at another station, where I' is the value of the total

intensity derived by the vibrations of the dipping-needle,

= -- --cos D'
          p-rpTa ; and we thus get a determination of the

dip distinct from the ordinary method, and independent of the

instrumental errors from which it is so difficult to clear the

dipping-needle, especially one in which the poles are not re-

versed in every observation.

Employing the observations at Melville Island, printed in

the appendix to the account of that voyage, in this manner,

we obtain the dip at Melville Island by the three horizontal

needles as follows, viz.

                Needle 1      88° 44'

                Needle 2      88 46

                Needle 3      88 48

The direct observation by the dipping-needle was 88° 43'"5.

The following table exhibits the results of the observations

of intensity in the two north polar voyages above noticed, cor-

rected for temperature and arc, and expressed in terms of the

general scale.

Station.
                                ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THK EARTH.  11

pleted and published his elaborate exposition of the theory of
the earth's magnetism, to which he had been conducted by the
study of the phasnomena of the variation and dip as far as they
were then known, entered into the field of experimental re-
search, in which he has since rendered such important practical
services to his favourite science. His exceedingly portable ap-
paratus for determining the intensity by horizontal needles is too
well known to need description here ; and his good fortune in
possessing a needle of remarkably steady magnetism, supplied
by Mr. Dollond, renders little more necessary to be said in re-
gard to his determinations, than to refer to the publications in

which they may be found, and to enter them in the general table.
From 1819 to 1824 his observations were confined to Norway
and the shores of the Baltic, and were published in the iiird.

vol. of the Ann. der Physilc, the intensity stations being 37. In
 1825 he extended them round the shores of the Gulf of Bothnia;
and the determinations of that year, being 30 in number, were
published, first, in the ixth vol. of the Ann. der Physik, and,
secondly, with corrections, in the Astro. Nach., No. 146.

 --Erichsen, 1824 ; Keilhau and Boeck, 1825-1827 ; Erman,

1826. I have classed these observations together, because

they were all made, I believe, at the instance and with the ap-

paratus of M. Hansteen, and were communicated to the public

through him in the Astro. Nach., No. 146. Captain Erichsen's

consist of 3 stations on the shores of the Baltic, and in Ger-

many                            Messrs. Keilhau and Boeck's of 9 stations in Germany
                             ;

and M. Erman's of 2 stations in Germany. They were all

connected with Paris through Christiania, and are entered in

the general table.

 --Sabine, 1822-1823. These observations were made during

two voyages, in which I was furnished by the British Govern-

ment with a vessel for my conveyance to stations' at remote

latitudes from each other, for the purpose of determining the
amount of the ellipticity of the earth by means of the pendu-

lum. The first voyage was to the equatorial shores of the Afri-
can and American continents, and the second to the north of
Europe, Greenland, and Spitzbergen. For these voyages I sup-
plied myself with as many as six horizontal needles, in anti-
cipation that some amongst them might prove unsteady in their
magnetism. The observations with all the needles, and at all

the stations visited, were published in 1825, with the account of
the pendulum experiments.

   One of the needles, No. 2, lost so much of its magnetism in
--12 SEVENTH REPORT 183".

the first voyage that it was not used in the second. Another,
No. 1, appears to have been subject to fluctuations in its
magnetic condition, rather than to have undergone permanent

or uniform gain or loss. M. Hansteen, who has discussed
these observations at some length in the ixth volume of

the Annalen der Physik, has rejected the results with these
two needles whenever they differed considerably from those
of the other four ; but has retained and allowed weight
in the general mean to such of their results as appeai'ed
to agree with the other needles. Nos. 3, 4, 5, and 6 showed
on their return to England small and comparatively unim-
portant differences from their times of vibration previous to
their departure. M. Hansteen has applied corrections on this

account to the intervening observations, according to their

dates. One of my stations having been Drontheim in Norway,
which was visited by M. Hansteen himself for the same purpose

in 1825, two years after I had been there, it became a station
common to our respective series ; and he was thereby enabled
to compute the values of the intensity at all the stations visited
by me, relatively to the force at Drontheim, which he had
already compared with Paris by observations at Drontheim
and Christiania, and at Christiania and Paris. The values so
computed and published by M. Hansteen in the volume of the
Ann. der Physik referred to, are here subjoined, for the pur-

pose of exhibiting them in comparison with my own deduc-
tions. The latter are made from the observations with Nos. 3,

4, 5, and 6 alone, those of Nos. 1 and 2 being put wholly

aside. The times of vibration of each needle at the different

stations, as originally published in 1825, have received three

corrections : one, when necessary, for change of magnetism,

assigned on the principle of uniform gain or loss ; a second,

to diminish the observed times of vibration to the correspond-
ing times in infinitely small arcs ; and a third for reduction to
a standard temperature of the needle, the coefficients for
the formula having been determined experimentally for each

needle. The values of the intensity in my deductions are given
relatively to the force in Paris, by my own comparison of the
farce in London and in Paris, which will be noticed hereafter.
There are, therefore, several particulars in which M. Han-
steen's mode of deduction and mine differ ; but it is interesting
to perceive how nearly the results agree. The values calculated
by M. Hansteen are almost everywhere slightly in defect of those

computed by me. This arises from the force at Drontheim be-
ing somewhat less by M. Hansteen's observations than by mine

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

and as he has compared the intensity at all my stations with that
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.  13

at Paris through the observations at Drontheim, the original
difference between us at Drontheim pervades the whole series.

Place.
14 SEVENTH REPORT-- 1837.

been used was unfortunately broken in pieces in the carriage
from London to Portsmouth by mail. It had been Capt. Lutke's
intention to have vibrated the needles at Portsmouth before his
departure, and again at the same spot on his return from the
Pacific ; so that all the observations of his voyage with each
needle might have been comparable with its rate at Portsmouth.

The accident which prevented the execution of this purpose,
and rendered the series of observations much less complete than
it would otherwise have been, is much complained of both by
Capt. Liitke and M. Lenz. In consequence of this accident, it

was not until the arrival of the Siniavin at Kamtschatka that
the needles could be vibrated at a station to which they were
subsequently brought back ; and out of 52 stations, there are
only 18 which were observed at during an interval in which
anything is known by observation of the steadiness of the mag-
netism of the needles. They were vibrated at three different
dates at the harbour of St. Peter and St. Paul, viz. on Septem-
ber 30, 1827, June 6, 1828,and October 9, 1828. Their changes
of rate in the intervals were small, but not proportionate.
Corrections are computed and applied at all the intermediate
stations in the usual manner. M. Lenz has employed the rate
of change of each needle, deduced from the first and second
times of vibration at St. Peter and St. Paul, to furnish correc-
tions for the stations observed at antecedently to Capt. Lutke's
first arrival at Kamtschatka ; of these the land stations are
Rio de Janeiro, Concepcion, Valparaiso, Sitka and Unalaska.
For a single station (Manilla) observed at subsequently to the
final departure from Kamtschatka, M. Lenz has used the rate
of correction deduced from the second and third times of vibra-

tion there.

   The times of vibration were derived on all occasions from the
mean of 250 consecutive vibrations, commencing with an arc
of 30° and ending usually about 10°. M. Lenz has not consi-
dered it necessary to apply a correction for the arcs. The value
of the correction to a mean temperature was determined for
each needle by observations made at St. Petersburg at the con-
clusion of the voyage. For four of the five needles the correc-

tion was as usual additive to the time for temperatures below
the standard, and subtractive for those above it ; but one
needle, rhomboidal in shape, exhibited the anomaly of a de-
crease of force in the colder temperatures, fully as great as the

increase shown by any of the others. The observations appear

--to have been very carefully made, were repeated four times,

Aand include a difference of temperature of 20° Reaumur.

similar anomaly has been noticed, if I remember rightly, by M.
      ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.  15

Kupffer, as having occurred in his experience, and I have my-
self met with an instance of the same kind. M. Lenz has em-
ployed no correction for this needle ; and the vibrations of the
vertical needle appear also to have been uncorrected for tem-

perature.

   The harbour of St. Peter and St. Paul is the fundamental
station of Capt. Liitke's determinations. The value of the in-
tensity there, 1*447 to 1*348 at Paris, is stated by M. Lenz to
be taken on the authority of M. Hansteen.

   Capt. Liitke used both his dip and intensity needles at sea in
favourable weather, placing the instruments on a board sus-
pended in gimbals above the companion. His sea observations
appear to be viewed by M. Lenz as not entitled to equal weight

with those at the land stations, but as valuable additions. Of

51 intensity results, 16 are at land stations, and are entered in

the general table; and I subjoin, as in the case of M. de Hum-

boldt's, a separate table of the 35 results obtained at sea.

Lat.
--16 SEVENTH KKPORT 1837.

a survey of the coast of South America from Rio de Janeiro to

Valparaiso, carried on under the orders of the British Govern-

ment hy Capt. Philip Parker King of the Royal Navy. They

were undertaken at the request of M. Hansteen, and with an

apparatus for horizontal vibration with which Capt. King was

Afurnished by him.  copy of the observations was ti'ansmitted

from time to time, as they were made, to M. Hansteen, who em-

ployed the results, computed provisionally, in his map of the

intensity, published in the Annalen der Physik, vol. xxviii.

The observations themselves have not yet been published,

having been given by Capt. King to his successor in the survey,

Capt. Fitz Roy, to be published when the latter should return

to England. On his return, which took place late in 1836,

Capt. Fitz Roy placed Capt. King's magnetic observations in my

hands (together with his own, of which a separate notice will be

given in the sequel,) to calculate and arrange for publication

in an account which he is now preparing for the press, of the

proceedings of Capt. King and himself during the survey.

Meantime I have Capt. Fitz Roy's permission to introduce Capt.

King's results into this memoir.

    The needle with which M. Hansteen supplied Capt. King sus-

tained a very considerable loss of magnetism during the four

years it was employed by that officer. Its time of vibration in-

creased between March 22, 1826, and January 24, 1831, (on

which days it was tried in the garden of the Royal Observatory

at Greenwich,) from 734-'5 seconds in 1826, to 775'S seconds in

A1831.   change of such magnitude in the magnetic intensity

of the instrument employed to measure the variations of the

terrestrial intensity, and which ought itself, therefore, to be in-

variable, would, in ordinary circumstances, have prevented any

satisfactory conclusion whatsoever being drawn from the obser-

vations. Fortunately, from the nature of the duties in which

Capt. King was engaged, he had occasion to return frequently

to  the  same  anchorages                                                   and  as  he was extremely careful  to
                                                                         ;

re-examine the needle on every such return, we have the means

of knowing by direct observation the amount of the loss it

sustained in certain portions of the time of its employment.

There are eleven stations at which the force was observed

on the east and west coasts of South America, and two in ports

of the Atlantic on the outward voyage. By the practice re-

ferred to, of repeating observations at the same station at di-

stant intervals, the South American stations are so linked toge-

ther and connected, that by adopting a method similar to that

used in determining chronometrical differences of longitude, we

may compute and assign the intensity at each, in reference to

                                                                                                                   !
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.  17

one selected, and regarded in the same light as a first meri-

dian. In justice to these valuable observations, and in consi-
deration of the great change undergone by the needle, it may

be desirable briefly to describe the manner in which this has

been done.

At Rio de Janeiro, which was the first station observed at in

South America, the needle was vibrated in August 1826, Sep-

tember 1827, and December 1828 ; in the intervals between

these dates are comprised the principal part of the observations

on the east side of South America. There is no direct obser-
vation at Rio subsequently to December 1828, but we are able

to supply the time of vibration at a fourth date in the following

manner. The intensity at Rio and at Monte Video having been

correctly compared by a double comparison in 1827 and 1828,

the needle was vibrated at Monte Video on the 1st of June,

1830, immediately before Capt. King's departure for England,

and we thus obtain by an easy calculation the time of vibration
at Rio corresponding to the same date. The intervals between

these four dates include the whole of the South American sta-

tions ; and we have only to distribute in each interval the loss of
magnetism which the observations show to have taken place
from one date to the next, in the manner which may appear

most suitable. There is no very obvious indication that the

loss was other than gradual ; and by considering it uniform in

each separate interval, the results are found extremely ac-

cordant at several other stations at which observations were re-

peated at distant intervals. The subjoined tables will enable

the reader to judge of this for himself. In the first table are

shown the times of vibration at Rio, corresponding to the four

dates : 1st, the observed times of horizontal vibration reduced

to infinitely small arcs and to a temperature of 60° ; and 2nd,

the corresponding times as a dipping-needle. The value of

the correction for temperature has been determined for this

needle by observations which I have recently made with it for

that purpose, the particulars of which will be given in the

more detailed statement in Capt. Fitz Roy's publication. In

--the three last columns are shown, the number of days com-
--prised in each interval, the increase in the time of vibration
--owing to loss of magnetism in the needle, and the resulting

daily correction on the supposition of the loss in each interval

being uniform.

The second table contains the corrected times of horizontal

vibration at each of the South American stations at the dates

-- --respectively inserted ; the dips observed by Capt. King ; the

time of vibration as a dipping-needle at Rio at the same dates,

vol. vi. 1837.  c
--18 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

--derived from the observations in the first table ; and the result-

ing intensity at the station relatively to Rio. The contents of

the tables thus far are the results of Capt. King's observations,

Weunmixed with those of any other observer.  have now

to express his results in terms of the general scale of compari-
son, and this is done in the final column, by taking the value

of the intensity at Rio at 0-884, which is the mean of four inde-

pendent determinations by the following observers, viz.

1817 and 1820 Freycinet . . . 0-890"

1827  Liitke        0-886
1830  Erman .... 0-879 -0-884

1836  FitzRoy . . . 0-878_

I have included in table II. Madeira and Port Praya, at which

Capt. King observed in his outward passage. The dates of

these fall between the observations at Greenwich in March,

=1826, (corrected time 734*0 and dip 69° 52',) and those at

Rio in August, 1826. Having the intensity at Greenwich

= =1*372 and at Rio 0-884, we have the time of vibration

as a dipping-needle at Rio at the respective dates as follows :

      March, 1826   536-2

      August, 1826  537-0

   It appears, therefore, that only a very slight change took
place in the magnetism of the needle during the outward voy-

age, and we may take 536*6 as the time of vibration at Rio,
corresponding to the dates of the observations at Madeira and
Port Praya. I have assumed the dip and force at Greenwich
to be the same as at London. The dip at Madeira was not ob-
served by Capt. King, but has been supplied from my own ob-
servations in 1822, which were made in the same locality,

namely, the Consul's garden in Funchal, where Capt. King's

needle was vibrated. I have deducted 12' from my determina-

tion of the dip at Madeira for the probable change between
1822 and 1826.

      Table I.
          ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.  19
                                 Table II.

Station.
--20 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   Six horizontal needles were employed for this purpose, and
a number of observations were made with them at different

dates at both places ; the details are published in the Phil.

Trans, for 1827. From these it appears that, if the horizontal
intensity in London be designated as unity, the several needles

gave its value in Paris as follows, viz.

       =Needle IV. 1-0732  Needle XI. = 1-0723

       VIII. = 1-0675                     A. = 1-0709
          X. = 1-0726                     =B. 1-0717

                         Mean 1-0714.

The observations were corrected for a small excess of tem-

perature in the experiments at Paris over those in London,

being, I believe, the first time in which a correction for dif-

ference of temperature was introduced into any published re-

sults of the variations of intensity at different stations. The
places of observation were the magnetic cabinet of M. Arago at

Paris, and the garden of the Horticultural Society at Chiswick,

near London.

In order to deduce the relative values of the total intensity

from their observed horizontal components, we require the

dip at the two stations as accurately as it can be inferred from

nearly cotemporaneous observations. In August, 1828, the dip

in the garden at Chiswick was observed by Mr. Douglas and
myself, 69° 46-9. Phil. Trans., 1829. In a paper of M. Han-
steen's, in the Annalen der Physik, vol. xxi. p. 414, we find
recorded the following observations at Paris, a part of which

fall on either side of the London observation of August, 1828,

viz.:                                       Q/

       1825 Arago                         68 00

       1826 Humboldt and Mathieu . . 67 56*5

       1827 Humboldt and Mathieu . . 67 58-0

       1830 Arago                         67 41-3

The months in which the observations were made are not

named by M. Hansteen, but M. de Humboldt in a paper in the

xvth vol. of the Ann. der Physik mentions that those of 1825

and 1826 were made in August and September, and I have

taken those of 1827 and 1828 as corresponding to the same

months. Allowing then an annual decrease of dip of 2'*8 {Ann.

der Physik, vol. xxi. p. 419) we obtain the dip in Paris in Au-

gust, 1828, as follows:                                                ,

         1825 Arago                       67 51-6~)

       1826 Humboldt and Mathieu 67 50-9 \ R% D-1{.,-
       1827 Humboldt and Mathieu 67 55-2 f°'

       1830 Arago                         67 46-9J

I have therefore taken 67° 51'-2 as the most satisfactory co-
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.  21

temporaneous result that I can obtain for Paris, all the obser-

vations being made in M. Arago's magnetic cabinet. It appears
therefore, that about the period in question, the dip in London

exceeded that in Paris by 1 15'*7 preserving this difference in
                                                                                                                                                                 ;

the dips at the two stations when reduced to the period of the
horizontal observations in 1827, and combining them with the
observed horizontal intensities, we obtain 1*018 as the value of
the total force in London to unity in Paris.

   Such being the case, if any other number than unity be
taken for the measure of the force in Paris, the correspond-
ing value in London will be the product of that number multi-
plied by 1-018. By the observations of M. de Humboldt al-
ready described, the intensity at Paris to that of a place in
Peru, where the needle had no dip, was found to be as 1*3482
to 1*000. As at that period it was supposed that an equal in-
tensity, being the minimum on the surface of the globe, pre-
vailed at all places where the needle had no dip, the station
at which M. de Humboldt had observed in Peru appeared the
proper unity of the system of intensities. Subsequent ex-

perience, however, has shown that the intensity lines follow a
very different course from the dip lines ; and in retaining the
expression of unity for the force observed by M. de Humboldt

in Peru, we are necessitated to employ terms less than unity
to expi*ess the force in many other of the inter-tropical parts
of the globe, and even in one quarter beyond the tropic. The

scale is therefore purely arbitrary : but it is in general use,
and will probably continue to be employed till experiments

(perhaps those of M. Gauss) shall have determined an abso-
lute value for the magnetic intensity at some one station ; when
all the relative intensities may be converted into the corre-
sponding absolute intensities. Such is the origin of the num-

ber 1*3482 employed by observers generally as expressing the

force at Paris. In assuming a constant expression for the force
at any station on the globe for any considerable number of

years, we are of course subject to error resulting from the
secular change in the intensity ; of the amount of which we have

as yet no definite knowledge.

   The force in London relatively to the above value of the

=force at Paris is 1*3482 x 1*018 1*372.

    In the spring of 1828 two of the needles used in this com-
parison were interchanged between M. Hansteen and myself,
for the purpose of determining in a similar manner the ratio

of the horizontal intensity at London and Christiania. The

observations are detailed in the Journal of the Royal Institu-
--22 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

tion for 1830, p. 29. They gave the following results for the

horizontal intensity at Christiania to unity in London

\JrNeec;inie  *tvv./^"CCoommppaarriissoonn  in  March                        .  .  0*9124
                                            in                                  <  0<9157
                                                May
                                                                          #

»  VVT11T1T,   r Comparison in March . .                                           0*9157
              \ComparisoninMay ...                                                 0*9160

                                           Mean ... 0*9147

We have seen that the observations in Paris and London

gave ! "0714 for the horizontal intensity at Paris, also to unity

in London ; consequently Christiania to Paris is as 0*9147 to
1*0714, or as 0*8537 to 1. In the spring of 1828 M. Hansteen

observed the dip at Christiania  72° 16'*2                                   at Paris at the same
                                                                         ;

time, or about four months before August 1828, we may con-

sider it to have been 67° 52*'5. The total intensity at Christi-

ania derived from this comparison is therefore 1*423. The

result of a direct comparison between Paris and Christiania

made by M. Hansteen in 1825 is 1*419.

All the values of the intensity inserted in this memoir were

originally observed in reference to one of these three stations,

Paris, Christiania, or London, mediately or immediately. They

have been united by means of the comparisons above noticed,

viz., those of Paris and London, and of Paris and Christiania

and they now form one connected series.

 --Keilhau, 1827. These observations were made in a voyage

to Finmarken and Spitzbergen, in which M. Keilhau was fur-
nished with an horizontal apparatus of M. Hansteen's, and a
5-inch dip circle and two needles made by Dollond. The
observations were communicated to M. Hansteen, and the re-
sults were published by him in the xivth vol. of the Annalen
der Physik, from whence I have taken them.

   There may be remarked in these results greater differences
of intensity between stations near to each other than are
usually met with. From the geological character of the coun-
tries, it is probable that a portion of these may be due to local

circumstances; but it is also probable that a considerable por-

tion of them may be attributed to the inadequacy of the dip-
ping-needle with which M= Keilhau'was furnished, to give re-

sults sufficiently exact for the computation of intensities, in a
part of the globe where a small error in the dip will occasion
a very considerable one in the deduced intensity. His two
dipping-needles frequently gave results at the same station

differing from twenty to thirty minutes from each other.

   There are 20 stations determined by M. Keilhau in Norway,
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.      23

Finmarken, and Spitzbergen, all which are inserted in the ge-

neral table.

Hansteen and Due, Erman, 1828-1830.--In 1819 M. Hans-

teen published his celebrated work on the magnetism of the

earth, in which he brought into one view a larger body of

observations of the dip and variation than had been brought

together by any previous philosopher ; and by subjecting them
to a close examination, drew this remarkable inference in re-

gard to the intensity ; namely, that a centre, or pole as it
might be termed, of magnetic intensity must exist in the north

of Siberia, less powerful, but otherwise similar to the one in

the north of America ; and that the lines of equal intensity

would be found to arrange themselves around the Siberian

centre in the same way as around the centre of greater force in

America. At the time M. Hansteen drew this inference not a

single observation of the intensity had been made nearer to

Siberia than Berlin on the one side and Mexico on the other.

M. Hansteen's work, much more read on the Continent than

in England, produced a very general desire that an inference

so remarkable, and so important if confirmed, should be sub-

mitted to the test of experiment. This, however, exceeded in-

dividual means to accomplish ; it was one of those underta-

kings in science for which national aid is required. To the

honour of Norway, the funds for this undertaking were fur-

nished by a unanimous vote of the Norwegian Storthing or

Parliament. In 1828 M. Hansteen, accompanied by Lieut.

Due, proceeded at his country's expense, and with every faci-

lity which could be afforded him by the Russian Government,

on a journey expressly for magnetic observations through the

Russian dominions in the north of Europe and Asia. They

were provided with a dip circle and two needles of Gambey's,

and with M. Hansteen's apparatus for horizontal vibrations.

At St. Petersburg they were joined by M. Erman of Berlin,

proceeding on a similar mission to the same countries, and

similarly furnished with magnetic instruments. The three

MM.gentlemen travelled together to Siberia,  Hansteen and

Due on the one part, and M. Erman on the other, making the

same observations everywhere, but independently of each other.

They wintered at Irkutsk ; and the following year MM. Hans-

teen and Due returned to St. Petersburg by land route, and
M. Erman proceeded by Ochozk to Kamtschatka, where he
embarked for Europe. The maps attached to this memoir
mark by the observations entered on them their various jour-

neys, separately and together, in northern Asia. Suffice it
--24 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

here to say, that, they traversed the whole of the north of
Europe and of Asia longitudinally, and descended the rivers

Oby and Jenesei to the polar circle, with a view of determining

the latitude and longitude of the Siberian pole or centre
of magnetic intensity ; and that its general phenomena were

found to correspond in a very remarkable degree with M.

Hansteen's anticipations, its locality being removed but a few
degrees (about 6°) to the eastward of the position he had pre-

viously assigned to it.

   Soon after M. Hansteen's return, he published a general
map of the magnetic intensity, in the xxviiith vol. of the An-
naten der Physik. I am not aware that he has as yet pub-
lished any detailed statement of the results of his journey. The
stations inserted in the table in this memoir are from a MS. copy

of his and Lieut. Due's observations, which, with the liberality
that has hitherto characterised the labours of those engaged in
this interesting inquiry, and which I trust may long continue to

do so, he sent me from Irkutsk in 1829, with permission to make
" every use of it that I might think proper, especially when it
can encourage to new undertakings, and accordingly forward

the science."

   M. Hansteen's determinations of intensity have a very great

advantage in the perfect invariability of the needle he em-
ployed. For sixteen years in which it was in constant use no
sensible alteration took place in its magnetism. This is an ad-
vantage which only those can duly appreciate who have been
much engaged in making or in computing observations of this

nature. The correction for temperature also, which he deter-

mined experimentally in the usual manner, has received the
fullest practical confirmation, by the exact agreement, when
corrected by it, of observations at the same place in tempera-
tures differing nearly 90° of Fahrenheit.

   M. Erman's intensity observations are not yet published

they are to form a part of the second volume of the scientific
portion of his journey, the first volume of which was published

at Beilin in 1835. He has, however, communicated their re-

sults, provisionally computed, with corrections applied for tem-
perature and arc, in the xviith vol. of the Annalen 4er Physik,
from whence I have extracted them.

   The number of stations entered in the table are, 80 observed

by MM. Hansteen and Due, and 98 by M. Erman. These are

all in the north of Europe and Asia, and 46 are common to

M. Erman and MM. Hansteen and Due. There are besides

four land determinations of M. Erman's on his homeward voy-
age, viz., Sitka, St. Francisco in California, Otaheite, and Rio
                                           ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.  25

de Janeiro. He made also a very extensive series of intensity

observations on board ship in his passage from Kamtschatka

to Europe. Of these he has not yet communicated the nume-
rical results. He observed the vibrations of a dipping-needle

placed on an apparatus contrived to guard against the ship's
motion, which is understood to have been very successful*.

 --Kupffer, 1829. These observations were made in a scien-

tific journey to the Caucasus, undertaken by the order of the
Emperor of Russia. M. KupfFer was furnished with two
horizontal needles, one of which he received from M. Hans-
teen, and the other from myself through M. de Humboldt.

He employed them, between May and August, 1829, at St.

Petersburg, Moscow, Stavropol, two stations in the Caucasus,
Taganrog, and NicolaiefF; and on his return to St. Petersburg,
presented to the Imperial Academy of Sciences a report on
the general results of his journey, in which the times of
vibration of the needles are specified, together with the tem-
peratures and the observed dips ; but the conclusions, in
regard to the relative intensity at the different stations, were
deferred, until the corrections for temperature for the two

needle-s could be experimentally investigated. I am indebted
to M. Kupffer for a printed copy of this report, and I have

* Since this report passed from my hands into those of the Assistant-general

Secretary, I have been favoured by M. Erman with a complete copy of his ob-

servations, including those made at sea. On hearing from M. de Humboldt

that 1 was engaged in drawing up this report, M. Erman, with great liberality

and most obligingly, sent me a copy in manuscript of the whole of his results

provisionally computed. I have thus been enabled to add five or six stations

between Ocbozk and the harbour of St. Peter and St. Paul with which I was

previously unacquainted, and 167 observations made on his voyage from Kamt-

schatka to Europe. I consider these last observations particularly valuable, in

the evidence they afford, that determinations of the intensity can be made at

sea with an accuracy but little inferior to those on land. With the exception

of a few in the very early part of the voyage, which appear from some cause to

give somewhat lower intensities than accord with M. Erman's own observations

at Sitka and St. Francisco, the results, both in the Pacific and Atlantic, when-

ever they approach the land stations of other observers, present a most satisfac-

tory accordance.

The complete series of M. Erman's magnetic determinations is the most ex-

tensive contribution yet made to the experimental department of magnetical

science                                    nor can we rate  its value too highly, since it furnishes us with conse-
                                        ;

cutive determinations of dip, variation, and intensity, by the same highly qua-

lified observer, and with the same excellent instruments, extending through all

the meridians of the globe, and from the Arctic circle in Siberia to nearly 60° of

south latitude, the whole of this distance being traversed in the course of two

years, and the track completely marked by the frequency of the observations.
--26 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

seen no later publication containing his own conclusions from

his observations. The results entered in the table are con-

sequently computed by myself from the report above no-

ticed, and are uncorrected for temperature, which is of the

less importance as the differences of temperature were not

considerable. It is not stated in the report that the needles

were re-examined at St. Petersburg at the close of the series

but as the two give results very neai'ly accordant, it is pro-

bable they underwent little or no loss. At one of the sta-

tions in the Caucasus no dip was observed ; consequently no
total intensity can be computed. Some error has obviously

taken  place  in  regard  to  the  observations  at  Moscow                                        the
                                                                                                ;

times of vibration of both needles as given in the report would

correspond with a very much higher intensity there than at St.

Petersburg, which we know from the concordant observations

of MM. Erman and Hansteen is contrary to fact. M. Han-

steen, who received the observations direct from M. Kupffer

at St. Petersburg, has omitted the Moscow results in his notice

of this series. I have therefore done the same, supposing that

there is some satisfactory reason for the omission with which

I am unacquainted. At Stavropol and Taganrog the dips

employed in the reduction were observed with an inferior in-

strument, the principal dipping-needle having met with an acci-

dent.

   Quetelet, 1829-1830.--In 1829 M. Quetelet, Director of the
Royal Observatory at Brussels, made observations on the hori-
zontal intensity at several stations in Germany and the Nether-
lands, with an apparatus similar to M. Hansteen's and two

needles ; and in the following year in France, Switzerland, and

Italy with the same apparatus and four needles. The obser-
vations of 1829 are contained in a memoir printed in the 6th vol.
of the Memoires de VAcademie Royale de Bruxelles ; those of

1830 in the Annalen der Physik, vol. xxi. Unfortunately, the

greater part of the observations of horizontal intensity are un-
accompanied by observed dips, and the stations are compara-

tively few at which M. Quetelet either observed the dip himself
or has selected dips observed by others, so as to be available
for our present purpose. There are ten such stations entered
in the general table. Having vibrated his needles in Paris in

1830, the values of the intensity are deduced by direct com-

parison. He has corrected the observations for temperature,
employing for their reduction the coefficient determined by M.

Hansteen for his own needle.
       ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OP THE EARTH.                                                         27

   Douglas, 1829-1834, --These observations were made by
Mr. David Douglas during a journey to the N.W. coast of

America, undertaken for botanical and geographical objects.

The circumstances of his much-regretted death at Owhyhee in

the spring of 1 834, whilst waiting for a vessel to convey him

home to England, are too well known to need repetition here.

Having been supplied with instruments for a part of the scien-

tific purposes of his journey by the Secretary of State for the

Colonies, his papers on such subjects were sent by the British

Consul at the Sandwich Islands to the Colonial Office, and on

their arrival in England were placed in my hands to examine and

report upon. The books containing the magnetical observations

showed, by the completeness of the record, the attention and

care bestowed on every circumstance which could conduce to

Aaccuracy.  full report on these, and on his other scientific

papers, has been presented to Lord Glenelg, the present Se-

cretary of State for the Colonies, but is yet unpublished. I

have therefore permitted myself to enter into a more circum-

stantial account of these observations in this place than I have

done in regard to other observers, whose works can be imme-

diately consulted.

   Mr. Douglas was furnished with a dip circle of 11| inches
in diameter, made by Dollond, with a needle on Mayer's prin-

ciple ; and for the intensity, with four of the same horizontal

needles which I had used in 1822-1823, viz., Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6.
The time of vibration of these needles was observed by Mr.

Douglas in London, in 1828 and 1829, previously to his leaving

England. In May, 1830, they were vibrated at Oahu, one of

the Sandwich Islands ; and between September, 1 830, and

February, 1831, at four stations in North America, where

the dip was also observed, viz., Fort Vancouver, Cape Disap-

pointment, Monterey, and St. Francisco ; and at several other
stations, where the dip was not observed. In February, 1831,
he sent Nos. 3 and 4 to England, to have the permanency of

their  magnetism    examined                                             retaining  Nos. 5 and 6 with  him
                                                                      ;

for further observations. Nos. 3 and 4, from accidental cir-

cumstances, did not reach me till 1836 in Ireland, and being
examined in Limerick and Dublin (both which stations had

been carefully compared with London), No. 3 was found to
have slightly gained, and No. 4 slightly lost magnetism, on a

comparison with their rates in 1828 and 1829. When not em-

ployed in actual observation, these needles were kept together

in the same case, with their opposite poles connected, as were
Nos. 5 and 6 in another and a separate case. I have had occa-

sion to remark elsewhere, that, when needles differing consider-
--28 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

ably in their rates of vibration are so kept together, it does not

unfrequently happen that the weaker needle acquires magnetism,

and the stronger loses it ; and such appears to have been

the case in this instance. It was not until 1829 that Nos. 3

and 4 were put together, having been previously paired in a

similar manner with other needles, whose magnetic strength in

both cases very nearly coincided with their own. It is pro-

bable, therefore, that the one began to lose and the other to

gain from that time forth ; and that the whole gain or loss took
place in the earlier portion, rather than equably throughout

the interval from 1829 to 1836.

  When needles are so kept together in pairs, the two should

be employed on every occasion, and their combined result

should be regarded as one determination. Mr. Douglas never

employed them singly. If in such cases the gain of the one

needle were exactly proportioned to the loss of the other, the

results of the two needles taken separately would differ, but

combined would furnish a mutual compensation. In the pre-

sent case the gain and loss, though not identical, were so

nearly equal, that by taking a mean between the London

rates of each needle in 1829 and 1836, and combining at Lon-

don and at the other stations the results of the two needles into

one determination, we obtain the values of the intensity as they

would have been given by a single needle whose magnetism

had undergone little or no change.

The intensities thus calculated by needles 3 and 4, for the

Sandwich Islands and the stations in North America, are al-

most identical with those computed from Nos. 5 and 6, taken

jointly in the same manner, using the London rates which they

had before they left England. These needles have been

sought for in vain amongst Mr. Douglas's effects sent to En-

gland                                their steadiness, therefore,  can only be judged of from
                                  ;

a comparison of their results with those of Nos. 3 and 4.

The special objects of Mr. Douglas's mission leading him

in excursions on foot into the interior of the country, in Cali-

fornia, and on the rivers tributary to the Columbia, the use of

the horizontal needles was the only service he could there ren-

der to magnetism, as the dip circle was not sufficiently port-

able to be taken with him. There are 18 stations at which

he used the horizontal needles alone, between 34|° and 54|°
N. lat., and all nearly on the same meridian, viz., between 1 19°

and 124° W. from Greenwich. The only absolute deduction

in these cases is that of the horizontal intensity. In deducing

the total force from its horizontal component, the dip employed

must necessarily be computed from the dips observed at other
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.                                    29

stations. Determinations of intensity in that part of the globe
are as yet so rare, that such observations are too valuable to be
omitted in this memoir ; I have accordingly entered them in the
general table, as well as in a separate table here, and have an-
nexed to the latter a brief notice of the manner in which they

have been computed.
   The last observations recorded in Mr. Douglas's books are

those which he made on the dip at Byron's Bay, and on the
force, with needles 5 and 6, at Byron's Bay and in the crater of
the volcano Kiraueah, soon after his arrival at Owhyhee in 1834.
I have searched in vain, amongst the few loose papers which
were sent home, for the rough notes of observations of very
great interest, of which he speaks in his private letters, but
which are not entered in his books. I mean those of the dip,

variation, and intensity at the summit of Mowna Kaah, nearly

] 4,000 feet above the sea, and at other elevations on the island

exceeding 10,000 feet. He mentions, as a general inference

from these observations, that he found little or no difference
between the three phsenomena observed at those heights and
near the sea. Those in the crater of Kiraueah, about 4000 feet

above the sea (which are the only ones preserved), indicate a
decidedly less intensity (1-059 to 1*098) than on the sea side at

Byron's Bay, a few miles distant : but Kiraueah is a recent
volcano, and no conclusion, as to the simple effect of elevation

on the magnetic intensity, can of course be drawn.

    In the first subjoined table are inserted the intensities de-
termined at the stations where both the dip and horizontal in-

tensity were observed. The second table contains those sta-
tions where the horizontal component only was observed, and

the dips are supplied in the third table according to the expla-
nation annexed to it.

                                 Table I.

                                        Long, west  Dip          Intensity. London = 1-372
                                             from            &Nos. 3 & 4. Nos. 5 6. Mean
                                        Greenwich observed.

Fort Vancouver..  Nov., 1830..   45 37  122 36      69 39-7  1-684  1-691  1-688
Cape Disap- "I                                               1-668  1-679  1-674
                  Sept. Dec,     46 16  123 56      69 30-3
  pointment J       1830                                     1-597  1-597  1-597
Point George ..                  46 11  123 40      69 16-8  1-584  1-596  1-590
                  Feb., 1831 ..  37 48  122 25
St. Francisco     Jan., 1831 ..  36 35  122         62 580          1098   1098
Monterey          Feb., 1834..   19 43  156 10
                                                    62 07-5
Owhyhee                                             37 58-0
--30 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

                                  Table II.

                    =Monterey 1-000.
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.                                                                         31

 --Notice of the manner in which the results in the above table

have been computed. There are five stations in North Ame-
rica at which Mr. Douglas observed the dip. The number of

separate observations is 21 distributed as follows
...Cape Disappointment
                                  3

Point George                      2

Fort Vancouver                    6

St. Francisco                     3

Monterey                          7

To compute from these the dip at the eighteen stations where

it was not observed, we require the direction of the isoclinal

lines, and the rate at which the dip increases in the perpendi-

cular to them.

   The relative position of the five stations, being nearly on the

same geographical meridian, is unfavourable for determining

the direction of the lines ; but, on the contrary, extremely fa-
vourable for a deduction of the rate at which the dip increases

in the perpendicular to them ; and as the horizontal stations

are all nearly under the same meridian also, the rate of increase

is the element of calculation, which it is most important to ob-

tain correctly.

   To compute, therefore, the rate of increase from the observa-
tions themselves, we may take the direction of the lines from

a general map, as a small uncertainty in this respect has little in-

fluence on the result. In M. Hansteen's map of the lines of

dip in 1780 we find their direction in that part of the globe to

be from N. 74° W. to S. 74° E.* If we express by r the rate

of increase corresponding to a geographical mile, and make

=8 the dip at a central geographical position, say 45° N.

W.lat., and 124°  long., and 8^ 82 , 83 , &c, the observed dip at

the five stations, we shall have

= + -S, 8 («! cos 74° b sin 74°) r
                                                                                                             x

= + -82 8 (>2 cos 74° h2 sin 74°) /·, &c,

the coefficient a being the difference of longitude between the

central station and that at which the dip was observed, ex-

   * When I wrote the above I had not seen M. Erman's more recent mag-
netic map from his own observations in 1828, 1829 and 1830, in which are de-

lineated the dip lines of 60°, 65°, and 70°, which pass through the district in
which Mr. Douglas's observations were made. Their direction in the meridian

of 124° W. measured on M. Erman's map is, as nearly as the measurement can
be made, from N. 744° W. to S. 74§° E. I add this note to explain the reason
why the direction in the text was not taken at once from the more modern and

cotemporaneous map, and to express the satisfaction I feel in this confirmation

--of the element I had ventured to introduce for the calculation of Mr. Douglas's

results, the only element in the calculation which was not furnished by his
own observations.
--32 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

pressed in geographical miles, and b the difference of latitude

also in geographical miles.

If we combine the five equations so formed for the five dip

stations by the method of least squares, giving each equation a

weight proportioned to the number of observations which it re-

presents, we obtain by the usual process of summing and eli-

mination

           = = -8 68° 42' ; r  0-013608,

the latter being equivalent to 73*5 geographical miles to one

degree of dip. With these we may compute the dip for each of

the horizontal stations ; and having the values of the horizontal

component we may deduce the total intensity. The dips and

intensities for the North American stations in Table 3 are thus

computed.

Mr. Douglas mentions that the dip he observed in the crater

of Kiraueah was 2' greater than at Byron's Bay ; I have there-
fore entered it in Table 3 as 38° 00'. " The dip at Oahu is from

Capt. de Freycinet's observations at the adjacent island of Mowi,

and must he regarded as uncertain for Oahu to some minutes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

but in so low a magnetic latitude an error of that amount would

have very little influence on the calculation of the intensity.

The horizontal intensity at Oahu was very well determined, the

four needles being employed, a few months only after their vi-

bration in London.

--WeFitz Roy, 1831-1836.     come next to a series which must

rank amongst the most important contributions to magnetical

science, and which we owe to Capt. Fitz Roy, R.N., and the of-

ficers of H.M. ship Beagle, employed in the years above-men-

tioned in the survey of the coasts of South America, and in a

voyage of circumnavigation performed chiefly in the southern

hemisphere, having for its primary object the determination

of differences of longitude by a number of chronometers.

Capt. Fitz Roy had the precaution to furnish himself with a

dipping needle of Gambey, whose instruments of this kind,

though not always without fault, are universally acknowledged

to be the best that are made, and superior to those of our own

artists in modern times. For the intensity he received from Capt.

King the horizontal needle with which that officer had been

supplied by M. Hansteen. This needle, which in Capt. King's

voyage had lost from time to time considerable portions of its

magnetism, appears to have very nearly attained a permanent

magnetic state when Capt. Fitz Roy received it. By observa-

tions at Plymouth in 1831 and 1836, and at Port Praya in 1832

and 1836, its time of vibration is shown to have varied to a very
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY QF THE EARTH.  33

inconsiderable amount, admitting of safe and easy interpola-

tion.

  Capt. Fitz Roy's observations are not yet published. On his
return to England he paid me the compliment of placing them
in my hands to calculate and arrange for publication in the

appendix of an account of his voyage, which he is preparing.

Meanwhile he has permitted me to insert the intensity results in
the general table of this memoir. They are corrected for tem-
perature and for arc. They include 27 stations, of which 24

in the southern hemisphere, distributed throughout its longi-
tudes, throw very considerable light on the system of the inten-
sity in those regions. This extensive series is, I trust, but the
precursor of what British naval officers will accomplish for mag-

netism in the southern hemisphere.

 --Rudberg, 1832. These observations were made with a dip-

ping-needle and two horizontal needles of Gambey's, at five

stations on the continent of Europe, of which Paris was one.

A full account of them is published in the xxviith vol. of the

Annalen der Physik. They appear to have been made with

great care, and the results are corrected for temperature.

 --Lloyd and Sabine, 1835-1836. These observations were

made in compliance with a wish expressed by the British Asso-
ciation that some of its members would undertake a survey of
the dip and intensity in the British Islands. Accordingly the
intensity was determined at 30 stations in Ireland by Mr. Lloyd
and myself, in 1835, and by myself at 25 stations in Scotland,
in 1836. The volumes of the Reports ofthe British Association

for those years contain a full account of these observations, as

well as of the mode in which the determinations at the several
stations are all made to concur in assigning the intensity at

one central position in each country as their general result.
It appears unnecessary, therefore, to reprint them in this

volume, and it is only the intensities at the central position,

thus calculated, which are entered in the general table.

--Ross, 1836. These observations were made in a voyage to

Davis's Straits, undertaken by Capt. James Ross, R.N., in

the winter of 1836, to relieve the crews of several whalers

which had been detained in the ice. Those of the intensity

were made with two horizontal needles in an apparatus similar

to M. Hansteen's. The magnetism of one remained quite

steady during the voyage ; the other sustained a slight loss,
which it is evident by inspection took place between Orkney

vol. vi. 1837.  d
--34 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

and Greenland, and has been allowed for accordingly ; Orkney
being compared with the first London rate, Greenland and
Labrador with the second. The needles then give every-
where very nearly identical results.

   The dip circle which Capt. Ross employed was of 4 inches
diameter. The needle appears to have given very consistent

results always at the same station ; for example, of six obser-
vations at Westbourn-green near London in 183G, the ex-
tremes are 69° 28' and b'9° 35' m 6, the poles being changed in
every observation ; the mean of the six, however, as well as
each of the separate results, is a few minutes higher than the
dip at that spot is known to have been at that time. Taking
into account Capt. Ross's experience in observations of this
kind, and that the observations were made on four different
days, it is most probable that there was some instrumental
cause for this needle giving constantly at this station a higher
dip than the truth. Being ignorant, however, what that cause

may have been, I have not ventured to apply a correction to
the dips with this needle either there or elsewhere, but have em-
ployed them just as they were observed at each of the stations.

   In countries where the dip is so great as in the vicinity of
Davis's Straits, the horizontal intensities may be very correctly
determined, and yet from slight errors in the clip, the resulting

Wetotal intensity may present anomalies unusual elsewhere.

have an instance of this in Capt. Ross's observations in Green-
land. There are two stations in Greenland, at no great distance
apart, where the difference of the computed intensity is excess-
ive ; and the fact of there being some anomaly in the observed
dips which would sufficiently explain the difference, is made
quite obvious by the circumstance that the higher dip is at
the southernmost station ; whereas the dip should increase
in going northward on this coast, and with this the horizontal
vibrations are in accord. I have therefore omitted both the
results in Greenland in the general table.

   As these observations have not been published elsewhere,

I subjoin a table containing the principal particulars.

          Station.
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OP THE EARTH.  35

 --Estcourt, 1836. These observations were made during the

late survey of the navigation of the River Euphrates, conducted

by Colonel Chesney. The magnetic observations were entrusted
to Major Estcourt, who was furnished with a good dip circle
by Robinson, and an apparatus similar to M. Hansteen's, with
eight horizontal needles. Numerous observations were made

with these at Port William and Bussora, the manuscripts of
which have been sent to me, by the President of the Board of
Control, to arrange for publication in the official account of the
proceedings of the expedition, preparing under the direction of

Colonel Chesney. On the arrival in England of the needles,
which only took place very recently, they were also placed in my

hands, in order that the necessary comparative observations

might be made with them. It had unfortunately happened that

the manuscript containing the times of vibration of the needles
observed by the officers of the expedition before its departure

from England, were on board the Tigris steamer when she
was lost in the Euphrates, and no record was preserved. But
on receiving the needles, I recognised two of the number as

having belonged to Professor Lloyd, of Dublin, and as having
been employed by Mr. Lloyd and myself in Ireland. I had

consequently a memorandum of their rates before they were
given to the officers of the expedition ; and on vibrating them

in Sussex, where I was staying when I received them, I per-
ceived with great satisfaction that these two needles must have

preserved their magnetism wholly or very nearly unaltered.

They were immediately sent to Professor Lloyd, who kindly
vibrated them at the same spot in which they had been used in
1884, and found their magnetism almost identical with what it
had been at that period. On trying the six other needles, I

found that two gave similar values for the intensity at Port
William and Bussora with those of Mr. Lloyd; whence I in-
ferred that those also had undergone no change in their mag-

netism since the observations on the Euphrates. The deter-

minations at Port William and Bussora inserted in the general

table of this report are derived from these four needles. Their

times of vibration have been reduced to a standard temperature,

the coefficient in the formula having been ascertained for each

needle by experiments made since they have been placed in my

hands. The full details will be communicated in Colonel Ches-

ney's official publication. .

 --Freycinet, 1817-1821. I am most happy in being able to

add to this collection the valuable observations of Capt. de

Freycinet in the voyage of circumnavigation, performed in the

                                  o2
--36 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

Uranie in 1817-1821. Having heard that I was engaged in

drawing up this report for the British Association, Capt. de

Freycinet, unsolicited, did me the honour to propose to place
his observations, hitherto unpublished, in my hands, to be

communicated to the public through this channel. I should

certainly fail if I attempted to express my sense of this act

of gi-eat liberality ; happily it needs no comment ; and I will
only observe, that it adds another instance, but a very strong

one, to those already noticed, of the good feeling that has pre-

vailed amongst the persons by whom these inquiries have
been carried forward. The world hears more than enough

of the jealousies and enmities which too often disfigure the

history and embitter the pursuits of science ; it is right that
the instances to the contrary should not always be passed in

silence.

  The manuscript of the observations was accompanied by the

following remarks from Capt. de Freycinet.
   " J'ai mis une grande attention a ce qu'il ne se glissa pas de

faute dans la copie ; et telle quelle est je crois que vous pou-

vez compter sur son exactitude. L'experience a prouve' que

les aiguilles Nos. 7 et 8, dont je me suis servi, ont perdu un

peu de leur magnetisme                               pendant le         voyage                                 il sera facile d'en
                                                                                                            ;

tenir compte, comme aussi des legeres alterations qui auront eu

pour cause les variations de temperature ; mais je ne me suis

pas livre a ces considerations, pensant qu'il valait mieux que

vous vous en occupassiez selon vos vues particulieres."

   The table in pages 38 and 39 contains the observations,

printed from this manuscript without alteration of any kind.

In compliance with the wish expressed by Capt. de Frey-

cinet, I proceeded to calculate the results of these observations

in the following manner. The consideration of Mo. 9 was put

aside in the first instance for the reason assigned in the mar-

ginal note to the observations at the Isle of France. The

times of vibration at Paris before and after the voyage, con-

firmed by the observations at Rio de Janeiro in 1817 and 1820,

show that Nos. 7 and 8 both slightly lost magnetism, and No. 8

rather more than No. 7. It further appears that the extra

loss of No. 8 over No. 7 was all sustained in the first fourteen

months                                   as  at the  Isle of France in  June,  1818,                           they  had arrived
                                      ;

nearly at an equality in their time of vibration, which they pre-

served for the whole remainder of the voyage, and exhibited
on the return to Paris. In whatever way, therefore, we may

proportion the equal loss sustained by both needles, the extra
loss of No. 8 must be placed before the arrival at the Isle of

France. When there are no circumstances in the observations
           ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OP THE EARTH.     37

themselves indicating otherwise, the usual course is to distri-

bute a loss equally through the interval in which it is known

to have occurred. I have therefore pursued this course in

regard to the loss sustained by No. 7 ; and in the case of No. 8

I have allowed a double proportion in each of the first fourteen

months. The observations furnish two tests of the propriety

of this distribution : the general agreement of the results of

the two needles with each other at the different stations is one ;
the other is the agreement of the force thus calculated at Rio

in 1817 and 1821. In both the accordance is satisfactory.

  On computing the intensity at the Cape of Good Hope and

the Isle of France by No. 9, using for that purpose its time of

vibration at Paris in 1817, the results appeared to agree ex-

tremely well with those of Nos.7and 8. It is hence inferred, that

until the accident at the Isle of France, No. 9 had undergone

no change of magnetism, and I have therefore brought into the

account all the results obtained with it before that occurrence.

As the effect of changes of temperature on these particular

needles does not appear to have been ascertained experiment-

ally,  no  corrections  are  applied  on  account  of  temperature
                                                                                                                      ;

but, as I have before remarked, such corrections are of minor

importance in so extensive a series as the present. The table

in page 40 exhibits the computed results, and appears to need
no other explanation, except that the column entitled "Time of

vibration as a dipping-needle at Paris" exhibits the times of

vibration corrected for loss of magnetism.
38 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

    So
   -I

 I"

  ft!
           ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.                                         39

              vu     B  f§8
           £L
                  g

           £ « 3 Si S'u

           o£ * S » = ««»

91 to US   ©©C0tpU5©©usrt<uscpuscpb»tptp                              © CO t|i Tt"  91 91

«©©        Wb» h» GO £. 91 CO 91 OS OS 91 03 OS 91 ·-- "(             CO 91 tb »>»  91 91
                                                                      os os ^i -*   co co
OS OJ pi   t>.C0tCtOtOi-i'-i©C5C5©9191919191                          t>» t» co co
». t>» t»  T)lOS'*'^'-^OSO}COO.l>.QO«>.«>.l>.l>.*>.        t-»t-.t>»

CO00t-» OS CO OS OS OS »>. CO CO t>» l>» «>» t-» CO 00 t» b» GOt»«»» O0b»b»CO t-»C©

w
                                                                                                             .     --SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

40

                                                                                                                         Time of vibration.               Intensity.

                                                                                                                                    As a dipping-needle.

                                                                                                                                    At the     At         = =Paris 1-000.               Paris
                                                                                                                                                                                          1-3J8,
                                                                                                                                    station.  Paris.

Paris.                                                                                                             1817  1019-75    617-7     617-7       1-000")
                                                                                                                         1009-93    611-7     611-7
                                                                                                                                    318-0     318-0       1-000 1 1-000 1-348
                                                                                                                          525-05
Teneriffe                                                                                                                  450-75   3190      3180        1-000 J                       1-340
                                                                                                                           775-9                          0-9942
Rio de Janeiro.                                                                                                            767-27   763-1     620-0
                                                                                                                           402-20   754-6     616-7       0-6602"!

                                                                                                                           937-0    3956      3180        0-6679 U-658 0-887

                                                                                                                           477-9    745-1                 0-6465 J

Cap de Bonne Es- \ 1818                                                                                                    9120     380-0     620-9       0-69451
perance                                                                                                                    9130     689-7                                 . 697 0-945
                                                                                                                J                    690-5    3180
                                                                                                                           467-8     353-8                0-7005 J
                                                                                                                                              622-8
He de France                                                                                                               800-4     607-1    622-3       0-8155"!
                                                                                                                                              318-0
                                                                                                                            802-5    608-6                0-8139 U-813 1-096
                                                                                                                            728-5    667-7    624-0
Baie des Chiens-                                                                                                            729-8    668-9                0-8082 J                      1-421
  marins                                                                                                                    721-6             624-2
                                                                                                                            722-7    7101     624-2       U105 1-054
He Timor                                                                                                                    749-15   7111     624-5
He ltawak                                                                                                                   749-9                         1-052-1
                                                                                                                            792-8    739-8    6251
lies Mariannes                                                                                                              793-0    740-6                0-87411
                                                                                                                            846-4     685-3   625-5                          ft', ·873  1177
He Mowi                                                                                                                     847-4     685-5    626-9
                                                                                                                            832-2    572-4     627-5      0-8718/"
Sydney                                                                                                                      832-2              627-9
lies Malouines                                                                                                               790-5   5731      628-5      0-7750
 Rio de Janeiro                                                                                                              790-9             629-5                      ' 774 1-044
                                                                                                                           1043-4     627-6    630-3
 Paris.                                                                                                                    1045-3     627-6    630-8      0-7736}
                                                                                                                                      777-5    631-5
                                                                                                                   1819               777-8    632-2      0-7181
                                                                                                                                      635-1    633-6                ;}o-71 s 0-968
                                                                                                                   1820               636-3    635-1
                                                                                                                   1821                        636-3      0-7180

                                                                                                                                                          0-8395 "I 0-840 1-133

                                                                                                                                                          0-8401 J

                                                                                                                                                          1-210

                                                                                                                                                                  1 11-J211U0 1-631
                                                                                                                                                          1-210}

                                                                                                                                                          10101 1011 1-363
                                                                                                                                                          1-012;

                                                                                                                                                          0-6612 "I 0n6.r6n<2 0-892
                                                                                                                                                          0-6625 }
                                                                                                                                                          1-0001 ,1.0nf0t°n 1-348

                                                                                                                                                          ,1-000/

   It would have given me great satisfaction had I been enabled
to have included in this publication the observations made in In-

dia by Capt. Jules de Blosseville,in whose untimely death within
the Arctic circle, now, I fear, but too certain, science has sus-
tained the loss of an officer who gave full promise, had he lived,
of becoming one of the most accomplished navigators of the
age. In the last letter which I received from him, dated at

--Toulon in 1830, he thus expresses himself in regard to his ob-

servations of the intensity : " Toulon ayant ete, et pouvant de-
venir encore le point de depart de plusieurs expeditions scien-
 ifiques, il serait utile, je pense, d'y connoltre d'une maniere

exacte la valeur de l'intensite magnetique, et je me chargerais
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.      41

volontiers pendant le petit sejour que je vais y faire, d'y ob-

server les aiguilles. Ceci me conduit naturellement a vous

                                                                                                en

aurais entretenu des mon arrivee ; raais malheureusement les

aiguilles ont perdu pendant le voyage une partie notable deleur
magnetisme, et M. Arago a ete d'avis de ne point s'occuper de
leurs resultats. C'est ainsi que toutes mes peines ont ete per-
dues, quoique j'eusse eu l'attention de rapporter toutes les ob-
servations a Pondicberry, qui etait le centre de nos operations,
esperant par leur repetition dans le raeme lieu, connoitre le de-
croissement gradueldu magnetisme de nos aiguilles. Si je re-

commence quelque grand voyage, comme je l'espere, je me

livrerai avec plaisir a. l'etude de l'intensite, et je m'occuperai a

l'avance, de faire faire par Gambey l'appareil de plus com-

 mode. Je voudrais connoitre vos idees sur ce sujet."

    Experience has shown in many cases, and particularly in
the observations of Capt. King, that it may be possible to ob-

 tain very valuable facts from a series of observations, in which
 the needles have undergone a considerable loss of magnetism
 in the course of a long voyage particularly in cases where at-

                                                                                                                                                             ;

 tention has been paid to repetition at the same station, for the

 purpose of a frequent examination of the state of the needles ;
 and this was practised by Capt. deBlosseville, as well as by Capt.

 King. Aid may also be sometimes obtained from other ob-
 servers who may have observed the intensity at some of the
 stations : and the publication of a series of determinations de-
 pending upon Pondicherry would render it an object with
 persons who might hereafter be engaged in magnetic observa-
 tions in India, to make Pondicherry one of their stations, and
 thus supply a link to connect M. de Blosseville's observations

 with Europe.

In 1833 Mr. Forbes made a very numerous series of excel-

lent determinations of horizontal intensity in different parts of

Europe. They were made chiefly with a view to the influence

of height on the magnetic intensity, and are discussed in a

highly interesting paper in the Edinburgh Transactions for

1836. The dip was observed with a three-inch circle, at a few

stations only, and Mr. Forbes has nowhere himself deduced

the total intensities. If I am rightly informed, he has since

made another tour in the same countries, in which magnetic
Weobservations formed a part of his object.
                                             may hope that

by a series of dips, corresponding in extent and exactness to

his horizontal determinations, he will add greatly to the fulness
                --

 42 SEVENTH REPORT-- 1837.

 and accuracy of our knowledge of the course of the magnetic

lines in those parts of Europe. The investigation evidently
 cannot be in better hands. Meantime I have not thought pro-
 per to make deductions which he has not made for himself;
 and the more so, because the stations are very few at which

 there are both observations of dip and of horizontal intensity,
and at some of these the total intensity has already been de-
 termined by other observers.

   The preceding notices include all the observations of the
magnetic intensity with which I am acquainted, in which the

instruments, by the steadiness of their magnetism, and their
capability of yielding sufficiently precise results, proved worthy
of the time and pains bestowed in their employment.

          Section II. General Table of Intensities.

The intensities are arranged in this table according to their

   values, commencing with those of highest amount in the
    northern hemisphere, descending progressively to those of
    least amount, which have their places in the intertropical
    regions, and again ascending to the highest values in the
   southern hemisphere. Tbey are classed in zones, the first
   zone (§1) comprehending all the observed intensities in the
   northern hemisphere between 1*85 and 1*75; the second
   zone (§ 2), all between 1*75 and I "65 ; the third (§ 3), all be-
   tween 1*65 and I' 55; and so on. In each zone the record
   in the table commences with the geographical meridian of
   Greenwich, and passes round the globe in an easterly direc-
   tion ; all the longitudes being counted east from Greenwich,
   and all latitudes north, unless where it is otherwise distinctly

    specified.

The geographical position of the several zones is shown in the
   maps attached to this report by the insertion of the observed

   intensities themselves in their places in the map. For the
   more ready guidance and direction of the eye lines are drawn,
   marking as nearly as can be judged, the middle of each zone.
   These lines are consequently what are usually denominated
   isodynamic lines, or lines of equal magnetic intensity at the
   surface of the earth. They correspond successively to the
   values of 1*8, 1*7, 1*6, &c, down to 0*8, which is the line of
   lowest value yet observed. There is, of course, great ine-
   quality in the evidence for their precise geographical position
   in different parts of the globe ; sometimes, for the purpose of
   connection, they have been partially continued where obser-
             .

             ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.    43

    vations are wholly wanting ; but in all cases the insertion of

   the authorities themselves in the map manifests the degree

    of exactness to which it is yet possible to trace the several
    portions of each line.

Where the geographical positions are too near each other for

    convenient insertion in the map, two or more stations are
   collected into a group in the table, and the mean latitude,
    longitude, and intensity are placed at the foot of the page.
    Such groups are in all cases composed of the determinations
   of the same observer, and the mean determination inserted in
   the map is characterised by an additional figure, placed be-
   neath, expressive of the number of separate stations thus

    represented.

In the case of stations visited by two or more observers, their
   separate determinations have been inserted in the map
   wherever space has permitted. As this could not always be
   done in the north of Europe and Asia, the mean of the
   determinations of the two observers has been given, cha-
   racterised by the mark +, expressive of the double weight
   to which such intensities are entitled.

The geographical positions may require correction in a few

   instances, but pains have been taken to obtain them correctly
   from the most recent authorities.

               Division I. Northern Hemisphere.

                   § 1. Intensities from 1*85 to VJb.

Station.          Lat.  Long.          Observer.        Date. Intensity.

Viluisk . .       63 120 Due..                          1829 1-759
                  40 43 285 57 Sabine                   1822 1-803
New York

'Turuchansk       § 2. Intensities from \ mfh to 1-65.
Sebrinikowo
Atschinsk . .           65 55
 Jenesiek. . . .
Krasnoyarsk

         "

i

Kansk

Kamyochatsk
N. Udinsk .
             .... ...  .         6

44                        --SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

       Station.           Lat.             Long.  Observer.      Date.

Kurgan       .            54 20 100 00 Erraan                    1829

Salarinsk                 53 30 102 00 Hansteen & Due                                                                                                1
Sawaria                   53 34 101 53 Erman
                                                                 1828
Olonska                   52 59 105 04 Erman
                                                                 1829,
Botowsk . . .             55 10 105 22 Erman                     1829
Bojarsk . . .             56 05 105 34 Erman                     1829
                                                                 1829
Tarakanowa                52 14 106 37 Erraan                    18291

Potapowsk .               57 17 107 34 Erman                     1829J
Kirensk                   57 47 108 04 Due                       1829
                                                                 1829
                                                  Erman          1829
                                                                 1829
Itscliora .               58 38 IO9' 36 Erman                    1829
Ivanofska                 58 38 110 34 Due                       1829
                                                                 1829
Parchinsk                 59 07 111 31 Erman                     1829
Wittinsk .                59 40 112 00 Due                       1829
Kantinsk                  59 53 114 10 Due                       1829
                                                                 1829
                                                  Erman          1829
                                                                 1829
Jarbinsk .                60 28 116" 15 Erman                    1829
Beresowsk                 59 50 117 56 Erman                     1829
                                                                 1829
Olekma ,                  60 22 119 33 Due                       1829
                                                Erman            1829
                                                                 1829
Sanjacktatsk ....         6o"47 123" 46 Erman                    1829
                                                                 1829
Toen Arinsk ....          61 37 128 31 Erman                     1829
                                                                 1829
Yakutsk                   62 01 129 45 Erman                     1829
                                                                 1828
Porotowsk                 62 01 131 50 Erman                     1827
                                                                 1827
Lebegkine                 62 11 133 42 Erman                     1829
                                                                 1833i
Nokchinsk                 61 57 134 57 Erman
                                                                 1833!
Perewos                   61 45 135 40 Erman                     1830,

Tchernolies 1 » .         61 31  136 23 Erman                    1833^
Karnastak J               61 30  137 00 Erman
Allachjan                 61 03  138 45 Erman
                          60 54  140 35 Erman
Judomsk

Arki                      60 07 142 20 Erman

Bay of St. Lawrence 65 38 189 14 Liitke

At Sea                    48 44 216 37 Liitke

Sitka                     57 03 224 44 Liitke
                                        » Erman

Frazer's Lake             54 03 235 20 Douglas

Stuart's Lake             54 27 335 40 Douglas

Cape Disappointment 46 1 236 04 Douglas

Fort Alexandria. ... 52 33 237 31 Douglas

                       * Mean, 2 stations  61 30         137 00  1-695
                1. ..                        .

          ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OP THE EARTH.          45

Station.               Lat.   Long.  Observer.       Date. Intensity.

{Multnomah River       45 15 237 13 Douglas          1830  1-669
                                                     1830  1-688
    Fort Vancouver.    45 37 237 24 Douglas          1830  1-683
    Sandiam River .                                  1830  1-679
    Columbia Rapids    44 35 237 33 Douglas          1833  1-710
Thompson's River.                                    1833  1-707
Oakanagan              45 40 238 12 Douglas          1830  1-707
Wullawullah River                                    1819  1-653
                       50 41 239 49 Douglas          1819  1-668
Byam Martin's II. .                                  1818  1-659
                       48 05 240 33 Douglas          1818  1-666
Regent's Inlet                                       1818  1-661
                       46 03 241 12 Douglas          1836  1-682
Baffin's Bay
Baffin's Bay           75 10 256 16 Sabine
Baffin's Bay
Labrador               72 45 270 19 Sabine

                       76 08 281     Sabine

                       76 45 284 00 Sabine

                       70 35 293 05 Sabine

                       57 33 298 09 Ross .

                § 3. Intensities from 1-65 to 1-55.

Spitzbergen, Fair-     79 40

haven               J

Spitzbergen, South 1

   Cape             /
Katchegatisk

Beresow

Kunduwaski

Wandiask

Kondinsk

Obdorsk

Jugakow

Chutarbitka

Kewaskirche
Tobolsk ....

Samarowo
Uwatsk
Kolotschikowo

Sawotinski
Tugalowsk
Tara
Pokrowsk . . .
46                   --SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

           Station.
                                       ..      47

      ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.

      Station.             Lat.

{San Antonio

      San Miguel

      St. Louis Obispo

f LaPurissima. . . .

t< Santa Ynez     ..   ..

i l_  Santa Barbara    .

 Melville Island  .. .

|

 Winter Harbour

[

 Possession Bay . .

\

 Baffin's Bay

Davis's Straits . . .

Baffin's Bay

Hare Island

J Davis's Straits . .
                                                                 ..

48 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

       Station.                                                                                                                           Lat.

Wardhuus
Miteschka

Milet

           )>

Koschil

         55

Suri

     >>

Dubrowa

             55

Ochansk
Perm

       55

Krilassowa

                  55

Buikowa

             55

Kirgischansk

                      55

Kuslnva

                                                                                                                                      .'

N. Tagilsk !!.'.' .'
Bogoslowsk ....

                55

Ekaterinenburg. .

                     55 ·

Werchoturie ....

                      55  ....

Bjelieska

            55

Sugazk

           55

Tiumen

             55 '· ·

Nishnei Turinsk.
Orlowa
Semipalatinsk. . .
Natschika
St. Peter and St. Paul
Kosuirewsk .
Chartschinsk

                                                                                                 .

Ielowka
Kuruginski. . . .

At Sea
                     . .. J                                                                                                                                                           49

ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.

                                                                                                                                       Lat.    Long.         Observer.         Date. Intensity.

Station.

Cayman Island                                                                                                                          H19 278 55 Sabine                       1822   1-450
                                                                                                                                                                               1836   1-457
Terceira                                                                                                                               38 39 332 47Fitz Roy                    1823   1-543
Greenland
                                                                                                                                       74 32 341 10 Sabine

                                                                                                                                       §5. Intensities from 1-45 to 1-35.

Brussels                                                                                                                               50 52   4 20'Quetelet                   |1829  1-374
                                                                                                                                                                               1832   1-369
   "Bekkervig .                                                                                                                        6o"oi          Rudberg                         1-411
    Bergen . . .                                                                                                                       60 24                                          1-422
                                                                                                                                       60 20   lOiHansteen                     1821   1-426
  1 Ullensvang                                                                                                                         61 10                                          1-419
                                                                                                                                       61 02   17! Hansteen                    1821   1-406
   ,                                                                                                                                   60 20                                          1-414
                                                                                                                                       50 10   6 38 Hansteen                   1821   1-358
 "S Leierdal. . .                                                                                                                      48 31                                          1-357
     Mariasteen.                                                                                                                       59 53   7 50 Hansteen                   1821   1-416
                                                                                                                                       59 43                                          1-405
    .Norsteboe .                                                                                                                       58 49   8 14 Hansteen                   1821   1-373
Francfort . . .                                                                                                                        59 40                                          1-414
Tubingen . . .                                                                                                                         58 59   8 37 Hansteen                   1821   1-398
                                                                                                                                       55 27                                          1-385
    "Ingolfsland                                                                                                                       54 31   8 37 Quetelet                   1829    1-381
      Bolkesjoe .                                                                                                                      51 32                                          1-348
                                                                                                                                               9 04 Humboldt & G.Lussac 1806;          1-365
M Korset . .                                                                                                                            57 03                                         1*349
     Kongsberg.                                                                                                                         60 51  8 48 Hansteen                   1821    1-367
    , Helgeroe .                                                                                                                        59 55                                          1-425
 Kolding                                                                                                                                59 49         Hansteen                 1821    1-415
 Slesvdg                                                                                                                                60 14         Hansteen                 1822    1-377
 Gottingen . . .                                                                                                                        60 22         Hansteen                         1-423
                                                                                                                                        59 57                                  1820    1-422
 Aalborg                                                                                                                                56 10                                          1-425
    " Tomlevold                                                                                                                         55 24         Hansteen                 1822,   1-384
     Heggen . .                                                                                                                         63 26                                          1-365
                                                                                                                                                      Hansteen                 1824    1-442
     Drammen                                                                                                                            5955                                           1-430
                                                                                                                                    .                 Hansteen                 1824    1-419

     Moe                                                                                                                                              Humboldt& G.Lussac 1806

1 Gran                                                                                                                                                    Quetelet             1829
                                                                                                                                                                               1832
    (.Johnsrud                                                                                                                                          Rudberg                1824
                                                                                                                                    .                                          1821
                                                                                                                                                9 56 Hansteen                  1825
  Aarhuus                                                                                                                                       9 58 Hansteen                  1823
  Odense                                                                                                                                       10 10 Hansteen                  1821
  Drontheira . . ,                                                                                                                             10 13 Hansteen                  1821
                                                                                                                                               10 31 Hansteen                  1825
  Christiania                                                                                                                                  10 32 Hansteen                  1824
                                                                                                                                               10 37 Hansteen                  1824
                                                                                                                                               10 14 Hansteen                  1823
                                                                                                                                               10 19 Hansteen                  1825
                                                                                                                                               10 25 Sabine                    1820

                                                                                                                                                         Hansteen

                                                                                                                                               10 45 Hansteen

                    * Mean, 6 stations                                                                                                                60 33   7 38      1-416
                    f Mean, 5 stations                                                                                                                59 13    9 27     1-401
                    t Mean, G stations                                                                                                                GO 11  10 20      1-414

vol. vi. 183/.
                                                                    . .,. :

--50 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

         Station.                                                                                                                                                                                               Lat.   Long.         Observer.         Date.

{Elleoen                                                                                                                                                                                                        59 19  10 40 Hansteen                  1822j|
                                                                                                                                                                                                                59 32  10 4 Hansteen                   1822.|
Soner                                                                                                                                                                                                           59 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                59 01
Skieberg . . .                                                                                                                                                                                                  58 53  11 Hansteen                     1822J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                61 06
  Fredericshall . .                                                                                                                                                                                             62 18  11 Hansteen and Due 1828
  Altorp                                                                                                                                                                                                        61 03                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                62 34
f Vang                                                                                                                                                                                                          60 56  12 Hansteen                     1822 1
 Nebye                                                                                                                                                                                                          57 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                57 42  10 34 Hansteen                  1821
                                                                                                                                                                                                                58 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                57 26  10 58 Hansteen                  1825
                                                                                                                                                                                                                58 22
t j Biornestad                                                                                                                                                                                                  63 42  11 Hansteen                     1825
                                                                                                                                                                                                                55 27
1 Roraas                                                                                                  ,                                                                                                     55 56  11 Hansteen                     1825
                                                                                                                                                                                                                56 03
L Grundsat . . . .                                                                                                                                                                                              55 41  11 Hansteen                     1825J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                51 20  10 33 Hansteen                  1824
f Fi'edericshavn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                59"57
X I Gottenburg                                                                                         ..                                                                                                       52 31  10 58 Hansteen                  1819
  «j Quistrum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                51 02  11 45 Hansteen                  1819
     Odensala                                                                                                                                                                                                   55 26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                59 23  12 03 Hansteen                  1822
                                                                                                                                                                                                                58 40
  LWennersborg.                                                                                                                                                                                                 58 26  12 17 Hansteen & Due. . . . 1828
                                                                                                                                                                                                             .  51 46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                63 10  12 12 Hansteen                  1825
Suul                                                                                                                                                                                                            62 50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                62 29
f Soroe                                                                                                                                                                                                         62 22  11 54 Hansteen                  1820
                                                                                                                                                                                                                62 38
§ J Fredericsberg                                                                                                                                                                                                      12 18 Hansteen                  1820

] Helsingberg .                                                                                                                                                                                                        12 43 Hansteen                  1820

  Copenhagen                                                                                           .                                                                                                               12 55 Hansteen                  1820

l_

Leipsic                                                                                                                                                                                                                12 22 Keilhau & Boeck        1826

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ..

Magnor                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Quetelet             1829
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12"22 Hansteen                  1825
Berlin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13 22 Humboldt & G.Lussac 1806

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Erman                    1828

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Quetelet                 18291

Dresden                                                                                                                                                                                                                13 43 Quetelet                  1829
Ystad
 {Carlstad                                                                                                                                                                                                             13 56 Eriehsen                  1824|

                                                                                  .. .                                                                                                                                 13 26 Hansteen                  1825

     Mariestad .                                                                                                                                                                                                       13 50 Hansteen & Due. . . . 1828;
    Lincoping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15 38 Hansteen & Due. . . 1828'
                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15 57 Eriehsen                  1824
Carolath
 !Oestersund.                                                                                                                                                                                                          14 32 Hansteen                  1825

     Grimnas. . .                                                                                                                                                                                                      15 10 Hansteen                  1825
     Alsta
     Sundswall .                                                                                                                                                                                                       16 Hansteen                     1825
    Hemosand.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       17 16 Hansteen                  1825

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       17 53 Hansteen                  1825

                   » Mean, 5 stations                                                                                                                                                                                  59 12         11 10      1-383
                   t Mean, 5 stations                                                                                                                                                                                  CI 35         11 16      1-431
                   X Mean, 5 stations                                                                                                                                                                                  57 53         11 31      1-384
                   5 Mean, 4 stations                                                                                                                                                                                  55 47         12 28      1-383
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       58 50         11 IS      1-372
                      Mean, 3 stations                                                                                                                                                                                 G2 42         10 10      1-424

                    ||

                   If Mean, 5 stations
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH
                                              1

--52 SKVJEXTII REPORT 1837*

        Station.           Lat.   Long.     Observer.  Date,

Kasan                      55 48 49 07,

    »                          »       »
Uralsk                     51 11    51 22,
Klinen                     49 05   52 00j
                           51 45   55 06
Orenburg                   54 45   56 00
Oufa                       23 09
Havana                            277 38j

         5»                17 56

Jamaica
Madeira

        >>   By   30

Ireland.              /
                  25 1
    stations
                        J
Scotland. By

stations

Stromness

Brassa

London
54                                                                               SEVENTH REPORT 1837-
                                                                           § 7« Intensities from T25 to 1*15.
              Station.
                                                                              Lat.    Long.  Observer.          Date.

Port William                                                                  37 00    38 00 Estcourt               1836
                                                                              30 20    47 36 Estcourt               1836!
Bussora                                                                       39 07   159 03 Lutke                  1827
                                                                              10 25   285 31 Humboldt               1801
At Sea                                                                                285 34 Humboldt               1801
                                                                                9 14  286 Humboldt                  1801
 Carthagena                                                                     8 15  291 47 Humboldt               1800
                                                                              10 10   292 06 Humboldt               1800
# f Mompox                                                                    10 16   292 30 Humboldt               1800
                                                                              10 14   292 34 Humboldt               1800
  \ Morales                                                                   10 17   292 53 Humboldt               1800
    "Nueva Valencia.                                                          10 33   292 54 Humboldt               1800
                                                                              10 36   292 56 Humboldt               1800
Hac. de Cura. . .                                                             10 31   292 59 Humboldt               1800
                                                                              10 31   295 51 Humboldt           . . 1800
Victoria                                                                      10 28   295 55 Humboldt               1800
                                                                              10 26   296 01 Humboldt               1800
H Hac. de Tui . . .                                                           10 10   296 07 Humboldt               1800
     Venta di Avila .                                                         10 10   296 02 Humboldt               1800
    La Guayra                                                                 10 16   298 25 Sabine                 1822
                                                                              10 39   299 29 Humboldt               1799
Caracas                                                                       10 53   336 30 Sabine                 1822
                                                                              14 54                                 1826
.SilladeCuracas.                                                                                 King               1832

fCumana                                                                                                         <

     II Impossible                                                                                                  1836

              |

\<{ Cocollar

  Caripe

j

(_Cumana9oa                                                            ..  .

Trinidad

At Sea

Port Praya

                                                                                             Fitz Roy

Bonin                                                                      § 8. Intensities from 1*15 to 1*05.

                                                                                27 07

Oahu          ,
Mowi

Owhyhee
                                                                   ..

Galapagos I.

f Guajaquil

c) Cuenca . .

S Alausi    ..
       |

LRiobamba
     ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.  55

Station.
56 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   Station.           Lat.

f Ayavaca

I Gualtaquillo . . .

   Gonzanama  ..  .

I

*<^ Guancabamba .

   Pucara

   Amazon's River.

LTomependa    ..  .

{Montan

   Micuipampa . . .

   Santa

   Caxamarca

Maranham
        ..                                           ..

                ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.                                                                  o]

        Station.             Lat.  Long.         Observer.                                                       Date. Intensity.

Ualan                      5 21N. 163 23 Liitke                                                                  !l827   1-002
                           4 SOS. 238 13 Liitke . . .                                                            '1827   0-998
At Sea                   13 09S. 251 20 Lutke . . .                                                              11827   1-014
                           9 38 S. 281 25 Humboldt                                                               I] 802  1-000
At Sea                   10 04S. 281 39JHumboldt                                                                 'l802   1-000
                         11 03S. 282 14'Humboldt                                                                 [1803   1-009
("Casuia ....            11 32S. 282 35; Humboldt                                                                11802   1-009
                         112 03S. 282 53jHumboldt                                                                        1-077
   Guarmey        ..  ,  34 57S. 305 03 King . . .                                                               |1802|  1-041

|                                                                                                                1829

*{ Huaura ....

  El Ramadal

I

(.Lima

Goriti

                         § 12. Intensities from 1*05 to 1-15.

Mauritius                20 09 S. 57 31 Freycinet                                                                1818    1-096
                                                                                                                 1836    1-192
Amboyna                                         Fitz Roy .                                                       1792    1-097
                                                                                                                 1830    1-172
Otaheite .                 3 42 S. 128 08 Rossel . . .                                                           1835    1-017
                                                                                                                 1835    1-111
Coquimbo . .             17 29S.210 30 Erman . . .                                                               1832    1-113
Blanco Bay                                     Fitz Roy .                                                        1830    1-065
Monte Video                                                                                                      1833    1-055
                         29 59 S 288 34 Fitz Roy .                                                               1827    1-110
At Sea                   38 57 S 298 01 Fitz Roy .
                         34 53 S. 303 47 King . . .

                                                Fitz Roy .
                         40 55 S. 307 00 Liitke . . .

                         § 13. Intensities from 1*15 to 1'25.

Timor                    10 10 S. 123 40 Freycinet.                                                              1818    1-177
                                                                                                                 1835    1-238
Valdivia . . .           39 53 S. 286 31 Fitz Roy .                                                              1827    1-234
Concepcion                                                                                                       1829    1-250
                         36  42SJ286  50 Liitke  ..  .                                                           1835    1-186
Valparaiso                                                                                                       1827    1-170
                                          King . .                                                               1829
                                                                                                                 1830    1-176
                                          Fitz Roy
                                                                                                              .

                         33 02 S. 288 19 Liitke . . .

                                          King . . .

                         § 14. Intensities from 1-25 to 1*35.

Juan Fernandez           33 38 S. 281 07
At Sea

Port Low

Chiloe

At Sea
--58 SEVENTH UEPORT 1837.

                    § 15. Intensities from 1'35 to 1*45.

          Station.
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.  59

Additional Table, containing the Observations made by M.
  Erman at sea, on his return from Kamtschatku to Europe

   by Cape Horn.

These observations were received from M. Erman since this

   Report was sent to press, which occasions their being given
    in a separate table.
--60 SEVENTH REPORT 183/\
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.  61
--62 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.
----

ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.  63

               Section III. General Conclusions.

    In considering the comparative fitness of the three kinds of
magnetic lines, those of equal variation, equal dip, and equal
intensity, to promote a knowledge of the system of terrestrial
magnetism, the lines of equal intensity have in one leading re-

spect an advantage over the other two. Viewed under the most
favourable circumstances and in its simplest aspect, the magnet-
ism of the earth is still, it must be acknowledged, a highly com-
plicated subject ; and needs not the additional complication of
its phenomena being involved with considerations foreign to

itself. Now the lines of equal dip and equal variation do
not express simple magnetic relations. The lines of equal dip,

for example, connect those stations on the earth's surface where
the direction of the magnetic attraction forms a certain angle
with the horizontal plane at the station. But every station has
its own horizontal plane depending on the direction of gravity,
which has no known or necessary connexion with magnetism.

The zero planes thus differing, the equality of dip does not ex-

press, or necessarily imply, a simple magnetic relation, but has
reference to the attraction of gravitation as well as to (hat of

magnetism. The lines of equal variation express a complex re-
lation of a similar character. Here also the zero planes change

with the station ; and, the variation being the same at two sta-
tions, by no means implies parallelism in the direction of the
needle at them, or any other specific relation whatsoever inde-
pendent of the geographical pole, which pole has no known or
necessary connexion with magnetism. It is not the same with
the lines of equal intensity. Whatever may be the sources of
magnetic attraction, and wherever their situation in space,

--whether superficial as regards the earth, or above or beneath
--its surface the line of equal intensity expresses the equality of

their resultant at all those points of the earth's surface through
which it is drawn, unmixed with any considerations foreign to

magnetism. They are pure magnetical isodynamic lines at the
surface of the globe ; and express a common relationship to the
sources of magnetical attraction. The instruction they convey
is therefore more simple, direct and unequivocal than in the
case of the other two. The eye of the mathematician may dis-
cern the pure magnetic indication through the complex signi-

fication of the lines of equal variation and dip ; but the lines
of intensity are better suited to convey the system of magnetism
as indicated by the phenomena to the general apprehension.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

--61 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   I proceed to notice a few of the most striking inferences which
are deducible from the observations of intensity recorded in

this report.

   1. The lines of equal intensity are not parallel with the
lines of equal dip, and the difference is systematic.

   In 1805 M. Bint published an investigation of the laws which
should govern the clip and the intensity, in the hypothesis of a
magnet situated at the centre of the earth, having its poles in-
finitely near to each other, and directed to opposite points on

the surface of the globe. It is a well-known consequence of this
hypothesis, that the lines of equal dip and equal intensity on the
earth's surface should everywhere be parallel to each other.

   It has always appeared to me that the distinguished author of
this investigation has been taken much beyond his meaning,
when he has been supposed to have propounded this hypothesis

as a general representation of the facts of terrestrial magnetism
then known, or of those which should be shown by more ex-

tensive experience. He was doubtless fully aware that, many
years antecedently, the phenomena of the variation had been

shown by Dr. Halley to be wholly irreconcileable with the
geometrical deductions from a single central magnetic axis
and that Euler, who may in some degree be regarded as an op-
ponent of Halley upon the subject generally, fully acquiesced
in this conclusion. Accordingly, M. Biot made no comparison
of the hypothesis with the variation, considering no doubt that

Aits inapplicability in that respect had been already shown.

few facts of the dip were the only observations with which he
compared the formula? of his hypothesis, and with some of
these it appeared to accord tolerably; but still there were
anomalies which drew from him the acknowledgement, that to
represent even those few facts of the dip, it would be neces-
sary to add to the influence of the primary axis the supposi-
tion of subordinate centres. That he had no expectation of its
proving applicable to the intensity, any more than to the varia-
tion, is, I think, beyond a question, when we read the following
sentence : "Quant a la declinaison et a l'intensite nous avouons
franchement que nous ne savons absolument rien sur leurs
lois ni sur leurs causes : et si quelque physicien est assez -
heureux pour les ramener a un principe unique, qui explique en

meme temps les variations de l'inclinaison, ce sera sans doute

une des plus belles decouvertes que Ton ait jamais faites."*

   * Journal de Physique, vol. lix. p. 450. The state in which the question
was left hy Halley and Euler was, I believe, as follows : Halley decided in
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OP THE EARTH.  65

   The light in which I have thus considered M. Biot's essay is

the same, I think, in which it was regarded at the time, by his
distinguished coadjutors in this and so many other branches of

science. MM. Gay Lussac and Humboldt, in closing the ac-

count of their magnetic observations on the continent of Europe
in 1805 and 1806, remark as follows : " Les inclinaisons corre-
spondantes donne*es par la theorie d'apres M. Biot, sont toutes
beaucoup plus grandes, car les plus petites differences vont a

pres de 4°. En supposant la position de l'equateur magnetique,

rigoreusement determinee, il en resulteroit qu'en Europe, il y
a une inflexion considerable des paralleles magnetiques vers

l'equateur, occasionnee par l'influence de quelque centre parti-

culier. Mais pour tirer aucune conclusion a cet egard, il est
prudent d'attendre que des observations exactes et plus nom-
breuses fournissent des bases solides, sar lesquelles on puisse

elever une the'orie rigoreuse qui les embrasse toutes*." It is

here fully recognised that M. Biot's was not " cette the'orie

rigoreuse" which, resting on the solid basis of induction from

a competent assemblage of facts, should have a proportionate
claim to be regarded as a general representation of the phe-

nomena.

    In showing the incompatibility with subsequent observations

of this " abstraction mathematique," as M. Biot himself de-

signated it, I do not therefore consider myself as opposing

either his opinions or his expectations.

   It has sometimes appeared to me that the very simplicity of

the laws of this hypothesis has tended to counterbalance in
some degree the advantage it produced, in recalling attention
to a subject, the interest in which had been for some years
suspended. Apart from the question of accordance or non-

favour of four poles, as the best representation of the phaenomena : Euler hesi-
tated to accede to this until it should be shown more decisively that the phae-

nomena might not be represented by a single excentric axis, having its semi-

axes of unequal length ; claiming in such case the preference for the latter

supposition over that of four poles, as being more suitable for geometrical de-
ductions. To have accomplished what such men as Halley and Euler had left
incomplete would have been an undertaking not unworthy of M. Biot ; but it
would have required the preliminary labour of collecting together, as M.

Hansteen has since done, the great body of the facts of observation, which, at
the time his essay was written, were scattered in the journals of travellers and
navigators, and in the transactions of learned societies of many countries. This
labour might well in prospect have deterred him from the attempt ; but it was
indispensable for the purpose of furnishing the basis of a philosophical induc-
tion of such general laws as should comprehend the whole of the phaenomena.

On no less solid foundation was it probable that phaenomena should be repre-
sented, known to wear so complicated an aspect, and which had been the sub-
ject of the long-continued investigation of the eminent men above noticed.

    * I have put in Italics the part of this extract to which I particularly refer.

VOL. VI. 1837-  F
--CG SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

accordance with facts, simplicity recommends itself to all;
and persons imperfectly acquainted with the phaenomena may
have heen led by it to undervalue observation, when detached
portions of its facts, inconsistent with the hypothesis, may have
come under their notice ; and, departing from the principles of
inductive philosophy, may have suffered themselves to look to

the hypothesis rather than to the phaenomena. The simplicity

of its resulting phaenomena is, however, that characteristic in

which it specially departs from the facts of nature. The real
phaenomena are complex, as all who have studied them will

most readily admit ; and it can scarcely be expected that the
laws which are to represent them should not also have in some
degree an appearance of complexity, until the laws of their
causation shall be discovered.

   In a science which stands in need of national aid for its ex-
perimental extension, it is peculiarly desirable to remove such
erroneous impressions as militate against a belief in the value,
and consequently the importance, of experimental research.

    I propose, therefore, in the first place, to show, that the irre-
concilability of a single central axis does not rest on insulated

facts only, or, as some may have supposed, on the conclusions
of a single observer, but that all those who have principally

concurred in extending the boundaries of our experimental
knowledge of late years, have arrived at the same conclusion
in that respect, and have uniformly borne testimony to the in-

applicability of the formulae of that hypothesis to represent their

respective observations ; and, secondly, to direct the reader's

attention to those facts in particular, which may produce the

readiest conviction of the systematic departure of the lines of
dip and intensity from that law of the hypothesis by which they
should have parallel courses.

  We have already seen the conclusion at which MM. Gay

Lussac and Humboldt arrived in 1807, namely, that their ob-
servations in France, Italy, and Germany, taken in conjunction
with M. de Humboldt's in America, could only be reconciled
with M. Biot's hypothesis, by supposing the existence of a

secondary centre extending its influence over the continent
of Europe, and acting conjointly with the primary.

   From 1807 the spirit of experimental inquiry slumbered for

a while ; the times were unpropitious to a research which re-
quired freedom of access to different countries, and safety and
facility in traversing extensive spac es of the earth's surface.
At length it revived nearly simultaneously, in Capt. de Freyci-
net's voyage of circumnavigation, and in the British expeditions
for the discovery of a north-west passage. Between 1818 and
         ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OP THE EARTH.                                                           &J

1823 I had the good fortune to enjoy opportunities of observing

the magnetic phaenomena over a portion of the globe amounting

to about one-eighth of its surface, or the quarter of an hemi-

sphere. In comparing, on my return to England, the observa-

tions of dip with M. Biot's formula, the differences between cal-

culation and experiment were seen to be not atsingle stations only,

but systematic, extending over large spaces of the globe ; the

discrepancies were also so great as (in the words which I em-

ployed in 1825) to make it " certain that no two positions could

" be assigned to the magnetic poles, which would enable a cal-

" culation of the dip as a function of the magnetic polar distance,
u in which differences from fact should not be found of 10° and
a upwards." Further, in comparing the observations of dip and

intensity with the parallel course, which, according to the hy-

pothesis, the lines of equal dip and equal intensity should

preserve, their irreconcilability with this law was shown to be so
great and so systematic as to be " decisive against the sup-

" posed relation of the force to the observed dip ; and equally
" so against any other relation whatsoever, in which the r'e-
" spective phaenomena might be supposed to vary in corre-
" spondence with each other." Another important difference

was also pointed out. In the hypothesis the maxima of dip

and intensity are coincident : with this the observations were

at variance                                               those  of the  intensity  placing  its  maximum  several
                                                       ;

degrees to the southward of the geographical position which

the observations of dip indicated as that of the dip of 90 de-

grees*.

In 1830 M. Erman returned from a journey in which he had

carried magnetic observations over a space on the globe still

more extensive than mine, and (which should be specially no-

ticed) so entirely distinct from mine, that we had not a single

   * The observations of intensity arranged around their own centre presented
much less discordance with the laws of an uniaxal hypothesis than appeared
in those of the dip when referred to the position of the pole as indicated by the
dip of 90 degrees. By substituting in the formula of that hypothesis the "iti-
nerary distance from the maximum of intensity" for the "magnetic polar di-
stance," and employing this formula as an empirical representation, it was
found to correspond with the facts of the intensity within the district comprised
by my observations, with no very material discrepancies. In that portion of

the hemisphere in which the influence of the primary centre is predominant,

the variations of the intensity maybe easily imagined not to differ greatly from

the effect of a single axis ; and such is apparently the fact. It happened that

my observations, extensive as they were, fell within that limit; had they been

pursued a few degrees further to the eastward, the influence of the Siberian
centre would have become more sensible, and the uniaxal formula would have
ceased to afford even an approximate representation of the facts. But this
perhaps will be better understood when the sequel of the report has been read.

                                        f2
--C8 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

station in common. I cannot state his conclusions better than
by giving his own words*.

 --" Lignes a egale Intensity, ou Lignes Isodynamiques.

Esperant encore completer mes observations relativement a
ces lignes interessantes, pendant mon passage du Bresil en
Europe, je me borne ici a en relever quelques particularities frap-
pantes, et nommement celle, qu'en Siberie les lignes isodyna-
miques ne sont rien moins que paralleles aux lignes d'egale
inclinaison. Nous voyons au contraire sous le meridien d'Ob-
dorsk et de Tobolsk, les premieres avoir des branches descen-
dantes presque verticales ou legerement inflechies du N.O.
au S.E., tandis que les lignes a inclinaison egale y sont presque

*****horizontales.
" Ces indications preliminaires suffiront pour prouver que

l'ancienne theorie, diveloppee par Euler et KrafFt, et plus

tard par MM. Humboldt et Biot, et qui ne suppose qiiun seul

axe magne'tique, est absolument en deTaut pour les loix de l'in-

Entensite de la force magnetique.  effet, l'intensite n'etant

d'apres cette theorie qu'une fonction de l'inclinaison, les lignes

qui representent l'un et l'autre de ces phenomenes, devraient

conserver une marche toujours parallele. On peut en tirer la

consequence interessante, que la position des deux poles mag-

netiques n'est pas la seule qui regie les phenomenes de l'incli-
naison et de la declinaison dans les differentes parties du

globe ; mais qu'il existe encore une cause secondaire qui n'af-
fectant toutefois que tres faiblement la declinaison et l'incli-

naison, et la derniere d'autant moins qu'on l'observe plus pres

de l'equateur, exerce cependant sur les loix de l'intensite une

influence si puissante qu'elle en efface presque tous les carac-

teres deduits par la theorie."

M. Erman's conclusions, in respect to the non-parallelism of

the lines of dip and intensity, and the insufficiency of a single

magnetic axis to represent his observations, were almost iden-

tical with mine. Our difference, in regard to the particular

class of the phaenomena which were most at variance with that

hypothesis, arose from the different parts of the globe which

had been the field of our respective researches.

I have next to state the inferences of M. Hansteen as an

experimentalist, drawn from his observations in his own ex-

tensive journeys. This need occupy the less space, because I

have alreadyf endeavoured to show, as clearly as the necessity

   * Memoires de V Acad. Imp. des Sciences de St. Petersburg, 1831, (Bulletin

Scie/itifiqite).

 --f Fifth Report of the British Association, p. 72 73.
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OP THE EARTH.  69

of great condensation would admit, the arrangement of the lines
of intensity, and their systematic departure from parallelism
with those of the dip, which, in his theory of four poles, founded
on the assemblage and study of the earlier observations of the

dip and variation, M. Hansteen had anticipated, previous to his
own experiments. It is sufficient to show, as may be done by

a single sentence written since his return from Siberia, that the

results of these have accorded with his previous views. " Thus
is confirmed in the clearest and most satisfactory manner what
I had earlier inferred from the two other magnetic phaenomena ;

namely, that in the northern hemisphere there are two magnetic
centres, or poles ; and that the westernmost, in North America,

has a sensibly greater intensity than the easternmost in Siberia*."

   Having thus shown the concurrent opinions which those
who have most extensively engaged in the experimental in-
quiry have been led to form, it remains to place the facts them-

selves in a convenient manner before the general reader. The

complete view of the systematic difference in the course of the

two kinds of lines is best obtained, by comparing the map of
the intensity lines in this Report with M. Hansteen's map of

the dip lines for 1780, in the Fifth Report of the British

Association^. The lines of dip have undergone some changes
since that period, but none which much affect their general
configuration. All readers, however, may not have that

volume at hand, and I have therefore traced in Plate I.
the course of the line of equal intensity which passes through
our own islands, for 160 degrees of longitude, and have

exhibited it in comparison with the neighbouring lines of dip.

The line of intensity, shown by the continuous line, is taken
from the general map accompanying this memoir. The por-
tions of dip-lines, marked by the dotted lines, are taken from
M. Erman's map drawn from his own observations, in the
Annalen der Phys'ik, vol. xxi. The intensity line, which in

the meridians of 280° and 290° is in close juxtaposition with

    * Ann. der Physilc, vol. xxviii. p. 579.
   f I may take this opportunity of stating that the sea portions of M. Han-
steen's map of the dip in 1780 rest on the authority of between 900 and 1000
observations of the dip made at sea between the years 1767 and 1788, and that
these are tabulated in the Appendix of the Magn. der Erde. The observation
of the dip at sea in favourable weather was the habitual practice of many of the
scientific navigators of that period, such as Le Gentil, La Perouse, Ekeberg,
Lewenhorn, and our own countrymen Phipps, Hutchins, Abercrombie, and
Pickersgill. It is much to be wished that it were a more frequent practice now.
M. Erman, in his voyage from Kamtschatka to Europe, found a number of
days sufficiently favourable to enable him to observe the dip in not less than
167 geographical positions at sea.
--70 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

that of 50° of dip, successively intersects in its eastern pro-

gress all the lines of dip between 52° and 73°, with which

latter it coincides in lat. 60° and long. 10°; it then again de-

scends, intersecting successively, a second time, the same lines

Whenof dip, until it touches that of 57° in long. 70°.  it is

seen that the saine line of intensity successively coincides with

the lines of dip of twenty different degrees, it must be admit-

ted that their systems are not parallel, and that the conclusion

was justly drawn, that the facts could not be repi'esented by an

hypothesis in which the intensity should vary as any function

Aof the dip.  conclusion by no means at variance, however,

as has been erroneously imagined, with their having a causal

connexion.

Nor is the fact of non-parallelism confined to the northern

hemisphere ; on the contrary, the southern hemisphere ex-

emplifies it in a still more striking degree. Thus we have in

South America the line of unity under a dip of 0, as observed by

M. de Humboldt in Peru ; and at the Cape of Good Hope, the

same line of unity under a dip exceeding 50°, as shown by the

concurrent observations of Captains de Freycinet and Fitz Roy;

whilst at Port Desire and at the Falkland Islands, these officers

found an intensity of 1*36, with nearly the same dip as had

been found at the Cape of Good Hope accompanying an inten-

sity less than unity.

   In M. Erman's dip-lines (Plate I.), which represent his

own recent observations, and are quite independent of pre-

existing evidence, we see the same double flexure, of which

the importance, in its bearing on physical causes as well as

on empirical laws, was pointed out in the Fifth Report of the

British Association, page 67. This double flexure takes place

also in the intensity lines, but in a more marked degree. In

both series of lines the radii vectores drawn from the geo-

graphical pole have two maxima and two minima ; a line joining

the parts of each curve which approach nearest to one another,

i.e. at the points of minima, will divide the area into two un-

equal portions, the larger comprehending the American, and

the smaller the Siberian centre of attraction. But there is a

distinction in this respect between the two series of curves of dip

and intensity, which has been pointed out by M. Erman, and

is illustrated by the annexed diagram (Plate II.), taken from his

paper in the Annalen der Physik, vol. xxi. The diagram re-

presents the northern hemisphere, on which the curves of in-

tensity of 1'45 and of 75° of dip are drawn. The longitudes

of the maxima of both these curves are nearly the same ; but
not so those of the minima. In the curve of dip, the minima
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.  /I

are in the longitude of 35° and 140°; in the curve of intensity

in those of 20° and 175°. The Siberian portion of the inten-

sity curve bears consequently a larger proportion to the whole

area of that curve, than the Siberian portion of the dip-curve

does to its total area. From the general resemblance of the
several lines of dip to each other, and of the several lines of

--intensity to each other, the characteristics of each being

always marked, though gradually softening as they approach

--the middle regions of the globe, the features of distinction

which are thus strongly marked in the curves compared by M.
Erman, must exist also in a greater or less degree in many.

Here, then, is another striking and systematic difference in the

two species of magnetic lines*.

   2. The lines of intensity in the northern hemisphere system-
atically indicate the existence of two centres of attraction of
unequalforce.

   The examination of the graphical representation of these
lines in the maps will convey a clearer apprehension of this

systematic indication than a lengthened verbal description.

The higher the values of the intensity of each isodynamic line,

--in other words, the nearer the lines approach the centres of
--attraction, the more unequivocal is their testimony. The

smaller areas included by the curves in the Siberian quarter
mark the less extensive influence and inferior power of the
Siberian centre. Looking next at the values of the intensities

represented by the lines, we find in the neighbourhood of New

York, a portion of a line of 1*8, to which there is no equiva-

lent in Asia. The highest intensity there is 1'76, observed by
Lieut Due at Viluisk, which M. Hansteen believes, and with

great probability, derived from the configuration of the lines, to

be the highest existing in that quarter. It is improbable,

moreover, that the greatest intensity in the American quarter

should be found so far south as New York ; the configuration

of the lines, as shown particularly in the north polar map, in-
dicates the maximum to be nearer Hudson's Bayf.

   * M. Erman remarks that the difference is of that character which would

appear to indicate for the Asiatic centre a less depth beneath the surface than
the American.

   + Since the above was written, the first number has reached London of the
Observations Meteor-ologiques et Magnetiques faites dans I'etendue de I'Empire
de Russie, which have been confided to the editorship of M. Kupffer. In the
introduction we have a formal recognition of the existence of the Siberian pole.
" La Russie est aussi la terre classique du magnetisme terrestre. Ilyaun
pole maguetique dans le nord de la Siberie."
--72 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

    3. The two centres of magnetic attraction in the northern
hemisphere are not at opposite points ; in other words, the dif-
ference of geographical longitude between them is not 180°,
measured both ways.

    This is also best evidenced by inspection. Their distances
 apart are more nearly 200° measured across Greenland and
 Norway, and 160° across Behring's Strait.

   4. The magnetic intensity is unsymmetrically distributed in
the meridians of the northern hemisphere.

   This is a consequence of the two centres being nearer to
each other in the one direction than in the other. If we
imagine the hemisphere to be divided into two equal sections,
by a plane coinciding with the meridians of 100° and 280° (Plate
V.), the American division, which we may call the western sec-
tion, will contain both centres of attraction, and a higher mea-
sure of intensity will be seen to be spread over its meridians

than in the corresponding latitudes in the eastern section.

Thus we find, that in 150 meridians, or in five-sixths of the

eastern section, no intensity of so high a value as 1*7 has been
found within the range of observation, and probably does not
exist ; whilst in the western section there is not a single me-
ridian in which a higher intensity than 1 *7 is not found. Europe
is situated nearly midway between the centres at their widest
separation, and we find that throughout Europe (with possibly

the exception of its S.W. extremity in Spain), the magnetic
intensity is weaker in every latitude than in the same parallels

elsewhere in any other part of the hemisphere.

5. The lines of intensity in the southern hemisphere have a

general analogy with those in the northern hemisphere.

The materials from whence conclusions may be drawn are

fewer in the southern than in the northern hemisphere ; but

aided by our acquaintance with the magnetic system and dis-

tribution in the latter, we are enabled to trace the general

analogy of the two hemispheres, though the particular con-

clusions in the case of the southern must necessarily be less

determinate and exact than those we have hitherto discussed.

  We have already seen that the lines of dip and force depart

from parallelism with each other even more in this hemisphere

Wethan in the northern.  may also perceive in the portions

of the curves, which observations have as yet enabled us to trace,

evidence of the same double flexure which in the other hemi-

sphere we have seen to be characteristic of two centres of

governing influence. The radii vectores carried from the south
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.           73

geographical pole would have also two maxima and two minima.

The New Holland curves inclose larger areas than the South

American, indicating that the centre to which they more espe-
Wecially belong is more powerful than the other.
                                                  have another

indication of the same fact in the appearance in Van Diemen's

Land of an intensity exceeding 1*8, which in the other hemi-

sphere we have seen to characterise distinctively the centre of

primary influence. The coincidence in this respect in the two

hemispheres is very striking ; not only is the highest intensity

yet observed in the one, (1'80 at New York,) matched by the

nearly identical value of 1 '82 at Hobart Town, but the geogra-

phical latitudes of the two observations are also nearly identical,

New York being in 40° 43' N. and Hobart Town in 42° 53' S. ;

both being unexpectedly low latitudes in which to find such

high intensities.

   With regard to the geographical positions of the centres in

the southern hemisphere, the observations are yet too few

and too distant from them to admit of their localities being
assigned with any fair degree of approximation ; but by com-
paring the observations in Southern Africa, and on the east

coast of South America, with those of the corresponding paral-

lels in the better known hemisphere, we are able to infer with

considerable probability, that the southern centres are not only

--not in opposite points of the hemisphere, that is to say, distant

180 degrees of longitude from each other, measured both

--ways, but that they are nearer to each other in the one direc-

tion, and more distant in the other, than is the case with the

Wecentres of the northern hemisphere.  have seen that in

the meridians of Europe, where the northern centres are widest

apart, the lower intensities extend greatly northward, occupy-

ing latitudes which in all other parts of the hemisphere possess

a higher intensity. In the southern the same thing takes place,

but in greater degree. The line of unity, once thought to

be the minimum intensity on the globe, is found on either side
the Atlantic in south latitudes exceeding 30° ; whence we may

conclude that in the higher latitudes of the southern Atlantic,

a much lower intensity prevails generally than the lowest inten-

sities in the same latitudes in the northern hemisphere ; eviden-

cing that the space between the influential centres is wider in that

quarter of the southern, than in the corresponding quarter of

the northern hemisphere.

The converse of this should be found in the Pacific section.

As the southerly inflection of the lines of low intensity in the

South Atlantic is the greatest, so should their southerly in-

flexion in the opposite section of the hemisphere be the least,

of the inflections which these lines undergo in either hemi-
--74 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

sphere. The observations by which this inference might be
confirmed are few, but none give a contrary indication. Every

observation in the South Pacific section shows that a higher
intensity prevails there than in equal latitudes in the North
Pacific section ; and, as far as the lines can yet be traced from
the observations, the inflection in the South Pacific does ap-
pear to be the least marked in character, and to extend over
the fewest meridians. It is of course the lines of higher in-
tensity which would afford the more decisive evidence, because
their characteristics are more marked ; but the authorities for

these are few in the part of the space between New Zealand

and South America, where they could most illustrate the point

in question.

   In review, we conclude, therefore, that, as far as observa-
tions have yet been made in the southern hemisphere, they
accord with a system analogous to that in the northern, of two
centres, of unequal force, and at unequal distances apart. The

observations further render it pi'obable, that the distances be-
tween the centres are still more unequal in the southern than
in the northern hemisphere. Admitting the small difference
of distribution from this cause, there does not appear reason
to suppose that there is any general inequality in the magnetic
charge of the two hemispheres ; on the contrary, there is every
appearance that they have the same.

   6. If the globe be divided into an eastern and a western
hemisphere by a plane, coinciding with the meridians of 100°
and 280°, the western hemisphere, or that comprising the
Americas and the Pacific Ocean, has a much higher mag-

netic intensity distributed generally over its surface, than the

eastern hemisphere, containing Europe and Africa and the
adjacent part of the Atlantic Ocean.

   This is a corollary from (4) and (5) rather than a distinct
proposition. The four centres being in the western hemisphere
a higher intensity will prevail generally in its meridians ; and
this is accordant with the whole body of observations distri-
buted over the globe (Plate V).

   The equality of the magnetic charge in the northern and

southern hemispheres and its inequality in the eastern and
western, are important features of the magnetic system mani-
fested by the observations of intensity.

   7. The distribution of the intensity in the intertropical re-
gions is accordant with the conclusions already draivn, of two
governing centres in each hemisphere.

   As the lines of higher intensity are those which have the
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OP THE EARTH.  75

characteristics of the system most strongly marked, I have
chiefly employed them, where observations would permit, in

describing its general features. The characteristics soften

gradually as the distance increases from the governing cen-
tres ; but even in the intertropical regions the distribution of
the intensity and the arrangement of the lines contribute their
testimony to the same system. I have nowhere attempted to
assign the precise geographical positions of the centres ; and in
regard to those of the southern hemisphere especially, have
expressly stated, that the facts yet acquired would not enable

this to be done within fair limits of approximation. Thus
much, however, may be safely said in regard to them, that the
primary in the southern, and the secondary in the northern,
are at the present time not far from the same meridian ; and

that the primary in the northern, and the secondary in the
southern, are similarly situated, except that their difference of
longitude is somewhat greater. If we respectively connect
the centres, which thus approximate in longitude, by lines
on the globe crossing the equator, the lines will mark those
localities within the tropics where the influence of the cen-

tres should produce a higher intensity than elsewhere in

the same latitudes. Thus we should have two maxima in the
intertropical regions ; and these should not be in opposite me-
ridians, because the centres are unsymmetrical. Such is ac-
tually the distribution of the intensity in these regions. The
isodynamic lines which represent unity are the weakest which
run unbroken round the globe, and appear twice in every me-

ridian ; these approach each other in the meridians of 110°

and 260°, whilst, intermediately, they recede from each other,
and inclose spaces occupied by a still weaker intensity ; the

largest of these spaces, corresponding to the widest interval
between the centres, is of 210 degrees of longitude, and the

smallest of 150 degrees. In the middle of the largest, as the

point most distant from all the four centres, we should expect
to find the weakest intensity existing anywhere at the surface of
the globe ; and accordingly at St. Helena, which is nearly in
that situation, the intensity observed by Captain Fitz Roy, 0*84,

is the lowest determination recorded in this report, and is the

locality of the weakest intensity yet observed on the globe.
Between St. Helena and the lines of unity on either side, we

should have a line representing the value of 0*9, a part of

which has been extremely well determined by concurrent ob-
servations. This line, being comprehended by the lines of

unity, is necessarily a closed one. Observations are yet want-

ing to show whether the intensity descends as low as 0-8 in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

--76 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

middle of the larger space, or as 0*9 in the smaller space,
which has its locality in the Pacific*.

  We may also trace in the intertropical regions another con-

sequence of the inequality of force of the primary and secondary

centres. Where the lines of unity approach each other in the

Pacific, the primary is to the north, the secondary to the south
the latitude in which the lines approach is consequently to the
south of the equator. In the Indian Sea the primary is to the
south, and the secondary to the north ; and here the latitude
in which the lines of unity approach each other is to the north

of the equator.

   Every geographical meridian has a point of minimum inten-
sity ; if these points in different meridians were connected hy a
line, that line would separate the intensities of the northern
from those of the southern magnetic hemisphere. It would be
in some respects analogous to the line of no dip, but it would not
be aline of equal intensity, as it would consist of intensities va-
rying from unity to the lowest on the globe. Such a line traced
on the map is found to differ very considerably in geographical
position from the line of no dip.

   8. The geographical position of the maximum of intensity
in the North American quarter is not the same with that of the
maximum of dip, or with that of the point of convergence of

the variation lines.

    It will be necessary here to enter into rather more precise
geographical positions than we have hitherto done. In regard
to the maximum of dip we cannot err widely in taking the lati-
tude and longitude where Capt. James Ross observed the dip
of 89° 59' in 1831, viz. 70° N. and 263° E. That this is also
very nearly the spot to which the variation lines converge may
be shown abundantly by the observations made in the different
polar voyages by sea and landf . It is marked by an asterisk

    * Since the above was written Mr. Erman's sea observations have been re-
 ceived; he crossed the space in the Atlantic included by the line of 0-9 some
 degrees to the west of St. Helena, and, midway between the north and south
 portions of that line, found the intensity diminished below 0-8. Captain Fitz
 Roy's observation at St. Helena is consequently no longer the lowest observed
 on "the globe ; and it is probable that even a lower intensity than was observed
 by M. Erman would be found a few degrees to the south of St. Helena, and
 nearly in the meridian of that island.

    f M. Hansteen, who has brought together the observations of dip and va-
 riation made in the different polar voyages, finds that the variations observed
 to the north of the latitude in which the dip is 90° and in the vicinity of that dip,
 converge to a point a little to the north of that latitude ; and conversely, that the

 variations observed to the south converge to a point south of that latitude ; or,
 more exactly, that the curves of highest dip are ellipses, having their greater axes
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.                 77

in the North Polar map annexed to this report. If the reader

will nowrefer to that map (Plate IV.), he will see that this position

will by no means accord with that which the observations point

Weout for the maximum of intensity.  are not, indeed, enabled

to assign the position of the latter as nearly as in the case of

the dip ; but it must clearly be in a much lower latitude. The

intensities observed in Baffin's Bay and the Polar Sea have

all a much lower value than at New York ; and the general

configuration of the lines of intensity would rather point to a

maximum in the vicinity of the shores of Hudson's Bay.

This remarkable feature of the system was first brought to

notice in the account of my magnetic observations published

in 1 825*. In a point of so much interest, it is natural to in-

quire whether there is any indication of a similar separation at

the principal pole of the opposite hemisphere. Observations

as yet do not enable us to assign with sufficient approxima-

tion the places of the maxima in that quarter ; but we are in

possession of a leading fact, which, by its complete analogy

with the phenomena at New York, gives strong ground for

believing that in the southern hemisphere also the places of

the maxima of the two phenomena are distinct. I have already

noticed the almost identity of the force at Hobart Town and
NewYork, under nearly equal geographical latitudes ; but there

is yet another feature which completes the analogy, and bears

directly on the point now treated of. At New York we have

the highest intensity of the northern hemisphere, 1 '80, with a

dip of 73° 07'; at Hobart Town the highest intensity of the

southern hemisphere, 1'82, with a dip of'70° 35'. In both hemi-

spheres the highest intensity united with a comparatively loiv

dip. Nor in that quarter is Hobart Town a solitary instance of

in a north-west and south-east direction, and that the variation lines converge
not to the point of 90° but to points in this axis. Small differences of position,
however, have no effect on the reasoning in the text.

   * It has been viewed by M. Kupffer as having a direct and important bear-
ing on the very interesting question of the physical nature of the magnetism of
the earth. In the Ann. der Physik, vol. xv., after describing the course of the

isogeothermal lines (or lines of equal temperature of the earth at 25 metres be-
low its surface) between the meridians of 80° west and 60° east of Paris, he has
discussed the influence which the facts represented by those lines should
have on the magnetic dip and force, in the case of the earth's magnetism being
superficial and induced. The differences of surface temperature affecting the
intensity but not the dip would cause the isoclinal and isodynamic lines to se-
parate where otherwise they might have been accordant ; and would especially

separate the places of the maxima, causing the maximum of intensity to be in
the lower latitude. M. Kupffer considers the fact of their being thus separated

as giving probability to the aforesaid view of the physical nature of the earth's
magnetism.
--78 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

 high intensity with comparatively low dip ; at King George's
 Sound and Sydney, in 34° and 35° south latitude, Captain Fitz
 Roy found intensities of 1'7 1 and 1*68 with dips of 64° 41' and

 62° 29'.

     Should such a separation exist at the secondary centres, it
 cannot he expected to he of so striking a character. I wish
not to anticipate the more ahle discussion which we may ex-

pect on this point from M. Hansteen, whose long and arduous

journeys were undertaken expressly to determine with exact-
ness all the pha3nomena of the Siberian pole. I will confine
myself, therefore, to noticing his remark already referred to,
that he believes the intensity observed at Viluisk to be the
highest intensity existing in Siberia. Should this be so, the
highest intensity in that quarter is certainly not in the same
locality as the highest dip*.

   Our knowledge of the phenomena in the neighbourhood of

the secondary centre in the southern hemisphere is not suffi-
cient to throw any light on this question.

   With regard to the direction which the lines of higher
intensity may be conceived to take around their maxima in
the northern hemisphere, we should infer from the observations
that the line representing 1*8 must be a closed curve around
the North American maximum only ; as must also be that of 1*9,

supposing such to exist.

   The North American portion of the line of 1*7 appears also
to be nearly, if not quite, a closed curve. Encompassed on the

north, east, and south, by intensities of less value, the western
is the only direction open for its connection with the Siberian

portion of the same line. The situation of the two branches
of the line of 1*7 in the west of America is marked by the ob-

--servations ; the southernmost crossing the lower waters of the
--Columbia River, and the northernmost between Sitka and

Melville Island. Whether these branches join and form a
closed curve, or whether they communicate with the Asiatic
portion of the same line in some such courses as is represented
by the dotted line in the polar map, observations do not yet

enable us to decide. No intensity of so high a value as 1*7 has

yet been observed between Sitka in 224°, and the meridian

   * It is much to be desired that the observations in Siberia should be still
further completed by a series of determinations along the shores of the polar
sea. If the view here taken be correct, these should exhibit higher dips and
lower intensities than were observed at Viluisk. From the liberal support which
the Russian government gives to the prosecution of magnetic inquiries we may

expect that such observations will not be long wanting.
                                             ;

ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OP THE EARTH.  79

of 138° in Siberia ; and it is possible that a navigator sailing
from the Pacific through Behring's Strait, and passing the Bay
of St. Lawrence where Admiral Liitke observed 1"65, might
proceed to the northward having the spaces included by the
closed curves of 1 *7 on either side of him.

   The space inclosed by the curve of 1*8 possesses a very high

degree of magnetic interest, and is well deserving of being
traversed by observations as frequent and as accurate as those

of MM. Hansteen and Erman in Siberia. The greater part of

it is in the British dominion, and over a considerable portion at

least convenient means of locomotion are to be found. The

British Association had but to express the wish that a magnetic
survey of the British Islands should be made, and it was at

once responded to by some of its own members. The present

volume contains the record of the completion of that under-

taking ; and it may be permitted to one of the contributors to
that work to express a hope, that the attention of the Associa-
tion may now be given to the British possessions abroad.

In the extensive territory under British dominion in India, not
a single determination has yet, I believe, been made of the
magnetic intensity, and but few of either of the other phaeno-

mena. From the well-known zeal of the officers of the Indian

service, a recommendation in the proper quarter would speedily

cover that large portion of the earth's surface with accurate

magnetic determinations. But the Canadian quarter is of pro-

minent interest ; a correct delineation of the lines of variation,
dip, and intensity in the space included by the curve of 1 "8, or
in even a portion of that space, would have a high value in

theoretical respects. The accomplishment of this service is

not altogether beyond the compass of individual means, and

needs not, like a southern voyage, await the success of an ap-
plication to Government. It requires only for its proper ex-

ecution, that it should be the principal object of the person
undertaking it, and that he should be provided with adequate

instruments. Were the wishes of the Association expressed in

regard to Canada, as they were in regard to the British Is-

lands, I have little doubt that they would soon be complied
with by members of their own body*.

   * The ground which Capt. Back traversed in his journey in search of Capt.
Ross in 1833 and 1834 is of great interest as regards the magnetic intensity
and had that officer been furnished with suitable instruments, and had it ac-

MM.corded with his other objects to have made observations in the manner of

Hansteen and Erman at every halting-place, his results might have possessed

great value.

   The vibrations of the dipping-needle, which he employed to measure the in-
                                                       ;

--80 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   9. The highest intensity already observed is more than twice

as great as the loivest.

   The intensities observed at New York and Hobart Town,

compared with that at St. Helena, are as 1*81 to - 84, or as

2-16 to 1.
    St. Helena is not the lowest intensity ; and the force at

New York and Hobart Town cannot be viewed as abso-

tensity, appear to have been subject to a considerable instrumental uncertainty
and the needle lost magnetism during the absence from England to a large
amount, but at what time the loss took place is not very obvious from the ob-
servations. Under these circumstances I have not felt that I could assign with
sufficient confidence the value of the intensity relatively to Europe at any of

Capt. Back's American stations. By grouping them, however, and comparing

the values of the intensity in different groups, relatively to each other only, and

not relatively to Europe, we may considerably lessen the effect of the irregu-
larities above mentioned, and obtain an indication, which, if we could view it as
sufficiently clear from instrumental uncertainty, would possess much interest.
For example, if we group neighbouring stations as in the subjoined table, and
make the intensity at New York the unity of the comparison, we have as fol-

lows : viz.

                             I.at.  Long.   Time of g
                                    West
                          North                Vib.

New York          1833    40 42      74 01  1-2857
                  Apr.    50 37      96 21  1-2432
                          53 58     102 22  1-2643
Fort Alexander ... Jun.   55 25     107 55  1-2969
Cumberland House July     58 42     111 19  1-3000
                          6110      113 45  1-2387
Isle a la Crosse  July    6246      109 01  1-2750

Fort Chipewyan ... July   64 41
                          65 54
Fort Resolution ... Aug.  6741
                          6747
                  Oct.    6814

Fort Reliance     1834                      1-2844
                                            1-2781
                  May                       1-2873
                                            1-2800
                  Oct.                      1-2975
                                            1-2885
Musk Ox Rapid .. July               10808   1-2656
                                     9810
Rock Rapid        July               95 02
                                     95 18
Point Beaufort.. July                94 58

Montreal Island Aug.

Point Ogle        Aug.
                       ----

ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           81

lutely the highest. If we suppose the minimum to reach
0*74, (one of M. Erman's sea observations is 0*743) and the

every station with its face to the face of the instrument, and that at some of the

stations it was also vibrated in the reverse position. Where this has been done

there often appears a considerable difference between the times of vibration

at the same place in the two positions, which must be ascribed to instrumental

defect. It does not appear to have been of the nature of a constant error in

either position of the needle, as sometimes one position gives the highest inten-

 sity and sometimes the other. I have taken the twelfth column just as it stands,

,

 that is, the times of vibration in the position which was everywhere observed,

as there can be no question of the comparability of those with each other ; and
I have reduced the times of vibration to an uniform temperature by the coeffi-

cient which Mr. Christie found for that needle                                                                                                                                                                                                        but I have  introduced no other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;

corrections, either for loss of magnetism or on any other account. I have grouped

the results by taking the mean latitude, longitude, and intensity of the neigh-

bouring stations, connected by brackets.

If the intensities are taken from a mean of all the observations at each of the

stations, including those in the reversed, as well as in the direct position of the

needle, the inferences drawn above are somewhat strengthened, as is shown in

the following table :

Station.
82 SEVENTH REPORT-- 1837-

maximum 1*85, the proportion would be 2*5 to 1. It seems

probable that this is rather under tban over the difference
existing in the present distribution of the intensity. If the
centres change their relative places, by having unequal mo-
tions, both the absolute and the relative values of the max-

imum and minimum must be variable.

    This report has already occupied so large a portion of the
annual volume, that I feel the propriety of not permitting the
inferences of an individual judgment to trespass further on

its pages. I have endeavoured, to the best of my power, to

place the facts themselves before the reader in such a manner,

--that, on the one hand, he may have no difficulty in tracing every

observation to its original source, and on the other, that by the
assemblage of the results in one view, he may be enabled with
the greater facility to draw his own conclusions.

   Having in a former report described M. Hansteen's theory
of the magnetism of the earth, and given the formulas for the

variation, dip, and intensity deduced from his hypothesis of two
excentric axes of unequal force, it may be expected that I should
conclude this report by comparing some of the observed inten-
sities with the results computed by the formula. I may there-
fore add a few words to show that the proper time for a detailed
comparison of this kind has not yet arrived, because observa-
tion is still in arrear of theory. Until observation has supplied
the materials which theory has required for the correct assign-
ment of the elements of calculation, such a comparison could
not be otherwise than imperfect.

   The geographical positions of the magnetic poles in the
Magnetismus der Erde were derived from observations made

between 1787 and 1800, which were insufficient to furnish them
in more than a very general manner. Since that period also,
changes, of the nature anticipated by M. Hansteen, appear to
have taken place in the positions of the poles ; which conse-
quently require to be assigned afresh (as well as more cor-
rectly), in order that the results computed by the formula may

represent observations of a more recent date. The materials

proper for this purpose are observations in the vicinity of the

netic intensity, even with a good instrument, on account of the shortness of the
period during which the needle will continue to vibrate, and the consequent
necessity of commencing with a large arc of vibration. With an inferior instru-
ment the limits of error are of course much wider still. In high magnetic la-
titudes the statical method deserves a decided preference over the method of
horizontal vibrations, inasmuch as a moderate error of the dip will scarcely have
 an appreciable effect on the intensity ; and over that by verticul vibrations, inas-
much as it admits of much greater exactness.
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OP THE EARTH.  83

magnetic poles themselves. In the northern hemisphere, these
are far more ample and exact than at any former period, owing

in great measui'e to the interest excited by the publication of
M. Hansteen's theory. But the corresponding observations in
the southern hemisphere are yet wanting ; and until these are
supplied, we cannot advance beyond an anticipation, more or

less confident, of the eventual accordance of the hypothesis,

when the correct elements of calculation shall have been ob-
tained ; and in this view, we may at least say thus much in re-

gard to the general accordance of the hypothesis with the ob-

servations of intensity, that if we omit the consideration of the
higher latitudes, where the contemporaneous and correct posi-
tions of the magnetic poles are most essential, the formula,
even with the elements derived from the earlier and less perfect

observations, both represents all the leading features of the
system, and shows a fair approximation in individual cases.

   The method in which this science has progressively advanced
is strikingly illustrative of a passage in Mr. Playfair's writings,

in which the distinct offices of theory and experiment, and the
value of their co-operation in inductive investigation, are well
described. "In physical inquiries the work of theory and ob-
servation must go hand in hand, and ought to be carried on at
the same time, more especially if the matter is very complicated,
for then the clew of theory is necessary to direct the observer.
Though a man may begin to observe without any hypothesis,
he cannot continue long without seeing some general conclusion
ai'ise ; and to the nascent theory it is his business to attend,
because by seeking either to verify or to disprove it, he is led

to new experiments and new observations. He is led also to

the very experiments and observations that are of the greatest
importance ; namely, to those instancies cruris that naturally

present themselves for the test of every hypothesis. By the
correction of his first opinion a new approximation is made to

the truth, and by the repetition of the same process certainty
is finally obtained. Thus theory and observation mutually
assist one another ; and the spirit of system, against which
there are so many and so just complaints, appears nevertheless

as the animating principle of inductive investigation. The

business of sound philosophy is, not to extinguish this spirit,
but to restrain and direct its efforts. It is therefore hurtful to
 the progress of physical science to represent theory and obser-
 vation as standing opposed to one another."

    The earlier observations of terrestrial magnetism were made
 without reference to theory. As facts accumulated general

 conclusions arose. Their elaborate examination conducted to

                                   g2
--84 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

an hypothesis of four magnetic poles ; and this, to the sugges-

tion of new experiments to verify or disprove it. In the north-

ern hemisphere' the verification is complete, affording signal

Aproof of the value of experiment directed by theory.     simi-

lar verification in the southern hemisphere is yet wanting ; and

the observations necessary for that purpose will also supply

those elements of calculation whereby the hypothesis may be

fitted for a detailed comparison with facts. This will be the

--next " stepin the advancement of knowledge ;" the next " term

of a series that must end whenever the real laws of nature are

--discovered"; but which, in its progression, fitly prepares the

way for their discovery.

I have already adverted to what the influence of the Associ-

ation may effect, in causing the spaces yet vacant on the map,

in the British possessions in India and Canada, to be filled.

But beyond all comparison, the most important service of this

kind, which this or any other country could render to this branch

of science, would be by filling the void still existing in the

southern hemisphere, and particularly in the vicinity of those

parts of that hemisphere which are of principal magnetic in-

terest. This can only be accomplished by a naval voyage ; for

which it is natural that other countries should look to England.

That the nations that have made exertions in the same cause

do look to England for it, cannot be better shown than by the
following extract of a letter of M. Hansteen's, which I take

the liberty of introducing here, both for this purpose, and be-

cause it expresses in so pleasing a manner, the praise that is so

justly due to his own country, and which I am sure will be

cordially responded to by all who cultivate science in this coun-

try, and particularly by those who know the kindly feeling with

which Englishmen are ever welcomed in Norway.

" C'estle Storthing (la Chambre des Deputes) de la Nor-

Onvege, qui a donne les frais a l'expedition en Siberie.  a fait

cela dans un terns ou on a refuse les depenses pour un chateau

de residence pour sa Majeste a Christiania. Dans un terns, ou

une telle economie a ete necessaire, il est tres honorable,

qu'une Chambre, composee de toutes les classes du peuple,

mthne d'un grand nombre de paysans, a unanimemeni resolu de

donner les frais pour une expedition purement scientifique,

dont les resultats n'auront jamais aucune utilite economique

pour la patrie, et dont on ne comprenait pas la haute valeure

scientifique. Regarde les ressources tres-bornes de notre

pays, c'est une generosite presque sans exemple.

" Comme la petite Norvege a fourni toutes les observations

entre les meridiens de Greenwich et de Ochozk, et entre les
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH,  85

 paralleles de 40° et 75° de latitude boreale, il ne me semble pas
 une demande trop grande ou immodeste a l'Angleterre, si

 grande, si riche, si puissante, qui a necessairement un plus
 grand interet dans toutes les sciences combinees avec la navi-

 gation, de fournir toute la partie meridionale de la carte. Une

 telle entreprise doit reflechirune splendeur a la nation, et payera
 a. la fin les frais par des resultats aussi utiles pour les sciences
 que pour la navigation. II ne faut plus dans notre terns laisser
 l'avancement des sciences au hasard. Par des observations
 fragmentaires et discontinues on a tache avec grande peine
 d'etudier les phenomenes magnetiques de la terre pendant deux
 ou trois siecles. Par deux ou trois expeditions literaires, ar-
 rangees expres pour ce but, on pourrait en peu d'annees avoir
 une collection plus complete, et d'une plus grande utilite pour

 la theorie."

   The subject has in every way a claim on this country. The
existence of four governing centres, and the system of the phe-
nomena in correspondence therewith, was originally a British
discovery. The sagacity of our countryman Halley was the
first to penetrate through the complexity of the phenomena,
and to discern what is now becoming generally recognised. En-

gland was also the first country which sent an expedition ex-
pressly for magnetic observation, namely, that of Halley in 1698
and 1699. Whilst approving and cordially co-operating in
magnetic inquiries of other kinds which have their origin in
other countries, it is right that we should feel a peculiar in-
terest in that in which we have ourselves led the way, espe-
cially when its object is subordinate to none.

   As the research would require to be prosecuted in the high

latitudes, a familiarity with the navigation of such latitudes

would be important in the person who should undertake this

service ; and a strong individual interest in the subject itself
would be of course a most valuable qualification. I need

scarcely say that the country possesses a naval officer in whom

these qualifications unite in a remarkable degree with all others

that are requisite ; and if fitting instruments make fitting times,

none surely can be better than the present.
   Viewed in itself and in its various relations, the magnetism

of the earth cannot be counted less than one of the most im-
portant branches of the physical history of the planet we in-

habit ; and we may feel quite assured, that the completion of

our knowledge of its distribution on the surface of the earth,
would be regarded by our cotemporaries and by posterity as
a fitting enterprise of a maritime people ; and a worthy achieve-
ment of a nation which has ever sought to rank foremost in
every arduous and honourable undertaking.
Report on the various modes of Printing for the use of the

       Blind. By the Rev. William Taylor, F.R.S.

It must be a matter of great satisfaction and pleasure to every
one, who is anxious to alleviate the misfortunes of his fellow-
creatures, to find that the British Association has been pleased
to take into consideration the various modes of printing in tan-
gible characters for the use of the blind ; a subject which has

long occupied the attention of many individuals, and lately of
some public societies, but which has not made much progress
till within the last seven years . Now, however, under such

powerful influence, it is likely to receive that attention and as-
sistance which will probably bring it to the highest state of per-
fection which it is capable of*.

   The object in view is twofold, 1st, to print such elementary
books as may assist in the intellectual education of the blind,
and afford them amusement and occupation during the many
solitary hours which they must of necessity, especially in after
life, be doomed to pass ; and 2ndly, to pvit into their hands the
word of God in such a tangible shape, that they may be able,
of themselves, to " read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest " that
holy book which is able to make them " wise unto salvation."

   When the blind are unemployed, they brood over their mis-

fortunes and draw such comparisons between their condition
and that of their seeing brethren, as tend to disturb their peace
of mind, and often to make them discontented : what a blessing
then will printing in tangible characters prove to that unfortu-
nate class of society, by opening to them new fields of delight,
and placing within their reach treasures which otherwise they
never could by their own exertions possess !

  I am sorry, however, it has not fallen to the lot of one better able

to report upon this most interesting and important subject ; not
that I want zeal in the cause, but on account of the difficulty of
acquiring a full and accurate knowledge of what progress it has
made and is noiu making in various parts of the world. I have
not spared to avail myself of such information as I could collect

   * The Edinburgh Society of Arts, &c. were the first, as a public body, to take
up this subject in this country, and by their great and praiseworthy exertions
they have not only collected much valuable information relating to printing
for the use of the blind, but have ascertained the opinion of almost every per-
son known to have turned his attention much to the subject, as may be seen
by their excellent report published in June last.
88 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

from the few sources which are within my reach*; but after

all I shall stand in need of indulgence from those who may
peruse these pages, as much valuable matter will unavoidably
have escaped me, and some errors crept into the statement I

 have given.

       Origin of printing in characters in relieffor the Blind.

    To enter into a complete history of the first rude attempts to

form alphabets and to print raised characters for the use of the
blind, would be uselessly to swell this report ; I shall, therefore,
only briefly notice the earlier inventions, and hasten to the mo-
dern improvements, which certainly have the largest claim
upon our attention.

    So far back as the 16th century letters were cut in wood for
the use of the blind ; but instead of projecting as they now do,
they were sunk or made hollow, on which account the fingers
were unable to trace the forms of the letters unless they were

of a very large size.
    In 1575 Rampazzetto published examples of letters carved in

wood, in relief; but, as they were not separate, but like the stereo-
typing of the present day, they were laid aside as inconvenient.

    In 1640 moveable characters were cast in lead at Paris by one
Peter Moreau, but the expense, or difficulty of the undertaking,
prevented his going on with it.

    Various other persons, at different times, have made characters
and letters for the blind both in wood and metal, but not with
much success till the year 17&3 when punches were cut and

                                                                                                                       5

matrices struck, in which characters were cast by Founder, at

the expense of M. Rouille de 1' Etang, Treasurer of the Philan-

thropic Society in Paris. These characters however, (from an
erroneous notion that all objects or models for the use of the
blind should be made of great dimensions), were considerably
larger than was necessary or convenient ; consequently a new

set of punches was cut, and letters, nearly similar to those now

in use in France, were cast in the foundry at Vaflard. Since

that time many of the letters have been improved in their form,
and the metal of which they were cast rendered more durable
by altering the proportion of the ingredients it contained.

    Types for the blind differ from those in ordinary use, in that
they are set up and read from left to right, whilst in those for
printing with ink the reverse order is observed. Besides this the
stem or body of the types used in France is made in the shape of
a T, the letter being on the top or cross-piece which prevents

   » Chiefly am I indebted to the works of Dr. Guillie, Dr. Klein, Prof.

Zeuue, &c.
REPORT ON THE MODES OF PRINTING FOR THE BLIND. 89

the type falling through the bars of the frame in which it is
placed, while the shank or tail goes between them. But this

kind of type is very heavy and clumsy, and the lines of printing

cannot be brought very near to each other, which tends greatly

to increase the bulk as well as the expense of the books.
   In 1784 the first European institution for the instruction of

the blind was established at Paris by Valentine Haiiy ; and

although many attempts to produce raised characters or letters

for their use had previously been made, yet printing for the

blind may be said to have been unknown till 1785, when

M. Haiiy submitted to the Royal Academy of Sciences a me-

morial, in which he explained the " means he proposed to em-

Aploy for the instruction of the blind."  committee was ap-

pointed to examine this plan, who allowed that M. Haiiy was

the inventor of printing books in relief for the blind, and

strongly recommended his invention to the approbation of the

Academy. Since that time some change and improvement have

been made in a few of the letters ; for instance, the e is a little
less liable to be mistaken for the coro; the u not so narrow

and therefore not so like to the a ; the k also is opened to be

less like the h, &c. I would here state that the French use

both capitals and "lower case," and the form of the letter ap-

proaches that of the Latin or Italian.

   " In the Paris Institution," says Dr. Guillie, " the blind pupils

set and distribute the types and print the books themselves, and

some who are expert will arrange about a dozen lines of an 8vo

page in a quarter of an hour." Whether or not they have now

adopted the common or screw press for printing, I am not able

to say, but formerly the types were set in a frame (as before

mentioned), the paper well wetted, laid upon them, and over all

three or four folds of thick flannel ; it was then passed through a

large wooden rolling press* and the impression taken out on the

other side. In this maimer a variety of books have been printed,

amongst which are spelling books, grammars, geography, por-

tions of the Scripture, short pieces of poetry, with miscellaneous

extracts, &c.f

   * The rolling press was used because it was thought that a sufficient pressure
could not be given with the common screw press. In the former case only one
line at a time is pressed by the roller, and consequently the whole force is sus-
tained by that line, but in the latter the pressure is distributed over the whole
page at once, and therefore must be very great to work a 4to or folio. But I
believe the perpendicular pressure is now used in France, and was introduced
some years ago by M. Clousicr, printer to the King.

    f In Zurich there is an excellent establishment for the education of
the blind, in which they print books in raised letters, &c, and have already
several books, such as a grammar, Scripture phrases, &c, which are given to
 the pupils gratis on leaving the Institution.
90 SEVENTH REPORT-->1837«

The paper used in printing in relief should be very good and

strong, not liable to tear, tolerably thick and well-sized. If it

be too thick the letter will not be sharp nor well-defined ; neither

should the impression be too much elevated, or it will increase the

bulk of the book and be more liable to injury. About -fa or -^7
of an inch is generally found sufficiently high for small type im-

pressions. Alphabets and first books for beginners should be a
little higher. " This kind of printing," says Dr. Guillie, "cannot

be done on both sides the paper, as in taking off the second

page the first would be destroyed*". In this state printing for

the blind remained till Mr. Gall of Edinburgh, about the year

1831 or 1832, introduced what he calls a triangular, or rather

angular, alphabet. This is chiefly a modification of the com-

mon alphabet, though some of the letters are entirely arbi-

Atrary. For instance, the is a triangle standing upon one

B Dof its angles ; the  are triangles with two small ears
and

Qor projections at the upper angle ; and the P and are also tri-

angles, similar to the above, only they have the projections at the

Olower angle. The is a square standing upon one of its corners ;
Gand the is the same, only a little smaller, with a perpendicular

tail to it about as long as one of the sides of the square. The

C is an obtuse angle concave to the right hand. The E the
Tsame with an additional line bisecting the angle. The is a

perpendicular line with a very short one crossing it in the

Wmiddle. The other letters partake in a great degree of the com-
mon form, except that the R, S, and    are angular instead of

curvedf . Mr. Gall conceives that curves arc not so easily di-

stinguishable by the touch as angles.

'bcsitst die Anstalt einen Apparat, mit welchcm eben so sclmell,

wie in gewohnlichen Druckereien, Biicher in erhabcner Schrift, fiir Blinde,

lesbar gedruct werden. So besitzen wir z. B. cin Sprachbuch fiir Blinde, 60

Seiten stark ; ferner eine systcmatische Sammlung von Bibelspriichen, unter
*****dem Titel, Biblisches Spracbbueh fiir Blinde
                                                   soldier Biicher werden
--den austretenden Blinden jedesmal unengeltlich mitgcgobcn." Orell on the

Zurich Institution for the Blind, &c, 1835, page 43.

   * An attempt however has since been made (I have been told) at Philadelphia,

to print upon both sides by engraving or punching the letters upon pewter plates,

and passing two of these plates, through a rolling press, with a very thick paper,

almost reduced to a state of pulp, between them, but I believe the plan was

too expensive to be employed generally. Mr. Gall of Edinburgh has also

printed on both sides the paper by arranging the types so that the lines on one

Aside the leaf just occupy the spaces between the lines on the other.  little

room is gained by this method, but as it requires much nicety in laying the pa-

per upon the type to print the second page, lest the first should be injured,
some time must be lost in taking oft" the impressions ; which, to me, renders the

advantage of such a plan very doubtful.
   t Mr. Gall has recently altered the form of some of his letters, and thereby

greatly improved them.
     REPORT ON THE MODES OF PRINTING FOR THE BLIND. 91

   About that time several schools or asylums for the blind were
established in America. In Philadelphia the Gospel of Saint
Mark was published in a raised type and printed on both sides
the leaf as before mentioned ; the letters are something between

the Italic and written characters. I am not aware that much

more has been done there; but at Boston printing in raised
characters for the blind has been carried to a great state of per-
fection under the direction and superintendence of that able and
zealous friend to the blind, Dr. S. G. Howe. The form of the
letter differs a little from the " lower case "used in this country,

but the impressions are exceedingly sharp and good. Many

books have been published there, and at a very cheap rate, as
will appear from the following extracts from Dr. Howe's ex-
cellent letter to the British and Foreign Bible Society.

From the " Monthly Extracts from the Correspondence of the

                      British and Foreign Bible Society."

From the Rev. Dr. Howe, Director of the New England Insti-

                     tution for the Education of the Blind.

                                                                   " Boston, U.S., Nov. 20, 1836.

   " I now forward you a box containing two complete copies of

the New Testament of our Lord and Saviour in raised charac-

ters, one bound in 4 vols, the other copy in 2 vols. For adults
and persons who would use them carefully the copy in 2 vols,
would be best ; for children the one in 4 vols.

   "You ask, what would be the cost of a hundred or a thousand

copies of the New Testament ? I answer that they may be

printed and bound for 1/. 105. But you will observe that the
paper on which the copies I send you are printed is very tough
and peculiar in its fabric ; it was made for the purpose, and is
saturated with animal size, so that it will be very durable. If
you depress one of the letters you will observe the paper will
spring back again, which I fear will not be the case with the
kind of printing you sent to me. The cost of our Testament was
little over 2l. sterling, another edition might be had cheaper. I
rejoice to learn that an interest is beginning to be felt on the
subject of printing for the blind, for it has been the object near-

est my heart for the last four years."
   After urging the desirableness of using the common letter,

Dr. H. proceeds :
   " I have known of several cases where blind persons had

learned to read at home : we had one boy enter our institution
who knew how to read and spell in our first books, though he
was but seven years old and was born blind. His mother, a small

farmer's wife, had procured a book a year before and taught him.
           !

--92 SEVENTH REPORT 1837«

Again, there are many persons who lose their sight after having
learned the common form of letters ; and they have little diffi-
culty in recognising them by the touch, but would be discouraged

by a new character*."

The Doctor, after stating some cases of bedridden persons, and

persons of weak sight though not blind, reading the raised type

Wewith their fingers, goes on to say : "  have about fifty in this

institution who are of the age for instruction, and forty of them

can read ; twenty can read very fast, and will run through a

chapter of the Testament in just the time it takes a seeing per-

son to read twice the quantity^ observing all the stops. Some

of our children at the age of six can read.

   " * * * * * The elevation of the letters, the hardness and du-

rability of the impression, the strength of the paper, the method

of binding, all these are to be considered, experimented upon,

and greatly improved. It is a wide and interesting field, and

right glad am I that labourers have entered into it in England
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

and I wish only that they may work with one common plan.

I believe much more printing has been done for the blind in this
Institution than in all England * * * having obtained the sanction

of the American and Massachusetts Bible Societies, the Ame-

rican Tract Society, &c. I have printed an abridgement of Mur-

ray's Grammar, a Spelling Book, a Hymn Book, The Dairy-

man's Daughter, Baxter's Call, The Pilgrim's Progress, Child's

NewFirst Book, second ditto, and last, not least, the entire

Testament

"I have now in the press a Geography, and shall continue as

long as I have health and the means to operate with.

**' With regard to any funds to be applied by your Society, I

would earnestly recommend, and in the name of the blind im-

plore, that they may be upon works which have not yet been

printed for them, or which they cannot obtain for a long time.

Their hooks must he few and the same work should not be print-

ed in different places, but different books, so that exchanges may

be made; for instance, if you could send us fifty copies of the

Psalms or* * *,we could send you fifty of the Acts or the Evan-

Wegelists * * *.  should like very much to print an edition of

the Psalms of David, say five hundred copies, for the use of the

blind of England and of this country : the expense would pro-

bably be from 225/. to 250/. if done up in the best and most du-

rable stylef . Perhaps it would be more extensively useful to print

them on our medium type, that is a size between the large type

   * This is much against the use of arbitrary alphabets.
   t The Committee have voted 150/. and are to receive fifty or a hundred

copies.
REPORT ON THE MODES OP PRINTING FOR THE BLIND. 93

on the title page of the Testament and the small type of the

same.

   " If the British and Foreign Bible Society would undertake

to appropriate funds for this purpose, and present to the blind

of England and this country an edition of the Psalms, it would

confer happiness and a blessing upon many.

"P.S. November 24. Our Geography is finished, and our

press is now throwing off an edition of ' The Sixpenny Glass of

Wine,' printed at the expense of the American Sunday School

Union.
   " I hope your Society will allow us to send you the Psalms ;

it would make one snug volume and be finished in four weeks."

In April 1832 the committee of the Society for the Encourage-

ment of the useful Arts in Scotland, presented their report upon a

method of printing for the blind invented by Mr. Hay of Edin-

burgh, and in consequence of their recommendation the So-

ciety, in the following year, offered their gold medal, value 201.,
" for the best communication on a method of printing for the

use of the blind." The authors of the communications were re-
quired to " investigate what form and size of the letters or cha-

racters, and what number of those should be adopted, with a

view to constructing a general alphabet for the blind in Great

Britain and Ireland ; and secondly, the best and cheapest me-

thods of printing such letters or characters in relief, so as to

render them most easily and accurately distinguishable by the

touch."

In consequence of this notice, communications with printed

and written specimens of alphabets, types, &c. were received by

the Society.

   For Competition. From Mr. Alexander Hay of Edinburgh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

Mr. J. P. Walker, Glasgow ; Miss M. Banks, Edinburgh ; Mr.
Mungo Ponton, Edinburgh; Mr. John Henderson, Edinburgh;

Mr. John Richardson, Edinburgh ; Rev. Edw. Craig, Edin-

burgh ; Mr. James Gall, Edinburgh ; Dr. Edmund Fry, lion-

don               Mr.  Richard Eaton, Coventry ;  Mr. D. Macpherson, Edin-
               ;

burgh ; Mr. John Lothian, Edinburgh ; Mr. Robert Milne,

Edinburgh ; Mr. John Johnstone, Glasgow ; Mr. J. Jones,

Bishop Wearmouth.

Not for Competition. From Lady C. Erskine, Edinburgh,

two letters on the subject, but no alphabet; Mr. D. Vallance,
Lanarkshire, method of teaching the blind to read ; Dr. R. K.
Greville, Edinburgh, alphabet; J. Simpson, Esq., advocate,

Edinburgh, alphabet.

  A Committee was appointed by the Society to consider and

--report upon these several communications. Now as " twelve of
--94 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

these proposed alphabets were composed entirely of arbitrary-
symbols, while three were merely modifications of the ordinary

Roman and Italic characters, the first question that presented

itself for their consideration" was whether some modification of

the ordinary Roman or Italic alphabets in common use, or an

entirely new arbitrary character, would be best adaptedfor the
use of the blind generally throughout the kingdom ? This
was a question of considerable difficulty, especially at that time,
when so few experiments had been made upon the subject. The
Committee however, in their Report of 1832, gave their opinion
in favour of an arbitrary character. Since that time Mr. Gall
published a little work, which seemed to show that his alphabet*
was more legible by the touch and possessed greater advantages

than any of the others. This increased the difficulty the Society
had to contend with, and induced them to take the opinion of
various persons experienced in the education of the blind. Con-
sequently the whole of the communications were sent to various
persons, and (among others) to me, in the spring of 1835. Most
of these communications were exceedingly clever and interest-
ing!-. I read them with very close attention, and examined
minutely the various specimens; and in July following returned

them to Edinburgh, with a report stating what seemed to me

the advantages and disadvantages of each. This report the
Society soon after published, together with extracts from other
reports, as well as from the communications and fac-similes

of the various alphabets, and sent copies to the different insti-

tutions, &c.

   Some years ago Mr. Lucas of Bristol contrived an alphabet
chiefly from short-hand characters, and in his books uses nume-

rous contractions or abbreviations, and thereby reduces the bulk
of the book very much, but increases the difficulty of making out

the words, &c.J Cm the 12th of February 1836 a public meet-

   * Mr Gall's alphabet was composed of characters in some degree similar to

the Roman, or that generally used in printing ; but he excluded all curves and
circles, and formed his letters entirely of angles and straight lines.

   j Many of these communications show great ingenuity and deep research in
their authors, and contain so much valuable matter relating to the general edu-
cation of the blind, that a publication of the whole or greatest part of them
would be productive of much good to those for whose benefit they were written.
But as this would be rather expensive (many of the communications being very
long) and as the Edinburgh Society of Arts has already done so much on this

subject, it is scarcely reasonable to expect that body to encounter so costly an
undertaking, unless they could, from some other source, be assisted in the fur-
therance of their praiseworthy exertions.

   % Mr. Lucas uses a new system of spelling, employing only as many letters
as are sufficient to give the sound of the word ; thus, " adu for adieu," " ni for
nigh," " bote for bought," &c. He also uses one letter for several words, as " n
                                      !

REPORT ON THE MODES OF PRINTING FOR THE BLIND. 95

ing was held in Bristol, when a Society was formed, and denomi-
nated " the Bristol Society for embossing and circulating the

authorized Version of the Bible for the use of the Blind."
Patron, the Lord Bishop of that Diocese; President, Lieu-

tenant-Gen. Orde.

   Amongst other things it was then and there resolved, .1st.
" That the system of embossed characters invented by Mr. Lu-

cas for teaching the blind to read, is recommended by its sim-

plicity, and has been proved to be efficacious by several public
examinations of his pupils." 2nd. i( That a portion of the Holy

Scriptures be printed on this system of embossed characters as

soon as sufficient funds shall be collected to meet the expenses
of publication." 3rd. " That as it is the object of this meeting to

enable the blind to read the Holy Scriptures, the support of the

Bible Society, the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge,

and other Religious Societies be solicited in behalf of this So-

ciety."

  When I attended the meeting of the British Association last

year at Bristol, I had the pleasure of seeing Mr. Lucas, and

witnessing two of his pupils, in the presence of several other

gentlemen, read portions of the Scriptures printed in his cha-

racters. But the mere reading from a book well known to the

pupil, in whatsoever character it might be printed, proves very

little, for blind children will generally learn with great ease al-

most any alphabet set before them ; therefore it is necessary to
compare the progress made with different alphabets, and to
consider the sum of the advantages possessed by each before it
can be determined which is the best*.

   At that meeting I had the honour of being introduced to Dr.
Carpenter of that city, a gentleman who has evidently thought
much and long on this subject, and whose opinion and obser-

vations therefore cannot fail to be highly valuable. Dr. C. in

his able  W.letter to  Fraser, Esq.,  Secretary to the Edinburgh

Society of Arts, says, " I should, as Mr. Lucas does, employ

for into, under, &c." " x for example, exercise, &c." (see Explanation of his
system of printing for the blind.)

   The numerous inconveniences arising from such a plan (unless adopted by
everybody, the seeing as well as the blind) are too obvious to need pointing
out, and of too much consequence not to he strictly guarded against. Mr.
Lucas has published the Gospel of St. John, and, notwithstanding all his nu-
merous contractions and abbreviations, it is very little less than the same
printed by Mr. Alston in Dr. Fry's type.

   * Caution is necessary in making experiments on different alphabets. The
pupil may be interrupted in reading by holding his finger upon the word under
it at that instant ; and if upon asking him to name it, it was found that he had
pronounced words, in a part of the sentence at which his finger had not yet ar-
rived, this would show that he was reading from memory
96 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

the leading letters beginning words of frequent occurrence, for

the words  themselves,  as  wh.  for  tvhich                   gl.  for glory                            pi.  for
                                                            ;                                         ;

pleasure, &c." This certainly would tend to lessen the bulk of

the book, but I think would not facilitate the reading ; for if
words, printed in full, can be made out by the first two letters,

the remaining ones need not be felt, but the finger passed on to

the next word. Besides, as so many of our words begin with

the same two or three letters, the length of the word, when

printed in full, would, at once, without feeling every single

letter, show, if a long word beginning with pi, that it was not

plan, plea, play, or any other short word, &c. and if short, that

it was not plausible, plurality, plenipotentiary, &c. It will

therefore be highly dangerous to make much use, if any, of ab-

breviations.

Feeling convinced that the letters recommended by Dr. Fry

were the only ones likely to be generally adopted, I ventured, in

the beginning of 1S36, to procure a quantity of type, cast from

his punches, by Messrs. Thoroughgood and Co., London, and

commenced printing for the use of the children in the Yorkshire

school for the blind, and the experiment was most satisfactory.

About the same time I found that Mr. Alston (treasurer to the

Asylum for the Blind at Glasgow), a gentleman whose zeal and

exertions in behalf of the blind must rank him among the best

friends of that portion of society, had begun to use types of the

same kind, only of a size between the two which I used. Soon

after many specimens were printed by Mr. Alston, and amongst

others the Book of Ruth, the Epistle of St. James, and the four

Gospels, &c.

 A tew months ago the Society of Arts in Scotland awarded their

prize of a gold medal in favour of Dr. Fry's alphabet, but re-

commended the type to befretted or roughened on the top to give

the letters a dotted appearance, and, as they think, to render

them more easily legible by the touch ; but of this I shall speak

hereafter. They also recommend printing upon both sides of

the paper.

  A few years ago Mr. Gall published the Gospel of St. John

in his angular alphabet at 21s., and now the whole New Testa-

ment in Dr. Fry'salphabet is offered for about 32*. by Mr. Alston,

and I believe for less by Mr. Gall in his angular type. Such

is the state at present of printing in raised characters for the

use of the blind, at least as far as regards " letter-jjress."

                                       Mathematics.

   In mathematics very little has been done for the blind in the
way of books, but various methods have been contrived for teach-
REPORT ON THE MODES OF PRINTING FOR THE BLIND. 97

ing common arithmetic and algebra, some of which are very

simple and effective*. However, I shall not enter into a de-
scription of them here, as they can scarcely be said to form a

part of the subject of this report.

  Some embossed mathematical diagrams have been printed both
in Germany and America, and I believe in France; and in the year

1828 1 published the diagrams of the first book of Euclid in an
embossed form ; but the expense of the copper plates, engraving,

&c. deterred me from going on with the work. At Boston, U.S.,
figures explanatory of mechanics, astronomy, &c, and some very

beautiful maps of large size, have been printed ; also some chro-
nological tables, &c. Globes and maps have long been made at
Paris, and I believe in Germany, by gluing threads upon the
lines, or pasting a second map over them ; but this cannot pro-

perly be called printing^.

                                              Music.

   Music has been much cultivated by the blind in general, and
several palpable modes have been invented to facilitate their
acquiring a knowledge of it. The French contrived a very in-

genious plan, which has been followed in other places. It is a
board, with raised lines and pierced full of holes, in which are

placed pegs of various shapes to represent the different notes.

The same kind of board is now used in the Yorkshire school, but
upon a very much smaller scale, having crooked pins for the notes
instead of clumsy wooden pegs, and saw-cuts across the board
in which to set bits of tin to represent the bars. For this im-
provement we are chiefly indebted to a blind gentleman of
YorkJ. I am informed that music has been printed from move-
able types in Germany, France and America, but I have seen

only a small specimen from the last-mentioned country. In the

  * By help of one of the best of these my own private pupils (blind) have

soon acquired a sufficient knowledge of the elements of algebra to enable them
to solve quadratic equations with ease and readiness ; and one has gone still

further.

   The pleasure they generally derive from working problems of this kind is

very great.

   Geometry also, when taught them in a way suited to their peculiar circum-
stances, seldom fails to afford them great delight, but it must always be made

interesting to them or they soon despair of learning it.

   f Since writing this I have received from Dr. Howe a copy of a book of
plates, or " Diagrams illustrating a compendium of Natural Philosophy for the

use of the Blind. Printed at the New England Institution for the Education of

the Blind, 1836."

   The diagrams seem to be taken from blocks of wood engraved after the

manner of copper. The work is admirably got up, and is a very valuable ad-

dition to the books for the blind.  H

   % W. D. Littledale, Esq.
vol. vi. 1837.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

--98 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

beginning of this year I published a selection of Psalm tunes, in
an embossed form, printed from engraved pewter plates, using

the common form of notes, cliffs, time, &c, which are thus ren-
dered familiar to the blind, and enable them more easily to be-
come teachers of music to those who see. Thus I have given an

abstract of what I have been able to collect on this subject

but as I have not had an opportunity of visiting many of the
institutions abroad, it is probable that much has been done, in
the various branches here noticed, which has never yet come
under my observation, and of which I am totally ignorant.

A comparison between the advantages and disadvantages of the

             common Roman and arbitrary Alphabets.

   The great question " whether it is better to employ the com-
mon Roman letters or an arbitrary alphabet in printing for the
blind," has long engaged the attention of many who feel an in-
terest in this subject, and numerous and ingenious arguments
have been advanced on both sides.

   It has been contended that an arbitrary alphabet maybe com-

posed of such characters as to possess greater characteristic
difference, be more legible by the touvh, and occupy less room,
and therefore be altogether better for the blind than that in

common use. This may be possible, but such an alphabet I have

never seen. There are two things to be considered in forming
a new alphabet before the shape of the letter or character be de-
termined upon, viz. whether it is better to have the usual num-
ber of characters, or to use a few and to give to each a variety
of positions to make up the difference.

   It has also been contended by those who advocate arbitrary

characters, that giving a variety of positions to one character
reduces the number of forms, and must therefore be less bur-
densome to the memory. But as every neiv position does in

effect become a new form, or something new to be remembered,
the difference cannot be very great. Some persons hold that
angular characters are more legible by the touch than such as

are formed partly or altogether of curves ; and the contrary has
been held by others.

   The Edinburgh Society of Arts have recommended (as before
stated) the fretted types, as being more easy to make out by the
touch ; but I tried four of the children in the York school with
specimens of Mr. Gall's characters both fretted and plain, and

they all said they liked the plain best as they could read it with

greater facility. The same wras the result of Mr. Alston's experi-
ments at Glasgow, as communicated tome in a letter from him*.

    * Mr. Alston has lately greatly improved the paper on which he prints, and
has also had some improvements made in a few of his letters.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;

     REPORT ON THE MODES OP PRINTING FOR THE BLIND. 99

    Abbreviations and contractions have been strongly recom-

mended ; but if there is too much left to the imagination of
the reader, wrong impressions will be often formed, and false

ideas acquired ; and if a blind person has first to encounter a
difficulty, and afterwards to be left in doubt whether he is right
or not, he will very soon be discouraged, and lose all interest in
that which otherwise would afford him not only occupation and
amusement, but also delight and permanent advantage. Those

who advocate the use of the common alphabet contend that it

has not been proved to be less legible by the touch, or to require
more space than others of the same sized letters or type, but
evidently possesses many advantages over an arbitrary one
amongst others, " it associates" (as Mr. Craig, one of the compe-
titors for the Edinburgh medal, says) " the blind in their literary
pursuits more closely with other men, and secures to them from
all quarters an aid which they might not otherwise readily attain."
With spelling and other elementary books printed in the com-

mon character, they can attend with great benefit any school

with other children, and with them learn their lessons, and
from them obtain the aid for which one scholar is usually in-
debted to another. Moreover they may be taught at home by
their parents, long before they are old enough to be trusted
amongst a number of frolicksome seeing companions. These
and many other advantages are incompatible with an arbitrary

alphabet. In favour of the alphabet in common use it may be

stated, that it has been employed by the French, the Americans,
Germans, &c, though varying a little in some particulars from
ours. The books printed at Boston are without capitals, but
the French use both capitals and small letters, so also do the
Germans, but they employ the Italian characters. Klein (Direct-
or of the Institution for the Blind at Vienna, in his most excel-

lent book Lehrbuch zum Unterrichte der JBlinden-, page 65) says,
" Die Form der lateinischen Buchstaben ist am leichtesten durchs
Gefiihl zu lesen, daher wahle man diese Schrift zum Lesen und

Schreiben fur Blinde. Einige Buchstaben miissen auch in dieser
Schrift noch mehr vereinfacht werden, so wie auch alle unwesent-
liche, bloss zurVerzierung dienende Zuga und Striche wegbleiben

miissen.*" Thus it seems from so many nations adopting an
alphabet well known among them, that the general opinion is
decidedly against an arbitrary character.

    Klein in his preface to the above book allows it to be possible

    * Translation. The form of the Latin or Italian letters is the easiest to read
by the touch, on which account they are to be chosen in which to print and
 write for the blind. But some of these letters, even, must be simplified and
 deprived of all useless ornaments, fyc.

                                    h2
100 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

that characters may be contrived more simple, and in some re-
spects easier to read by the touch, yet he considers the common

alphabet the best; and in teaching the blind employs the usual
mode of instructing seeing children as far as possible ; for as

long as the blind must live and mix with those who see, it is
most desirable to connect the two together both in their educa-
tion and pursuits ; for by so doing that unfortunate class will be
spared many a painful reflection on their condition, and escape
the bitterness of an unfavourable comparison with their more
fortunate brethren*. Besides blind persons may with a pencil or
tracing paper write letters to their friends, and their friends may
write to them by means of a stile or other blunt point, placing
the paper upon something soft so that the letters may be raised

on the other side ; but this advantage, gratifying in the highest
degree to the blind when they are able to practise it, would be
greatly diminished, if not altogether destroyed, by the use of an
arbitrary alphabet ; for then no one could correspond with them

who had not learnt their system.
   Furthermore, the blind often become scientific men or poets,

and probably from the improved methods of conveying instruc-

tions to them, this may in future more frequently happen. How

delightful then to correspond with others or to record their own
thoughts by means of an alphabet generally understood ! Mr.

Alston, in one of his communications to me, states the great de-

light his pupils enjoyed (who had learnt the common alphabet)

in going into the churchyards and reading the grave-stones, &c.
   Arbitrary alphabets are more liable to errors of the press than

the common, and less likely to be detected on account of their
not being so familiar to the printer, &c, so that the blind are
thereby exposed to the danger of being misled, and of acquiring
erroneous notions, which in many cases might be of serious

consequence.

   Assuming the reasons in favour of using the common alpha-
bet to be satisfactory, it would appear that the Roman Capitals,

    * " Daher habe ich getrachtet, so weit es nur moglich war, die gewbhnlichen
Unterrichts- und Hulfs-mittel wie man sie fiir sehende Kinder gebrauchet, auch

fur die Blinden beyzubehalten, um diesen desto leichter Lehrer zu verschaffen,

 die sicb durch neue Lebrmittel, in welcbe sie sich selbst erst einstudieren
 miissen, vielleicht hatten abscbrecken lassen. Dieses bestimmte meine Wahl
fiir die gewohnlichen Buchstaben, obgleich nicht zulaugnen ist, dass die von

 Hrn Wolke und von andern vorgeschlagenen eiufacben, der Telegrafen-Schrift
 ahnliche zeichen zur fiihlbaren Schri ft leichter sind. So lang der Blinde mit und
 unter Sebenden lebt, muss man suchen, ihn in seinem eigenen Benehmen und in

 der Behandlung, so viel es nur moglich ist, den Sehenden ndher zu bringen,

 um ihm manchem Anstoss und mauche schmerzhafte Erinnerung an seinem

 Zustand zu ersparen."
REPORT ON THE MODES OF PRINTING FOR THE BLIND. 101

as recommended by the late Dr. Fry, and now employed by

Mr. Alston, offer the greatest advantages*. Being all of one

height they form a regular line in the page, so that there is

no danger of the finger of the blind reader straying into the

line either above or below ; an evil, which in many of the

arbitrary alphabets would frequently occur, and which raises

a very formidable objection to them f. For if blind persons get
puzzled or be led into error by reading, they will have no con-

fidence in what they do, and will therefore never feel any pleasure

or interest in reading, but take it up as a school boy does his
task. This among other things renders it necessary to be very
cautious, lest in attempting to reduce too much the bulk of the

books for the blind it be carried so far as to frustrate the object, by

making a book difficult to be read, and therefore useless to ninety-

nine out of a hundred of those for whose benefit it was intended.

   It may not be amiss to observe that when an alphabet or

specimen of printing is submitted to the blind in any institu-
tion for experiment, a few of the cleverest children, whose

touch is delicate and acute, are selected to make the trial, and
because these can easily make out what is submitted to them
the experiment is thought to have been fairly made. Whereas

the greatest proportion of blind persons will always be found

amongst those who have to earn their living by manual labour,

which blunts their touch and renders them incapable of reading

a small-sized letter.

Besides, as the literature for the blind can never be very ex-

tensive, the grand aim should be to print chiefly such books as

are most necessary ; for example, the New Testament, parts of

the Old, Catechisms, Hymns, Moral Tales, Spelling Books, Easy

Lessons, Fables, &c,

Aread by the average,
                       and in a type sufficiently  large to be easily
                       at least, of the blind.
                                                      " large book "

surely cannot be a " greater evil " than one too small to be read,

and therefore useless. The Gospels printed upon the plan of

White's Diatessaron would probably be a valuable addition to

the books for the blind, as the substance of the four Evangelists

would then be comprised in the smallest room possible.
   At present there is great excitement on this subject and much

   * As the small letter or "lower case " is in use among the seeing, it perhaps

would be well to have a few books printed with that type for the blind ; but if
the letters are some to go above and some below the lines, as in the b, d, g, y,
&c, the bulk of the book must necessarily be a little increased, as the lines

must not come so near each other that the tops in one line may interfere with

the tails of those in the line above.

   f Besides, if capitals to begin proper names, &c. be used (which in my opinion

would be of essential service,) the same form of letter will serve if made a little

larger.
--'02 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

praiseworthy zeal in operation to further it; and, as opinions vary,

many books are printed, in different alphabets or characters, for

the use of the blind, each author contending that his plan must be

the best. But this contention will soon cease, as some one system

will be shown, by the preference of the blind themselves, to be

decidedly superior, and all the others will be laid aside ; for the

blind will, when left to their own choice, use only that which

they can read with the greatest facility and satisfaction.

  From what is here stated it seems that the alphabet best adapted

for the use of the blind is not that which possesses superiority in

--some one particular, but that which is superior as a whole

that which offers the greatest sum of advantages. Now, pro-
bably, this may not be the one which occupies the least space,

for the bulk of the book is of much less importance than the ease

with which its contents can be perused. Furthermore, as the

object is general communication, the alphabet in common use

must afford advantages which are incompatible with an arbitrary

one               for should a blind person become deaf, the only means of
               ;

communicating with him would be by printing in raised letters,

or by writing with the finger upon his head, back, &c. ; and in

such a case how limited would be his intercourse with others,

if he had only learnt an arbitrary alphabet, compared with what

it would have been had he been taught the one in common use !

In the former case only very few could understand him, or be

understood by him ; while in the latter almost every one could
communicate to him some intelligence of what was going on'

around him, and thereby contribute in no small degree to alle-

viate the weight of his misfortune, and enliven the dreary gloom

which must perpetually hang over his existence.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;

Account of the discussions of Observations of the Tides which
   have been obtained by means of the grant of money ivhich
   was placed at the disposal of the Author for that purpose at

   the last Meeting of the Association. By J. W. Lubbock,

   Esq.,F.R.S.

At the last meeting of the Association held at Bristol I had the

honour to communicate the results which I had then obtained

I now wish to explain the manner in which the last grant of

money which was placed at my disposal by the Association has

been employed.
    1. I have engaged Mr. Jones to discuss 13,391 observations

of the tides made in this place during nineteen years by Mr.
Hutchinson, with reference to a previous transit, or that which
precedes the time of high water by about 48 hours. These ob-
servations are in the possession of the Lyceum at Liverpool, and
they were granted with great kindness by the Committee of

that Institution for the purpose of this inquiry.
    2. I have engaged Mr. Russell to extend the former discus-

sion of the London Dock observations, by employing all the
observations made from the 1st of September, 1801, to the 31st

August, 1836, or 24,592 observations. Tables have been
formed in precisely the same manner as those already sub-
mitted to the Section at the meeting at Bristol. In some in-
stances* irregularities have, in consequence of the additional
number of observations, been eliminated, but altogether the
agreement with the averages of nineteen years only (13,370

observations) is much closer than I had anticipated.
    3. I have also engaged Mr. Russell to examine carefully the

establishment and average height of high water, in order to
ascertain the fluctuations to which these quantities are subject.

    Mr. Russell and Mr. Jones have spared no pains in order to

render the final results as accurate as the nature of the subject
would permit, and I consider myself particularly fortunate in
having been able to procure their assistance in these most la-
borious calculations f.

    Even minute discrepancies between the results afforded by
the Liverpool and London observations become interesting and

    * See the calendar month inequality in the interval for January, the moon's

 parallax inequality in the height for parallax 56', &c.

    t The author placed hefore the Section the MS. books containing the de-

 tails of the work.
--104 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

deserve elucidation, particularly that in the parallax inequality

for the interval to which I shall now briefly advert.
   Whatever may be the law of the moon's parallax inequality,

we may certainly conclude that it is proportional to the difference
of the parallax from 57' (or to 8P) ; hence all the averages em-
ployed to afford the inequality for H.P. 56', 57', 58', &c, may
be combined according to a method which I explained, Phil.
Trans., 1836, p. 225. Mr. Russell has in this manner combined
all the results afforded by the 13,391 Liverpool observations,
and also those afforded by the 24,592 London observations, so

as to produce for each place the inequality in the interval and
height for H. P. 54'. Hence the Liverpool quantities which are

given in the following table may be considered as the average of
more than 1000 observations, and the London quantities as the

average of more than 2000 observations.

Table showing the moon's parallax inequality in the interval

   and in the height for H.P. 54', as deduced from theory and
   observation at London and Liverpool *.

                        Moon's
                          Transit

                           A.
REPORT ON THE TIDES.                                          105

   In the above columns headed " Observation" the irregulari-

ties have been destroyed in the manner explained by me in the
Bakerian Lecture, Phil. Trans., 1836, p. 225. The quantities

Aheaded " London" have been reduced to transit by means

of certain tables also given in that paper, to which I shall again

have occasion to allude. The London height inequality has
been multiplied by 1*758. The quantities headed " Theory" were

calculated by the Liverpool constants,

=log {A) 9-56965,                    =log (E) 0-87130.

The height is represented by the expression

D + -- +(E) {{A) COS (2 1/r                      COS 2 l/r},
                                     2
                                           <J>)

--in which <p denotes the moon's R. A. sun's R. A. ty de-
--notes the sidereal time the moon's R. A.

I conceive that the best if not the only method of investi-

gating alterations in the height of the land above the water

in any given locality where the water is influenced by the tides,

will be to examine carefully whether any alteration has taken
Dplace in the values of the constants
                                       and {E) for that place,

the height of high water being of course always reckoned from

some fixed mark in the land.

The nature of the discrepancies between the London and Li

verpool results is better exhibited in the following diagrams,

where the quantities in the preceding tables have been laid down.
The London interval curve, although agreeing in form with the

Liverpool interval curve, differs from it throughout by several

minutes. This difference seems to be very remarkable. The

height curves agree closely, showing that the height inequality

varies as the quantity E, as I have supposed. Laplace says
" Elles [les marees] augmentent et diminuent avec le diametre

et le parallaxe lunaire, mais dans un plus grand rapport ·" but

the diagram in the preceding page appears to confirm the truth

of this passage only at neap tides.
10(5            --SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

                              Scale of 1 foot.

W                                                                         / /*
                                                                                    /f
             S
                                                  / '·
                                                                                                          1

                Scale of 10 minutes.
       REPORT ON THE TIDES.  107

   The inequalities due to the declination of both luminaries are
so mixed up together that it is impossible to treat them in the

same manner.
   The succeeding transits of the moon being denoted by the

letters A, B, C, D, E, F ; and F being the time of the moon's

transit which immediately precedes the time of high water at
London, the discussion of the 24,592 London observations has
been made with reference to transit B, I intended the transit

B also to be used by Mr. Jones in the discussion of the Liverpool

observations, but when the work was much advanced I found that
Mr. Jones had employed the transit A. However, the tables

which I gave in a former paper (Bakerian Lecture, 1836) offer
the means of easily transferring the argument from one transit

to another. It appears from these tables that the interval be-

tween successive transits may be considered constant with re-
ference to the age of the moon or time of transit, and depending
only upon the parallax and declination. Hence the following

table is sufficient.

Table showing the interval between the moon's transit and the

   next succeeding, with a given moon's parallax and declina-

tion.

       Moon's Parallax.
--]08 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

Table showing a comparison between the calendar month in-

   equality in the interval as deduced from theory, and from ob-
   servations at London and Liverpool.

   i-a

 2§

  c-- 3
      REPORT ON THE TIDES.  109

       --Table continued.

  !«

1

  ii

 P
--1 10 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

   In the Philosophical Transactions, 1837, Part I., we have

Atransferred the London quantities to transit by merely shifting

them to the left half an hour, which suffices approximately.
Upon comparing in this manner the diurnal inequality at Liver-
pool and London, I find that it is extremely different ; for if we
examine the high water caused by the same tide at Liverpool
and London, we find that if a and h denote two successive

heights of high water at Liverpool, and a', V successive heights
> <at London, if a b, then generally a' b'. I do not think

that this circumstance was known previously, although Mr.

Whewell, in his examination of the Coast-guard observations,

noticed an anomaly of which the origin is similar.

    It is remarkable that while at Liverpool the diurnal inequality

in the interval is almost inappreciable, at London it is well de-

fined.

   The results seem to prove that semidiurnal inequalities in the
height are proportional to the quantity E, as might be expected

from theory. See Phil. Trans., 1836, p. 223.

   If X, Y, Z denote the forces acting in the direction of the co-

ordinate axes upon the fluid particle of which the rectangular
coordinates are x, y, z, and if

M= dx              "7?d ii                                           TM  =  dz
                                                                            d7'
       d7'

     du du du du

' dt dx dy dz

       dv dv dv dv
       dt dx dy dz

       dw die dw dw

       dt dx dy dz

then the differential equation to the surface of the fluid is

       (X - u') dx + {Y -v') dy + {Z- iv') dz = 0.

See Trait e de Mecanique, by M. Poisson, vol. ii. p. 669.

QIf is a certain function of x, y, z, the coordinates of the

fluid  molecule,   and  of  x1       y',                        z',  the    coordinates                                      of  the centre of
                                  ,

the distant luminary,

--d.Q,,=  dQ,      +  dQ,                                       dQ,         +,tddy--Q,dJy(+l                                 dQ.    z   +,-dr-Q,             ,
          d5 x d#                                           ,,                                                                             dz'
                                                                -djy-- dy*                                                   -r- d                dz'
                      -j--.d^'-f
                      dx'                                                                                                    dz

Ydy+= X,rd,.r + ,ri *                dQ, dQ, dQ,dz + +Zrw ,
                                                                                                                          ,  ^-,di/,'+  -A-j   dz'.
                                                                                                                             o if
                                                                            -dT--x,' dx'                                                cl sf
-- x--                           --z                                       .'

               REPORT ON THE TIDES.                                     111

The equation to the fluid surface is therefore

-- -- --d Q                      -: rdy' -- v'dy--                      =
         ^ ,dx' u' dx            dy' *          *      -j--,dz'-- w'ds     0.

         dx'                                           dz'

   Bernoulli's theory of the tides, or as it has heen aptly termed
by Mr. Whewell the equilibrium theory, rests upon the assump-

tion that the equation to the fluid surface is

         =d Q, 0,                =or Q, constant,

that is, it requires that the quantity

--3 ,dx' + u'dx +                +v' dy*  +  -r-rdz' + w' dz

dx'                                          dz'
                    idy'                                      .  .      (A.)
               d-i y' *
                                                                        v
                                                                                   '

may be neglected. It seems desirable that some attempt should
be made to investigate the nature of this quantity, in order to

show a priori that the quantity

                     u' dx + yv' d + w' d

may be disregarded. Having given the general equation to the
surface of the fluid, to find when the distance from the centre of
the earth is a maximum (or the time of high water) is not a diffi-
cult geometrical problem. In Bernoulli's theory, when the ex-

pression for the height is differentiated, in order to solve this

question in the usual way various quantities are treated as con-
stants which are not so strictly ; and in order to obtain a rigorous
solution, it would be necessary to substitute in the expression for

the height before differentiation, expressions for the longitude,
latitude, and distance of the luminary in terms of the time or

mean longitude.
   The general equations of the motion of fluids referred to rec-

tangular coordinates are given by M. Poisson, Traite de Me-

canique, vol. ii. p. 669, and in other works.

,,1 dp   d it      du            du             du

§ d x~~  dt dx dy                               dz ' ' '            vv

-§1 rdd-py = Y_r-TddTtv-«(jddvx    dv        w  dv                  ,_
                                 fidy           djz--               (B.)

I dp ,, dw dw div                               div                 v

g dz     dt dx dy                               dz                  ,_
i^|i
                                                                    v/
^d t
+     d  + «Lii +      dz        =o                                  d.)

               dy                                                   (v '
                                              r ,.

--112 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

=Let x r cos $ cos ju.                                  =y r cos Q sin /x                                           =z r sin
                                                                                                                                                           <f>.

In the problem of the tides <p may represent geographical la-

titude, and the sidereal time at the place. If
                                                fj.

                _J -- dr                          --. d<p                                     = dju.
                      d*
                                                 Ya' dr                                           ,

                                                                                            rF dr

              v d/2                              v d/2                                                    d/2               ·
                                                                                                          dz
                       da;                              dy

The general equations of motion referred to polar coordinates

are

 d » d/2 dr' rd<p*                                                                              3

gdr d r d r d r                                                                  2j.dj«.

                                                                                     dr

 do         d/2      r2 d                        ^  dr d                               .. A                      A  d       9
            d 4>                        <J>'                                <f>                                          I*
dg <?>                 d#
                                                    d£ d£                                                        x d r-

=d« d/2              <V --r2 cos 9o A -j4                                                   drdjx
                                d<f>
-f- -j                                          £               2   r            cos- x<{>  -r-        -?-.

qiCdlijUt.  dQ fmt.                                                                         dr         d£

                                                                                 --2        ?-a2       .         cos     $  ditdu

                                                                                                   3in      <J>             -j-- -3--

                                                                                                                            di d/

= +If 1*
                nt   9,

and if we neglect the quantities of the second order

d<J>dfl         d_^

d7dT'           d*8'*

-- = w --d» d/2 dr'                                                              2_ n                       d
±- -;                                         2  r           .                         r3   cos 2
                                                                                                            3--
                     -.                             cos2        <p                                          dr

qdr dr dt                                                                                              <f>

=--£-       -                                    w -- rcos9 2
            d<p
pd<p                                                dt?'
                     r*-d5 t                            sin         <fc                <fc         2 w 2 sin <t> cos $ 3-;

-- =-i--    -j       -- 2nrrz cos'1 -j-                                          d£cos -1 <T£ -r-
                              d£<J>
gdft dju.

                                                                                 -- 2 n r2o                    ·         cos                     d
                                                                                                                                            <f>             <f>
                                                                                                          sin $
                                                                                                                                                 -r--

and the equation to the surface will be

^JL" --dd/r2         -- --dr'                                                                          d 0"\
                      5--
                                                                                                       -j-r r
                     d^
                                _             cos-2a<p              2o n         r2l cos^2         $A  at J           ,  r

                            n-                                                                                      a
                      REPORT ON THE TIDES.                                          113

f^+ - r*^' -n*r* sin <p cos <p -2 nr*sm<p cos Q-^A-dQ

   Cdn       $j7-2nrr,2 cos9 d0'. cosz2 <^p d-drr-i,
+ 1 -.
                         Qf
      \d\i.

                            -- =di>~\
                               w r2  2 sin cos                     -7^   > d /*     0,
                                                          <f> <J>

which is in accordance with Laplace's equation, M4c. C&., vol. i.
p. 98. The remaining equations are to be deduced from the
invariability of the mass of the element d m.

   The elementary parallelopiped

                                   r2 cos 4> d r d <p d p.

is bounded by the sides

      MA M= dr, MB=rd$,                               =C r cos <p d/*,

Mthe coordinates of the point being r, <p, p,
                            A -- + dr r, <p, jx
                            --B +r, $
                                                      d $, \l
                            C -- +r, $, ju.
                                                                   d/*.

   By reasoning similar to that employed in the Traitt de M4-
canique, vol. ii. p. 671, the following equation may be obtained,

which is equivalent to a transformation of equation (D) :

dg d.gr* d.g$' d.gp/ 2§r'                                 sin?
                                                      pT
dt^~ dr ~*~ d<p ^ dp                 r                                           '
                                                           cos<f>

or

* +S \dr + d<J> + dp + r cos$ 9 J

    For incompressible fluids, when the effect of changes of

=temperature is neglected, g'        separately, and

      dr'       dip'           _ _2r|
                d<J>  djt'           sin <j> ,
      dr              djK.
                               ~r cos $                            '

which equation agrees with that given by Laplace, M4c. C4l.t

vol. i. p. 101.

   If t denote the temperature, Fourier has shown that

dj    d.ur      d.vr     d .wt _     K  f de t        +            d2 t  +  d9 t~\  ,,, >
                ~d]T +   ~dF~ ~
dl +  ~dF +                          C  id^2                       dP       dT9J    l'

and if e denote the temperature which corresponds to a given

temperature b,

    VOL. vi. 1837.                1
--1]4 SEVENTH REPORT 183J\

             §=e{\ + h(r-b)}                     (F.)

K, C, and h being constants. Me'moires de I'Institut, vol. xiii,

p. 519. When the temperature varies, the two last equations

=supply the place of the equation p' 0.

   The left hand side of the equation (E.) is of the same form as

equation (D.), p. 25 ; hence by the help of a known transform-

ation it is easy to transform equation (E.) to polar coordinates,

and we obtain

K ftf.rr     / d2 .rr\
TC r < d r2
             d^r2 cos9 <p V2)

                                  /d.cos»^y\     (E.)

             +                                |

                   z  cos2   <J>
                r'

   The general equations of the motion of fluids have not yet
been successfully applied to problems even of less difficulty than
hat of the tides, which is complicated by the irregular shape of
the channel in which the tide-wave travels, and by the resist-
ance which it meets with in its passage. An improvement, how-

ever, of theory as regards single observations, or for the purpose

of prediction, is scarcely wanted, except as regards the fluc-

tuations of the establishment, on account partly of the inevitable

difficulty attendant upon observations of the time and height of

high water, and partly on account of the derangement produced
by causes which are at present far beyond the reach of analysis,
such as winds and the varying atmospheric pressure. But when

the averages of numerous observations are employed, it is evi-
dent that in the instance which I have adduced p. 20, and per-
haps also in some others, the equilibrium theory appears at

least to be insufficient. Its general agreement with the pheno-
mena, to which I have adverted on former occasions, is extremely
remarkable, and the merit of Bernoulli's investigation does not
seem to have been sufficiently appreciated. But whether or not
Bernoulli's theory may soon receive improvement, at all events
the approximation is generally so close that I have thought it

desirable constantly to compare the results afforded by the ob-
servations with those deduced from his expressions. More-
over, the results given in the tables have been laid down in dia-
grams, by which means their relation to each other and to theory
is better perceived. The advantages of this method, of which
REPORT ON THE TIDES.                                                      115

remarkable instances might be adduced *, have long been felt,
but there can be little doubt that its more general application
to questions depending for their illustration upon extensive series
of irregular numbers, particularly those of meteorology and sta-
tistics (such as variations in prices, in the population, &c), would

greatly assist in developing relations at present obscure.

   It appears from our examination that the establishment and
mean height of high water are liable to slight fluctuations, which

baffle at present our attempts to obtain extreme accuracy in tide

predictions. This subject seems to deserve attention.

   I have now endeavoured briefly to advert to those parts of

the subject which appear to require further elucidation, in the

hope that they may attract the attention of those whose command
of analysis may enable them to remove the difficulties which still
remain to be surmounted, and I have mentioned some of the
facts which appear to me to result from these laborious calcula-

tions, which never could have been undertaken but for the interest
which has been felt in the subject by some of the most distin-
guished members of the Association, particularly byMr.Whewell,
and but for the pecuniary grants which have at different times

been devoted to this object. I hope that when the results are
carefully examined which have been published in the Philoso-

phical Transactions, they will not be found disproportionate in
value to the great labour and expense which has been required

for their attainment.

   I have lately received, through the kindness of M. Arago, the

printed Brest Tide Observations from January, 1807, up to the
end of December, 1835. It now therefore remains to be consi-
dered whether by pursuing further this inquiry in the same
manner other important facts can be elicited from the Brest ob-
servations. I was formerly extremely anxious to obtain access
to these observations : first, because I understood that they weref
in print ; secondly, because the tide there is single ; thirdly, on
account of the classical interest which attaches to these obser-
vations, from being the foundation of the remarks connected
with this subject by Laplace in the Mecanique Celeste ; and
fourthly, because the Brest observations extend throughout the
same period as those made at the London Docks, which we have
employed in our former discussion, Bakerian Lecture, 1836.

But I am not inclined to think that a discussion of the Brest
observations would now lead to results presenting any important

   * E.g. Sir J. Herschel's determination of the orbits of double stars.  more-
                                                                          would
  Wef have felt great inconvenience in employing MS. observations ;

over, if the observations which we used were inprint, greater facilities

exist for verifying our results.

I2
116 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

feature differing essentially from those which are afforded by the
discussions which I have already completed of the London and
Liverpool observations. But it would certainly be desirable to
determine the semi-menstrual inequality in the height at Brest,

D Ethat is, the constants and ; this may be done from a year's

observations. I determined some time since the semi-menstrual
inequality in the interval for that place. See Phil. Trans. As
the Brest observations extend throughout the same time as those
of the London Docks which we have employed, the same tides
might be discussed, and thus the influence of local circumstances
and the resistances which the tide meets with in its progress from
Brest to London might be clearly ascertained. I confess, how-

ever, I am not sanguine that any advantage would now be gained

sufficient to compensate for the great labour and expense which
the discussion would require.
The explanation of the Starts used in
this Chart, is contained in pages 42 &r4S.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     i
I
i/eo
North POL in c ii inlir e.xvhhiibbiting the Observations of MAGNETIC I.\ti:a
r/iil>ihiu/ the, unequal distribution
MA '' "'  W0RM ** »0'B<"''-' """ "'"'"''"'" >-"''' *"
          "'"' "' -> ' °> >  *
                                                       oi ,,,,,,,,, ,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,  ,,,,,,,,/,..,,,,,,,  ,,,,,,. MAGNETIC /.I TENSITYin the tm> //,,,,,,,,/,,,
-
r\
               COMPOSITION OF CAST IRON.  117

On the difference between the Composition of Cast Iron pro-
  duced by the Cold and the Hot Blast. By Thomas Thomson,
  M.D., F.R.S., L. & E., fyc, Professor of Chemistry, Glas-

   gow.

At the meeting of the Association last year in Bristol, consider-

able difference of opinion was entertained respecting the ad-

vantages said to be obtained by heating the air before it is in-
troduced into the furnaces in which iron is smelted, and it was

finally admitted by all parties that the only unexceptionable

mode of determining the question would be to institute a set of

experiments to determine the relative qualities of hot and cold

blast iron, and to make a comparative set of analyses of each

sort in order to determine whether any, and what, differences
exist in their chemical composition. Messrs. Hodgkinson
and Fairbairn, of Manchester, undertook to make a compara-

tive set of experiments on each sort, and Mr. Fairbairn stated

the result of their experiments in the mechanical section of the

AAssociation.  committee was appointed by the chemical sec-

tion to investigate the chemical composition of hot and cold

blast iron. I had the honour of being named one of the mem-
bers of that committee. I have accordingly made a certain
number of analyses, and my object in this paper is to state the
results which I have obtained. I do not know what has been

done by the other members of the committee ; I was at too
great a distance from all of them to enable us to operate to-

gether ; I therefore take it for granted that the object in view,

when individuals living at such distances from each other were
named together, was that each individual should make experi-

ments on the iron made in his neighbourhood; and that the

section, by comparing together all the results, might have it in

their power to come to a proper conclusion respecting this most

important subject.

  A great deal of cast iron, and a considerable quantity of bar

iron is now made in the neighbourhood of Glasgow. Probably

the amount last year was not far short of 200,000 tons. It is

well known that Glasgow is surrounded by one of the richest

coal-fields in Britain. The coal is not only abundant, but of

excellent quality, and the iron ore fortunately exists in great
abundance, stratified or in nodules in the coal measures. The

ore is always a carbonate of iron, never absolutely pure, and
varying considerably in this respect even when we examine dif-
118 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

ferent specimens from the same bed. I have analyzed above

thirty specimens at different times, generally selected with some

care, as the object in view was to determine the average good-

ness of various beds of this ore, that the smelter might have it

in his power to choose the best for his purpose.

   In general some notion may be formed of the goodness of the

ore by taking its specific gravity ; the heaviest samples being

the best. But this rule is not without exceptions ; the specific
gravity of some of the best specimens being diminished by an

admixture of coal. The specific gravity of pure crystallized

carbonate of iron is 3*829. Now the heaviest iron stone which

I have met with in the neighbourhood of Glasgow has a specific

gravity of 3*3801. It contains 83*85 per cent, of carbonate of

iron. The remaining 16*15 parts consist of carbonate of lime,

Acarbonate of magnesia, silica, alumina, and coal.  bed of iron

stone near Airdrie is known by the name of Mushet's black

band, because it was discovered by that gentleman, or at least

its value was first pointed out by him. It contains 85*44 per

cent, of carbonate of iron, which exceeds that from Crossbasket

above stated, yet its specific gravity is only 3*0553. It may be

worth while to state the composition of this black band, because

it will show the foreign bodies always present, in greater or

smaller quantity, in the clay iron stone of this district.

Carbonate of iron         85*44

Carbonate of lime         5*94

Carbonate of magnesia     3*71

Silica                    1*40

Alumina                   0*63

Peroxide of iron          0*23
Coaly matter              3*03--100*38

The quantity of silica and alumina in this particular band is

unusually small, amounting only to about 2 per cent. In some

specimens of clay iron stone which I have analyzed the alumina

and silica amounted to 45 per cent. Mushet's black band con-
tains no sensible traces of manganese. But in general that

metal may be discovered, though never in great quantity, in the

clay iron stone belonging to the Glasgow coal-field. There is

a bed of iron stone near Johnston, which contains 84 per cent,

of carbonate of iron ; but its lime and magnesia being very

small in amount, the silica and alumina together constitute

12'4 per cent, and the coaly matter 1^ per cent.
   The lightest specimen of clay iron stone which I have met

with in the neighbourhood of Glasgow had a specific gravity of

2*285 owing to the great quantity of coal, no less than 21*71

per cent., with which it was mixed, Its constituents were
         COMPOSITION OF CAST IRON.                               119

Carbonate of iron                         29*03

Carbonate of lime                         I" 52

Carbonate of magnesia                     3*59

Coal                                      21*71

Silica                                    24-76

Alumina                                   2O-1O-100-71

If we abstract the coal, the carbonate of iron will amount to
37 per cent, of the ore. In another specimen of the same band
containing 5£ per cent, of coal, I found 62 per cent, of carbonate

of iron.             that the proportion  between    i-    ..:   and,
   It is remarkable
                                                   the   silica

alumina in the two specimens was quite different. In the first

there were 12£ atoms silica to 9 atoms of alumina, and in the
second 12* atoms silica to 2 of alumina. This seems to show

that the clay in the clay iron stone does not owe its existence

to the decomposition of any mineral consisting of a definite

compound of silica and alumina.
   The existence of these foreign bodies in the clay iron stone,

from which the cast iron subjected to analysis was derived, will
enable us to understand the source of certain substances from
which no cast iron hitherto examined is free. The ore, before
it is put into the furnace, is always roasted, which drives off the
carbonic acid from the carbonate of iron, and thus reduces the

weight of the ore, at an average, about 31 per cent.
   It is also mixed with carbonate of lime, which has the well-

known property of fusing with clay into a liquid glass when
sufficiently heated. This removes the clay from the ore, and

enables the oxide of iron to come in contact with the ignited

coals, which reduce it to the metallic state. I subjected the
limestones used at most of the smelting houses round Glasgow
to a chemical analysis. I need not observe that none of them
was a pure carbonate of lime ; for even the most transparent
and colourless calcareous spar always contains a sensible quan-
tity of foreign matter. The purest limestone I met with con-
tained 94-6 per cent, of carbonate of lime. The foreign matter
in all was silica, alumina, and peroxide of iron. In one only I
found carbonate of magnesia, to the amount of 2 per cent., and

in none could I detect the presence of manganese.
   The coal used for fuel leaves, when incinerated, from 1 to 10 per

cent of ashes. They are composed chiefly of silica, alumina,
and oxide of iron. Coal is seldom quite free from iron pyrites.
This enables us to account for the presence of minute quantities

of sulphur in some of the specimens of cast iron analyzed.

   When the Clyde iron works were established, about 50 years

ago, to obtain 1 ton of cast iron ten tons of coals were required.

This coal was previously converted into coke, by which process
--120 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

it lost rather more than half its weight. The matter driven off

by coking constituted in fact a most important part of the fuel,
being the substances now well known under the names of coal-

gas and naphtha. By diminishing the force with which the air

was driven into the furnace, and by taking care that this air should

be dry instead of moist, (in consequence of the water pressure
originally employed,) and by some other minor improvements,
the consumption of coals was reduced from 10 to 8 tons, or

rather to 7 tons 13 cwt. for the production of one ton of cast iron.

   The quantity of limestone employed for smelting a ton of

cast iron was 10^ cwt.
   In the year 1833, when the mode of heating the air was

brought to a state of tolerable perfection, and when the tempe-

rature of the air introduced was considerably above 607°, as it

melted lead at the distance of an inch from the orifice, and the

melting point of lead is known to be 607°, at that time coal

was employed without being previously coked, and the quantity

requisite for smelting a ton of cast iron was 2 tons 19 cwt.,

namely,                                Tons. Cwt.
       For the furnace
                                          2

For heating the air                       8

For the steam engine                      11 2 19

The quantity of limestone used was reduced from 10i to 7

cwt. ; and the product in iron was greater, and the daily quan-

tity produced from a furnace was increased from 6 tons to 9 tons.

The expense of a ton of cast iron was in

1829                    . £4

1833                                      2 12

Produce in a month from 3 furnaces in

1829                                      500 tons cast iron.

1833                                      1010

When the Clyde iron works were originally established two

furnaces produced only 14 tons of cast iron weekly. The pro-

duce was gradually increased to 30, 40, or even 70 tons a week ;
but after the introduction of the heated air the produce was as

much as 130 tons a week. Indeed it was raised to almost 200

tons a week, but that was by the addition of another furnace.

Various explanations have been given of the way in which

the heated air acts to produce these advantages. If we attend

to the facts which I have just stated the true explanation will

I think easily suggest itself.

  When iron is smelted by the cold blast the coal requires to

be coked, but when the hot blast is employed coking is unne-

cessary. In the latter case one half the quantity of coals is suf-

ficient that is required in the former. Is it not evident from

this that the whole oxygen of the air of the hot blast combines
COMPOSITION OK CAST IRON.  121

with the fuel as soon as it enters into the furnace, and that the
oxygen of the air of the cold blast is not all consumed immedi-
ately, but makes its way upwards, and is gradually consumed in
its ascent, producing a scattered heat which is of no use in

smelting the iron, but merely serves to consume the fuel. When

the hot blast is used the combustion is concentrated towards the

bottom of the furnace ; with the cold blast it is much more dif-
fused. Hence the reason of the saving of the coals in the former
case, which constitutes the great advantage attending the new

method.
   This greater concentration of the combustion must subject

the iron to a greater heat than when the combustion is more

scattered. This accounts for the smaller quantity of limestone

necessary for separating the clay ; for the higher the tempera-

ture the smaller is the quantity of limestone necessary for the

fusion of the clay. Hence also the greater rapidity of the pro-
cess, and consequently the additional quantity of cast iron ob-

tained from a furnace in a given time.

   I think then we may conclude, that when the hot blast is
used the heat is more concentrated, and consequently higher than
when the cold blast is employed.

   I shall now state the result of various analyses of cast iron,
No. 1, smelted by means of cold, and also by means of hot air

in the different iron works round Glasgow. These analyses

were made in my laboratory, partly by myself and partly by Mr.

John Tennent, upon whose accuracy and skill I could completely
rely. All the iron works round Glasgow employ at present
nothing but heated air, except the Carron Company, who are
in the habit of making cast iron, No. 1, both by the hot and cold
blast. I applied to the manager of the Carron works, and he

very kindly supplied me with specimens of cast iron, No. 1,
made by both processes. These specimens I carefully analyzed,

and considered the comparison of the two specimens as very
satisfactory, because the nature of the ore and the process was

exactly the same in both cases, and because the Carron Com-
pany have the reputation of making cast iron of the very best

quality. I had specimens of cast iron, No. 1, from the Clyde
Iron Works which I had obtained before the new process was
known, and consequently when nothing but the cold blast was
 employed; and I had also specimens of cold blast iron from

Muirkirk, and some which had been given me as Swedish cast

 iron.

    I shall now point out the differences which were observed
 between cast iron, No. 1, made by the cold and the hot blast.

    1 . The specific gravity of cast iron smelted by the cold blast
 is less than that of cast iron by the hot blast.
                  --

--122 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

The following are the specific gravities of eight specimens of

cold blast iron :                                   6*410
               1st. Muirkirk

       2nd. Ditto                                   6*435

       3rd. Ditto                                   6*493

       4th. Ditto                                   6*579

       5th. Ditto                                   6*775

       6th. From pyrites        ....                6*9444
       7th. From Carron                             6*9888
       8th. Clyde Iron Works                        7*0028

   The specific gravity of the Muirkirk iron is considerably less
than of that smelted at Carron and the Clyde Iron Works ; the
mean of the 8 specimens is 6*7034.

It has been hitherto supposed that the difference between cast

iron and malleable iron consists in the presence of carbon in the

former, and its absence from the latter ; in other words, that cast

iron is a carburet of iron. But in all the specimens of cast iron
which we analyzed we constantly found several other ingredients

besides iron and carbon. Manganese is pretty generally pre-

sent in minute quantity, though in one specimen it amounted

to no less a quantity than 7 per cent. ; its average amount is 2
per cent. Silicon is never wanting, though its amount is exceed-

ingly  variable,  the  average  quantity is  about      per  cent.  ;  some

                                                    1J-

specimens contained 3i per cent, of it, while others contain less

than a half per cent. Aluminum is very rarely altogether absent,

though its amount is more variable than that of silicon. Its ave-

rage amount is 2 per cent. ; sometimes it exceeds 4|per cent., and

sometimes it is not quite ynoo^h P art °^ tne weight of the iron.
   Calcium and magnesium are sometimes present, but very

rarely, and the quantity does not much exceed J-th per cent.
In a specimen of cast iron which I got from Mr. Neilson,

and which he had smelted from pyrites, there was a trace of

copper, showing that the pyrites employed was not quite free
from copper ; and in a specimen from the Clyde Iron Works
there was a trace of sulphur. The following table exhibits the

composition of six different specimens of cast iron, No. 1, ana-

lyzed in my laboratory, either by myself or by Mr. John Tennent.
         --;

                COMPOSITION OF CAST IRON.                  123

   The constant constituents of cold blast cast iron, No. 1, are
iron, manganese, carbon, silicon, and aluminum. The occa-
sional constituents are copper, sulphur, calcium, and magne-

sium. These occur so rarely, and in such minute quantity, that

we may overlook them altogether.
   The constant constituents occur in the following mean atomic

proportions :                            = 77*00           as
                                         = 1*75
       22 atoms iron                     = 3*27
         \ atom manganese                = 1*00
                                         = 1*40--84*42
    4*36 atoms carbon
       1 atom silicon        manganese, and consider them
       \\ aluminum

   If we unite the iron and

acting the part of basis, to which the carbon, silicon, and alumi-

num unite in definite proportions, we have 22^ atoms iron and

manganese ; 6£ atoms carbon, silicon, and aluminum, or Z\
atoms iron and manganese ; 1 atom carbon, silicon, and alumi-

num. When we compare the different specimens analyzed, we

observe a considerable difference in the constitution of each.

In one specimen the iron and manganese were to the carbon,

silicon, and aluminum, in the proportion of 2*41 atoms of the

former to 1 of the latter; in another specimen as 8*87 to 1.

Now both of these specimens were from Muirkirk. These dif-

ferences doubtless depended partly on the ore, partly on the

fuel, and partly on the heat employed. They account perfectly

for the different properties of cast iron.

   But the mean of the whole gives cold blastcastiron,No. 1, com-
posed of 3| atoms iron, 1 atom carbon, silicon, and aluminum

and the proportions of these three constituents are very nearly

4 atoms carbon, 1 atom silicon, and 1 atom aluminum ; so that

the cold blast cast iron of this country consists of 21 atoms

iron, with a little manganese, 4 atoms carbon, 1 atom silicon, 1

atom aluminum.

2. I examined only one specimen of cast iron, No. 2. It was

an old specimen, said to have come from Sweden, but I have

no evidence of the correctness of this statement. Its specific

gravity was 7' 1633 higher than any specimens of cold blast iron,

-No. 1. Its constituents were,

Iron                                        93*594

Manganese                                   0*708

Carbon                                      3*080

Silicon                                     1*262

Aluminum                                    0*732

Sulphur                                     0*038--99*414

The presence of sulphur in this specimen leads to the sus-
                                      --

--124 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

picion that it is not a Swedish specimen ; for as the Swedish
ore is magnetic iron, and the fuel charcoal, the presence of
sulphur in the iron is very unlikely*.

   In this specimen the atoms of iron and manganese are to
those of carbon, silicon, and aluminum in the proportion of 4|
to 1, instead of 3^ to 1, as in cast iron, No. 1.

   The atoms of carbon, silicon, and aluminum approach the
proportions of 7> 2, and 1, so that in cast iron, No. 2, judging
from one specimen, there is a greater proportion of carbon com-

pared with the silicon and aluminum,- than in cast iron, No. 1.
   Mr. Tennent analyzed a specimen of hot blast iron, No. 2,

from Gartsherry. Its specific gravity was 6*9156, and its con-

stituents,

            Iron . .          90-542

            Manganese         2764

            Carbon            3-094

            Silicon           0-680

            Aluminum          2-894

            Sulphur .         0-023

                              99-997

So that it resembles cast iron, No. 1, in the proportion of its

constituents. The carbon is almost the same as in cold blast

iron, No. 2, but the proportion of aluminum is four times as

great, while the silicon is little more than half as much. The

atomic ratios are, carbon 4* ; silicon, 0-67 ; aluminum, 2*28.
   3. Five specimens of hot blast cast iron, No. 1, were analyzed.

Two of these were from Carron, and three from the Clyde Iron

Works, where the hot blast originally began, and where, of

course, it has been longest in use. The specific gravity of these

specimens was found to be as follows :    7*0028

       ....1st. From Clyde Works

            2nd. From Carron              7-0721

            3rd. From Carron              7-0721

            4th. From Clyde Works . . . . 7*1022

                                            Mean . . 7-0623

   It appears from this that the hot blast increases the specific
gravity of cast iron by about gV110- P art- It approaches nearer
the specific gravity of cast iron, No. 2, smelted by cold air, than
to that of No. 1.

   The following table exhibits the constituents of these 4 speci-
mens.

   * I have been told by Mr. Mushet that the Swedes add sulphur to their iron,
No. 2.
COMPOSITION OP CAST IRON.  125
--126 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

4. An analysis of a specimen of cast steel, manufactu      in

the neighbourhood of Glasgow, from the best Dannemoi . »ion,
was made by Mr. Tennent, and perhaps it may be worth while

to state the results obtained.                          \

Its specific gravity was 7'8125, and its constituents,

                                         Atoms.

....Iron                        99-2881 ,,.*

Manganese                       0-190 J   '

Carbon                          0-388 1"

                                                              99-866

Or it contains 56 atoms of iron united to 1 atom of carbon.
He could not detect the least trace of either silicon or aluminum
in this steel. Is it not probable that the reason why Danne-
mora iron answers so well for making steel is that it contains
no sensible portion of silicon and aluminum ; and that the pre-

sence of a notable quantity of these substances in British iron

is the reason why it is so ill fitted for being converted into good

steel ?

                                      Appendix.

  A quantity of hot and cold blast iron was made in the same

furnace at the Level Furnaces, Brierly Hill, Staffordshire, with
the same proportions of ironstone and limestone, with the addi-
tion of one-half more coal, necessary to compensate for the defi-

ciency of power in the furnace when blown with cold air. These
products were tried with the following results :

   1. Two bars of cast iron §ths inch square were melted in a

crucible from pig iron, No. 1, the first cold blast and the second
hot blast ; both broke when exposed to a pressure of 2040 lbs.

   2. |ths inch cable bolts were made from the hot blast iron
No. 1. These cable bolts were exposed to the Liverpool proof,
namely, a weight of 12 tons 5 cwt., without sustaining any al-
teration ; even a weight of 17 tons 18 cwt. produced no bad

 effect.

    Another chain without studs fths inch in diameter, made from
the same hot blast iron, was proved to 22 tons, 7 cwt. 1 qr. 2 lbs.,

or to 12 tons, 11 cwt. 1 qr. 2 lbs. above the Liverpool proof,
without sustaining any injury. These trials show that hot

blast iron is at least as strong as cold blast iron.
        DETERMINATION OF CONSTANT OF NUTATION.  127

1)911

Notice of the Determination of the Constant of Nutation by
   the Greenwich Observations, made as commanded by the

  British Association. By the Rev. T. R. Robinson, D.D.

It is now a century since Bradley, by his brilliant discoveries

of the aberration of light, and the nutation of the earth's axis,

became the founder of accurate astronomy. By them he not

merely explained the seemingly anomalous movements which,
though noticed by others before him, were first established by
his observations on authoritative evidence, but he also demon-
strated that a degree of precision, which the other astronomers of
that time could scarcely conceive, was perfectly attainable. From
the commencement of his career to the present day the impulse
thus given has never failed, and each successive year has brought
improvements to the construction of astronomical instruments,
to the methods of observing, or, what is equally important, to the
reductions by which these observations are made available to

science.

   Yet it must be acknowledged that in respect of both aberra-
tion and nutation nothing was added to the researches of Brad-
ley till within a few years, when Struve, Brinkley, and Richard-
son resumed the inquiry as to the first, and contracted within
very narrow measures the limits of its uncertainty. The second,
of these astronomers also investigated the constant of nutation,
and his result is generally adopted by British astronomers. In

Germany, however, the authority of M. Besselhas given currency

to a different value of this important element, deduced by

Von Lindenau, and though the two differ only \ of a second,

                of the telescope used in observing,) such is the accu-

( 7Q0 Q

racy now required that even this evanescent discordance is felt
as a disgrace to astronomy. This stigma I trust is now removed
by the work which the powerful aid of the Association has en-
abled me to perforin, and of which it is my present object to give

a brief notice to this section, the fuller details requiring a dif-

ferent mode of publication.

   When an observer directs the telescope of his circle to a star,

the distance from the pole or the zenith which he obtains is but
crude ore, and much labour is required to obtain its precious
contents. The refraction of the atmosphere prevents us from
seeing it in its true place ; its effect must be computed and cor-
rected ; the light by which we see it takes time to travel through
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;

 --128 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

 the telescope, which itself moves with the earth, and thus aber-
 rates from the true direction ; this too has been brought under
 our dominion. The stars themselves, though we call them fixed,
 are most of them in motion, each with its own proper movement,
 and with a period to which even geological cycles are probably

 but as moments. And the points of our own globe, to which
 we refer their positions, are anything but invariable ; they are

 agitated with perpetual changes, some of great duration and
 extent, others minute in quantity and rapid in recurrence, all of
 which must be appreciated and known before we can record
 any history of the heavens at a given epoch.

    Of these disturbances of the earth's axis the greater terms
 have long been known under the name of the precession of the
 Equinoxes, and our present knowledge of their laws and amount

 is satisfactory ; of the remaining three, appropriately called
 nutations, one completing, its course in a fortnight and never
 reaching J^th of a second, is sufficiently determined by theory

another, semi-annual in period, and ^ a second at its maximum,
is also given by theory, and, independently, by Brinkley's ad-

 mirable observations.

   The third is of much greater magnitude, being about 9", and

running through its changes in the time of a complete revolu-
tion of the moon's nodes, something more than 18 years; and
its exact determination is the object of this communication. It
is obvious, that if a star's distance from the pole be determined

when the effect of this nutation increases it most, but without
making any allowance for its effect, and if 9^ years after, when
of course the distance is most diminished, it be again observed,
the difference of the results will be twice the total effect of nu-
tation on that star, and from this the entire or the constant of
nutation is of course known. But if after a second Japse of
9£ years, when all has returned to its primary condition, we
have a third set of observations, the conclusion is made much
more certain ; for thus all doubt is removed that might come
from any proper motion of the star if it returns to its original
place ; or if not, the difference detects that proper motion, and

gives its amount. Therefore, to succeed in this inquiry, it is
necessary to have observations extending through at least the
whole period of the nodes, made with the same instrument, and,
if it were possible, by the same observer, or at least according

to the same system. In quantities so minute as those we are

considering, in operations so delicate in themselves, and so easily
vitiated by errors that can scarcely be suspected, all precautions
are necessary ; and with the exception of the observations made
at Greenwich, while the late Mr. Pond presided over that ob-
DETERMINATION OP CONSTANT OP NUTATION.  129

servatory, there are none existing which even approach the ful-

filment of these conditions. ' Even in them there is much ob-
jectionable, but many years must elapse before they can be

surpassed.

   The Greenwich circle was for the first 12 years employed to

measure distances  from the pole ;  afterwards from the zenith
                                                                                                                            ;

the zero of the former being given by comparing the observed

and calculated places of known stars, the latter hy combining

direct and reflected observations. This in the present inquiry
needed no change, but the other was inadmissible, and I re-

stricted myself to the pole star alone. Of it 4000 observations

were computed, by the aid of Bessel's admirable tables, retaining
his values of declination, nutation, and proper motion, but with
mine of aberration and refraction. Of the results more than
2000 could be combined above and below the pole to give the
zero of polar distance. The others served to keep watch in the
interval between these conjugate observations, and show if any

change took place in the instrument. After 1826, observations
of Polaris were less numerous, but the index corrections given by

it were then combined with reflected observations.
   The other stars were selected on this principle, that their

altitudes should be such as to free them from the uncertainty of
refraction j and that those observations only should be employed
in which at least § of the effect of nutation is exerted in polar di-
stance. Of such there are but 15 to be found in the Greenwich

collection with sufficient frequency, and even of these three
have not yet completed their cycles. Four of them are not

found in Bessel's tables, but are similarly reduced ; and in all
correction has been made for that slight nutation of which I
spoke as of a fortnight's period. They afford about 8000 i*e-
sults, i>ut only 6000 have been available, 1000 from an accident
which occurred to the instrument in 1820, and vitiated the work
of almost two years, and the rest from occasional want of

corresponding observations of Polaris.

Each of these observations should be exactly represented by

the calculated place of the star, were there no errors of observa-

tion or of reduction, and the difference gives their effects. In

the present case we consider only three things as doubtful ; the
place of the star at some given epoch, as given by the catalogue
employed, the star's motion, and Lindenau's nutation. The re-

sidue thereforois properly equated to these three quantities, and

the equations are divided into three groups, corresponding to the

maxima and intervening minimum (or vice versa) of nutation.
The three resulting equations determine these three errors, two

of which are peculiar to each star, but the correction of nutation

VOL. vi. 1837.     k
                :

--130 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

is common to all, and each set should give it the same value. This

is not rigorously the case, and the difference proceeds partly from
accidental errors in bisecting the star or reading the divisions,
hut still more from causes which are as yet unknown, and whose

influence is but beginning to be noticed. Lastly, the corrections

thus obtained must be combined into a general mean according

to the most probable method, attending to their different weights.

In some stars nutation appears with a larger coefficient, some

have been more frequently observed, and both these circum-

stances must be duly estimated in taking the mean.

These are my results. To increase Lindenau's nutation :

710 observations of y Draconis give + 0-"28
--77G
                        a Lyrse          + ()· 54
--705
                        « Cygni          +0-03
--452
                        Arcturus         +0-33
--3G9
                        /3 Ursseminoris  +0*35
--224
                        (3 Tauri         + 0' 35
--284
                        Aldebaran        + 0- 31
--239
                        « Arietis        + 0* 31
--279
                        a. Corome        + 0* Gl
--287
                        Pollux           +0- 54
--2G7
                        Castor           + 0. 52
--190
                        a. Persei        + 0* 77

To diminish it                           -- --give 0-"29
                                              --0-31
397 observations of vj Ursae
                                         -- --0-01
403                     Capella

393                     Polaris

The mean of all being,

                        + 0."257

                                8- 977

                                 Lindenau 9* 234

differing only - "01G from the number selected by Mr. Baily
for the admirable catalogue which has already been so useful to
astronomy, and which I trust by the aid of the Association may
soon be increased far beyond its present extent*.

   It remains to consider what errors may be supposed to affect
this conclusion. Some may object that I have used with Mr.

Baily the constant of aberration 20*3G, instead of employing
20*50, which Mr. Richardson has so ably deduced from the

   * Since reading this notice to the Association I have received the Green-

wich observations for 1836, which enables me to complete the cycle for a,

Cygni, and to determine the proper motions of Castor and Pollux more cor-
rectly. These, and some other changes of'less importance, have slightly changed

my result, which is now considered by me to be 9*239.
DETERMINATION OF CONSTANT OF NUTATION.                           131

Greenwich observations themselves. I fully admit its weight,

but must remark, 1st, that for the star common to our compu-

tations, the maximum of aberration obtained differs too widely,
in one case more than a second ; secondly, that the mean of

                                                                        20-503

Richardson and De Lambre gives,  225          almost  identical  with
                                           ,

                                 20-364

20-370

Brinkley and Struve 20-350; and, thirdly, that the use of Mr. R.'s

                                           20-360

constant would scarcely have changed my result. In the case of
y Draconis, tbe most important in my list, I performed the

computation with this value, and the change it produced was

only x^jo of a second.

   As to the casual errors depending on the circumstances of

observation, I find for this star, that the probable error of one

=observation + 0*"96, and therefore, by the theory of proba-

bilities, it comes out an even bet, that as far as such errors are
concerned the result given by it is not uncertain to O"04, and

Lyrae has nearly the same probable error. Therefore, the slight

discordances in my results proceed from other, and, as yet, un-

known causes. Similar and greater discrepancies occur in Mr.

Richardson's investigations, but it is curious that in Brinkley's

researches on nutation, Capella, and a Cygni give results less

than the mean ; a. Lyrae, /3 Tauri, and Castor above it.

It might seem that a more accurate conclusion is attainable

by assuming the proper motion of the stars as known from

comparison of Bradley's observations with those of recent date.

This supposition would give the constant 9*181, 0*05 less than

that given above ; but I think it inadmissible, for these motions

may not be uniform, and there may be changes in the instru-

ment, the refraction, the observer, nay, even in the direction of

gravity, as affected by local circumstances, which are functions

of the time. Something of this sort does actually appear here.

It is well known that Pond latterly believed in the existence of

a general southern motion of the stars j and though Brinkley has
shown most fully that this is imaginary, yet it is remarkable

that the corrections of Bessel's proper motions, which my work

has given, are, except in one instance, all negative. I infer from

this that the Greenwich circle is undergoing some progressive

change of figure, which makes it show polar distances too great

for about 30 degrees south of the zenith ; but if this be the case
it is not likely long to elude the sagacity of Mr. Airy.

The declinations which I obtain from these Greenwich obser-

vations differ considerably from those deduced by Pond himself,

        k2
--132 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

and given in the N. A. for 1834, but they agree closely with
those of Bessel ; they give the following corrections :
EXPERIMENTS ON VEINS AND MINES.                               133

Report of some Experiments on the Electricity of Metallic

   Veins, and the Temperature of Mines. By Robert Were

   Fox.

In fulfilment of the commission with which I was last year in-

trusted, it was my intention to have made some experiments on

the electricity of metalliferous veins on a larger scale than 1 have

yet done, and to have endeavoured to produce changes in the

composition of bodies, by the long-continued action of electric

forces, derived from this source. Other engagements have,

however, interfered with the execution of these plans, and the
only experiments of this nature which I have recently made

have been confined to Coldherry and Skeers lead mines, situated

near Middleton Teasdale, in the county of Durham. In the

former, I obtained no decided results; and in the latter, the gal-

vanometer indicated very feeble electrical action. There are

seven E. and W. lead veins in this mine, contained in limestone,

which are shifted from three to five fathoms to the right hand
by a cross vein, having nearly a northern and southern direction.
The cross vein contained more or less galena near some of the

places of intersection ; and a connection was made, by means of
copper wires, between portions of ore in the cross vein, and others
in one of the most productive of the east and west veins, when

there appeared to be a feeble action from N. to W. (see ground

plan, fig. 1). The parts connected, a and h, were about twenty
fathoms distant from each other, and fifty fathoms under the

surface.                                 Fig. 1.

  A small stream of water gushing          N

out of the vein was at 50° Fahr.

   The ore in this mine was far from

abundant, at least it did not occur

in such large masses as are best

calculated for experiments of this

description ; and the wire was not
sufficiently long to admit of obser-

vations being made on the relative

electric states of parallel veins.

These experiments, together with

others which I made some years                    Lead Vein.
ago in other lead mines near Moldw-

in Flintshire, tend to induce the

belief that the electric action is much

more feeble in lead veins when con-

tained in limestone and sandstone
--134 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

than in copper veins included in the lower rocks, such as granite

and " killas" or clay slate. And here it may be remarked that

the sulphurets of copper are more electro-negative than galena,

which circumstance may have had some influence on the results.

I wished to have made experiments on the electricity of some

of the coal-beds which have been traversed and charred by the

great basaltic dyke in the county of Durham, but my time and
engagements did not well admit of my doing so. It is well

known, that when coal is reduced to the state of a cinder it be-

comes a good conductor of voltaic electricity, although coal, in

its natural state, does not possess this property, or even anthra-

Acite.  friend of mine having kindly sent me some specimens

of the altered coal taken from Cockfield Fell Colliery, I found

that most of them were incapable of conducting voltaic electri-

city, which unexpected circumstance may, perhaps, be attri-

--buted to their having undergone a degree of vitrification, pene-

trated, possibly, by some siliceous matter, which their appearance

indicated ; and T am rather confirmed in this opinion from

having since found that one of the pieces of native cinder from

the same place is as good a conductor of electricity as coke, and

it has a less vitrified appearance than the others. Here then

Ave have the evidence of electricity in favour of the powerful ac-

tion of the heated basalt on the contiguous coal deposits.

I have, on various occasions, endeavoured to show that the

high temperature observed in the lowest parts of deep mines is

in a great degree independent of accidental or extraneous causes

not existing in the earth itself, and, indeed, that it is more often

diminished by them than the reverse. It occurred to me that

this point might be decided by burying the bidbs of different

thermometers at various depths below the deepest excavations

of mines, and I am indebted to the agents of Levant Tin and

Copper mine, and of the Consolidated Copper mines, for having

carried this plan into effect for me in their respective mines.

The former mine is situated on the coast, in the parish of St.
Just, and is worked in granite and " killas." Its depth is about

230 fathoms from the surface, and 200 fathoms below the level

Aof the sea.  thermometer four feet long, and inclosed in a

brass tube, had its bulb sunk in a hole three feet beneath the
" sump," or bottom of the deepest shaft, whilst another shorter

thermometer was placed very near it, with its bulb inserted in
a hole only about an inch deep. The former, which may be

distinguished as No. 1, indicated a temperature of 80°, and the

latter (No. 2) of 78'°5, both of them having been previously com-

pared with a standard thermometer, and the needful correction

applied. This part of the mine is in granite. The thermome-

ter was afterwards placed in like manner in "killas," at the
EXPERIMENTS ON VEINS AND MINES.  135

western extremity of the deepest level or gallery, about 190
fathoms under the sea level, and four feet from the lode, when
No. 1 showed a temperature of 78°, and No. 2, 72*°5 ; a stream
of water which flowed into another part of this level to the east-
ward of the shaft, and in granite, was at 78"°5, and the air in

the level only 67°.

   The Consolidated Mines are situated in the parish of Gwen-

nap, and nearly thirty miles to the
eastward of Levant. The depth is
290 fathoms from the surface, and

237 below the level of the sea at
half- tide; the rock is "killas."
There is a " cross-cut," or gallery
proceeding from the bottom of the
deepest shaft (Pearce's), marked

P.S. in the section Fig. 2, at right
angles to the lode, which it inter-
sects at N., the lode underlying to-

wards the north L.N. The thermo-
meters No. 1 and 2 were placed at a,
24 fathoms from N., the bulb of the

former in a hole three feet deep,
and that of the latter in another an
inch deep, the holes having been
filled round the thermometers with

clay, &c. Under these circum-
stances No. 1 indicated a tempera-
ture of 85*°3, and No. 2 of 84°.
The thermometers were then simi-
larly arranged at h, ten fathoms
from N., and No. 1 gave 86-°3, and
the other 85°. These experiments
were made before the cross-cut was
completed as far as N. When, however, the lode was inter-
sected atthatplace,both thermometers were placed in the manner
already described in the lode itself at c, when No. 1 indicated
a temperature of 92°, and No. 2 of 88°. Here the thermo-
meters were kept only two hours, but in all the other experi-
ments in both mines they remained in their places more than
twenty-four hours ; and when No. 1 was taken out of the deep
holes, and allowed to stand awhile in the "cross-cut," the mer-
cury always fell at least a degree. Only two men were at work
at a time in or near this part of the mine. The increase of
temperature in the lode, may, I conceive, be attributed to the

greater facility afforded by it for the ascent of currents of warn!
--136 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

water from more considerable depths, and the difference between
a and h to their relative proximity to the lode. The tempera-
ture of 85'°3 is at least 35° above the mean of the climate, and,
therefore, it gives a ratio of increase equal to one degree in
49 '6 feet, if calculated from the surface; and Levant Mine,
which was 80° at the bottom, one degree in 46 feet, or they give
one degree in 48 and 44 feet respectively, if estimated from ten
fathoms under the surface.

   The thermometers were likewise placed in holes, as before,
in a superior level in the Consolidated Mines, 130 fathoms be-
low the surface, when No. 1 indicated a temperature of 61°,
and No. 2 of 61'°6. This difference in favour of the short ther-
mometer was probably due to the influence of ascending currents
of warm air and vapour on the surface of the rock; and such an

explanation is not inconsistent with the opinion that the general
temperature of the upper parts of the mine had undergone a dimi-
nution of its original amount, in consequence of the excavations

below having interfered with the ascent of warm water, and pro-

moted the drainage from above of that which was comparatively
cold. For these reasons, and from the results obtained at the
deepest parts of mines of various depths, I consider that the
temperature of 61° is much below what it would have been had
there been no inferior excavations and I have evidence that in

                                                                                                                                                                          ;

1822, when the mine was only 150 fathoms deep, the water at
the bottom of one shaft was at 76° and of another at 80°.

   It is clear, I think, from all the experiments which have been
made on the temperature of mines, that causes which are more
or less local, and exist in the earth itself, have a powerful influence
in modifying its degree, and in producing those anomalous results
which have always characterised observations on subterranean

heat. When it is considered how much the crust of the earth
abounds with fissures or faults, and that warm water has a con-

stant tendency to ascend through cooler portions of that fluid,
and thus to produce upward and downward currents in the fis-
sures and veins, it would indeed be surprising if such discrepan-
cies did not exist even in the same vicinity, to say nothing of the
greater or less influence of water percolating from the surface.

Upon the whole, T am strongly of the opinion that the effect of

the simple conducting power of rocks on the temperature, at
depths hitherto attained, is very much superseded by that of the
transporting property of water to which I have alluded. Indeed,
I have long taken this view of the subject, and it has appeared

to me to account very satisfactorily for the fact of the more

compact rocks, such as granite, having been often found at
rather a lower temperature than "killas" at given depths, and
                     EXPERIMENTS ON VEINS AND MINES.                                                                                           137

both of them inferior in this respect to large porous lodes or
veins*. Thermal springs may likewise, I conceive, be referred
to the same cause, and it is well known that they are generally
connected with fissures or faults; moreover, I may here remark
that this property of fluids must more or less influence the
temperature of water in Artesian wells, so that thermometrical
experiments made in them are often rather calculated to prove

the existence of subterranean heat than to ascertain its ratio of
increase in descending from the surface.

   Since the foregoing report was read at the geological section,
1 have obtained some results relative to the temperature of

Tresavean Copper Mine from Captain Oats, who kindly made
the experiments for me. The mine is worked almost wholly

in granite, and is situated in the parish of Stythians, about three
miles to the S.W. of the Consolidated Mines. The bulb of the
thermometer No. I was buried 2 feet 10 inches, and that of No.
2 one inch under the surface of the rock at the different stations,
their stems having in all cases been surrounded by clay pressed
into the holes. The following were the results :

Depth in fathoms.                                                                             Experiments made.
                                                                                              In air. In the rock.
from  from
                                                                                                        No. 1. No. 2.
surface, sea level.

  26  ^ ...                                                                                                                        o    oo
                                                                                                                                      ,,, ,,, ,,
200       170        In granite 15 fathoms N. of lode, and 40 fathoms 1 ,,, ,,
                                                                                                                                      *,, *,_
200       170        lrom "killas                                         J
250       196
         203         ^In the lode, rock do., " killas," and three fathoms "I                        -9
262
                     from granite                                         J

                     In do. 10 fathoms from do                                                77-7                                    76- 755

                     In lode contained     in  granite, and  60  fathoms  from"!fO,,O,,'i,,                                           Ocio'Jr  00
                         ",,k,il..l.as ,,
                                                                                    J                                                          Oil'

                     VInlode, do., in 7  fathoms from  do.,  beinc°r the  bottom ~|           0o0r  5r                                ooin'Or  on
                            -                                                                                                                  bl'
                     ot the mine                                                           >

                                                                          J

   The last result gives a ratio of increase of 1° in 48 feet, cal-
culated from the surface. It will be seen that the elevation of

the latter, in reference to the sea-level, varies considerably in
different parts of the mine.

      * See Philosophical Magazine and Annals, 1831, vol. ix., p. 94.
REPORT OF MEDICAL SECTION.  139

Provisional Report of the Committee of the Medical Section
    of the British Association, appointed to investigate the
   Composition of Secretions, and the Organs producing them.

                                      Part I.

The Committee appointed by the Medical Section of the British

Association to investigate the chemical composition of glands
and then" respective secretions, have been prevented by different
circumstances (amongst which have been the lamented death of
one of their number, and the disturbed health of another) from
rendering a complete report on the subject referred to them.

They are desirous however of making such a statement of then-
progress as may invite the co-operation of animal chemists in
the extensive and somewhat difficult field in which they find

themselves engaged.

   The manifest object of the investigation proposed to your
committee has been to obtain, through the medium of animal
chemistry in its present improved state, some further insight
into the mysterious and vital process of secretion.

   The terms in which this inquiry is proposed seem to give to
it a particular direction, the reason for which may not be very
obvious; and as they were suggested by one of your committee, it
may not be amiss to assign here the reasons which occasioned this
course to be pointed out : before proceeding to do so we will
offer one remark in opposition to a generally received opinion
respecting the process of secretion. It seems to be considered
that in as much as this process is one in which vitality is con-
cerned, it is removed from the province of chemistry ; from this
opinion we totally dissent, seeing that whatever changes are
produced in the proportion and mode of combination of the
elements of which bodies are composed, must, when not merely
mechanical, be essentially chemical, and that the introduction
of an agent, though it be no less important than the influence of
life, does not in any degree detract from its chemical character.

We have merely to consider that the elements both act and arc

acted upon under peculiar circumstances, which offer some ana-
logy to what is seen when chemical elements are exposed to the

influence of caloric or electricity ; their inherent properties are

not destroyed, but they are modified when they are placed under
these influences ; and as the investigation of chemical changes,
in which the two influences just mentioned are concerned, has
tended greatly to improve our knowledge in respect to them, so
--140 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

we may reasonably hope that a similar result may be obtained

from the investigation of the processes of nutrition and secretion
going forward in living bodies, by regarding them as strictly
chemical, even in those very modifications which vitality pro-

duces. When it is considered that during the activity of life

the process of nutrition is constantly maintaining, even in the
solid parts of animal bodies, molecular changes by which old

materials are removed and new ones deposited, we must be led
to presume a priori, that as the rejected particles are taken away
in a state of perfect solution, they must find their way into those

fluids which proceed from the particular part. In ordinary
textures (by which we wish to be understood those which are
not called glandular) Ave feel no hesitation in admitting that the
rejected particles are carried away in the lymph and venous
blood ; but in glandular structures, and in parts which like them
yield a peculiar secretion as well as return lymph and venous

blood to the system, we have a third course into which some
of the rejected particles may be expected to find their way.

Now though it may be difficult or almost impossible to detect

either in the venous blood or the lymph, any peculiarities which
the addition of the rejected particles may give to the venous
blood and lymph proceeding from particular parts, the case

may be different when we investigate a particular secretion in
which it seems probable that these pai-ticles may exist in a
larger proportion, having a less admixture of the whole or some
of the constituents of the general circulating fluid. The mani-
fest properties of some secretions seem to lead to a similar con-
clusion a posteriori. The varieties which we find in pus pro-
duced in different parts of the body are among the most pal-

pable examples of this kind. Pus from the brain has a peculiar
consistence and colour resembling greenish cream, even where
there has been no breaking down of the substance of the brain,

by which that material might be grossly blended with it. When

pus is formed in the immediate neighbourhood of the alimentary
canal, and especially of the lower part of it, it possesses so strongly
the faecal odour, that it had been confidently believed that fasces
had been mixed with it, until the absolute impossibility of such
an occurrence had been demonstrated. Pus formed in the im-
mediate neighbourhood of the toes possesses the peculiar odour
of those parts, and a similar remark sometimes applies to matter
formed in the axillse.

   The peculiar odour exhaled by different species of animals,
and even by different individuals of the same species, dependent
on differences of age and sex, appears to be another illustration
of the principle which has been here suggested : for although
REPORT OF MEDICAL SECTION.  141

such peculiar odour may in some instances be referred to a spe-
cial local secretion, as in the instances of the civet cat and musk
deer, it cannot have escaped the observation of those who have

been in the habit of dissecting the bodies of recently killed ani-
mals of different species, that these exhale not from one part
only, but from every part internal as well as external, modified
indeed by circumstances, a peculiar smell which is characteristic,
and belongs both to the solids and fluids.

   Another illustration of the influence of the character of parts

upon the secretion which they produce may be seen about the

mouth, where a slight excoriation or sore is apt to produce a
considerable quantity of thin fluid secretion, which one can
scarcely fail to regard in conjunction with that secretion which
is poured into the mouth from the internal surface of those
parts. The copious secretion from a blistered surface, when the
subcutaneous cellular membrane is cedematous, is perhaps a
phenomenon of the same character.

   The chemical composition of secerning organs may influence

that of their products independently of the particles which they

may absolutely impart from their own structure. It may do

so by a process similar to that which Thenard has pointed out
as taking place when deutoxide of hydrogen comes in contact

with fibrin ; a process which that great chemist several years
since pointed out as likely to throw light on the function of
secretion. This idea has since been developed by Berzelius,
who calls their action of contact the catalytic action, and argues

that probably the contact of the blood with certain surfaces of

the organs may produce some alteration in the arrangement of
elements, and that the secretions may be thus catalytically

formed from the blood.

   It is probably to the operation of this principle that we may

ascribe some phaenomena, which, in addition to the circumstances

which have already been mentioned, render it desirable to ascer-

tain with accuracy the composition of solid parts in conjunction
with that of their secretions. In some healthy, and in not a few

morbid actions, we see that a new product, whether fluid or solid,
is verymuch influenced by the character of the surrounding parts.
Thus in the condensed cellular membrane in the neighbour-

hood of bone it sometimes happens that masses of bony matter
 are deposited, but are perfectly detached. The numerous in-
 stances which we see of ossification at the origins or insertions

 of muscles are probably referable to the same principle, although

 it must be admitted that these examples are not unexceptionable,
 since in them we have a continuity of structure. As a further

 illustration it may be noticed, that after the fracture of a bone,
--142 SEVENTH REPORT 1837«

the process by which the new bony matter necessary for union
is produced, is often morbidly carried on in the matters which
inflammation has deposited in the surrounding structures. The
most striking illustrations are undoubtedly those which arc pre-

sented by the heterologue structures, probably because of their

being much more readily produced accidentally than the ana-
logue. Thus we see that the natural structures in the neigh-

bourhood of malignant tumours are apt to degenerate into a
substance in some respects resembling that of the original tu-
mour. In the neighbourhood of those tumours which are of
slow growth, and of cartilaginous hardness, we often find the

surrounding structures, but more especially the cellular mem-

brane, partaking of the same character of hardness, though ne-
cessarily wanting the structural arrangement which characterizes
the tumour itself. In the same way we find that those tumours
which are composed of a soft and brain-like substance are sur-
rounded by natural structures, which degeneration has converted
into a nearly similar substance, or which have a similar matter
deposited intcrsticially. Again, in those tumours which are
remarkable for their black colour, and to which the name of
melanosis has from this circumstance been applied, the sur-
rounding structures become more or less deeply tinged with a
black or dark-coloured material. This disease also presents us
with a good illustration of the principle in a mode precisely the
converse of the preceding example. There is, perhaps, no organ

so liable to be affected with melanosis as the eye ; and it may

not unreasonably be suspected that it is the natural and healthy
production of black pigment, performed by the choroid coat of
this organ, which is the chief cause of this predisposition.

   The anatomical structure of a secreting organ is one of the
conditions in which it is essential to consider in an inquiry into
the phenomena of secretion, although it cannot be imagined that
it affects it by any merely mechanical separation. If it were
possible, it would be desirable to ascertain, and to indicate by

definite terms, the comparative degrees of vascularity, the pro-
portion in which the ramifications of the three vascular systems

are combined, and the rapidity of circulation. The comparative
innervation of the part, although probably no less important, is
perhaps still less exactly ascertained. To improve our knowledge
on this point, it would be particularly desirable to ascertain not
merely the number of nerves sent in proportion to the size of the
organ, but also their origin, and the proportion in which they are
derived from the ganglionic and cerebro-spinal systems ; the de-
gree of sensibility which they impart to the organ, the degree
of uniformity or variation of function which may be observed in
REPORT OF MEDICAL SECTION.                 143

the organ, and the conditions by which it may be influenced in
this respect; also whether the nutrition resulting from the com-

bined action of the vascular and nervous systems is steady or sub-

jected to periodical or other variations.

   Although we are at present very much in the dark upon most
of these subjects, we may be convinced from various examples

that the characters of a secretion are influenced by the texture of

the organ which produces it. In those adventitious cysts which

are liable to be formed in different parts of the body, but whicli

are most frequent as well as most distinctly formed in the ova-
ries and in their vicinity, we find, that whilst they are of a thin and

delicate texture the secretion is thin and aqueous or serous, but

that when they have become a little thickened their secretion is

Athick, viscid, and mucous or albuminous.  similar transition,

but in a less marked degree, may be seen in the serous mem-

branes natural to the body, and also in the mucous membranes.

Where these are thin and delicate, as in the case of the con-

junctiva, and in the extreme branches of the bronchial tubes,

their secretion approaches very closely to that of the serous

membranes, whilst the thicker membranes which line the vari-

ous portions of the alimentary canal produce large quantities of

mucus. When chronic inflammation has thickened these mem-

branes the quantity and viscidity of the mucus produced is noto-

riously increased.

In investigating the causes which operate in the production

of animal secretions there are doubtless several points to be

considered beside the chemical composition and anatomical

structure of the parts producing them, and the composition of

the fluid from which they are derived. Even after the secretion

has been poured forth from the living solid, it is certain that it

undergoes important changes by which its character is in many

respects altered. Although these changes are in part to be

ascribed to the material remaining under the influence of the

living structure by which it is surrounded, and which may act

both by abstraction and addition, nevertheless there are some

modifications more immediately depending on the inorganized

secretion itself. Such changes seem to be more particularly

within the undisputed limits of animal chemistry in its present

state, and we may reasonably expect to find their parallels or

analogues in the changes which take place in dead matter apart

from the living body. While some of these changes are un-

doubtedly brought about by the influence of air and moisture,
by which the addition or subtraction of elements may be effected,

in other instances the change seems to be more particularly
--144 SKVENTH REPORT 183/.

brought about by the alteration in the arrangement of the pre-

viously existing elements.

Amongst the changes taking place under one or other of these

conditions in inorganic or dead matter, and wholly removed

from the influence of life, and to which some parallels may pro-

bably be found in changes effected within the living body; the

following examples may be pointed out by way of illustration.

None are more notorious and familiar than those which take

place in wine and other fermented liquors when kept in well-

closed bottles. In some of these instances it may be said that

the change is only mechanical, and the result of very slow de-

position                        yet there are unquestionably cases in  which no depo-
                             ;

sition takes place ; and the change, be it what it may, is un-

doubtedly effected in the chemical combination of the ultimate

elements. Between these extremes there are mixed cases, as

when crystals are deposited and gases liberated to occupy the

upper part of the containing vessel. Amongst the long-neg-

lected bottles which may sometimes be seen in a chemist's labo-

ratory, we may occasionally observe the results of very slowly-

effected changes in the combination of the enclosed elements

exhibited in remarkable precipitates and in alteration in colour.

   In the mineral kingdom, and more especially in rocks of

volcanic origin, and possessing a cellular character, we may ob-

serve the most remarkable transfer and chemical combination

of elements in the products, often beautifully crystallized, by

which the cavities become more or less filled, notwithstanding

the firm and apparently impenetrable character which the rock

may possess. Amber may be adduced as another example fur-

nished by the mineral kingdom, for it is doubtless whilst apper-

taining to this class that it has received the characteristics which

distinguish it from the recent resins to which it is not only

closely allied, but from which it is in all probability really de-

rived. In this instance we have a material as impervious to

water as the volcanic rocks before-mentioned. But the obvious

change produced is in some respects different. Instead of a

new substance, sepai*ated in distinct portions, the result of a

transfer to sensible distances, we find an uniform change of

substance throughout. There is perhaps no change in dead

matter which is more interesting, from its relation to the sub-

ject before us, than the conversion of all the soft parts of animals

into the peculiar fatty substance called adipocere, which takes

place under exposure to certain circumstances, of which immer-

sion in moisture appears to be the most important. It is wor-

thy of note that this change seems to take place nearly alike in
         REPORT OP MEDICAL SECTION.                                                145

different textures, such as skin, muscle, cellular membrane, and

adipose  substance                              yet as it can  hardly be supposed  that they
                                             ;

are all equally prone to it, it seems probable that its having

commenced in one tissue tends to determine its taking place in

others in contact with it.

   As a connecting link between changes resembling those just
adduced, and those which occur in living organized bodies, may
be mentioned the well-known fact, that many fruits gathered
long before their living connection with the root would have
naturally ceased, notwithstanding undergo those changes which

render them ripe, or in other words, bring them to a state of

maturity. In the leaves of plants, a short time before they lose

their connection with the branch, and also when they have been
detached from it, a chemical change takes place, which produces
the Xanthophylle or yellow colouring principle on which the hues
of autumn in great measure depend. Before we can apply the

principle of these changes to the assistance of our investigation

of the changes effected in living bodies, it is important that the

laws which regulate them should be further elucidated. The

labours of some of our continental chemical brethren have already
considerably advanced the subject. Without swelling this pre-

liminary report with an analysis of what they have done, it will

be sufficient for our present purpose to adduce, without attempt-

ing any chemical explanation, some of the apparently parallel

phenomena to which we invite the attention of those who may
be disposed to co-operate in this kind of research. As farina
or starch may be converted into gum, and both farina and gum

into sugar, and these into various acids, or into alcohol or aether,

so it would appear that other principles may be changed ac-

cording to a particular course of succession, though some of the

possible links may not be always essential. The very possibi-

lity of such successive changes renders it necessary to take into

consideration another element, viz., time; and in our inquiry

into the production of different secretions, we must, besides in-

vestigating the anatomical and chemical composition of the
secreting organ, and the qualities of the matter when first pro-

duced, as compared with its ultimate state, not fail to take time

into the consideration. The first rapidly produced secretion

from a mucous surface is nearly serous. Newly and rapidly

formed mucus is thin and aqueous when compared with that

which has been long detained upon the surface of the secreting

membrane. When milk is too frequently drawn from the lac-

tiferous glands it is thin and watery compared with that which

is allowed to be longer retained. The production of pus is

another example, and one in which the changes may be followed

vol. vi. 1837.                                  &
--146 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

by the eye through their whole course. When pus has been

well removed from a suppurating surface its place is soon sup-
plied by a thin and watery secretion. This afterwards becomes
viscid, but without being visibly particled ; it afterwards be-
comes manifestly particled and turbid, and ultimately thick,
opaque, and cream-like. There are perhaps no secretions which
are more interesting than those in which a fatty or resinous

matter is produced. They may be contrasted with the produc-

tion of oily matter in living vegetables, and with the conversion
into adipocere in dead animal matter. The most recently pro-
duced secretion of a sebaceous follicle is nearly or quite aqueous,
but it soon appears to be albuminous or caseous, and does not
appear to possess any oleaginous property. This it soon after
acquires when it becomes the natural unguent to the skin.

When the secretion fails to escape it accumulates, and a col-

lection of grumous fatty matter is formed. In the early embryo
the situation of the adipose substance is occupied by small grains
of an opake whitish substance, which appears to be rather al-
buminous or caseous than truly adipose. The production of
cream in the lactiferous glands, when the milk is allowed to be
well formed, appears to be another physiological instance. The
next is of a pathological character. It is well known that in or
near the ovaries it occasionally happens that encysted masses are
found, containing fat, bone, teeth, and hair. Although the
whole of these materials are not necessarily found in the same
specimen, fatty matter appears to be invariably present. These

extraordinary productions are generally referred to conception,
and are indisputably closely allied to, if not identical with, it.

Now in the natural ovum but a comparatively small portion of

fatty matter exists, and certainly none in the situation in which
the peculiar fatty matter which forms so large a portion of these
encysted formations is met with. It would therefore appear
that when growth as well as development has been suspended
in these irregular efforts of the nisusformativus, there commences
a conversion of the collected elements into a fatty substance by
the introduction of a new chemical arrangement of the elements.
Even this change is progressive, and it would appear that the
fatty matter when formed is susceptible of further change ; for
in some of these collections the fatty matter appears clean,
nearly white and uniform ; in others it approaches the character
of cholesterine ; and in one instance we have met with it, having
a bright yellow colour, and a strong, penetrating, empyreumatic
or bituminous odour, bearing considerable resemblance to an
unctuous yellow substance, found as a mineral production in
Scotland some few years since, and placed in the possession of
REPORT OF MEDICAL SECTION.  147

Professor Jameson. Next to these changes taking place in the
living body, yet probably, except in the case of total fat, beyond
the limits of organization, it may perhaps be allowable to place
the pathological degeneration of some tissues into fat. The
muscles of the limbs and the contractile fibrous coat of an en-
larged and thickened bladder have been found converted into
this substance. The most frequent, as well as the most re-
markable of these fatty degenerations is the production of fat
livers, which has attracted the special notice of some foreign
pathologists. It is comparatively rare in this country, and but
few very well marked instances have been met with amongst
many hundred inspections performed during several years at
Guy's Hospital yet what have appeared to be approaches to it

                                                               ;

have not been very rare. This degeneration essentially belongs

to the acini, which are generally, if not invariably, enlarged in
size, paler, and less supplied with blood than in the healthy
state, and have nearly or wholly lost their power of secreting
bile. In the advanced cases, the specific gravity of the liver be-
comes less than that of water, and fatty matter forms by far the
largest part of its composition, whilst in other cases in which
this degeneration has taken place fat has only formed a small

per centage. Now it is not very uncommon to find in cachetic

patients, who have long been uuable to take exercise, a consi-

derably enlarged liver, dependent on the great hypertrophy of

the acini, which, though wanting the essential characteristics of
the fatty degeneration, are paler and more homogeneous than
in the healthy liver, and have more or less lost the power of

producing bile. It is perhaps not too wild a speculation to

imagine, that in this impaired condition of the organ it may not

be able to resist the tendency to those changes which inorganized
animal matter undergoes when placed in circumstances favour-
 able to their production. This leads us to another remark, ap-

plicable to other cases, and which seems to reconcile the specu-

 lations which we have allowed ourselves to offer with facts
 which will doubtless be readily admitted.

    The different tissues, while they retain their healthy condition
 unimpaired, resist these common tendencies more or less forci-
 bly, and apparently in each in a peculiar manner, and they are
 consequently enabled to maintain their own peculiar composition,
 notwithstanding the incessant molecular changes effected by
 nutrition ; and where they happen to be secreting organs, the
 same uniformity is preserved in their products. But when they
 are impaired by disease or accident this isolating faculty is in-
 jured or lost. Thus in the experiments of Majendie, Foedera,

 Segellas, Meyer, Tiedemann and Gmelin, and others, with refer-

                                     l2
--148 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

ence to absorption, transudation, and imbibition, we meet with
some results, obtained in the injuredbodies of animals employed
in these inquiries, which are not perfectly similar to those phe-
nomena which may be observed when the corresponding organs
of perfectly healthy and vigorous animals are concerned ; fluids

possessing various properties being seen to enter into the circu-

lation, and to penetrate membranous and other textures in the
experiments alluded to, whilst in the latter case they meet with
impassable barriers. The diffusion of a diseased process, as in

the instances of the degeneration of structures in the vicinity of
malignant tumours, alluded to at page 10, does not appear to

take place until these structures have been impaired by inflam-
mation, when the new product to which this disturbance of
function gives rise presents the character possessed by the ad-
ventitious structure. This view of the case, if correct, tends to
strengthen our opinion, that inflammation is not to be regarded,
as some have supposed, as a condition of exalted vitality, but
quite the reverse. It also directs us, in our inquiry after the
chemical attributes of vitality, to fix upon the precise attractions
which it is engaged in counteracting.

                                      Thos. Hodgkin, M.D., &c, &c.
REPORT OF MEDICAL SECTION.  149

Report from the Committee for inquiring into the Analysis of

  the Glands, 8fc., of the Human Body. By G. O. Rees, M.D.,

   F.G.S.

                                    Part II.

There are but few analyses recorded of the glands of animals,

or of those solid products of disease which it seems 'desirable to

submit to the searching powers of chemistry. If we refer to
the observations of Berzelius, and the various analyses of Fromm-
herz and Gugert, performed on some of the glands from the
human subject, we cannot but be struck with the great difficul-
ties which must attend any attempt at quantitative examination

by the method of analysis adopted by these chemists. It is my

intention to propose a form for the analysis of the various solid

parts of the human frame, and so to establish a settled method
in proceeding, which shall enable us to make such comparative
experiments as may assist in the detection of any aberration

from the healthy condition of any single organ.

  A diseased condition of an animal part must consist either in

the increased or decreased proportion or absence of some one
of its constituent parts, or in the addition of some adventitious
principle to its component elements. As both these conditions

are frequently present (since the latter implies the existence of
the first), it becomes of the greatest importance to be able to de-

tect not only the existence of any new principle in the diseased

part, but likewise the quantity of each constituent which is pre-

sent in health, as by that means we are enabled to ascertain
what normal constituents or portions of a constituent of the gland
have been displaced to make room for the morbid matter which
has been deposited. For this purpose we must have recourse
to quantitative analysis, and I hope to be able to show that most
 of those difficulties are surmountable which appear to have de-
terred many from prosecuting this line of investigation. I have
 been much encouraged to hope for a useful result from this in-
 quiry, by considering how many valuable indications of disease
 have been afforded us by the most simple uses of chemistry
 when applied to the urine : here we observe that ascertaining
 the proportion of water alone has given rise to much philoso-

 phical reasoning and valuable information, as regards the eco-

 nomy of the organismus ; and a steady and indefatigable inquiry

 into the existence of albumen in the urine led Dr. Bright to a
 discovery, the importance of which is every day becoming more
--150 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

obvious, and which has deservedly stamped him as one of the
most ingenious observers in the medical profession.

   I think it is hardly too much to hope that, could we procure
a sufficient number of experiments on the proportion of water

only in various glands, or in a single gland in any one disease

as compared with the healthy condition, we might be able to
arrive at some valuable information in the history of such affec-

tion.

   The great difficulty in the prosecution of this inquiry lies in

the obstacles that are so frequently occurring to the performance
of post-mortem examinations, and the time which is allowed to
elapse before the inspection is made ; these difficulties, however,

are lessening every day, and at most public hospitals we have
ample opportunities for research.

   The analysis of the blood and the secretion of glands has been
a subject of interest and attention to the chemical world, and I
have long wondered how it has happened that the methods of
analysis applied to such matters have never been used to inves-

tigate the chemical nature of the solid parts of animals. It is
this which I would propose, viz. the adaptation of those rules
of analysis used for the examination of the blood to the investi-

gation of the chemical nature of the glands of the human body.

When we look to the analyses of animal fluids, as performed by

the best chemists, we perceive that the constituents of such
matters (at least those which are purely animal) are considered
as determined by their solubility or insolubility in certain men-
strua ; the principal of these being water, alcohol, and aether.
Thus we have a principle, considered as a distinct component of
the blood, which is sometimes called osmazome ; this is noted
by quantity in healthy blood, and the result used for comparison;

but let us consider its right to the character of a distinct prin-

ciple, and we shall at once be constrained to allow that such

character is entirely the result of a single property, viz. its so-
lubility or insolubility in certain menstrua, these being used to
separate any one of the components of the fluid from the rest.

That any of these component parts may be compounded in

themselves is very easily credible and as easily proved ; thus the
extractive matter of urine, frequently estimated as though it were
a proximate element, is divisible, when subjected to further che-
mical reactions, into three separate forms of extractive. I merely

quote this instance to show how impossible it is (in most cases)
to look upon animal analysis in any other light than as a means

of performing comparative experiments. There is one very

important step needed, however, before we can proceed to ex-
amine the glands of the body on the same system that is used
REPORT OP MEDICAL SECTION.                            151

for the blood and secretions ; this consists in fixing some de-

terminate character to the extractives we may separate by means

of the various menstrua employed in the analysis, for we require

experiments to show that alcohol will extract the same matters

from any gland that it is capable of separating from the dried

blood ; indeed it is not impossible that every gland may have a

set of extractives peculiar to itself. For this inquiry I would

especially beg attention and co-operation, as it is a subject so

extensive as to require a multitude of experiments before we

can expect any results applicable to pathology.

It is to a chemical knowledge of the nature of the various ex-

tractives that we must become indebted for ascertaining any of

those divarications from health which it will be the ultimate ob-

ject of the inquiry to detect : such a knowledge must be the

result of careful examinations and comparisons of several healthy

specimens of each organ; so that we may be able to decide upon

Athe true nature of any of these animal extractives.  standard

of comparison for the quantitative analysis of diseased organs

will require several quantitative experiments on each organ in

health before the normal average can be determined. I will

now proceed to show the practicability of a method of analysis,

which, if adopted, I do not doubt will develope some valuable

results to the profession. I have before stated, that in the ana-

lysis of the blood we use three principal fluids as separators of

its constituents, viz. aether, alcohol, and water. It is on the

dividing action of these fluids that I wish to proceed, and should

propose that the analysis thus divide the substance submitted

into four parts, viz. 1st. That which is soluble in aether. 2nd.

That which is soluble in water only. 3rd. That which is solu-

ble in water and alcohol. 4th. That which is insoluble in all

the three menstrua. This method, which is used for the blood,

will be found very applicable to solid matters, which, as regards

analysis, may be considered as partially dried serum. I do not

wish it to be understood from this that we must expect to sepa-

rate the same principles from each gland as we do from blood,

by means of the same menstrua, but merely that the same pro-

cess may be used ; for, as I have before stated, each gland may

have extractives peculiar to itself; but having partially divided

the constituents of the gland by means of the same menstrua

that are used for the analysis of the serum, we are better able

to examine their properties, and, moreover, have the valuable

advantage of forming comparisons with the constituents of
serum, some of which will undoubtedly be present in every or-

ganized substance of the human frame. I will now notice in

order the different divisions of our analysis, as formed by the
--152 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

solubility or insolubility of animal constituents in sether, water,
and alcohol.

   1st. Those constituents of animal matter which are soluble in

aether.

   Under this head we have the various fatty matters of the

glands for consideration; and, if this plan of analysis be extended

to the products of disease in the various parts of the body, we
shall find much matter of interest in the examination of this
extract. The various modifications of fat, as occurring in dis-

eased parts, and their secretions, have scarcely procured the
attention they deserve from chemists. The peculiar nature of
the fatty matters of the blood affords every facility for an easy

passage into several varieties of that substance, and we find a

series of very interesting changes in the secretions, excretions,

morbid secretions, and growths of the human body. Thus cho-
lesterine, which was once supposed to be the result of the

secreting action of the liver, has been found in the fluid of hy-

drocele, in ovarian tumours, &c. When the nature of the fatty

matter of blood is known, it ceases to be a subject of surprise
that cholesterine is so generally distributed, for the chemical
reactions of the crystalline fat of the blood are almost identical
with those procured from cholesterine, and probably but very
slight means are needed for the reduction of one to the other.

I may mention that cholesterine differs from the crystalline fatty

 matter of the blood in affording an ash having an alkaline reac-
 tion on test paper, whereas the crystalline fat yields an acid
 ash owing to the presence of phosphorus. In every other reac-

tion, however, these substances are so much alike that it is

 almost impossible to distinguish them. I find that the alkaline
 ashes of cholesterine are in about the proportion of 2*5 per cent.,
 containing an alkaline, carbonate, and muriate, traces of sulphate
 and phosphate, and also phosphate and carbonate of lime.

    The other forms of fatty matter met with in animal analysis
 are adipocere and common animal fat. I now come to the

 second division of our analysis, viz. :
     2nd. Those constituents of animal matter which are soluble

 in water only.
     In the analysis of the blood, the extractive procured as soluble

 in water only consists apparently of albumen in combination
 with soda. The extractive procured by similar treatment of
 any of the glands of the body will require examination, and

 constitute an important part of our inquiry, as it probably may

 be of different nature in each gland. This extractive, as pro-
 cured from blood, is precipitable by acetic acid, the precipitate
  consisting of albumen in a gelatinous form.
              REPORT OF MEDICAL SECTION.  153

   3rd. Those constituents of animal matter which are soluble in
water and alcohol.

   The extractive procured from blood, as soluble in water and
alcohol, is that to which the name of osmazome has been given
by chemists ; it is called extrait de viande by the French, as
procured from the blood it is precipitable of a brown colour by
infusion of galls ; the precipitate thrown down by subacetate
(or di-acetate) of lead is soluble in an excess of that reagent.
These reactions are sufficient to guide us in making our compa-

rative experiments.

   4th. Lastly, we shall notice those constituents of animal

matter which are insoluble in all the three menstrua employed in

our analysis.
   This residuum, as procured from the serum of blood, consists

of albumen, but is of different constitution in the various glands
and solid parts of the body; thus the more firm portions of each

gland are made up of the insoluble structure of blood vessels
and absorbents, with more or less of the albuminous net work
of the cellular tissue, making up the parenchyma. It will be
necessary for us to set down these various parts under a single
head, as we do not possess any means of separation ; still, although
we are thus prevented from ascertaining any deficiency or excess
in any single one of these insoluble constituents of the gland,
yet we shall very probably be able, by comparison of the three

together with the similar combination in healthy specimens, to

arrive at data which may be useful to us.
   Having now glanced at the probable contents of each extract-

ive, I shall proceed to describe particularly each step in the

prosecution of the analysis.

    Directions for the analysis of solid animal matters.

A certain weight of the animal substance, sliced as minutely

as convenient for manipulation, is to be carefully dried over a

water-bath till it ceases to lose weight, the dry residuum being

weighed ; the loss experienced is to be noticed in the analysis

as " water."                                                            Water.

The dried animal matter is now to be digested, with three

times its bulk of rectified aether, for four or five hours in a closed

test tube, the mixture being shaken frequently. This aether being

poured off, a second portion is to be added, and allowed to digest

Weon the animal matter in a like manner.  thus procure an

eethereal solution A, and a residuum B.

A. The aethereal solution being allowed to evaporate to dryness,

the fatty matters deposited are to be dried over a water bath, Fats.
and their weight ascertained.

B. Water, at a temperature of 212°, and equalling six times the
           --154 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

           bulk of the solid matter, is to be digested on the residuum for

           half an hour ; this liquor being poured off, a second portion is to

           be added and similarly digested; this mixture is now to be thrown

           on a filter, and washed with boiling distilled water, until the per-

           colating fluid ceases to afford a precipitation by a solution of
           nitrate of silver*. The first and second digested liquors, and

           the washings being added together, are now to be evaporated

           over a water bath till dry, and till no more weight can be lost

           by further use of the bath heat.

             We thus procure an aqueous extract C, and leave on the filter

           an insoluble residue D. The weight of extract C must be taken.

Insoluble  Jj) # The residue on the filter is now to be dried, its weight ascer-

matter'and tai ne d> an d set down in the analysis as insoluble albuminous
vascularis- matter and vascular tissue.

sue- C. The aqueous extract is next to be acted upon by digestion

           for a quarter of an hour, with four times its bulk of alcohol, at

           a boiling heat. The solution so formed being poured off, a

           second portion of alcohol is to be similarly digested, the mixture

           then thrown on a filter, and the liquor allowed to percolate. The

           two portions of fluid being added together are next to be eva-

           Weporated to dryness over the water bath.  thus procure an

           alcoholic extract E, and leave on the filter an extractive F, which

           is not soluble in alcohol. The former is to be dried and weighed,
           and estimated as " extractive soluble in alcohol and water,"
           and the latter, similarly prepared, is to be estimated as " extract-

           ive soluble in water only." The added weights of these two

           extractives should equal that of the extract Cf.

             In conclusion, I must express my regret at having been pre-

           vented by a variety of circumstances from bringing forward ana-
           lyses of glands, either healthy or affected by some well-recog-
           nized degeneration. I have, I hope, made some amends by

           proposing a set form of examination, by the adoption of which,

           analyses, though executed by a variety of persons, may be made

           serviceable as comparative experiments in any single inquiry.

           The adoption of some such form is quite necessary before the

           objects of the Association can be answered ; for they have pro-

           posed a subject far too extensive to be developed, otherwise
           than by a multitude of experimenters, all working by the same

           rule of analysis.

              * No washings are to be commenced until all the liquor of digestion has first

           passed through the filter.
              N. B. The silver test can be used on a single drop of the filtering fluid.
              t These extractives, as also the insoluble albuminous tissue, must be incine-

           rated, the ashes examined, and noticed in the analysis.
                            ;

REPORT OF MEDICAL SECTION.  155

 Second Report of the London Sub-Committee of the British
    Association Medical Section, on the Motions and Sounds of

    the Heart.

The Committee appointed in London by the British Associa-

tion for the Advancement of Science, to investigate the Motions
and Sounds of the Heart, have the honor to lay before this meet-
ing a short account of some investigations of the abnormal
sounds of the heart and arteries in which they have been recent-

ly occupied.

    Before describing these, the Committee would remark, that
although their last inquiries have not been specially directed
to that subject, yet they have had many opportunities of verify-
ing the conclusions on the natural sounds as presented in their
report of last year ; and these conclusions not having been since

shaken by any experiment or rational objection, it may be con-

sidered as fairly established, that the first or systolic sound of
the heart is essentially caused by the sudden and forcible tight-
ening of the muscular fibres of the ventricles when they contract
and that the second sound, which accompanies the diastole of
the ventricles, depends solely on the reaction of the arterial
columns of blood on the semilunar valves at the arterial orifices.

It further appears that the first sound may be increased by an

additional sound of impulsion against the walls of the chest,
under certain circumstances of posture, of increased action of
the heart, and of certain stages of the respiratory movements.

It is also obvious that the character of the first sound may in

some measure depend on the closure of the auriculo- ventricular
valves, and on the quantity of blood ; inasmuch as these deter-
mine the nature and time of the resistance against which the
muscular fibres of the ventricles tighten. So, likewise, the vigour
of the ventricular systole, the quantity of blood propelled by it,
the sudden and complete character of the diastole, the fulness of

the arterial trunks, as well as the perfect, mobile, and mem-

--branous condition of the semilunar valves, will determine the

character and loudness of the second sound. An experimental

illustration of the effect of one of these conditions was observed
by the Committee in the great diminution of the second sound
by the free division of the carotid artery, which would greatly

diminish the arterial tension.

   As additional illustrations of the production of a sound, like
that of the heart, by muscular contraction, the Committee have
noticed that which accompanies the action of the panniculus
carnosus of the ass during life, and the quivering contraction
--156 SEVENTH REPORT 1837«

of various muscles immediately after death. The sound produced
in the latter case, in nature and frequency, closely resembled the
first sound of the heart of the foetus, or of small animals.

   In investigating the morbid sounds of the heart, the atten-
tion of the Committee has been chiefly directed to the causes of
those remarkable and various phenomena called murmurs, which
are either added to, or supersede the natural sounds of the heart,
and which were happily compared by Laennec to the familiar
noises of blowing, filing, rasping, sawing, purring, cooing, &c.

This inquiry consists of two parts : 1. What is the essential

physical cause of the phenomena in question ? and 2. How does

the apparatus of the circulation develope this cause in the various

instances in which these phenomena are known to occur ? To
the first of these questions the experiments of the Committee
supply what they trust will be deemed a satisfactory answer.
The second is to be fully answered by extensive clinical and
pathological observation, rather than by direct experiment ; and

although a few physiological illustrations will be cited to this
point, yet the Committee do not profess to do more than to open

this inquiry to all those who have the means of pursuing it.

Experiments on the production of sound by the motion of water
                                     through tubes.

A Caoutchouc tube, eighteen inches long, and three-eighths of

an inch in diameter, was attached to the stop-cock of a reservoir

in which there was water to the depth of eight or ten inches.

  When the water flowed unimpeded through this tube (all

the air being first expelled,* and the lower end of the tube kept

under water in a vessel below) no sound was heard ; but on press-

ing any part of the tube so as to diminish its caliber, a blowing

sound was heard, at and below thepoint of pressure, and this sound

became louder and more whizzing as the pressure was increased.

The loudest sounds were obtained at the lowest end of the tube,

where they were sometimes quite musical ; and by increasing the

pressure or the current at regular intervals, a periodic increase

and raising of the sound were produced, closely resembling the

murmur sometimes heard in the neck, to which the French have

given the name of " bruit de diable."

  A pin being stuck transversely through the tube, a slight blow-

ing was heard ; which was made louder on substituting for the pin

Aa bit of split goose- quill.  stronger blowing was produced by

a double thread across the diameter of the tube, especially when

   * As long as any air remains in the tube, a loud crepitation accompanies the

current.
            REPORT OP MEDICAL SECTION.                    157

the thread was rather loose ; and a still louder and shriller sound

ensued when a knot of string was fastened to the thread.

The same tube being adapted to the stop-cock of a water-sup-

ply pipe, through which the current could be left to pass with

great force, it was found possible to imitate every variety of

blowing, whizzing, and musical murmurs, by varying the pressure

on, or impediment in, the tube, and by altering the force of the

current. When the current was strong, the least impediment

caused a murmur ; but with weaker currents, greater obstructions

Abecame necessary for the same effect.  partial obstruction,

which with a weak current gave a blowing sound, produced, with

a stronger current, one of a more whizzing character. Grating

or rasping sounds were best obtained by the effect of a strong

current on a knotted thread across the diameter of the tube. The

musical or uniform sounds resulted from a moderately strong cur-

rent through a considerable impediment : increasing the force of

the current, or the degree of obstruction, rendered the sound

whizzing and imperfect ; diminishing the current or the obstruc-

tion, converted it into a simple blowing. When a sound was of

an appreciable pitch, its note was high in proportion to the force

of the current and the amount of the obstruction j a fine forcible

stream producing the highest note. Sometimes, however, with

a strong current, a loud trumpet note would be set up, which

was not altered in pitch, but only in force, by changing the strength

of the current. This kind of note produced vibrations of the

tube below the impediment, perceptible to sight and touch, and

the length of this portion of the tube seemed to affect the cha-

racter of the note. This phenomenon precisely represented the

purring sound and tremor sometimes perceptible in the heart

and arteries. Musical sounds of a more variable character, like

the cooing of a dove, the humming of an insect, or the whistling

of wind, were produced with a weak current passing through a

tube much obstructed. The pressure of a column of water only

two or three inches high, was sufficient to give acute whistling

notes, which were sustained, although varying, even when the

water that passed only fell in drops.

Bending the tube to an angleproduced a murmur, butno sound

resulted from any curve that did not infringe on the caliber of

Athe tube.  circular constriction by a thread drawn round the

tube caused a murmur, which was blowing or whizzing accord-

ing to the force of the current.

  When the tube with a weak current was pressed on at two

points, the murmur was heard at the point where the pressure

was greatest j and by increasing the pressure at one point the

pressure was stopped at the other. When the current was strong,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;

--158 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

it was easy by a pretty equal pressure to cause a murmur at

both points.
    With a stout Caoutchouc tube, two feet long and one inch in

internal diameter, the same results were obtained, but in a more
remarkable degree, in consequence of the increased size of the

tube. When the current was strong and the pressure on the

tube considerable, sounds were produced loud enough to be heard
without applying the stethoscope or the ear ; and the vibrations
of the tube below the obstruction were so strong that they threw
the water in little jets from the outside of the tube.

   In making this experiment, the pressure of the water sudden-

ly distended a portion of the tube into a globe about three inches
in diameter, constituting a good imitation of a circumscribed

true aneurism. As long as the force of the current was suffi-
cient to keep the walls of the dilated portion tense, no sound
was heard in them ; but when these walls became flaccid, the

passing current caused a kind of fremitus in them. Pressure
on the dilatation, or bending the tube so as to form an angle at
this point, also sometimes occasioned a murmur.

  A globular India-rubber bottle, three inches in diameter, being

adapted to an aperture in the side of a tube half an inch in dia-
meter, so as to form an elastic sac communicating with it, a
current was directed through it and all the air expelled. The
same was done with a tube three-eighths of an inch in diameter,
and a bottle of an inch and a half. In some positions of the
tube, the current in passing the lateral sac caused a fremitus
but in others, as when the tube was straight, there was no sound.

A sudden increase of current, or the removal of external pressure

from the sac, occasioned a whizzing by the entry of water into
the sac. Independently of the current, sudden forcible pressure
caused a whizzing with the expulsion of the fluid, and a similar
whizzing attended the rapid reflux into the sac, on the removal

of the pressure.

   Some of these experiments were repeated with water, rendered
somewhat viscid with size. The results differed only in requi-
ring a stronger force of current to produce the same effect.

                         Remarks and conclusions.

   From all these results, it is sufficiently plain that a certain re-
sistance or impediment to a liquid current is the essential phy-
sical cause of all murmurs produced by the motion of fluids in
tubes. That any condition of the walls of the tube beyond the

impeding point is not, as it has been supposed, essential to the

production of these sounds, is proved by the fact that they may
be produced by a partial obstruction at the terminal orifice of
REPORT OF MEDICAL SECTION.                                159

the tube, or at the mouth of a gum elastic bottle, where there

is no tube or wall beyond to cause them : usually, this is the

situation where they can be most readily produced, because

here the current has acquired its greatest momentum, and finds

a free exit beyond the obstructing point. The more flaccid state

of the portion of a tube beyond a partially obstructed point is a

necessary effect of the scantier supply of water beyond the im-

pediment. It is therefore a necessary concomitant of the ob-

struction and its sound, but is not the cause of the sound. When,

however, the sound occasioned by the obstruction is strong, its

vibrations may be communicated to the whole contents and walls

of the lube beyond, which will then vibrate in system with it,

and be capable of modifying its note, just as the tube of a reed

instrument affects the note which is exclusively generated in the

reed. On the other hand, when the sound generated in the ob-

struction is weak and varying, the condition of the tube or walls

beyond it will not affect it.

In short, the laws of the production of sound by liquids so

nearly resemble those which regulate the same phenomenon

in air, that illustrations for the one may be taken for the other.

It may be proper to advert to an objection to this view, that

a murmur is sometimes caused where there is no impediment

to the course of a liquid, as when it passes suddenly from a small

Nowinto a large tube, or into a sac.    it is not true that in

such a case there is no impediment, for the liquid in the large

tube or sac, having less velocity, must in itself be an impediment.

Besides this, the course of the smaller swift current becomes

changed by spreading into the larger channel ; and instead of

running smoothly parallel to the tube, now strikes its walls at

an angle, causing a series of impulses and resistances, which, if

forcible and rapid enough, constitute the vibrations of sound.

It may be remarked, however, that this modification of a moving

current is not so constantly attended with the production of

sound as the direct obstacle presented by a narrowing of or pro-

Ajection into the caliber of the tube.  current issuing from a

tube or orifice into a larger vessel or sac, is also capable of pro-

ducing a sound by impinging against an opposite surface.

Experiments on the production of murmurs in the living body.

   About two inches of the length of the common carotid artery
of a young ass was laid bare. Different degrees of pressure,

either by the stethoscope or by a probe passed under it, occa-
sioned a variety of murmurs, blowing, sawing, filing, and musical

cooing at each pulse. When the stethoscope was merely placed
160 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

in contact, without pressure, no murmur was heard ; but when

the heart acted strongly, a simple impulse and sound.

The artery was scratched for a few seconds with the point

of a scalpel ; it gradually became sensibly smaller for the length

Aof half an inch about that point.  strong solution of salt being

applied, the contraction increased, but it was still of a gradual

and tapering kind, and the stethoscope could detect no murmur

in it ; but very slight pressure on it caused a whizzing. The

pulse at this contracted portion was felt to be much harder and

sharper than above or below it.

  A small incision being made into the artery, a jet of blood

issued, and a whizzing, sometimes in pulses, sometimes conti-

nuous like the bruit de (liable, was heard beyond the orifice,

but not at the portion of the artery nearest to the heart, the sound

being, as usual, carried in the direction of the current. The in-

cision being made larger, the blood spouted to the distance of

more than six feet, and the animal died in ten minutes after this

last incision ; the beats of the heart were frequent, short, and

pretty loud, but without a second sound, and to the last with-

out a murmur. They continued for nearly two minutes after

the respiration and consciousness had ceased, becoming gradu-

ally slower.

The Committee repeated the observation that has often been

made before, that a murmur can easily be produced by press-

ure on the subclavian, carotid, or femoral artery of the hu-

man subject. This murmur is generally of a grating or filing

character, and is prolonged in proportion to the degree of pressure.

Whilst making the observations on the carotids, they found

that a continuous murmur of very remarkable and variable cha-

racters could be produced by pressure on the jugular veins, espe-

cially in the angle formed by the sterno-mastoid muscle with

the clavicle. The most common sound thus produced was like

the humming of a gnat or fly ; but occasionally it resembled the

whistling of the wind, the singing of a kettle, the cooing of a

dove, and sometimes it was perfectly what the French have called

the "bruit de diable." Dr. Ogier Ward of Birmingham had pre-

viously come to the conclusion that this sound is produced in

the jugular veins, and the observations of the Committee con-

firm this inference : but they do not agree with this physician

MM.in the opinion, which he adopts from  Andral and Bouil-

laud, that the presence of this sound denotes a chlorotic state

of the system, for which steel is indicated, or that it is essentially

a morbid symptom at all. It may be produced in the healthiest

subjects by moderate pressure applied to the lower part of the

jugular veins, and is then found to be modified by various cir-
                                                             ;

        REPORT OF MEDICAL SECTION.                  161

cumstances which can only affect the venous current. Thus it

may be arrested or diminished by pressure on the vein above,
by the horizontal posture or hanging down the head, and by
forced efforts to expire with the glottis closed. It may be restored

in increased degree by suddenly desisting from any of these acts

or circumstances. The occasional pulsatory or remittent cha-
racter of this sound seems to depend on the momentary increase

of pressure caused by each pulse of the neighbouring artery

and when, as sometimes happens, these pulses are attended with

a whizzing, this is in a measure incorporated with the venous
sound, and increases the periodic swell. The size and down-

ward current of the jugular veins peculiarly adapt them for

the production of sound, but probably sounds may be pro-

duced in most other large veins when circumstances accele-

rate the current through them. The Committee have detected

an obscure murmur in some of the large superficial veins of

the arm and thigh. This murmur is not in pulses, and is to

be distinguished from muscular sounds by its being confined to
the situation of the veins, and its being immediately arrested by
pressure on the vein. Occasionally a pretty loud murmur or

fremitus is to be heard on either side of the upper portion of

the sternum, which, from its resemblance in character to the ve-

nous sounds, may be supposed to have its seat in the large ve-

nous trunks that lie underneath.

Although it appears from these facts that the venous sounds

are not necessarily signs of disease, yet the circumstance proved

by the Committee, that water is thrown into sonorous vibrations

more readily than a fluid of a more glutinous character, renders it

probable that these and other sounds depending on the motion of

liquids in the apparatus of the circulation may be more easily

produced where the blood is thin and deficient in quantity ; and

under these circumstances they may occur in the neck from the

mere pressure of the muscles on the jugular veins.

   The Committee had planned several experiments for the
further elucidation of the second part of the inquiry, By what

changes, functional and structural, does the apparatus of the

circulation develope the physical causes of the abnormal mur-

mmurs and sounds in the various instances  which they are

known to occur ? This part of the inquiry, so important for the

elucidation of several obscure points in pathology, diagnosis and

practice, the Committee propose to resume, if the Association

should think proper to recommend them to continue their labours.

Signed          Charles J. B. Williams, M.D., F.R.S.

                R. B. Todd, M.D., Professor of Physiology

                and Pathology, King's College, London.

vol. vi. 1837.  m
!

ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.  163

On the present state of our knowledge in regard to Dimor-
               phous Bodies. By Prof. Johnston.

The subject of the following Report is one in regard to which

our knowledge is yet in its infancy. It has arrived, however,
at that state in which a detailed exposition and critical exami-

nation of all the facts hitherto observed, is likely to lead to new
inquiries, to call new observers into the field, and thus more
rapidly to dissipate the obscurity with which it is invested. It
will not be uninteresting also in after years to look back upon
the facts actually established, the views entertained, and the

--speculations hazarded at the present time, to mark how far
--the phenomena were rightly interpreted, what glimmerings of
--truth were mingled with the early speculations, at what rate

this department of knowledge had subsequently advanced, and

how far this advance had been promoted or retarded by the

hypothetical views of its first cultivators *.

                                                                       I.

   1. When the forms and dimensions of crystallized bodies

began to be accurately observed and recorded, it was soon re-
cognized that these might be classed among the most distinct

and specific characters which solid bodies possessed. Observa-
tion seemed at first to show that each substance, simple and

  · How much the progress of science depends on the mode in which pheno-

mena are interpreted by the first observers is strikingly illustrated in the case
of certain experiments of Robert Boyle. He observed that when copper, lead,
iron, and tin were heated to redness in the air, a portion of calx was formed,

--and there was a constant and decided increase of weight. (Experiments to

make Fire and Flame ponderable. London, 1673.) This experiment he re-
peated with lead and tin in glass vessels hermetically sealed, and found still an
increase of weight, but observed further, that when " the sealed neck of the re-

--tort was broken tiff, the external air rushed in with a noise." (Additional ex-

periments, No..V., and a discovery of the perviousness of glass to ponderable
parts of flame, Exp. III.) From this he-reasoned correctly, that in calcination
tbe metal lost nothing by drying up, as was generally supposed, or that if it did,

--" by this operation it gained more weight than it lost." (Coroll. II.) But

this increase of weight he attributed to the fixation of heat, stating it as "plain
that igneous particles were trajected through the glass," and that " enough of

them to be manifestly ponderable did permanently adhere." Had he weighed

his sealed retort before he broke it open, he must have concluded that the metal

had increased in weight at the expense of the inclosed air. He stood in fact

on the very brink of the pneumatic chemistry of Priestley ; he had in his

hand the key to the great discovery of Lavoisier. How nearly were those

philosophers anticipated by a whole century, and the long interregnum of

Phlogiston prevented ! On what small oversights do great events in the his-

tory of science as of nations depend

                                    M2
                                             --

--164 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

compound, assumed, on crystallizing, a form peculiar to itself,
and that this form constituted an unfailing specific character,
(Haiiy.) Crystals belonging to the regular system presented
the only apparent exceptions.

    2. After a time, however, the generality of this conclusion
was further narrowed by the doctrine of isomorphism, which

showed that form alone, even when not tessular, was insufficient
in many cases to determine the chemical constitution of a body*.
Still, in these new exceptions, the form indicated the nature and
constitution of a substance within certain limits, that it was a
member of this or that isomorphous group, elevating crystalline
dimensions in such instances from the rank of a specific to that
of a generic character. Even this place, however, they did not

long retain undisturbed.
   3. Founded on the principle that the molecules of crystalline

bodies have themselves a regular crystalline form, the doctrine
of isomorphism hitherto recognised, that for each substance,
simple and compound, this form was one and invariable ; though
not necessarily a specific that it was a constant character.

   4. The earliest measurements of artificial crystals had been
made on such as were formed in ordinary circumstances of tem-
perature and by the most usual methods of manipulation.
Occasionally, however, crystals formed at higher temperatures
or under peculiar circumstances attracted attention ; and in
certain cases these new crystals were found to differ in form or
dimensions from the ordinary form of the same substance, to
such an extent that they could not be derived from each other
by the ordinary laws of crystallization. Thus sulphur crystal-
lized from fusion differs in form from the natural crystals and
from those deposited from solutions of sulphurf. And as the
resources or results of analytical chemistry were multiplied so
as to place beyond doubt the chemical identity of different spe-
cimens, the examples of such differences gradually increased in
number. Natural substances also were met with, crystallized
under circumstances not well understood and generally beyond
our imitation, which, though shown to agree in chemical con-
stitution, yet differed wholly in form. Graphite and the dia-

--mond, both forms of pure carbon j arragonite, and calc spar,

both pure carbonate of lime, are groups of this kind.

   5. To mark the singular character possessed by these bodies,
they have been distinguished by the term dimorphous, and the
abstract property by that of dimorphism.

   * Mitscherlich, An. de Chim. et de Phys., XIV. p. 172.

    t In bisulphuret of carbon, or in quadri (?) sulphuret of hydrogen.
ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.  165

    6. It appears, therefore, that the crystalline form of a body
is not only not a specific character, but that it is not even a
constant character. It might also appear at first sight that
this new result of observation would materially weaken the evi-
dence in favour of isomorphism ; that though two bodies (A
and B) do assume the same form, or replace each other in cer-
tain circumstances, yet since one of them (A) is capable of

assuming two incompatible forms, they may not in all cir-

cumstances either assume the same form or be capable of mutual

replacement.

  A7. further observation, however, though it does not obviate

entirely,aswe shall afterwards have occasion to remark, the neces-

sity of attending to this argument, yet establishes a beautiful con-
nection between dimorphous and isomorphous bodies, and points
to some more general law, probably of molecular arrangement,
by which both classes of phenomena are regulated and linked
together. Certain groups of isomorphous bodies have been met
with, each individual of which groups is dimorphous or capable of
assuming two incompatible forms (A and B), yet in their second
form (B), as in their first (A), they are still isomorphous. Thus
carbonate of lime and nitrate of potash are both dimorphous,
and one of the forms of nitre is isomorphous with calc spar, the
other with arragonite, which are the two forms of carbonate of
lime. Such groups have been distinguished by the term isodi-

morphous. AH the known groups of this kind will be inserted

in a subsequent part of this report (16).

   8. The principle of dimorphism thus recognised, is one of
great interest in the present state of chemical physics. Con-
nected on the one hand with the crystalline doctrine of isomor-
phism, and on the other, as we shall hereafter see, with the
chemical doctrine of isomerism, it maybe regarded as standingbe-
tween the two, and as likely to throw light on the cause of both.

   9. The case of dimorphism, which was earliest known to che-
mists and mineralogists, is presented by carbonate of lime in
the two incompatible forms of arragonite and calc spar. Stro-
meyer attempted to account for the difference between these
two minerals by showing that arragonite always contained car-
bonate of strontian to the amount of from ^ to 4 per cent., and
from J- to \ per cent, of water* ; and the presence of these sub-

   * Untersuchung iiber die Mischung der Mineralkorper und anderer damit
vervjandten Substanzen. Gbttingen, 1821. In this work are ten analyses of
arragonites, undertaken in confirmation of his previously published opinion,
which had been controverted. Great credit was due to Stromeyer for his
beautiful analyses, but there is now no reason to believe that either strontia or
water are necessary constituents of arragonite.
.

166 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

stances was considered by many chemists to afford a plausible

explanation of what was then regarded as a very singular ano-

Amaly.  few years after the publication of this opinion, how-

ever, Mitscherlich observed a similar difference between the

form of sulphur crystallized from fusion, and that in which it

occurs in the mineral kingdom* ; and as in this case it was easy
to prove the absence of any foreign body, it became necessary to

attribute the difference to some other cause than that advanced

by Stromeyer, to explain the production of arragonite. The pro-

secution of the inquiry soon put into the hands of Mitscherlich

other examples, and since that period scarcely a year has passed

without adding some new facts to our growing knowledge.

10. The following table contains a list of all the substances

hitherto described as dimorphous, and it embodies nearly every

thing we at present know in regard to the chemical and physical

differences which the several forms of these substances present.

See opposite table.

1 1 To this list might have been added anatase and futile, were

it not that some doubt still exists as to whether both of these

minerals consist of titanic acid only. They crystallize in square

prisms of different dimensions and having different cleavages.

The bichromate of potash appears also to be dimorphous, cry-

stallizing from fusion, in a form which it does not retain on

cooling f. I have also obtained from a London manufacturer

crystals of iodide of potassium in square prisms three-eighths

of an inch (f in.) in length, which are frequently deposited
along with the ordinary cubical crystals from the concentrated

solution. On resolution and evaporation they give only cubes.

They exhibit traces of double refraction, which, however, the

opacity of the crystals renders very indistinct. Mr. Brooke, to

whom I have submitted them, is unable to pronounce decidedly

as to their form, from the want of well-defined secondary faces.

Like the capillary red oxide of copper from Cornwall, they may

be only an aggregation of cubes. DufrenoyJ states that cast

iron has been observed in cubes and in rhomboids, but the

statement is of too uncertain a kind to be deserving of much
confidence § . Among the ordinary crystals of sulphate of pot-

ash with two axes, Sir David Brewster states that he observed

some six-sided prisms with only one axis of double refraction.

    * Poggend. AnnalenYll. p. 528, (1826.)
    t See Table IV. p. 26.
   % An. de Chim. et de Phys.. LVI. p. 198.
   § It was formerly considered that the sulphates of zinc and magnesia belonged
to the group of dimorphous sulphates, but later observations of Mitscherlich
have shown that the supposed second form contains only 6 atoms of water.
                                     :

 e kno^

   Hardne

   1-5 to i

   1- to 5
  3-5 to <
  2'5 to :
  2- to
 3 - 5 to ·
 6- to I

      Do.

 2-5 to

3-5 to

35 to

             ?

3-5 to

30 to

2-5 to
II. Bi*in»rntary Compound!

                ;!

                                                                                                                                                                                         '
ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.  167

--If these were crystals of sulphate they would indicate a dimor-

phism in this salt also. Edin. Phil. Jour., vol. i.
    Other substances likely to prove dimorphous are inserted in

Table III., and it is not impossible that some of those forms
now considered pseudo-morphic, may hereafter appear to be true
cases of dimorphism.

    Several observations suggest themselves on a glance at this

table.

    12. The number of substances contained in it, and of which
the dimorphism has been discovered in so short a time, renders
it very doubtful whether the crystalline form assumed by any
given substance is one only and invariable.

  --13. The several forms of the same substance possess different

physical properties, different colour, hardness, density, or
relations to heat and light. This is true of every pair of di-

morphous bodies in the table, yet in all of them the chemical
relations remain unchanged. The only trace of an exception,
yet observed, is in the different solubilities of the two forms of
arsenious acid and in the different behaviour of garnet and vesu-
vian before the blow-pipe. These chemical differences, how-
ever, are too obscure to demand much attention in this place

                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;

were they distinct and well-defined, the compounds which ex-
hibit them, should be removed from the class of simply dimor-
phous to that of isomeric bodies*.

    It appears, therefore, that dimorphous bodies exhibit in their
several forms physical differences only, the chemical relations

remaining unchanged. To this remarkable characteristic of
such bodies we shall have occasion to advert when we come to
inquire into the cause of dimorphism and its connection with

isomerism.
    14. In the relation between the first and second forms of several In dimor-

of the groups in the Table, a striking analogy presents itself, phous com
In the carbonates of lime, of magnesia, of lead, and of iron, and in JjXch Wie-
the nitrate of potash, the first form being a rhomboid of nearly mentis di-
equal dimensions in all, the second form is a right rhombic prism morphous.
similarly related in dimensions. In arsenious acid and oxide of
antimony, the first form is the regular octohedron, the second a
right rhombic prism. In each form these substances are iso-
morphous, or they are isoditnorphous.

   * Though alike in chemical constitution, the two forms of arsenious acid
and garnet may be the result of isomerism. In minerals represented by so
complicated a formula as garnet and vesuvian, it is impossible to say that the

elements are not very differently arranged, that they are not, in fact, different
substances.
--168 SEVENTH REPORT L837-

                                                                 II.

  --15. Of Isodimorphous Groups. In my report on the ac-

tual state of chemical science, published in 1832, p. 433*, I
drew attention to the remarkable fact that two substances

known to be dimorphous, the carbonates of lime and lead, cry-
stallized each in two forms, the analogous pairs of which were
also isomorphous. To distinguish this new character I sug-

gested the term isodimorphous, and I stated as probable that

we should " soon be able to embrace the whole of the isomor-

phous groups to which calc spar, and arragonite severally
belong in one large isodimorphous group." This expectation
has already been partly verifiedf, while other groups have been
 discovered connecting other systems of crystallization also, and
holding out the promise of large accessions to this branch of
knowledge as observations become more extended.

    16. The following table comprises all the groups of these
 substances, and all the members belonging to these groups with
 which we are at present acquainted.

     * Report of the British Association, vol. i.
     ·)- See especially the interesting paper of G. Rose, (Pog. An. xlii. p. 366),
 whose experiments are still in progress and promise new accessions to this list,
 as well as to our knowledge of the circumstances under which the several forms
 are produced.
      ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.  169

Uo

a
j
< ·a
                                                  --

           170 SEVENTH REPORT-- 1837-

Relation    --1^. Remarks on the Table of Isodimorphous Groups. One

among sy-  ^gf mos t striking facts exhibited by this table is the existence

cmtalliza- °f an intimate relation between certain forms not mutually de-

tion.      --rivable ; between the several systems of crystallization. That

           these systems are natural is proved both by geometrical consi-

           derations, and by the fact that the same substance crystallized

           in forms belonging to different systems possesses different phy-
           sical properties (13), yet the isodimorphous groups show that
           there is a relation, not accidental but constant between crystals

           of a given dimension in one system and crystals of a given di-
           mension in another system. Thus in the first group the

           Rhomboid of 105° to 107° is related to the Rt. Rh. Prism of 116° to 118°

           Regular Octohedron                     Rt. Rh. Prism of 139°  in the second.

           Do.                                    Rhomboid of 71-30      in the third.

           Square Pi ism                          Rt. Rh. Prism of 9P10  in the fourth.

              18. The form of the crystal is dependent on the form and ar-
           rangement of the crystalline molecules ; instead however of
           necessarily agreeing in form with either of those observed in the
           crystal, the phenomena of dimorphism show that they probably
           differ from both, and by their union in the direction of one or
           other of two axes of attraction of nearly equal force build up

           one or other of the observed crystalline forms. If the connec-
           tion between the system of crystallization indicated by the table

           be really of this kind ; if forms constantly related in dimension,

           but belonging to different systems, may be formed by the collo-

           cation of molecules of one constant form, it is not impossible

           that this relation may hereafter be expressed analytically ; that
           more general formulae may be obtained involving the properties
           of two or more systems, and by means of which the form and
           dimensions of the molecules may be deduced from those of the
           dimorphous crystals which are made up of them, and which we

           can measure.

              19. While tracing the connection of the forms of dimorphous
           bodies we are naturally led to inquire if any relation be obser-

           vable between the form assumed and the physical properties
           which accompany it. Our data are still too few and imperfect

           to enable us to give any satisfactory answer to this inquiry.

               In regard to density, the observations recorded in Table I.
           would indicate that the same substance

           Sulphur in the form of a Rh. Octohed. is more dense than in that of an Ob. Rh. Prism.

           Carbon                  Reg. Octohed.                         Rhomboid.

           Bisulphuret of Iron"!                  --

                   and         V-  Reg. Octohed.                         Rt. Rh. Prism.

           Arsenious Acid      |

           Carbonate of Lime "]

                   and l Rt Rh. Pr.                                      Rhomboid.

           Baryto Calcite  J
                     1. :

ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.                            171

or that in these forms the molecules are nearest to each other

in the following order :--

                      Reg. Octohedron and Cube.

                    Rhombic Octohedron ?
                    Rt. Rhombic Prism.
                    Oblique Rhombic Prism ?.

                      Rhomboid.

   The hardness of the several forms seems to follow a similar
order, the denser of two forms being also the harder. This is
certainly the case with the diamond and the arragonitic forms of
carbonate of lime and baryto calcite, but the observations we
possess on this point are still too few in number, and made, in
general, with too little attention to minute accuracy*, to justify
us in founding any general conclusion upon them.

   20. It will be observed that the several members of each
group in the above table are represented by analogous formulae

--with a substitution in each of one element only, a metal. The

first group, with one exception, is represented by the general

formula RC or RO + C02, and the fourth   group   by RS + 7H                         isomor-
or RO + RO3 + 7HO in which not only the
                                         entire  sum of the                         TMPh s

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s

negative and positive equivalents is equal, but the sum of those uaoiy di-

in each member of the formulae is also equal. Thus in the first of morphous.

RO COthese formula?
+ a the negative are to the positive equiva-
RO C0lents as 3 : 2, and in the two parts
                     and                   2 they are as 1 :

and 2:1. This is the case with all the neutral carbonates of

Protoxides, whether isomorphous or not. In the second for-

   * M. Frankenheim has observed in regard to the hardness of crystallized
bodies, native and artificial, that three orders of differences are to be observed

   1° On the same line in opposite directions.
   2° On the same face in different lines.
   3° On different faces of the same crystal.
   He finds that two directions or faces of the same crystallographic value have

always the same hardness, and that isomorphous bodies very different in abso-
lute have similar relative hardnesses. This is the case, for example, in regard
to nitrate of soda and calo spar, the absolute hardnesses of which are so unlike.

   These orders of differences he found to be intimately connected with the

natural joints of the crystals, so that the hardness is least.
    1° In relation to different faces ; on the faces of the joints themselves.

   2° On each face in the line perpendicular to the intersection which the prin-

cipal joint would give of that face.

 --3° On the same perpendicular, in a direction from the obtuse to the acute

dihedral angle of the intersection. Frankenheim Traite sur la cohesion des
corps. Extract Biblioth. Univ., June 1836.

   By considerations drawn from the relations of the polar forces, supposed to
reside in the crystallographic axes of crystallized bodies, M. Voltz has endea-
voured to show that the hardness must vary on different faces and in different

directions, and according to certain laws (I Institut., 9th August, 1834).
                                             --

172 SEVENTH REPORT 1837»

RO R0mula
        + 7HO3 -f the same ratio prevails among the several

members in both the substances as yet known to belong to the

isodimorphous group it represents.

  Now as we know that there are several carbonates isomorphous

with the first form of the first group in our table, and several

with the second, all of which are represented by the same for-

mulae, there is reason to believe that they also are dimorphous,

and that our knowledge of them might be represented as fol-

lows :

                                                        Rt. Rh. Prism.

        Carbonate of Manganese               Found native. ... Not known.
                             Zinc
                             Baryta          Do.        ... Do.

                                Strontia ..  Not known   Found native.

                                                        i

                                             Do.        ... Do.

and so with the rest of the isomorphous carbonates.

In like manner we are justified in looking forward to the en-

largement of the fourth group by the addition of the other iso-

morphous neutral sulphates and seleniates of protoxides with

seven atoms of water. It was supposed that the sulphates of

zinc and magnesia had been met with in two forms, but later

observations of Mitscherlich have shown that the second form

contains only six atoms of water.

Like forms 21. It is generally true, so far as observations have gone, that

generally isomorphous substances are analogous in constitution ; the ratio
follow like of the positive and negative equivalents in the whole formulas,

formulae.

             and in their several members, being the same. The converse

of this, however probable it may be, is by no means so generally

Aestablished.  knowledge of the principle of dimorphism how-

ever, and especially of that of isodimorphism, enables us to un-

derstand how bodies may be isomorphous and yet not present

themselves to us in ordinary circumstances under the same

forms. Thus the chromate and molybdate of lead are represented

by formulae, which are analogous in every respect, and contain
the common base oxide of lead, and yet they occur in nature in

different forms. If we suppose them to be dimorphous, then
the ordinary form of each may be considered as representing

the second or rarer form of the other, and including tungstate

of lead, which is isomorphous, with the molybdate, we have the

following isodimorphous groups :
ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.  173
--174 SEVENTH REPORT 1837«

the number of elements, nor the ratio between the positive and
negative constituents was alike in the mutually replacing com-
pounds. As, however, ammonia with an atom of water maybe

Nrepresented by (H4 + O) the oxide of ammonium ; this case was

fairly considered as by no means decisive that isomorphous bodies
are not necessarily analogous in constitution and represented by
analogous formulae. It may be, as many chemists have thought
probable from other grounds, that potassium is itself a com-
pound metal, and that potash, were its true constitution under-
stood, may be analogous with ammonia.

   Other compounds, however, were discovered, agreeing in form,
yet represented by formula? not reconcilable according to re-

ceived views. Of these the earliest known were, that nitrate of

soda and nitrate of potash, not then observed to be dimorphous,
were severally isomorphous with calc spar and arragonite, and
other examples have since been added chiefly by the researches

of Mitscherlich. All the known groups of this kind are repre-
sented in the following Table. T call them monomorphous, to

indicate that as groups with unlike formulae they are not all

known to assume more than one form.
ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.  175

~&

         »««2                      QB3 d
          ^ CO »C %D
                                                    ^.
03                                              PS

                       :ic
176 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.
                   ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.                 1/7

   The seventh group has been inserted on the authority of
Kohler, whose paper may be consulted with advantage, and some
doubt may be supposed still to hang over the isomorphism of
silica and chabasie, though on this similarity of form I have
elsewhere* founded an explanation of certain optical phenomena

observed by sir David Brewster in some varieties of chabasie, as
well as of certain differences in chemical constitution, which

specimens from different localities have been found to present.

   23. Attempts have notbeen wanting to reconcile some of thedis- Are these
cordant formulae exhibited by the above isomorphous .groups, formulaere-

but hitherto without much success. Thus Dr. Clarke has en-

deavouredf to reconcile the formulae for anhydrous sulphate of

soda (NaO + S03) and permanganate of baryta (BaO + Mn2 7),

forming the sixth group in the above table by supposing

    1° That the equivalent of sodium is double of that generally

received or Na, soda being Na, and an equivalent of the anhy-

Odrous sulphate of soda Na2 2 + S2 e .

   2° That the acids combine directly with the metals and not

with their oxides, and consequently that the rational formulae

for the two salts in question are respectively (representing Na2

by Na)  Na+S2   8  and  Ba+Mn                   8 or Na-j-S^and Ba + Mn
                                             2

in which state the formulae correspond, and the isomorphism of
the two "salts becomes intelligible.

   The first of these hypotheses must be rejected, I believe for
reasons which will find their natural place in a succeeding
paragraph (26), the second is so completely opposed to all ex-

perimental evidence that chemists could hardly be expected to
regard it with a favourable eye even though the first hypothesis
to which it serves as a sequel were not deemed inadmissible.
Great violence to received opinions must not be offered for the

explanation of a single apparent anomaly. Each group in the table
would probably require one or more specific hypotheses to recon-
cile the formulae of the several substances which compose it, and
these hypotheses, as appears in the following section, might often
be conflicting, showing that we are still far from a glimpse of the

truth.

  Why should it be thought necessary to reconcile the formulae

of isomorphous bodies, except that, carried away by the beauty

of the doctrine of Mitscherlich, we have generalized too hastily ?
If the same substance may crystallize in two or more different

        * Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. ix. p. 166.

        \ Records of Science.

VOL. VI. 1837.                 N
178 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

forms, why may not the converse hold ? why may not different

Wesubstances crystallize in one and the same form ?  must

allow instances to accumulate before we make any serious at-

tempts at explanation.

24. It may be proper here to notice a paper by Persoz, in the

Annates de Chimie et de Physique, No. lx. p. 145, in which, to

reconcile the discordant formulae of certain substances he sup-

poses to be isomorphous, he advances the hypothesis that bodies

unite by equivalent volumes, and not by equivalent atoms ; and
that compounds may be isomorphous which contain equal

volumes, either simple or compound. Thus, though the re-

RS&RCceived formulae for the sulphates and carbonates    be

different, they may be considered alike if we suppose the acids

to be composed respectively of 2 vols, sulphurous acid + 1 vol.

+oxygen, and 2 vols, carbonic oxide 1 vol. oxygen, and the

neutral sulphates and carbonates may be isomorphous. So also

may the nitrates and hyponitrites (RN&RN) be isomorphous

since the acids are composed of,

+The nitric ... of 4 vols, nitrous acid 1 vol. oxygen
     +hyponitric of 4 vols, nitric oxide 1 vol. oxygen.

This hypothesis exhibits an unfortunate waste of ingenuity,

since it has been proposed to explain two supposed cases of

isomorphism, which have in reality no existence. On the au-

thority of Kobell, verified by Voltz, he states that the forms of

C0sulphate of barytes (BaO + SOa) and arragonite (CaO + 2)

are identical*, though the inclination of the lateral faces of the

RtRh Prism in the former is 101° 42', in the latter, 116° 10'.

They are, indeed, what Kobell calls homoiomorphousf ; but so
are numerous other substances, the formula? of which it would

be idle to attempt to reconcile. Because also the nitrate of

lead (an octohedron) crystallizes without change of form in a

N+solution of hyponitrate (PbO  2 3), he concludes that these

two salts are isomorphous ; and to explain this imaginary

identity of form between a sulphate and a carbonate, a nitrate

and a hyponitrate, the hypothesis above stated is had recourse

to. In the same way he states, that it is impossible to mistake

the analogy of form between common Borax (NaB + lOH)

   * An. de Chim. et de Phys., LX. p. 1 19.
   \ See Schweigger's Jahrbuch, vol. iv. p. 410, also Reports of the British

Association, vol. i. p. 429.
                   ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.                               179

and common soda (NaC + 10H)*, and the octohedral forms of the
same salts with five atoms of water. Had he been aware of any

of the real cases of monomorphous groups having discordant

formulae inserted in the list above given, or had he referred
to them onty, his reasoning, however hypothetical, would not
have been so undeserving of a place in the excellent and elabo-

rate memoir of which it forms a pai't.
   25. The chemical constitution of the two metallic sulphurets Equivalent

which compose the third of our isodimorphous groups, suggests of Silver'

considerations nearly related to those which have just been de-

tailed. If they are really unlike in constitution, and are repre-

sented severally by RS and R2S, then they ought to be included

in our list of bodies which are like in form but unlike in for-

mula. It is proper to state, therefore, why they are represented

as isodimorphous.

   In a former reportf I have illustrated the application which
has been made of the doctrine of isomorphism in determining
which of several possible multiples of a given number should

be considered as representing the true equivalent of substances

in regard to which we have at present no other means of arri-
ving at a satisfactory conclusion. That alumina, peroxide of
iron, and oxide of chromium crystallize in the same form, and

are capable of replacing each other, as in the alums, is con-

sidered satisfactory evidence that their elementary constitution

--is analogous that the ratio of the oxygen to the metal is the

Rsame in all, and that the general formula 2 3 represents the

composition of each. The whole doctrine of replacement, so

beautifully applied to the elucidation of mineral compounds, de-

pends on the same principle. No substances have ever yet

been observed to replace each other in atomic proportions, and

without change of form, which are 7iot also represented by the

same general formulce. The nearest approach to an exception

yet known is the fact established by Mosander, that peroxide of

iron in the titanic irons may replace titaniate of the protoxide of

+iron (Fe2 3 may replace FeO Ti02) ; but the exception is only

in appearance, for Fe2  3  may    be  represented     by  FeO +  Fe0            in
                                                                            2,

which case the formulas are still analogous. Ammonia with an

atom of water and potash are the only substances in our list of

monomorphous substances with unlike formulas which have

been observed to replace each other, and we have already stated

PM MM* The form of borax is an obliq. Rh. Pr.             86°
                                      101° 30'            76°  40' "I  cRrrn0n0lKfep -
                                      108° 45'
PM MMThat of common soda                                       i2'/
                           ditto

f Report of the British Association, vol. i. p. 422.

                                  N2
180 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

the theoretical considerations by which the force of this objec-
tion is for the present, at least, suspended.

    If, then, replacement in atomic proportions without change
of form imply an absolute analogy of constitution, the sulphu-
rets of copper and silver possess this analogy. In grey copper

R R(fahlerz), represented by the general formula, 4 + 2Cu4R, the

Cu in the second member of the formula is often replaced by

Ag (in the silver fahlerz) without change of form. If we sup-

pose Ag and Cu to be capable of replacing each other, all the
varieties of the grey copper may be represented by the same

R Rformula 4 -f- R'4 R. But if they replace each other, the forms

of these sulphurets as they occur in nature uncombined should
be identical. This has not hitherto been observed to be the

case. The sulphuret of silver (Ag) is an octohedron, that of

copper (Cu) is a rhomboid. By fusion, however, that of cop-

per is obtained in octohedrons, while that of silver is rhomboidal

in the double sulphuret (Ag + Cu) from Rudelstadt*. There is

every reason, therefore, for believing that these two compounds
can replace each other, and that they are not only isomorphousf,
but that they form an isodimorphous group, as represented in

the table.
    It appears, then, in the present state of our knowledge, to

follow that the two sulphurets in question are analogous in con-
stitution, and must both be represented by the same formula,

R or R. It is an interesting coincidence with this result, that

the atomic weight of silver deduced by Dulong and Petit from
their researches into the specific heats of the metals, is only one
half of that which is generally received. From this agreement,
and because it involves fewer changes, it is probable that the
compounds in question are both rfi'sulphurets and represented by

the formula R.
    * Rose, Pog. An. xxviii. p. 427. Sander, ib. xl. p. 313.

  --f If isomorphous, the formula for Polybasite Cu»J +4Ag»J --might be

                                                                         [As [As
expressed by R9R. For the analysis of Polybasite, formerly confounded with
brittle sulphuret of silver (sprodglaserz), see Pog. An. xxviii. p. 156.
ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.                                     181

   26. But this conclusion involves several important modifica-
tions in the received views regarding the atomic weights of other
substances, elementary and compound.

   It was observed by Mitscherlich that the sulphate of silver

(AgS) and anhydrous sulphate of soda (NaS) agree in form,

from which it is inferred that oxide of silver and soda are iso- Equivalent
morphous. But if so, they are analogous in constitution ; and ^c> ° um'
if the equivalent of silver be halved, that of sodium must be

Ohalved also, their formulae being respectively Aga  and  Na 0.
                                                                 2

Since, also, potash is isomorphous with soda, and may replace

it, as in the alums, the rhomboidal nitrates, &c, this oxide also

Kmust be expressed by aO. And, on the other hand, gold heing

isomorphous with silver, the oxide of gold will be Au2 3, which

agrees also with the results of Dulong and Petit, and with the

electronegative properties sometimes exhibited by this compound.

It is unnecessary in this place to dwell on these changes.

They are indicated by the isodimorphism of the sulphurets of

copper and silver inserted in the table, but they have not yet

been incorporated with received knowledge by any of the lead-

ing chemists of Europe. The establishment of a very few facts

more will render any further hesitation unnecessary*.

27. The halving of the atom of potash supplies us with a mode Analogy be-

of establishing an analogy between the formulas for the earthy tween the

Kcarbonates and that of the nitrate of potash. If potash be 2 the carbon-
Nand nitric acid, as it is represented by foreign chemists, 2 5, ates and

                                                                    Nitrates.

K + Nthen nitre is 2  2 5 or R'R, or, putting together the posi-

R RRtive elements 4 6, or 2R203 . In the carbonates    we have

Ralso by putting together the positive elements 2 3, or the for-

mula for the nitrate of potash is analogous with that for the

carbonates as a whole, though the expressions for neither of the

immediate constituents of the two classes of compounds have

any analogy.

  How far it may hereafter prove true that compounds, as

such, may be isomorphous and analogous in constitution, while

their several components disagree both in form and in constitu-

tion, is at present almost wholly conjectural. I have advanced

this mode of establishing an analogy between the nitrates and

carbonates, partly with the view of drawing attention to the

possible recognition of such a principle as our knowledge ad-

vances, and partly of illustrating what I have already stated

(22) as to the special hypothesis necessary in almost every case

* See London and Edin. Phil. Mag., April 1838.
 182 SEVENTH REPORT 1837

 for reconciling the formulae of substances such as those inserted
 in Table III. That an extension of the general conditions ne-

 cessary to isomorphism must by-and-by take place, the num-
 ber of bodies we are already able to insert in this table is suffi-

 cient proof*.
     28. It would be improper to dismiss the consideration of the

 tables of dimorphous and isodimorphous groups without advert-
 ing to the differences in the angular dimensions of the several
 substances comprised by these groups. It is true generally of
 isomorphous bodies, that the angular dimensions of their crystal-
 line forms do not exactly correspond, but only approach to each
 other often very closely, as in the chromate and sulphate of
potashf, but sometimes differing nearly two degrees, as in some

of the earthy carbonates. These differences have been much
dwelt upon, especially by English crystallographers, to some of

whom they have appeared sufficiently great and constant to

warrant the rejection of the term iso and the substitution of
plesio morphism in its steady. The fact of bodies replacing
each other is inconsistent with a mere approach in their forms,
while the circumstance that no constant difference has been
observed among the forms of the several members of the same
isomorphous group with different acids or bases, shows, I think,
satisfactorily, that these differences do not necessarily imply
unlike forms in the crystalline molecules. If the silicates or
sulphates of two oxides be almost identical in form, while their
carbonates differ by more than a whole degree, the difference
between the forms of the oxides not being constant in the ana-

logous classes of compounds, may at least have their origin in

a cause extrinsic to the forms of the substances altogether.

   29. It is well known that Mitscherlich attributed these differ-
ences to some peculiarity in the chemical affinities, specific to each
substance or to the several substances entering into a com-

pound. On this very probable opinion it is unnecessary to
dwell. He has lately, however, thrown out a suggestion in re-

gard to the nature of this specific modification of the affinities,

or rather how it operates, an examination of which will be

--neither uninteresting nor out of place§.
    Supposing the molecules of bodies their mutually replacing

--equivalents to be equal in size, and to be placed at like dis-

tances, the densities of these bodies should be as the weights of
their equivalents. That the densities are not so related in na-

   * See London and Edin. Phil. Mag., May 1838.

   t Brooke, Annals of Philosophy, August, 1823, and January, 1821.
   t See Report on Chemistry, Reports of British Association, vol. i. p. 428.
    § Poggendorf's Annalen, vol. xli. p. 216.
ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.                                                  183

 ture will appear on comparing those of almost any pair or
 group of isomorphous bodies. The molecules, therefore, of the

 analogous compounds, even of bodies which may replace each

 other, are often separated by unlike spaces.

   Now in two isomorphous substances exhibiting this differ-

 ence, the increased distance of the molecules in the less dense

may either be equal in every direction, in which case, though

 the densities are not related as the equivalents, the crystalline
form and dimensions of each would remain alike, or the in-

crease of distance may be different in the direction of the

several axes of the crystal, in which case the angular dimen-
sions of the two substances in a state of crystallization would
more or less vary.

    Heat is known to expand regularly crystallized bodies un-
equally in different directions, enlarging the acute angles and

imparting a tendency towards the cube or other forms belonging
to the regular system. The suggestion of Mitscherlich is, that

chemical affinity acts in the same way as heat, drawing in or
binding together the molecules more closely in one direction
than another, so that if, at the temperature at which two isomor-
phous compounds crystallize, the affinity between the elements

in the one be only a small degree greater than in the other, a
difference more or less great must result between the dimensions
in the so-called plesiomorphous bodies, that is, the crystals must

be plesiomorphous only. And this suggestion is the more probable

inasmuch as it accounts for the fact that the plesiomorphous dif-

ferences do not prevail equally among all the analogous com-
pounds of the same acids or bases ; the difference between the

Aaffinities of two bases, and B, for an acid C, being probably

unlike, not only in amount, but in sign*, to their difference for a

Dsecond or third acid or E.

   The close relation which exists between chemical affinity and
heat would predispose us to receive with favour the hypothesis
in question ; but we can so far test it by observation, since it
implies that in any isomorphous group those substances whose
crystalline dimensions most closely approximate should have

their densities also most nearly in the ratio of their atomic
weights ; and conversely, those which have the acute angles of
their crystals the greatest, should also have their densities fur-
thest below what this ratio would indicate.

* In the difference (of the affinities?) of baryta and strontiafor the sulphu-

ric and carbonic acids, we have this disagreement both in quantity and in sign.

In the Rt. Rh. Prisms of these substances we have the obtuse angle in
=Sulphate of baryta            =Carbonate of baryta
                     10P-42'                         118°-30'

=strontia            104°*00'  =strontia             117°-32'.
184 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   30. In throwing out the suggestion Mitscherlich compares
only the carbonates of lime and magnesia. I shall take a greater
number of these carbonates in order to test it more closely*.

                  rE>q,,u.i,v:a,,l,,ie,,n,,t..     Observed     Calculated       rD,if; «f..  Angele of the  n-,*
                                                6pecificgrav                                    rh omboid .
                                                              l

                                                                    cificgrav _

Calc spar         632-456                       2-721                                         105-4 Mit.
                                                2-884
Carb. of Magnesia.., 534-790                    3-829         2-30               0-584 106-15 Mohs Ill
                                                3-379         3-097
Iron                715-65                      3-592         3-354              0-75 107-0                  1-56
                                                              3-107
                  ,

-- -- Zinc        779-663                                                        0025 106-30 Phil.           1-26
                                                                                                             2-36
                                                                                            107-40 Woll.
-- Manganese 722-337
                                                                                 0-485 106-51 Mohs. 1-47

  A general agreement with the hypothesis is observable in

these substances. The densities are all greater than they should
be, compared with that of calc spar, and the acute angles of their
crystals less, but no ratio is observable between the differences
of density and of angle indicated by the 5th and 7th columns.
The observed densities are those given by Mohs, as taken from
crystallized specimens, but there is no evidence that the speci-
mens measured were in any case those of which the density was
also taken, so that in the absence of more correct data our test
cannot be rigidly applied. Different crystals of the same sub-

stance have not only different densities but also different an-

gular dimensions. Breithaupt states that the crystals of horn-

blende vary as much sometimes as 5°, those of pyroxene as 2°,
and no doubt the density would vary in proportion. The same

observer found the density of a calc spar of lC^ ^' to be
2-741, and of another (tautokline) of 106°-10' to be 2-968f,
both of which cases are accordant with the notion that even in

the same substance plesiomorphous differences may arise from

condensation or expansion analogous to that produced by a di-
minution or increase of temperature. All these examples show
that our determinations of the angles and densities of crystal-
lized bodies must be ranked among uncertain knowledge till
accurate observations of both are made from one and the same
specimen. Such results would enable us to try, it might be

* Taking that of calc spar, in which the acute angle is greatest, as a stand-

ard, the specific gravities of the other substances are compared with it and cal-

culated from it.

            ^ _Sp. gray, of calc spar x at                                                    rf A
                                                              q{ a

            At. wt. of calc spar

   f Karsten found in two specimens of pure calc spar that the one with the
less angle had a density of 26978, that with the greater of 27064.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.                               185

would compel us to reject, the suggestion we are now consider-

ing.

  31. Before quitting this part of my subject I cannot refrain

from layingbefore the reader a tabular comparison of the physical
and chemical properties of some of the metallic oxides repre-

Rsented by the general formula 2 3, though none of them is yet

known to be dimorphous, as they present a beautiful example
of the analogies which exist among isomorphous bodies, and as

their densities exhibit a relation to their plesiomorphous differ-

ences entirely the converse of that which Mitscherlich supposes
to exist among the earthy carbonates.

                                                                                                                                                                                       Equivalent.  Angle of the                Colour of Crystal.              r. calculated
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Rhomboid.                                                   from

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Corun. Ox. of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        dum. chrom.

Corundum Al 321-167                                                                                                                                                                                  86-6 Mohs.     9 Vitreous  /Blue, yel., 1                3-33
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ' 85-58 Mohs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     86-10 Phil.                I »ed               J"

Peroxide "I                                                                                                                                                                            489-213       85-55 Rose ..  5-5 to 6-5 Metallic Steel grey      5-9
                                                                                                                                                                                       501-319
  of Iron ... J                                                                                                                                                                                                     9 Do. Black                         6-09
Oxide of

                                                                                                                                                                                    I

 Chromium /

   The same difficulty presents itself here as in the former ex-
ample from the uncertainty of the determinations, but in these
substances it is clear either that heat does not expand them so
as to make them approach the cube, or that the difference of

the chemical affinities considered as the cause of plesiomor-

phism does not act in the same way as heat does. Peroxide
of iron and oxide of chromium are much less dense than they
ought to be, compared with corundum, and yet the acute
angle of their rhombs is less ; or, comparing the first two
substances in the table with oxide of chromium their specific

gravity is greater than calculation gives it, while their acute

angles are less. Can it be that heat in expanding these acute
rhomboids makes them diverge from, while obtuse rhomboids
it brings nearer to, the cubical form ?

                                                          III.

  32. Of Analogous Chemical Groups, the members of which

--taken singly are Monomorphous, but ivhich as Groups are

Dimorphous. In the remarks already made on the table of

isodimorphous groups (21) I have adverted to the observation
that like crystalline forms generally follow like chemical for-

mulae, and I have illustrated by one example in what way this
observation leads us to infer and to look for dimorphism in sub-
stances not hitherto observed in more than one form. Almost
--186 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

every group of isomorphous bodies presents us with additional

illustrations. Not only may we expect that entire groups shall
prove to be dimorphous, of which we as yet know only one or

two really to be so, as the carbonates of which those of lime
and lead, and the sulphates of which that of nickel is the type
but groups also not even recognised as yet to be isomorphous,
though their chemical formulae are analogous. Thus the tung-
state of lime and that of lead occur in square prisms, that of iron
and manganese (wolfram) in oblique rhombic prisms, but since

Rall these compounds are represented by the same formula Tu,

the form which one assumes should not be impossible to the

Weother.  know that lime and protoxide of lead are dimor-

phous in their carbonates ; we may expect them to be so also

in their tungstates, and since lime and the first oxides of iron

and manganese are capable of mutually replacing each other,

wolfram may be looked for in square prisms. It has indeed

been frequently observed by mineralogists of this form. At

Huel Maudlin, in Cornwall, at Schbnfeld, and elsewhere in

Saxony* it has occurred in square prisms, but these are univer-

sally stated to be pseudomorphous, to be casts of previous cry-

stals of tungstate of lime. I have never had an opportunity of

examining any of these crystals, but as bearing on the very in-

teresting question how far second forms at least may be inferred

from chemical formulas, the supposed pseudomorphism of the

square prisms of wolfram is deserving of a close examination.

But if dimorphous substances may be so numerous, why are

they not so in ordinary circumstances, or why have they not

been more frequently observed ? Ten years more can scarcely

pass without adding greatly to the number of known cases of

dimorphism, and suggesting some probable reply to this and

other similar questions. If the chemical affinities which two

bodies are capable of displaying towards each other may lie

dormant, even when the bodies are in juxta- position, till the

proper hygrometric or thermometric conditions be attained, so

may it be with the molecular attractions by which particles are

   * Allan's Manual of Mineralogy, p. 219.
   f Since the above was written I have seen Cornish specimens of this mineral
in the collection of Mr. Brooke. They are in octohedrons, some of them beauti-
fully perfect; the greater part of them, however, more or less hollow, and cer-
tainly presenting the appearance of after crystals. Still we are not to despair of
finding crystals of wolfram belonging to the pyramidal system, and our search
may perhaps be stimulated by the character of its twin crystals, which seem
to indicate that though this mineral presents itself in the form of oblique prisms,

--it may in reality have rectangular axes. See Kryslallographie von Gustav Rose,

p. 119, and Whewell's Report on Mineralogy, p. 332.
ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.  187

drawn together and built up into regular forms. And as ele-
mentary or compound bodies belonging to the same natural
family, though possessing in common many properties, the same

in kind, yet have them in different degrees, and exhibit them
under different circumstances, so may we expect crystallizable
substances, analogous in chemical constitution, and possessing
like physical properties, to exhibit those properties, in degrees and
under circumstances specific to each. Under the same circum-
stances there may be slight differences between the crystalline
dimensions as there are between the chemical affinities of two
bodies ; they may both be dimorphous, but under circumstances
so widely different as hitherto to have escaped our observation,
just as certain oxides of chlorine, iodine, and fluorine, which
we believe to be possible, have hitherto baffled the attempts of
the most refined manipulation.

                                                  IV.

   33. Of bodies assuming two or more series of unlike physical
properties, but of which the crystalline form belonging to each

--series has not yet been determined. In addition to those sub-

stances, the dimorphism of which is established by direct mea-
surement, there is a considerable number, the dimorphism of
which is rendered exceedingly probable by the fact of their oc-
curring, in two or more states, physically different. If dimor-
phism imply a difference in physical properties, as well as in form,
we may at least be prepared to look for a difference of form
when marked physical differences present themselves*.

   The following table contains all the substances generally
known to exhibit such physical differences.

   * Dumas proposes to include all in one group under the name Poly-
morphous. " Mais pour embrasser tous les phenomenes du meme genre il faut
dire Polymorphisme sans restreindre a deux le nombre de modifications qu'un
corps peut presenter, et comprendre dans la meme categorie toutes les sortes de

cliangemens qui peuvent affecter les proprietes physiques." Lecons sur la
Philosophie Chimique, p. 303. I think it better, however, to distinguish be-
tween what we know and what we only suspect ; to call those substances in
which two crystalline forms have been observed certainly dimorphous, those in
which they have not been observed as probably so. The term polymorphous will
become necessary as soon as it is established that the same substance does
crystallize in three or more incompatible forms.
--188 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

                                                                             Table
Exhibiting the characters of those substances which are known

                                                            stalline forms in both states

                                                How obtained.           Density.

1°. Sulphur A &                                 A by subliming, B by 1-99 to 2-05  1-5 to 2-5      Conchoidal
    B                                                                                                or granu-
                                                   fusing Sulphur                  Soft and tena-     lar
2°. Phosphorus                                                                        cious
                                                By pouring Sulphur
    A                                              at 200C. into Cold              Sectile
                                                   Water

                                                Distilling Acid Phos 177
                                                   phate of Lime with
                                                    Charcoal

3°. Sulphuretof    Sb; S.                       f^Fusing A at              to 4-7
                                                                 J
    Antimony A                                     and suddenly cool-

                                                    ing

                                                Found native, also by 4-5
                                                   heating B

Do. (Ker-                                       By suddenly cooling 415            Harder than A Conchoidal.
mes) B....
                                                  A when fused, or

                                                by precipit. from

                                                Antimonial Solu-

4°. Bisulphuret    HgS 2                            tions               ·098       2- to 2-5 ,     Do.
      of Mercury
                                                By subliming B
      (Cinnabar)
                                                Throwing down Hg                                   Granular.
    A
                                                   from its solutions
      Do.(Ethiops                                  by HS, or cooling

     Mineral) B                                   A suddenly
                                                By fusing Chrome 2-6027 ? Kr
5°. Bichromate     KO+2Cr0
                                             3     Iron with Nitre

of Potash A

                                   Do.          Fusing A and allow-

6°. Sulphate of KS+CuS                             ing it to cool

      Potash and                                Fusing the two Salts
                                                    together
    Copper A
                                                Formed when the
                    B Do.                          fused mass cools to

                                                    about 60°F.,15-5C.
                          ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.                                 189

IV.

to exist in two states physically different, but of which the cry-
have not been determined.

Colour in mass, Colour in powder, Transparency.  Characteristic or Remarks.

Yellow        Yellow      Transparent See Table I.

Brown ..                  Opaque                 After about 24 hours the sul-
Pale Yellow... Yellow     Transparent
                                                 phur generally becomes
Black                     Opaque
                                                 hard and brittle

                                                 It is only when very pure, ThenaxiLAn.de Chimie.

                                                 and repeatedly distilled, lxxi. p. 109.

                                                 that it becomes black by

                                                 sudden cooling. On refu

                                                 sion it becomes yellow

                                                                                Dumas Traitei. p. 247

Lead grey ... Greyish black Opaque               The second state B. Fuchs has Fuchs Annal. de PJtar-
                                                   distinguished by the term mac, xi. p. 282.
                                                   Amorphous, a term, as it

                                                 appears to me, by no means

                                                 applicable

Do.           Reddish     Thin laminae

              brown       transpar.

                          deep hya-

                          cinth red

Cochineal red Scarlet red Semitranspa-                                          Fuchs, Ibid.

              Carmine     rent

              whenheated

Black         Black       Opaque                 Gmelin attributes the black Gmelin's Handbuch, i.
                                                   colour to the presence of p. 1290.
                                                   sulphur

Red.          Yellow      Transparent            The fused Bichromate on Liebig and Poggendorff,
                            Do.
                                                 cooling shoots out into        Worterbuch, i. p. 151.
                                                 crystals, which again fall

                                                 to pieces after the tempe-

                                                 rature has sunk to 60° F.

Yellow        Do.
   while hot

Dark green... Green       Do.                    On cooling, the fused mass
                          Do.
Pale green ... Do.                                 crystallizes, contracts, and
                                                   finally expands, swells up,
                                                   and falls to powder

                                                                                                    Herschel, Berz. Arsbe-

                                                                                                      rattelse, 1832, p. 142,
--190 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   To this list glass has some claim to he added. Its physical
properties when annealed, and when suddenly cooled, are known

to be very different, and in the second of these states it is said by
Guerard* to be possessed of double refraction. As it is doubt-

ful, however, how far any specimens of glass used in the arts may
bd considered as definite chemical compounds, we cannot as yet
draw any certain conclusions from their properties in different
circumstances. Common charcoal and graphite are also sup-

posed by some chemists to be modifications of carbon sufficiently
distinct to awaken the suspicion that this substance may assume

even a third crystalline form.

   34. The appearances presented by the bichromate of potash
when cooling from fusion, and by the double sulphate of potash
and copper, are very interesting. In both cases the change com-

mences, as in the yellow crystals of biniodide of mercury, at

one edge of the mass, and gradually spreads over the whole. As
in the biniodide, the changed is in all probability zhetoromorphous
state, and the same will, I think, prove true of all the substances
contained in the present table. They are necessarily placed apart

in the present state of our knowledge till their forms in the

changed condition shall have been determined.

   The chance, so to speak, of their proving dimorphous is much
strengthened by the analogy in constitution between the bisul-
phate of potash, which is known to assume two unlike forms, and

K Hthe double sulphate in the table. The formula of the one S + S

KSis the exact counterpart of that of the other  + CuS, the

copper in the latter replacing the hydrogen in the former. Led

by this analogy, I have sought for the same phenomena in other

compounds of the same class. Sulphate of potash fuses rea-

dily at a bright red heat with the anhydrous sulphates of zinc and

of nickel, but on cooling the same change does not present it-

self, at least under the same circumstances. Under conditions

slightly varied we may expect all the compounds represented by

RRthe general formula  + R'Rto occur in two states · physic-

ally different, f

    * Pog. Anna!., xxxviii. p. 233.
   f The probability of the change in question being connected with dimorphism
is strengthened by a recent observation of Mr. Talbot, (Lond. and Edin. Phil.
Mag., Feb. 1838, p. 149) that a thin film of nitre, on solidifying from fusion,
undergoes, when the temperature falls to a certain point, a change quite analo-

gous to that exhibited by the bichromate and double sulphate in the table, and,
as in those substances, diffusing itself from a point over the whole mass. In
nitre the appearance is no doubt connected with the two forms it is known to

assume.
ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.                           191

    35. Differences of a less permanent and definite kind are ex-
hibited by various substances, as by some of the metallic oxides
at different temperatures, which obscurely point to a second state

analogous to that we are now considering as belonging to them
also. Thus the protoxide of lead PbO when cold is of a pale
yellow, when hot of a bright red ; the scales of litharge often
retain this hue at common temperatures.

    It would be premature at once to explain this and similar ap-
pearances by a supposed dimorphism ; they are deserving how-

ever of a close attention, and though obscure at present, the

study of them may lead us to new results.
   36. Many compound, especially saline, substances, when ex-

posed to the air or slightly heated, undergo a change analogous

to that we are now considering, due, however, not to a mere

change in the arrangement of the molecules, but to an alteration

also in the chemical constitution. When a crystal of sulphate

of zinc with seven atoms of water is heated under alcohol it as-

sumes a new form, but it loses at the same time an atom of
water ; the same is said also to be the case with sulphate of
magnesia. The blue acetate of copper with six atoms of water if

heated to 90° or 100° F. changes without apparent change of

form into the green acetate with one atom of water. On ex-

amination, however, the apparently unchanged crystal is found

to consist of a congeries of minute crystal of an entirely differ-
ent form*. The mellate of ammonia, according to Wohler, un-
dergoes an equally striking change by simple exposure to the air.

One of the most curious facts of this description is that observed

by Herman in regard to the chloride of lithium. When this

salt is allowed to deliquesce in the open air large four-sided
prisms are formed. If one of these prisms be taken up in the
fingers, and then laid on blotting paper, it becomes opaque at the
point of contact, and the opacity gradually spreads over the

whole crystal. If now moved it falls into a powder, which

again deliquesces in the air and crystallizes-f-. Changes of this
kind connected with loss of water are no doubt very numerous.

   37. An appearance observed by Biot, in reference to grape-
sugar, appears worthy of a place in the present section. He

statesj, that the juice of the grape, before it has been crystal-

lized, causes the plane of polarization of a polarized ray passed
through it to deviate towards the left, while after crystallization
its solution causes the same ray to deviate towards the right.

By crystallization the chemical constitution is unaltered (?),

* Wbhler, Poggendorff, Annal., xxxvii. p. 166.

t Pog. Annul., xv. p. 480.  % Taylor's Scientific Memoirs, i. p. 596.
192 SEVENTH REPORT 1837 =

and yet if the optical property is to be depended upon, the ar-
rangement of the molecules in the natural juice must have dif-
fered very materially from their arrangement in the artificial

solution. Unfortunately we cannot depend on the purity of
the natural juice, and therefore it would be premature to draw
from this phenomenon any of those curious consequences in

regard to the value of optical characters and the possibility of

--the dimorphous molecular arrangement of a solid body follow-

ing it into its state of solution which the absolute chemical
purity of the sugar in the natural and artificial liquids would
render justifiable.

                                                V.

38. Of crystallized bodies not known to asswne more than

--one form, which yet exhibit unlike physical properties in dif-

ferent portions of their mass. There are certain mineral sub-

stances, the crystalline form and chemical constitution of which

are known and constant, which nevertheless in their action on

light exhibit phenomena apparently inconsistent with the idea

that the several parts have the form and composition of the

whole. As these phenomena are closely related to those of

dimorphism, and may possibly be identical with them, I shall

here introduce a notice of the more remarkable cases in which

they occur. The greater number of these observations have been

--made and published by Sir David Brewster.
   Apophyllite. In a paper published in the Edinburgh Phil.

Trans., vol. ix. p. 317, Sir David has shown that the crystals

of certain varieties of apophyllite consist of different portions

Anacting differently on light : "  individual crystal, with one

axis, being symmetrically united with several individual crystals

with two axes, so as to constitute a regular crystal." In a

single fragment of a crystal of this substance Sir John Herschel

--also found three portions, each possessing distinct and pecu-

liar properties. Whewell's Report on Mineralogy, p. 353. In

--the amethyst he has described an analogous structure.
   Analcime. This mineral occurs usually in icositetrahedrons,

made up of twenty-four individual pentahedrons. These penta-
hedrons exhibit " a species of double refraction, previously
found in no other mineral." They possess " planes of no

double refraction, having a definite and invariable position, and

a portion may be extracted from each separate pentahedron

--which has no axis at all."*
   Chabasie. Some specimens of this well-known mineral,

when examined by polarized light, appear to consist of success-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      j

* Edinburgh Philosophical Transactions, 1824.
                ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.                         193

ive layers deposited around a rhomboidal nucleus, possessed of

positive double refraction. This refraction, however, is seen

" to diminish in succeeding layers from a positive state till it

disappears altogether ; beyond this neutral line it becomes ne-
gative, and again gradually increases towards the boundaries of

--Athe crystal."*   similar observation has also been made
   Diamond, topaz.

by Sir David in regard to the diamond, which he found to con-

sist occasionally of a succession of layers possessing different

refractive powers and different densities ; and in the 2nd vol.

of the Cambridge Transactions he has described the Brazilian
topaz as consisting of " a central lozenge, surrounded with a

border of a different kind, sometimes with additional varia-

tions, "f
   Traces of double refraction have also been observed by the

same distinguished philosopher in many substances, the cry-

stals of which, hitherto observed, belong only to the regular

system. Among these are potash- alum, rock-salt, fluor-spar,

and diamond. In connexion with the doctrine of dimorphism,

these observations are all of value, not so much from the posi-

tive information they give, as from their showing us what to

look for.

39. The conclusion we ai'e at first sight inclined to draw from

pheenomena such as those above described, is, that such mine-

rals, though to the eye homogeneous, are in reality made up of

parts unlike in chemical constitution as they are in optical pro-

perties ; and to this conclusion Sir David Brewster appears in-

clined to give his assent. Mr. Whewell, in his report on
Mineralogy!, thus expresses himself : " There would be some-

thing utterly perplexing in this complexity in the structure of

objects apparently so simple, if we were to conceive such a kind

of composition as formed of independent portions adhering to-

gether ; but we ought probably rather to conceive these rela-

tions of parts as the result of a peculiar state of the equilibrium

of the elastic aether which exists within the body, and on which

its optical properties depend."

This explanation appears to apply very happily to optical

differences exhibited by the several parts of a crystal as a whole,

which disappear when it is broken into fragments, as is the

case in the dodecahedral crystals of the sulphate of potash § ;

* London and Edinburgh Phil. Mag., Sept. 183G, p. 166.

t Report of Meeting of the British Association at Liverpool.

t Reports of British Association, vol. i. p. 340.

§ Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, vol. i. p. 6.

vol. vi. 1837.      °
194 SEVENTH REPORT 1837»

but it does not seem to account for the fact that portions of the
pentahedrons of analcime may be extracted which possess no
double refraction, or for the properties of the several parts of
the crystals of chabasie and diamond above referred to. The
state of the elastic aether in these separate portions must de-
pend on a difference either in the nature or mutual disposition
of the ponderable molecules around which it exists ; otherwise
the optical properties could be of little value as indices either
of chemical constitution or of crystalline form. In other words,
if the optical properties observed in these minerals reside in the
crystalline molecules, and not in the mass, the properties of
the different parts must depend on a difference either in the
chemical properties or in the mechanical arrangement of the
ultimate molecules of which they are made up.

    I think it very likely that in some instances the former cause
operates, in other cases, the latter. The introduction of an
isomorphous substance of unlike chemical and optical relations

may produce such differences as are observed in chabasie* j a

-- --different arrangement of the molecules, without change of com-

position ; a dimorphism in fact may produce the singular dif-
ferences of the several portions of analcime. The double re-

fraction observed occasionally in alum and other regular cry-
stals, points, as it appears to me, to an advanced period of our
knowledge, when these and many other substances crystallizing
 similarly will be proved to be dimorphous.

                                                   VI.

  --40. Of epigene and pseudomorphous crystals. In a former

 section I have adverted to the subject of pseudomorphous cry-
 stals, and to the possibility that some of the forms considered to

 be such may hereafter prove to be cases of dimorphismf. In

 connexion with the present subject, therefore, as well as in
 itself not void of interest, I shall here insert a list of the best

 known and most common cases of epigene, or changed crystals,

 and pseudomorphous crystals, or casts, which either occur in
 nature or can be formed artificially.

     * This principle I have illustrated in a short paper in the Lond. and Edinb.
  Phil. Mag. for Sept., 1836.

      t This opinion, in so far as regards the last substance (Serpentine) in the
 above list, has been recently supported by Dr. Tamnau, of Berlin, (Poy. Ann.,

 xlii. p. 4.62,) who assigns several weighty reasons for considering the supposed
  false forms of this substance from Snarum, in Norway, to be the true form of

  the mineral itself.
       ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.                       195

       List of Pseudomorphous Mineral Substances.

Name.
--196 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

the external characters of true crystals. Among the latter may-

be mentioned the cubes of quartz found at Rochette, in the pro-

vince of Liege, which are so perfect as to have been mistaken

by Haiiy for the primary rhomboids*, and which are inferred

to be parasitic chiefly from the occurrence in the same locality

of hollow prisms, obviously casts of previous crystals of calc

spar. Similar observations apply to many of the quartz cry-

stals found at Haytor, while the want of internal structure is the

chief reason why the hornstones and steatites of Germany, the

cubical chalcedonies of Transylvania, and the rhomboidal from

Iceland, are classed among pseudomorphous crystals.

The octohedral peroxide of iron (Martite) is one of those

minerals which retains the cleavage as well as the form of the

mineral (magnetic iron) from which it is derived. The perfec-

tion of these crystals has induced Kobellf to consider them as

an example of dimorphism, though, perhaps, rather hastily. It

is not unlikely that some of the supposed parasitic may be true

crystals j but the possession of a distinct cleavage is not alone
sufficient to prove that any given crystals are so. Calc spar,

after being calcined and deprived of its carbonic acid, still re-

tains its form and cleavages.

  We42. can imitate nature in the production even of apparently

perfect changed (epigene) crystals. Native crystals of peroxide

of iron, heated in a current of sulphuretted hydrogen, give at

212° F. sesquisulphuret Fe2S3, and at a higher temperature.

Bisulphuret of iron FeS2 , and the new compounds retain the
Alustre and cleavage of the original crystals. J
                                                  similar result,

without change of form, is obtained from the carbonate of iron.

Crystals of bicyanide of mercury at ordinary temperatures may

by the same means be converted into black shining crystals of

bisulphuret. By simple exposure of the salt to the air, me-
tallic gold may be obtained in the form of the double chloride

of gold and ammonia. Nitrate of silver occasionally undergoes

a similar decomposition. Many of the salts of lead, silver, and
other metals may likewise, by the agency of sulphuretted hy-

drogen, be converted into sulphurets without losing their form,

and very many of the hydrated salts of the earths and metallic

oxides part with their water without suffering disintegration.

Still, in connexion with these numerous changes, natural

and artificial, one question suggests itself. Are there any limits

to the number of forms which the same substance, a metallic

* Geologie de Liege. Par Dumont. P. 147.
t Neues Jahrbuch der Chim. und Phys. (1831) vol. ii. p. 195.

+ Berzelius, Arshercittelse, 1826.
                 ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.                                                                                               197

sulphuret for example, may be made to assume by bringing

more powerful chemical affinities into operation ? Bicyanide

of mercury is completely decomposed by dry sulphuretted hy-

drogen ; bichloride only on the surface. If the latter be pre-

viously moistened, it is entirely decomposed ; but during the
action of the gas, it gradually falls to powder. The phenomena

in the latter case are owing to the existence and previous form-

ation of a compound of the two salts, a sulpho-chloride, and

not, necessarily, to any inability of the bisulphuret to assume

and retain  the  form of the                                                  bichloride                             yet it is not impossible
                                                                                                                  ;

that there may exist some unknown relation between the true

form of a body and those false forms which it is capable of as-

suming and retaining in any degree of perfection.

                                               VII.

  --43. Of Trimorphous bodies. Though we are as yet unac-

quainted with any cases in which bodies actually assume more

than two incompatible forms, yet, as I have already remarked,

there is no reason to consider such an occurrence as at all unlikely.

On the contrary, there are strong reasons for believing that future

observations will make us acquainted with three or more forms
of the same substance, geometrically distinct. The analogous

compounds, for example, of isomorphous bodies ought to as-

sume the same form, and yet we are familiar with many groups
of such compounds which, though their individual members
are not known to assume more than one or two irreconcileable

forms, yet, as groups, are tri, or even tetrakimorphous. In
a former section I have illustrated, by reference to one or two
cases, in what way the probable dimorphism of individual com-

pounds may be inferred from that of the chemical group to

which they belong ; the same mode of deduction renders tri-
morphism almost equally probable. Thus the sulphate, chro-
mate and molybdate of lead, present us with three forms

                                        · ·»                                                                           M.M.    P.M.
                                                                                                                     103° 42'
Sulphate . . . PbS                                                            a Rt. Rh. Pr.

Chromate . . . PbC                                                            Ob. Rh. Pr. 93° 30' 99° 10'

Moly*bdate . . PbMol                                                          bquare prisms

                                                                        # J.

Tungstate . . . PbTuJ

exhibited by substances represented by the same general for-

mula RR, and which, for anything we know to the contrary,
may all be assumed by each other.
--198 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

Again, carbonate of lime presents itself in three forms

                 1°.                    2°.                   3°.

Rhomboid in calc      Rt. Rh. Prism in       Ob. Rh. Prism in
                        arragonite and Rt.     Obliq. Rh. baryto
             spar       Rh. baryto calcite
                                                calcite

and though the third form in this case may result from the

combination of the rhomboid of calc spar with the Rt. Rh.

prism of heavy spar, yet it is not impossible that it may arise

from a true trimorphism.
   44. Even simple substances are not exempt from the suspicion

of assuming more than two forms. Thus, in many of its combi-

nations with their metals, sulphur belongs to the regular system
to which the metals themselves also belong. It is not easy to

see how regular forms should result from the union of a cube
with either of the known forms of sulphur ; it may be con-

sidered probable, therefore, that in certain circumstances sul-

phur may be isomorphous with the metals which belong to

the regular system.

   Further, it is not unworthy of notice that, among substances
assuming regular forms, iron pyrites (FeS9) and glance cobalt,

-p >S2 + p° >As2 alone exhibit the so called pyritohedral

faces. And though we cannot draw any certain conclusions in
relation to our present subject from the phenomena exhibited

by bodies belonging to the regular system yet the circum-
                                                                                                                                                                     ;

stance now mentioned seems to indicate a connexion between
the two minerals not common even among such regular forms.

This connexion is most likely to be such as that which exists

among the octohedral minerals RR, of which magnetic iron is the

type, and among the garnets, namely, that the analogous mem-

bers of the formulae by which their chemical constitution is re-
presented are respectively isomorphous, that is to say, that in

                                   {As<n 2 arsenic and sulphur are

isomorphous, and may replace each other. In addition, there-
fore, to the two known forms of sulphur, there are two others
in which we may still expect to find it, or sulphur may be tetra-

Amiorphous.
                      ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.  199

Rt. Rh. Prism.
--200 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

ratures, their second form in many being produced, in some being
stable, only at higher temperatures. Thus the crystals of sul-
phur from fusion gradually become opaque, and appear to change
internally to minute individuals of the common form. The yel-
low biniodide of mercury even more rapidly changes into the
red. The change of form ? undergone by the bichromate of pot-

ash and the double sulphate of potash and copper, and of colour
by the protoxide of lead, the oxide of zinc, the binoxide of mer-
cury, titanic acid, and other oxides, generally takes place before
they arrive at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere. What-
ever be the way in which heat acts, thei'efore, it is obviously an
important agent in the exhibition of the one or the other form
by dimorphous bodies.

   By an elevation of the temperature, more or less great, the

first form is changed into the second, in sulphur, disulphuret of
copper, the biniodide and bichloride of mercury, arsenious acid,
oxide of antimony, carbonate of lime, carbonate of magnesia,
sulphate of nickel, bisulphate of potash, seleniate of zinc, and

probably the garnet. Of these substances, however, the new

form assumed is permanent in all, with the exception of sulphur
and the biniodide of mercury.

   Common charcoal readily assumes the form of graphite at a

temperature below that at which cast iron melts ; of the tem-

perature at which diamond is formed we as yet know nothing.
   46. The phenomena attendant on the production of the several

forms renders it extremely probable that they are specific in

--each substance to specific ranges of temperature, that the form

assumed depends upon whether the substance is allowed to

--crystallize within the one range or the other, that at tempera-

tures near the limit of each range a very slight cause will set the

--particles in motion, for the production of either form as in the

biniodide of mercury, and that at greater distances from this
limit, either above or below the temperatures to which it belongs,
the form is permanent only because the particles have not the
power of moving, being coerced as in suddenly cooled glass
(Rupert's drops), and requiring time as in sulphur, or the aid of
heat as in arragonite, or in the process of annealing glass and
metals, to enable them to overcome the restraint and to assume
the other form.

   Connected as these phenomena appear to be with certain

ranges of temperature, they cannot be ascribed to the agency of
heat as a cause, otherwise the presence of this agent in greater
or less intensity should produce similar effects on all crystalli-
zable bodies ; they must rather be attributed to some peculiarity
in the molecular constitution of the substances by which they
                 ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.  201

are displayed, being merely developed under certain thermal

conditions.

47. The changes that take place in solid bodies at different tem-

peratures, whether in form or in colour, are in general easily ob-

served. In liquids, on the contrary, changes in the molecular

arrangement are not so obvious, though there is little reason to

doubt that they frequently take place. Of this fact melted sul-
phur presents the most striking illustration with which we are

acquainted. At 230° F. it is very fluid; at 430° F. viscid and

tenacious ; and again at 480° F., and upwards, of great fluidity.

Changes of a different kind are exhibited by hyponitrous acid
--(N03), which at 60° F. is of a green colour, while at 4° F.
Onit is wholly colourless *.
                              the other hand, a solution of iodide

of starch, which at 200° F. is colourless, becomes blue as it cools.

These differences can only arise from some change in the mole-

cular arrangement induced by, or consequent upon, the change

of temperature, precisely as in the case of some of the solid sub-

stances above describedf. Analogous phaenomena have not yet

been observed in other fluid bodies, either because the change of

position in the molecules takes place at temperatures to which

fluids are not often exposed, or because it is not often accompa-

nied by changes in the physical properties, such as can be readily

--observed : it may be also because they have not hitherto been

looked for. It is not unlikely that liquids, whether permanent

or obtained by fusion, would at different temperatures differently

affect the course of a prolonged ray if tested by the beautiful

method of Biot.

   48. Even in gaseous bodies the relative position of the molecules

does not appear to be the same at every temperature. The va-

pour of nitrous acid (N04), at the temperature of 100° F., is

of a deep red, while at 212° it is black and opaque j (Brewster).

It may indeed be said that in this case decomposition takes

   * Mitscherlich, Lehrbuch der Chemie, vol. i. p. 342.

   f In the Lecons sur la Philosophie Chimique par M. Dumas, which has
come into my hands since the text went to press, is a paragraph (p. 305) almost
verbatim with the above. He adds, " C'est sans doute aux memes influences qu'il
faut rapporter la propriety que l'eau possede d'avoir un maximum de density

--a 4°C, au lieu de continuer a se contracter a. mesure qu'elle se refroidit." p.

336. He seems to have been unaware of the property observed by Sir D.

Brewster in the vapour of nitrous acid, as in resuming the facts he had stated,
he says, " Vous voyez qu'on arrive a conclure que dans les gaz l'influence de
la forme des molecules parait nulle oupresque nulle ; qu'elle semble au contraire
tres-considerable dans les solides, et qu'elle se fait egalement sentir dans les

liquides."

   % According to Sir David Brewster, a tube, filled with the red vapour at 100°
and sealed, becomes black when heated to 212° F.
--202 SEVENTH REPORT 1837«

N=Nplace (2  + N) at the elevated temperature, and that as the

whole cools combination again takes place ; the opacity being

in some way caused by the mixed vapours. But this decompo-

sition is by no means probable, and if it were, the change in co-

lour, &c. is still unintelligible, so that, in the present state of our

knowledge, the fact remains as an interesting indication of the

probable effect of high temperatures on the internal molecular

constitution even of gaseous bodies, an effect of which future ob-

--servation may be expected to furnish us with other examples.
   49. Of Electricity It is not improbable, that like heat, elec-
tricity also, to which it is in so many ways related, may have an

influence in modifying the arrangement of the crystalline mole-

cules, so as to cause the development of one or other of the two

forms.

Mr. Crosse* states, that by passing a weak current of electri-

city through solutions of carbonate of lime he obtained rhom-

boidal crystals of calc spar at the negative electrode, and that on

one occasion, along with these, he obtained also very fine pris-

matic crystals, which he took for arragonite, near to the positive

pole. It would be very interesting to find this statement con-

firmed by other observers.

Influence of 50. In an early part of this reportwe have seen reason to conclude

pressure, fa&t the cause of dimorphism acts in such a way as to alter the

density of the substance, or the distance at which its crystalline

particles are placed. It is therefore interesting to inquire how

far such an alteration, induced by purely mechanical means, as

by pressure, would affect the form so as to impart to any given

substance the characters of a dimorphous body. In so far as the

optical properties are concerned, the experiments of Sir David

Brewster, recorded in the Philosophical Transactions for 1830,

p. 87, seem to indicate that such characters may be imparted by
mechanical agency. He found that a mixture of white wax

and rosin, which in mass and in ordinary circumstances exhibits

no doubly refracting structure, yet has that structure developed
in it by simple pressure between two plates of glass. The same

philosopher has also observed that in mineral substances the

optical phenomena are changed in intensity by subjecting them
to mechanical pressure, in the same way as they are known to

change when exposed to a diminishing temperature.

These facts tend to confirm the opinion above expressed, that

heat has no specific action in producing physical changes in

--crystalline and other bodies that it acts merely as any other

        * Reports of the British Association, vol. v., Appendix, p. 47.
ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.  203

mechanical cause, the difference of the effects produced in each
case being due to the specific properties of the substance itself.

                                             IX.

 --51. Cause of Dimorphism. From what has been stated in

the previous part of this report in regard to the infancy of our

knowledge in this department, it will be evident that we are
not yet in a condition to do much more than merely hazard
conjectures as to the cause of dimorphism. Our observations,
however, are already so multiplied that some of the earliest con-
jectures may now be safely laid aside. I shall briefly notice the
 several explanations which have hitherto been given.

  --52. Presence of a foreign body. When the phenomenon

 of dimorphism was first recognised in carbonate of lime, it ap-

 peared most easy to account for the difference between calc spar

 and arragonite by supposing that the latter actually contained

 some other ingredient besides carbonic acid and lime. And

 though the experiments of Thenard and Biot failed in showing
 the presence of any other constituents, yet the detection of
 strontia by Stromeyer seemed to set the matter at rest, and the
 failure of the French chemists was attributed to their deficiency

 in analytical skill. Now, however, that we can change arra-

 gonite into calc spar, and by a proper regulation of the tempera-
 ture can cause one and the same portions of several other sub-
 stances to assume either of two known forms, the influence of
 foreign bodies in these cases can no longer be admitted. It is pos-
 sible that the presence of such bodies might produce a change
 of form, but they cannot be considered necessary to the pro-
 duction of a dimorphism, or to afford any insight into the pro-
 bable cause of the phsenomenon.

  --53. Influence of circumstances. In the preceding section

 we have seen that the assumption of one or other form by di-
 morphous bodies is very much influenced by circumstances.
 Hence dimorphism has been said to be due to the different cir-
 cumstances under which a substance crystallizes. But this is
 only to look on the surface of the change, and would imply that
  you have only to vary the circumstances in order to produce
 another and another form, and that thus the number of forms
 in which a substance may exhibit itself is limited only by the
  number of changes that can be effected in the circumstances.

  It implies also that similar circumstances, or a similar change of
  circumstances, should produce a similar effect on all substances ·
  but neither of these things is the case, so far as observation has
  gone ; there must, therefore, be something in the internal struc-
  ture of the mass, in the form, the mechanical arrangement or
--204 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

physical relations of its molecules, which incline it to assume

one or other of a certain number of forms, and to assume each
only under certain fixed conditions. Were these conditions

fully understood, some light would be thrown on the internal
cause ; or were the form and relations of the molecules known,
we might be able to specify what crystalline forms theyare fitted

to build up, and under what conditions. It is stopping short
however to attribute the phenomena to the circumstances under

which they are displayed ; for though we may not be able at

present to see far beyond them, yet we should be ready to

perceive and to avail ourselves of the first glimpse of light.

 --54. Change hi the intensity of the axial forces. The optical

phenomena exhibited by certain crystallized bodies, as the topaz,

when raised to a high temperature, and of others when submitted

to mechanical pressure, have suggested to Sir D. Brewster the

idea that under the new conditions, a change takes place in the

relative intensity of the axial forces resident in the molecule,

and that of this change the new phfenomena are a consequence.

And as his beautiful researches have shown that the optical

phenomena are almost universally true indices of the crystal-

line form, he attributes the phenomena of dimorphism to a more

or less permanent change in this relative intensity of the forces,

caused by the circumstances in which the bodies happen to be

placed during crystallization. If the attractive forces in the di-

A --+rection of two axes, and B, be respectively and , and if by

an alteration of temperature the intensity of the one be elevated

and the other depressed, so that they change signs and become
--respectively
                and + , it is easy to understand how, if at liberty

to move, the molecules in which this change takes place should

make a partial revolution, and build up a crystalline mass of a

new form. But this only removes the difficulty a step further
back ; it merely explains how heat and other circumstances may
produce the phsenomena, it does not affect to explain why. The
true question still remains behind, What specific relations, me-

chanical or physical, exist among the molecules of each sub-

stance, that the same circumstances do not affect all alike ?

--55. Union of the Molecules in the direction of different axes.
   This difficulty is in some measure got over by the supposition

of Voltz*. He supposes the crystalline molecules of all bodies

to be possessed of three unequal axes, in which reside polar

   * Transactions of the Nat. Hist. Soc. of Strasburg, 1833. The only know-
ledge I have of M. Voltz's views is derived from L' Institict, 29th March and
8th Aug., 1834, and from a paper by Mr. Dana, in Sittimaris Journal, xxx.

p. 294; it is not impossible therefore that in endeavouring to give a clear state-

ment of his views I may have unintentionally misrepresented them.
ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.                       205

forces, the intensity of which is inversely as the lengths of these

axes. Further, that these molecules may unite in the direction

either of the like or of any of the unlike axes, and that upon the
junction or approximation of the axes in which they reside the

opposite polar forces unite and neutralize (?) each other as in

a chemical compound.

   On these suppositions the influence of circumstances is of a

less vital character than on that of Sir D. Brewster. They do

not alter the relative intensity of the forces, they only affect

-- --the mechanical condition the relative position it may be of

the molecules, so as to allow them to approach and unite in the

direction of one axis rather than another.

If the molecules be united in groups three and three, so that

the unlike axes unite

                       a.b. c

                       ac .  .b

                       ab . c .

                    a + b + c.a + b + c.a + b + c

the resultant axes and the forces resident in them are all equal,
or the crystal belongs to the regular system. According to
Voltz all regular forms are built up in this way.

   Again, let them unite in pairs thus,
                                  a .b. c
                                  a.c.b

                          2a . b+c . b+c

and we have a square octohedron, or some other form belonging
to the pyramidal (2 and 1 axial) system.

   If they unite in equal numbers in the direction of each axis
                                   a.b.c
                                  a b c. .

                           2a . 2b . 2c

we have a crystal belonging, like the molecules* themselves, to
the prismatic (1 and 1 axial) system.

   It is easy to see that certain dimensions being given for one

of these forms, the dimensions of another may be calculated
from them on the above suppositions. M. Voltz has so far veri-

fied his principle as to deduce the dimensions of the rhomboid
of calc spar from those of the right rhombic prism of arragonite,
and the form of rutile from that of anatase.

   * It is not necessary that the molecules, to meet the views of M. Voltz, should

he considered as regular prismatic forms. An oblate ellipsoid has three unequal

axes, which would answer all the conditions.
--206 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

    In regard to the difference of physical properties exhibited by

the unlike forms of the same substance, M. Voltz considers that

the axes as well as the forces resident in each being independent
in magnitude, the physical properties in the direction of the

three axes must always differ in a greater or less degree. The
density, hardness, refraction, reflection, dilatability by heat
and compressibility along the unlike axes being unequal in the
molecule, must vary also in the crystalline mass with the way in
which the molecules are grouped together to form it, and hence
the physical properties of the mass will depend in some mea-
sure on the system of crystallization to which its form belongs.

   These views of M. Voltz may not be correct, yet they are
deserving of much consideration. They may embody only a
part of the truth, or they may hereafter prove to be wholly in
error yet they have more the air of a vera causa than any of the

                   ;

other hypotheses we have considered, and they may be instru-
mental in pointing the way to something still more satisfactory.

                                            X.

 --56. Extent of Dimorphism. Is dimorphism or heteromor-

phism universal ; may all substances assume two or more in-
compatible forms ? To this question we cannot at present give

a direct reply ; there are considerations, however, partly theo-
retical and partly drawn from observation, which seem to render

it probable, that if not all, at least a very great number of cry-
stallizable substances are heteromorphous.

   57. According to any of the suppositions (53, 54, 55) by
which dimorphism has been accounted for, as above stated, the
power of assuming more than one form ought not to be restricted
to any number or to any class of bodies whether simple or
compound. If it be caused by change of circumstances, all
substances may be placed in new conditions ; if to a change
in the relative intensity of the axial forces, all ought to be more or
less liable to such a change ; while the theory of Voltz implies,

that all being made up of molecules with three unlike axes, may
assume one or other of a much more numerous suite of forms

than observation has hitherto given us reason to suspect in any one

known substance. Still these explanations are all hypothetical
and though we ought not altogether to lose sight of the conclu-
sion to which they would direct us, we are not justified in allowing
such theoretical views to do more than awaken in our minds a
suspicion that all substances may ultimately prove to be dimor-

phous.

   58. Again, if we turn to the department of observation, and
consider how little the forms of bodies have been studied, how
ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.          207

much less even the relations of these forms to temperature and

other circumstances of an unusual character have been attended
to, we shall see cause to believe that the number of bodies capable

of assuming two or more forms must be vastly greater than we

can as yet be aware of.

   59. In the great majority of cases we have yet to learn where
and how to look for the second forms of bodies. This is stri-
kingly illustrated by the beautiful observation of Frankenheim in
regard to the crystallization of nitrate of potash from its solu-
tion in water. As the evaporation proceeds crystals of two
kinds are distinguished, prisms of the ordinary form and six-
sided plates of the second form ; but as the prisms are prolonged
they come in contact with the plates, give rise to an immediate
movement among their particles, and incorporate them with
their own mass, so that the ultimate result of the crystallization
is an unmixed crop of crystals of the common form.

    In most cases of crystallization it is only the final result we

--can observe or have hitherto regarded may there not be very

many cases in which changes analogous to those observed in
nitre may take place, a knowledge of which would enable us

greatly to enlarge our list of dimorphous bodies ?

   60. An analogous observation of Ehrenberg* suggests the

 same question, and makes an affirmative reply still more pro-
bable. In examining the crystallization of common salt under

 the microscope, he states that the first crystals formed were

 generally six-sided tables, in the centre of which a cubical point

 would suddenly appear and gradually increase in size, while the
 tabular crystal dissolved around it and at length disappeared.

The hexagonal crystals had much resemblance to the hydra^ed

 tables observed by Mitscherlich at very low temperatures, so
 that the present does not appear to be a case of dimorphism.
 Still it points in the same direction as the observation of Frank-
 enheim, tells us to keep an eye on the same class of phenomena,

 instructs us not to rest satisfied with a knowledge of the final
 form of a crystallized body, but if possible to follow the march

 of the molecules, to note the successive stages at which they
 seem to rest for a time, and to mark the transformations they

 may undergo before they reach that form.
    61. The circumstances also, the range of temperature for

 example, within which a certain form can exist, is sometimes
 very limited. Thus a solution of carbonate of lime in carbonic

  acid, if allowed to evaporate and crystallize in the cold gives

  only calc spar, if evaporated on the sand bath it is almost en-

* Pog. An. Z. R. vi., p. 240.
 208 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

 tirely arragonite. Chloride of calcium precipitated by carbonate
 of ammonia in the cold gives calc spar, if both solutions be
 boiling the result is arragonite ; and yet at a low red heat arra-
 gonite is again changed into calc spar. Thus it would appear
 that the conditions as to temperature in which the molecules

 may unite to form calc spar are various and recurrent, and that
 so far as we yet know arragonite is not formed at a temperature

 below perhaps 80° or 100° F., and cannot exist above 700° °r

 800° F. It may be necessary therefore to observe the forms
 assumed by bodies at many different temperatures, not perhaps
 very remote from each other, before we shall be able to pro-
 nounce as to their ability to assume more than one form.

    The application of the microscope to the examination of the
 phenomena of crystallization promises to add much to our know-
 ledge. In the hands of Ehrenberg, Frankenheim, Gustav Rose,
 and Talbot it has already given us much interesting information,
but a rich harvest awaits the further use of this new instrument
 on a field hitherto almost untouched by it.

    62. But the clearest and most extended inference in regard
to the number of individual substances which are likely to prove
 dimorphous (trimorphous perhaps or polymorphous), is to be
 drawn from the existence of a dimorphism in certain chemical
groups, the individual members of which are only monomor-
phous, or conversely from the known existence of dimorphous
individuals in large strictly chemical and isomorphous groups.
In a former section (section iv.) we have discussed the probabi-
lity of a heteromorphism being observed in all the members of
the groups of the first class, and of all the members of those of
the second class proving isodi or isetfmnorphous, and we have
seen strong reason to believe that this expectation will not ulti-

mately be disappointed. How great a number of individuals

these observations when made will add to the substances in our

first table need not be pointed out ; it is sufficient that in the

circumstance here alluded to we see another reason for believing
that in nature the assumption of two or more incompatible forms
is very far from being a rare phsenomenon.

    63. Theory and observation therefore unite in suggesting
that dimorphism, instead of being an exception, as it still in
some measure appears, to the ordinary laws of crystallization,

may prove to be a general, perhaps a universal consequence of
those laws. The utility of the present report consists mainly

in its bringing together the scattered fragments of our certain

--knowledge in pointing out the inquiries they indicate, and the

conclusions to which they lead, and in its setting up a landmark

to which it may be interesting, perhaps curious to refer in a fu-
                ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.                 209

ture and more advanced state of the science, when observation
shall have verified some, perhaps falsified the whole of our most

likely predictions.

                XI.

   64. Relation of the Crystalline doctrine of Dimorphism to

--the Chemical doctrine of Isomorphism. The differences hither-

Ato observed between the properties of the two forms and B of

any dimorphous body are physical only ; if we impart to them
unlike chemical relations also, they become isomeric.

65. The fact that two or more substances may consist of the

same elements united in the same proportion, and have the same

atomic weight, and yet possess unlike properties, chemical as well

as physical, is at least as new to chemistry as the doctrine of
dimorphism is to crystallography. Both classes of phenomena

--are due to a mechanical change in the relative position, distances,

&c. of the particles of bodies ; for what we call chemical differ-

ences are only physical differences of a higher order. Those of

isomerism, however, are more general, implying or carrying

along with them those of dimorphism. Isomeric bodies in their

several states not only exhibit different chemical properties, but

assume also unlike crystalline forms, though the relations among

these forms have not as yet been examined with that care which

the subject deserves, and would probably well repay.

66. Without affecting to understand how these two orders

of differences are actually produced in nature, we can yet con-

ceive how they might be produced under certain given conditions.

For let the crystalline particles of which sensible crystals are

--immediately built up be prismatic have three unlike axes

then according to the views of Voltz dimorphism may be ac-

counted for. But let these crystalline particles be themselves

groups (and we are certain that such a particle of a compound

body must contain more than one, some many molecules), the

several members of which may be collocated at different distances

or in different relative positions, and we have, independent of and

beyond the supposed cause of dimorphism, another means of

producing changes of a profounder character, which may affect

the chemical relations of the crystalline particles while it alters

also the relative lengths of their several axes. It is immaterial

whether the ultimate molecules have the form of prisms, of ob-

late ellipsoids, or of spheres ; it is necessary only that by their

collocation they may produce prismatic crystalline forms, and all

the known phenomena can be conceived. According to this

view, there is a sh'ong analogy between the two classes of phe-

--nomena as regards the mode by which they are produced the

vol. vi. 1837.  p
--210 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

one change commencing as it were where the other ends, and
basing itself upon it.

    67. Thereare other analogies also between these two doctrines.
Isomerism like dimorphism is dependent on circumstances, is
developed in certain cases by change of temperature. Thus ac-
cording to Lowig* the racemic (paratartaric) acid is changed
into the tartaric by simple fusion. The crystals of anhydrous

cyanuric acid (3Cy + 60 + 3H) distilled at a heat below redness

into a vessel cooled to the freezing temperature, gives a liquid

hydrated cyanic acid 3 (CyO + HO), which on attaining the tem-

--perature of the air changes into a colourless solid the inso-

luble cyanic acid. During these changes there is no escape or
loss of any of the elements. The polymeric carbo-hydrogens
seem to change into one another, in a certain order, by an ele-
vation of temperature j the sugars, gums, and starches also
pass into each other by a slight alteration of circumstances,
and future observation will doubtless make us acquainted with

the conditions necessary for the production of the several mem-
bers of the known and of many other as yet unknown isomeric

groups.

   68. Connected as these two classes of phsenomena seem to be
in their probable origin, and by the kind of circumstances under

which they are developed, they may be expected to throw some
light on each other. Thus if substances may appear in more
than two or three isomeric states, be isotri or isopo/ymerlc, why
may they not also be tri or polymorphic ? In whatever degree
we consider these two classes of appearances to be analogous,
in the same degree will be strengthened the probability we have
already seen to exist, that the forms which the same body may

assume are not limited to two or even three.
   G9. Again, if simple substances, like sulphur and carbon,

may assume two incompatible forms, may they not present
themselves in two isomeric states ? If they are susceptible of
that internal molecular change to which dimorphism is due, why
not also of that deeper change, as we suppose it, to which iso-

--merism is owing by which difference in chemical relations is

produced ?

  An affirmative answer to this question will probably be the

next great step in chemical science, advancing the knowledge
of our time at least as far as the discovery of the alkaline me-
tals carried forward the chemistry of the time of Davy.

   70. Meanwhile the probability of such a discovery does not
rest merely on a supposed analogy between the phsenomena of

                                           » Fog. An., xlii. p. 588.
ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.  211

dimorphism and isomerism ; there exist also other observed ana-
logies which point to that reduction in the number of received
elementary substances which must necessarily follow the esta-

blishment of the supposition that elementary bodies are suscep-
tible of isomerism.

   Thus certain compounds, like cyanogen, known by the name

of radicals, exhibit all the chemical relations to the elementary
bodies by which simple substances belonging to the same class
(chlorine, bromine, &c.) are distinguished ; the latter therefore

may likewise be compound.

   Again, the chemical and physical relations of the several states
of isomeric bodies are sometimes (cyanogen and paracyanogen)
at least as distinct from each other as those exhibited by the
several elementary substances comprised in almost any of the
natural groups*. This consideration adds weight to the hypo-
thesis that the latter are not simple.

   71. The speculations of chemists in regard to the probable
diminution of the number of received elementary bodies have
hitherto run only in the channel of decomposition. Nor is
this surprising, since up to the present time the greatest ac-
cessions to our knowledge have flowed to us through this chan-
nel. It has been often supposed that any given elementary
substance A, as happened with the alkalies and earths, may
prove to be made up of two others known or unknown ; and
that in any two of them, if the constituents prove the same,
they may be united together in different proportions. The
idea of a possible transformation has hitherto hardly been
thought of ; and yet the doctrine of isomerism, rich already in
its numerous discoveries, has shown that any number of the re-

ceived elementary bodies may be made up of the same elements
united in the same proportion. That they are so made up is in

no degree the less probable, that under no circumstances have
we ever observed any two (as iodine and bromine) to be trans-
formed into each other, since even of the isomeric groups few
are yet known, the members of which are mutually convertible
by methods as yet understood or at our command.

   Regarding the question under this new point of view, it will

appear that the study of the several kinds of physical and che-

mical properties which the same portion of matter may assume,

and of the circumstances which influence the development of
one or other of these kinds, if it do not ultimately solve, is not
unlikely to throw considerable light upon this, the most inter-

   * Cyanogen is not more like to paracyanogen than oxygen is to sulphur
less so than chlorine is to iodine. See Transactions of the Royal Society of
Edinburgh for 1 836, vol. xiv.

                                             p2
212 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

esting problem now present to the minds of chemical philoso-

 phers.

    72. Are the elementary substances isomeric ? is another form
of the question, Are the received elements really compound ?
inasmuch as it indicates a desire to diminish the number of the

 simple substances ; but it is a very different question as regards

the way in which the number is supposed to be capable of di-

 minution.

    For this diminution by the process of decomposition the hopes
of chemists rest almost entirely on the application of galvanism
or some similarly powerful agent, directed by the skill of a Davy

or a Faraday ; it may be however that the patient study and
pursuit of the kindred classes of phsenomena we have been con-
sidering, shall in some brighter moment show that substances

considered elementary are yet mutually convertible without de-

composition ; while the question may still remain unsettled, per-
haps untouched, whether any of them be compound or not. Are

the received elements isomeric ? is thus preliminary to the ques-

tion, Are they compound ? and in the case of some of them may

receive the earlier answer.

   73. It may indeed be that all our supposed elementary bodies

are in reality such, and therefore wholly beyond the resolving
energy of electricity or any other agent, and yet the study of
their changes and reactions in the laboratory, in conformity

perhaps with new views or modes of investigation, may at some

future period so enlarge our dominion over the molecules as
shall cause them at our bidding to assume this or that arrange-

-- --ment to appear with the properties of chlorine or iodine of

--cobalt or nickel of rhodium, iridium, or osmium.
  --Such speculations are not only of high interest they are of

--use also in suggesting new investigations in urging the expe-

rimenter to try new methods in the hope of being guided to new

results. I have ventured to introduce these speculations at the
close of the present report, with the view of showing the con-
nection of isomeric and dimorphous differences with the highest
questions and objects of research in the existing state of inor-

ganic chemistry. The path along which they lead us is as yet
dark and obscure, but it is certain to guide us to rich and open '
fields, perhaps to some hill top from which new domains may
be descried, and from which the descent is easy to new con-

quests.

    74. In the advance of the sciences of observation it is seldom

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

that the same instrument has been the means of producing two'
great revolutions in the same department. The balance in the
hands of Lavoisier overturned the phlogistic theory ; but though
ON DIMORPHOUS BODIES.  213

the surest weapon of the modern chemist, it is doubtful if it can

ever again produce such an overthrow of received opinions. By

its aid Dalton and others established the atomic theory ; but this

was rather a splendid addition to our knowledge than the refu-

tation of a prevailing creed. By the aid of the galvanic battery
Davy effected the brilliant revolution with which his name is

associated. The line of Faraday's researches, though directed

towards a similar end, and strewed along its whole course with
beautiful results, has yet led him to no higher dominion over

refractory matter ; and though we have much to hope for from
the wonderful weapon he has learned to wield so skilfully, we
have reason also to fear lest if we trust to this weapon alone we
should ultimately be disappointed. With the goniometer Mit-

scherlich has gained for science those remarkable branches of

myknowledge, to the actual state of one of which it has been

object to draw the attention of British philosophers in the pre-

ceding report; and it is not a little remarkable that the progress
of these branches of knowledge seems likely to be arrested by the

same question which electricians since the days of Davy have
often asked themselves, Are the elementary bodies really simple ?
Which of these branches of inquiry is destined to solve the dif-

-- --ficulty will the honour be shared by each or must a third

branch arise, bearing a new weapon to carry away the glory from

both?

   I cannot close this report without noticing more fully than I

have yet had an opportunity of doing how very much this de-

partment of knowledge has been indebted to Professor Mit-

scherlich of Berlin. To this distinguished philosopher we owe

the first recognition of the principle of dimorphism, as well as

the subsequent discovery of many of the most interesting exam-
ples of its manifestation with which we are yet acquainted. In
reading his various memoirs on this and kindred subjects, it is
difficult to determine whether we should admire most the inge-
nuity and extreme beauty of his researches, the brevity and
clearness with which his most important results are announced,

the grave and philosophic air which pervades his deductions,
or the unity of purpose observable even in the most seemingly
insignificant of his published investigations. The order of his

memoirs exhibits not only the progress of his own inquiries, but
at the same time of the branches of knowledge he has created.
In his own walk he has trodden almost alone, and there is perhaps
in our time no other example among the sciences of observation
of an entire department depending for so many years on the
single labours of one individual. It is to be presumed that many
--214 SEVENTH KEPORT 1837»

understand the researches of Mitscherlich, that some at least
are qualified to go forward in the same path with himself, yet
no one has ventured to shoot out into the main current of his
inquiries or to dispute with him the honour of leading the ad-

--vance. It is certain indeed that in all the necessary qualifica-

tions, in knowledge of the subject, andin devotion to its advance-
ment, as well as in intellectual gifts and acquirements, no living
philosopher could replace the present leader. Could any other be
expected to prosecute it so zealously as he whose mind has given

it birth ?

  We may be permitted therefore to wish and hope that the

labours of this distinguished observer may be long continued to
us, that he may win new laurels to himself and add new domains

to the sciences he has already so greatly enriched. If the pre-

sent report make his discoveries more familiar to the rising phi-
losophers of our own country, or lead into the field of dimorphism
one mind yet undecided what path of science to choose, its main

objects will not be wholly unattained.

  --Desiderata. 1. To determine the physical differences which

exist between the incompatible crystals of the same dimorphous
substance. (See blanks in Tables I. and IV.)

   2. Within what limits of temperature is each form stable ?
within what other (?) limits may each form exist. (61.) ?

   3. In general we are acquainted only with the final result of

crystallization : do bodies not pass through (so to speak) one
or more forms as they crystallize till they ultimately assume

one more stable than the rest ? The microscope will aid this

inquiry. (60.)

   4. In isomorphous groups of which one member is dimor-

phous, to observe if, under certain circumstances hitherto neg-

lected, the other members may not also be dimorphous. If

mineral substances, specimens from different localities should
be studied and measured. (20.)

  --5. In groups represented by like chemical formula, but
--the several members of which do not all assume the same form

(32.), to determine if the several known forms belonging to
the group do not also belong or may not be assumed by each
member of the group. (32.)

  6. When two series of unlike physical properties (33.) are

assumed by the same chemical substance, to observe if each
series includes a different crystalline form.

    7. In the present state of the doctrine of isomorphism it is
of importance to collect and tabulate examples of like form in
               ON DIMOBPHOUS BODIES.  215

substances represented by unlike formulas. (See Table III.)
They seem to point to a modification of received opinions.

   8. In cases of reputed pseudomorphism to examine minutely
the circumstances under which the changed crystals occur, and

the nature of the crystals themselves ; some of them may prove

to be cases of dimorphism. (40.)

   9. To observe by the aid of the microscope or otherwise the

change which fusible substances undergo in the different stages

of cooling after solidification. Some (5. 6. Table IV.) sub-

stances appear in cooling to pass through, as it were, interme-
diate forms which they cannot retain, before they reach that
state of crystalline arrangement which is proper to the stationary

temperature. If one substance be known to exhibit such trans-
formations, to inquire if all substances represented by the same
formulas may exhibit them.

   10. What difference of molecular arrangement, as indicated

by the optical properties, exists in the viscid state of melted
sulphur compared with the limpid states it assumes at a higher
and at a lower temperature (47) ? Are analogous phenomena,
differences of colour, density, fluidity, &c, observable in other
fluids at different temperatures ? Can any other gases exhibit-
ing like changes be added to the solitary example of nitrous

acid? (48.)

   In connexion with this subject every accurate measurement

of a crystal, every nice determination of the hardness or density

of a well crystallized specimen, and above all every careful
analysis of specimens previously measured and weighed is of

great value. For though not immediately available in clearing
up any obscure or disputed point, they will form a sound basis
for future reasonings, will indicate new analogies among cry-
stalline compounds, and will gradually lead us forward to wider

generalizations.

Durham, 1838.
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  217

Special Report on the Statistics of the Four Colectomies of
                  DuJchun, under the British Government.

[In spelling Oriental words, the a is the re in all, the u as in hid ; the rest
                                      have the usual English sound.]

The General Committee of the British Association which met
at Cambridge in 1833, did me the honour to pass a resolution
that I should prepare for publication my manuscripts respect-
ing the Statistics of Dukhun (Deccan). I have been anxious

to respond to so flattering a desire at an earlier period, but

having placed my manuscripts in the hands of a distinguished

person, as auxiliary to his scientific labours, I have been de-
terred from reclaiming them until the objects for which they
had been placed at his disposal were realised.

    In responding at last to the call of the British Association,

I feel very considerable embarrassment in adapting my ma-
terials to the space which can be afforded to me in its annual
volume. The materials, in fact, are very voluminous; and
the nature of my subject embracing multitudinous details,

figured statements, and lengthened tables, makes it a work
of no ordinary difficulty to digest, abridge, and condense them

without involving my subject in obscurity, and exposing my-

self to the imputation of inefficient inquiry from the hiatus
which must appear. I beg, therefore, distinctly to state, that
the absence of information observable in the following Report,
is attributable, not to paucity of matter, but to the want of a
sufficient field in which to display it.

                  Extent and Physical Circumstances.

   I propose to give but a meagre sketch of the statistics of
Dukhun; a mere enumeration of its population, products,
manufactures, revenues, civil divisions, &c, with little more
comment than may be necessary to ensure perspicuity.

   In the execution of my public duties as Statistical Reporter
to the government of Bombay, my researches made me ac-
quainted with the statistics of the four collectorates of Duk-
hun, denominated the Poona, Ahmednuggur, Candeish or
Khandesh, and Dharwar Collectorates ; facts were also col-

lected respecting the territories of the Rajah of Sattarah, and
some few details came to hand illustrative of the state of the
possessions of the southern Mahratta Jagheerdars, which are
--218 SKVENTH REPORT 1837-

under British protection. In adverting to the whole of these
territories, although I shall name them separately in describing
their extent, physical circumstances, and civil divisions, it will
only be to notice where they differ from each other.

   The whole of the above territories, containing 3,285,985

inhabitants, spread over 48,987 square miles, and averaging
67 inhabitants to the square mile, lie upon that elevated
plateau, which has an abrupt termination on the western side
of India, in what are usually denominated the Ghats, but
which plateau gradually declines, occasionally by a succession
of low steps, as is seen by the courses of rivers to the Coro-
mandel coast, excepting in Khandesh (Khind meaning a gap or

trench, and Desh a country.) where the river Tapty disem-

bogues to the westward, from the peculiar configuration of the

narrow valley in which this collectoratc lies. Some of the
platforms on the summit of the Ghats have an elevation of
5000 feet above the sea, but the general level of the main
plateau of Dukhun is about 2000 feet high near the Ghats,
and scarcely exceeds 1000 feet in the eastern limits of the col-
lectorates. The whole territory is mountainous near to the
Ghats, and has numerous valleys, some of them narrow and
tortuous, others broad, open, and flat. At from thirty to fifty

miles eastward from the Ghats, most of the mountain spurs
which produce the valleys terminate, and the country becomes
open and tolerably level for considerable distances, with an
occasional step down to the eastward ; the country, in fact,
being made up of beds of trap, the beds extending the
further to the eastward the lower they are in the series.

There is much forest and underwood and jungle along the

line of the Ghats ; but to the eastward the country is open,
and there is a want of wood parts of Khandesh and Dhar-

                                                                                                                                                       ;

war are exceptions to this description. The western tracts

along the Ghats are called the Mawuls, in contradistinction
to the open country, which is called the Desh or Des.

   It may be as well to state here that all lands in Dukhun

are classed within some village boundary or other, and this
boundary is maintained with such jealousy and tenacity by
the inhabitants, as to lead to frequent feuds and bloodshed on

the slightest invasion of village rights. The village consti-

tution and the occupancy of lands will be mentioned under

land-tenures.

  --Rivers. The rivers of Dukhun, which in the monsoon flow

with a magnificent volume of water, in the hot season present a
broad gravelly bed, with only a thread-like stream in many of
them, but from natural barriers of rock in the bed of the
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  219

Beema, Godavery, Kistnah, and other large rivers of Dukhun,

extensive sheets of water, called Dho or Dhao, are formed,

--which abound with fish.
   Roads and Bridges. The roads in Dukhun, with the ex-

ception of two great military roads, are untouched by art ; and

few of the rivers can boast of a bridge.

                                            Geology.

    Previously to entering into descriptive details, I will state in

a few words, that the whole country comprised within my

boundaries is composed of distinctly stratified trap rocks,
without the intervention of the rocks of any other formation.
Whether at the level of the sea, or at the elevation of 4500
feet, in all and every part beds of basalt and amygdaloid are
found alternating, whose superior and inferior planes preserve
a striking parallelism to each other, and, as far as the eye can
judge, to the horizon. Barometrical measurements and the
course of rivers indicate a declination of the country to the
east-south-east, and south-east ; from the town of Goreh,
latitude 19 o, 0o and longitude 74>o# 05, on the Goreh river,
following a mean course for the river until it falls into the
Beema, and subsequently, continuing a mean course for the
Beema, until its junction with the Seena river, the distance
is about 200 miles, and the declination 671 feet: there may
therefore be a trifling dip of the strata ; but as a succession
of low terraces occur in that distance, the apparent horizontal
position of the strata may be unaffected by the above dif-

ference oflevel.

    Dr. M'Culloch, describing the overlying or trap rocks,
says, " these masses are generally irregular, but sometimes

bear indistinct marks of stratification*." As Dr. M'Culloch's

language implies the rare occurrence of stratification, instead

of its being a distinctive feature, at least, of the Indian branch
of the trap family, I deem it necessary to quote the few

authors who have written on Indian geology, in confirmation
of the fact I have stated f

    * Classification of Rocks, p. 466.

   t " These mountains (the Vindhya range), like every other in Malwa,

appear to be distinctly stratified, consisting of alternate horizontal beds of
basalt or trap, and amygdaloid. Fourteen of these beds may, in general, be
reckoned, the thinnest at the top, and rapidly increasing in thickness as they
lower in position, the basalt stratum at the bottom being about 200 feet thick."
Again, at page 327, he says, " In the upper plains of Malwa, every point of
view presents the same uniform and distinctly streaked appearance noticed in
the Vindhya range." Captain Dangerfield, in Geological Notices of Malwa,
in Appendix, No. 2, to Sir John Malcolm's Central India, pp. 322, 327.
--220 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

  --Ghats. The Dukhun rises, by a succession of terraces or

steps, very abruptly from the Konkun : its valleys and table-

lands have a mean elevation above the sea of about 1800 feet.
The Konkun is a long strip of land, from thirty to fifty miles
in breadth, lying between the Ghats and the sea : the mean

elevation of this strip is less than 100 feet ; but it is bristled

with isolated hills or short ranges, some of which attain an

elevation equaling that of the Ghats. Numerous shoulders or

salient angles are thrown out from the Ghats, from the western

or Konkun side, and by means of these the ascent to Dukhun
is affected ; with what difficulty, will be understood when I
state that the military road of communication between Bombay

and Poona, up the Bore Ghat, rises nearly 600 feet in a mile.

The western portion of my tract along the crest of the Ghats

is exceedingly strong : spurs of different lengths extend from

the main range to the eastward and south-east, leaving many

narrow tortuous valleys between them, some of which have

the character of gigantic cracks or fissures ; other valleys,

although occurring less frequently, when looked at from the

neighbouring ranges appear as flat and smooth as a billiard-

table, even to the Ghats ; but when traversed, are found to

be cut up by numerous narrow and deep ravines. Stupendous

scarps, fearful chasms, numerous waterfalls, dense forests, and

perennial verdure, complete the majesty and romantic interest

of the vicinity of the Ghats. As the spurs extend to the

east and south-east they diminish in height, until they dis-

appear on approaching the open plains in my eastern limits,
between the Beema and Seena rivers. The area of the table-

land on their summit often exceeds that of the valley between

them ; such is the case with the spur bordering the left bank
of the Beema river for forty miles from its source, occupying,
in fact, the whole country between the sources of the Beema

and Goreh rivers.

The spurs are rarely tabular for their whole length, but

narrow occasionally into ridges capped with compact basalt,
and subsequently expand into extensive table lands. The

spur originating in the hill-fort of Hurreechundurghur af-

fords a good example. The fort is about eighteen miles in

Oncircumference.   the east, it presents a salient angle to the

   Dr. Voysey, in a paper on the Geological and Mineralogical Structure of
the vicinity of Nagpoor, says, " From the summit of the hill of Sitabuldee the
difference in the outline of the rocks eastward is very perceptible. The flat-
tened summits and long flat outline, with the numerous gaps of the trap hills,

--are exchanged for the ridgy, peaked, sharp outline of the primary rocks."
    Physical Class of the Asiatic Researches, p. 127.
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                          221

neighbouring mountain; absolute contact, however, only com-

mences at about 400 feet from the top of the scarp, leaving a

gap and an extremely narrow ridge, over which lies a difficult

footpath of communication between the valley of the Malsej

Ghat and that of the Mool river.  The     spur  then  widens
                                                                                      ;

some lateral ramifications shoot out, on one of which is

situated the fort of Koonjurgbur. At the Brahmun Wareh

pass it narrows considerably, but not into a ridge ; it subse-

quently expands into the extensive and well-peopled table

land of Kanoor and Parneir, twenty-four miles long by twenty

broad, having diminished in height by a succession of steps

from 3894 feet in Hurreechundurghur, to 2866 at Brahmun

Wareh, 2474 at Parneir, and 2133 on the terrace of Ahmed-

nuggur. From Ahmednuggur the spur bends southwards

until it is finally lost in the neighbourhood of Sholapoor. It
is, in fact, the margin of a great plateau, which has a mean
elevation of about 300 feet above the valley of the Godavery

river, and over which the rivers Goreh, Beema, Seena, &c.

take their course. The basaltic caps of the ridges appear

more or less columnar from numerous vertical fissures ; the

weathering of these exposed rocks produces pillars, spires,
towers, houses, and other forms of works of art. Another

feature of these spurs is the occasional occurrence on their

table lands of small hummocks or conical hills with a trun-
cated apex. Dr. Voysey mentions " groups of flattened
summits and isolated conoidal frusta" in the Gawelghur Trap

Mountains. One of the longest of the spurs originates in

the Ghats north-west of Sattarah, and runs nearly east-south-

east about 100 miles towards Punderpoor.

The spur immediately south of Poona, on the ramifications

of which are situated the formidable fortresses of Singhur

(4162 feet) and Poorundhur, (at nearly the same elevation)

--has an extent of ninety-five miles.
   Valleys. Much having been said respecting valleys of

excavation, I think it may be acceptable to offer a few obser-

vations on the valleys between the spurs. I shall describe

only those that present the greatest contrasts to each other.

  --Valley of the Mota River. The valley of the Mota river,

south of Poona, originating in a mass of hills on the edge

of the Ghats, is so exceedingly narrow that for some miles

the bases of the opposite hills frequently touch each other,

leaving at intervals little horizontal plots of a pistol-shot in

width ; these plots occur in terraces, on lower levels, as they

extend eastward.

  --Vale of the Under, The valley of the Under river, north-
--222 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

west of Poona, presents a perfect contrast to the last. It is

level for twenty miles, running east and west to the very edge

of the  Ghats                              and  a  person  can  stand  at  the  head  of the
                                        ;

valley, upon the brink of a scarp, rising almost from the

Konkun. Here, at the source of the river, it is nearly six
miles wide. The river Under runs down the valley 150 feet

below the level of the cultivated lands.

If these valleys be valleys of excavation, the present rivers

could scarcely produce such, were we to suppose their powers

of attrition in operation from the origin of things even to the

end of time !

Those of a fissure-like character might have resulted from

the upheaving of the beds of trap from below the sea, and the

consequent probable fracture of the surface; but the same

explanation will not apply to those valleys associated

with the preceding, broad, flat, and margined by scarped

mountains, which valleys are as wide at their origin at the

crest of the Ghats, and at the sources of the rivers which run

--through them, as in any part of their length.
   Terraces. As the rise from the Konkun to the Dukhun is

by terraces, so the declination of the country eastward from the

Ghats is by terraces ; but these occur at much longer intervals,
are much lower, particularly in the eastern parts, and escape the

eye of the casual observer. In the neighbourhood of Munchur,

on the Goreh river, there are five terraces rising above each

other from the east to the west, so distinctly marked that the

parallelism of their planes to each other and to the horizon

Angives them the appearance of being artificial.                                artificial

character also pervades the form of many insulated hills

some of which, viewed laterally, appear to have an extensive

table-land on the summit ; but seen endways, look like trun-

cated cones. Conoidal frusta, in the Gawelgurh range, have

been already noticed. Other insulated hills are triangular in

their superficial planes, as the forts of Teekoneh (three-cor-

nered) and Loghur.

  --Escarpments. Stupendous escarpments are occasionally met

with in the Ghats. In these instances the numerous strata, in-

stead of being arranged in steps, form a continuous wall. At
the Ahopeh pass, at the source of the Goreh river, the wall

or scarp is fully 1500 feet high; indeed, on the north-west

face of the hill fort of Hurreechundurghur, the escarpment can

scarcely be less than double that height. On the other hand,

the steps are sometimes effaced, and a hill has a rapid slope.

This originates in a succession of beds of the softer amyg-

daloids, without any basaltic interstratification ; their superior
            ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  223

angles disintegrate and a slope results. But most usually

three or four beds of amygdaloid are found between two strata

of compact basalt ; the former disintegrates, leaving a slope,

which is not unfrequently covered with forest trees, forming a

picturesque belt. The basaltic scarp remains entire, or it

may be partially buried by the debris from the amygdaloids

above ; but its great thickness usually preserves it from obli-

teration, and it rises from the wood below with majestic

effect, its black front being finely contrasted with the rich and

lively green of its sylvan associate. It is these strata, arranged

in slopes and scarps, repeated three or four times, and

so commonly met with in insulated and other mountains in

Dukhun, that constitute the amazing strength of the hill

forts of the country, leaving a succession of natural walls

encircling a mountain. This feature did not escape the ob-

servation of Captain Dangerfield in Malwa, who says, " From

the great difference in the resistance made to decomposition

by these trap and amygdaloid beds, their exposed ends acquire

a very distinct degree of inclination and character ; the amyg-

daloid forming a great slope and affording a loose mould

covered with vegetation, the trap retaining its original per-

pendicularity and dark bareness."

In the alternation of the strata there does not appear to be

any uniformity ; but the general level, thickness, and extent of a

stratum are preserved, as in sedimentary rocks, on both sides of

a valley ; the basalt and hardest amygdaloids being traceable

for miles in the parallel spurs or ranges ; but the imbedded

--Aminerals, and even the texture, vary in very short distances.
Columnar Basalt.  great geological feature of Dukhun is

the occurrence of columnar basalt. The basalts and hardest

amygdaloids run so much into each other that the line of sepa-

ration is not always readily distinguishable, excepting, of course,

the lines of horizontal stratification. I observed the prismatic

disposition more marked and perfect in the basalt strata than

in the amygdaloids, and the more or less perfect development

of determinate forms was dependent on the compactness and

limited constituents of the rocks. Basalts and amygdaloids,

however compact, with many imbedded matters, rarely formed

columns. Perfect columns were generally small, of four, five,

or six sides ; but the prismatic structure sometimes manifested

itself in basaltic and amygdaloidal columns many feet in

Adiameter.  bare mention of the places where they occur

would testify to their extended localities, but these are too nu-

merous for insertion in this report.

 --Schistose Structure. Following the preceding formation, I
224 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

may mention, that in some few places a schistose structure
was met with, but its extent was limited to a few yards ; the

lamellae were vertical, from an inch to three inches in thickness,

being perfect tables, with parallel bounding planes. The rock

in which this structure occurs is a simple, indurated, gray
clay, which flies into fragments under slight blows from the
hammer. At Dytneh, near Serroor, some very perfect speci-
mens have led the inhabitants to connect mystic influences with

so artificial a development of inorganic matter. The spot is

--daubed with oil and red lead, and venerated.
    Basalt en Boules. Another characteristic feature, is the
general diffusion of those rounded or oval masses of compact
basalt, with concentric layers like the coats of an onion, which
the French geologists denominate Basalt en Boules, and our-

--selves, nodular basalt*.
    Dykes. I now pass to the basaltic dykes, several of which

came under my notice in different parts of the country. They

are all vertical, and I did not observe that they occasioned any
disturbance or dislocation in the strata of basalt and amyg-
 daloid, through which they passed.

   The gentlemen whose geological memoirs I have quoted,

rarely advert to the subject of trap dykes, and their notices

 are very brief. Captain Dangerfield says, " The trap of the
 southern boundary of Malwa is much intersected by vertical

 veins of quartz, or narrow seams of a more compact heavy
 basalt, which appears to radiate from centres." Beyond the
 continuous trap region of the peninsula, Dr. Voysey notices
 a basaltic vein in syenite, near the Cavary river at Se-
 rin^apatam, which must have been propelled upwards, as it
 broke through an oblique seam of hornblende in the syenite,
 and carried the pieces up above the level of the hornblende

 vein. " On the eastern coast," Mr. Calder says, " from Con-

 dapilli northward, the granite is often penetrated, and, ap-

 parently, heaved up by injected veins or masses of trap and

--dykes of green stone."
    Ferruginous Clay. The next distinctive feature is the

     * Dr. Voysey says, "The nodular wachen or basalt is one of the most
 common forms of trap in the extensive districts composed of the rocks of the
  family south of the Nermada (Nerbuddah) river. It occurs perpetually in the

  extensive and lofty range of mountains (the Gawalghur) situated between the
  Purna and Tapti rivers, and appeal's to form their principal mass. It is found
  equally abundant throughout the whole of Berar, part of the provinces of
  Hyderabad, Beder, and Sholapoor, and appears to form the basis of the great
  western range of trap hills which separate the Konkun from the interior of the
  Dukhun." Physical Class, Asiatic Researches, pp. 12G, 189.
ON THE STATISTICS OF DI7KHUN.  225

occurrence of strata of red ochreous rock ; in fact, M'Culloch's
ferruginous clay underlying thick strata of basalt or amyg-

daloid, precisely as is seen to be the case in the Giant's

Causeway in Ireland. It passes through every variety of tex-

ture, from pulverulent, friable, and indurated, to compact

earthy jasper. The stratum is from an inch in thickness to

many feet. The rock makes a red streak on paper, with the

exception of the very indurated kinds, and does not affect the

needle : it is pulverulent near the basaltic columns at Serroor,

friable under subcolumnar red amygdaloid, near the source

of the Seena river, indurated under basalt at Kothool. Al-

though hard, it is here so cellular as to have the appearance

--of sponge, and, reduced to powder, looks like brickdust.
   Pulverulent Limestone. Limestone is met with in the

--Dukhun only in three states pulverulent, nodular, and

crystalline. The first occurs in thin seams on the banks of

rivers and water-courses, and at the base of hills in debris

the seams are from an inch to three feet in thickness, covered

by a few feet of black earth ; sometimes in whiteness it re-

sembles pounded chalk, and is then used by children to smear

their writing boards.

 --Nodular Limestone. The nodular limestone, which is the

well-known kunkur of India, (kunkur being a native word for

nodule,) occurs like the preceding, disseminated or diffused

in the soil, and also on the surface. I have never seen the

nodules of a regular crystalline form ; they vary in size from

a marble to a twelve-pound shot, and many of them are ex-
ceedingly irregular in shape, particularly those dug from the

banks of rivers ; they are sometimes obscurely lenticular ; they

are so abundant in certain localities that they appear as if
showered upon the earth, and disguise its colour. Dr. Bu-

chanan mentions the same fact in Rajmahl. When upon black

soil they are usually minute, and tolerably uniform in size

on other soils their form is variable. In the Ghats, neither

pulverulent nor nodular lime is met with. It is unnecessary

to particularize the localities of the nodular kind, as it is of

common occurrence eastward, from the hilly tracts of the

Ghats, and is the only source of lime for mortar ; a class of

persons making a livelihood by collecting the larger nodules.

When carefully burnt they make an excellent cement.

   Captain Dangerfield describes the occurrence (in Malwa)

in some parts, particularly near the bottom of the small hills

and banks of the rivulets, of a thin bed of loose marl or
coarse earthy limestone. Captain Coulthard says, " In Sagar

a white patch of this limestone mouldering by the weather is

vol. vi. 1837.  Q
--226 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

the source from whence come the particles of kunkur mixed
with the black basaltic earth of the neighbouring valley, in such
proportion as to add increased fertility to it ; and, if a rivulet
meanders through that valley, (and such is generally the fact),
patches, made up of aggregated particles of the same, will
here and there be found ; and this it is which the native
families pick out and work into lime." Captain Coulthard
refers the origin of the nodules to limestone rock underlying
basaltic strata, but I cannot trace them to such a source, not
having seen strata of compact limestone, properly so called, in
the Dukhun. The only specimen of compact limestone met
with by me, was in the bed of the Beema river, near Pundur-
poor ; it was an insulated, amorphous, gray mass, four or five
feet in diameter. I looked upon it as an aggregation of the
pulverulent particles of lime disseminated in the neighbouring

--banks.
    Crystalline Limestone. Lime in a crystalline state occurs
only as an imbedded mineral in the amygdaloidal strata in
quartz geodes, and in the nucleus, or compact part of masses
of mesotype or stilbite. Tt is rare compared with the preceding

--varieties.
   Loose Stoties. Another feature of Dukhun is the occurrence

of immense quantities of loose basalt stones, as if showered upon
the land ; also masses of rock heaped and piled into mounds,
as if by the labour of man. Their partial distribution is not
less remarkable than their abundance. For the most part the
stones have a disposition to a geometrical form, and it is by
no means rare to meet with prisms of three or four sides and
cubes almost perfect ; stones with one or two perfect planes
are very common. Their texture is close-grained, and the

--colour verging to black.
   Rocky Heaps. The singular heaps of rocks and stones above

 noticed occur at Kanoor, Patus, Kheir, between Kurjut and
 Meerujgaon, and at other places in the Mawals, or hilly tracts

of the Ghats. The heaps are from twenty to seventy feet in
diameter, and the same in height. When composed of rocky

 masses, without small stones, blocks of three or four feet
 in diameter, and with a disposition to determinate forms, are
 piled upon each other, constituting rude pillars. In certain
 parts of the country from fifty to sixty of these heaps are seen
 within the area of a couple of square miles^ and it excites sur-

--prise that the intermediate ground is destitute of stones.
    SheetsofRoch. Mentionmust not be omitted of the constant
 recurrence of sheets of rock of considerable extent at the sur-
 face, and totally destitute of soil ; this is particularly the case
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHTJN.             227

in the Mawals, or hilly tracts along the Ghats. They abound

with narrow vertical veins of quartz and chalcedony. When of

sufficient thickness the vein splits in the centre, parallel to

the surface of its walls, the interior being drusy with quartz

crystals. The walls consist of layers of chalcedony, cachalong,

horn-stone, and semi-opal. These veins supply the majority

of the siliceous minerals so abundantly strewed over Dukhun.

--Structure and Mineral Composition of the Trap Rocks.
   The structure and mineral composition of trap rocks in
Dukhun vary exceedingly in short distances, even in the

same stratum; nevertheless, the predominant character does not

disappear, although the basalt, in a continuous bed, may pass

several times from close-grained, compact, and almost black, to

grey, amygdaloidal, and externally decomposing. The same

Aobservation applies to the amygdaloids.  variety of compact

basalt, of an intense green colour, is susceptible of a brilliant

polish, and rivals the celebrated Egyptian kind. It is of great

weight and remarkable hardness; the natives use it to work into

idols for their temples, pedestals to the wooden columns to their
mansions, and slabs for inscriptions. The bulls, of the size

of life, always placed before the temples of Mahadeo, are

cut out of this variety at Raseen, Wurwund and the renowned

Boleshwur. Some of the pedestals in the gateway of the
Mankeswur palace at Teimboornee, look like mirrors. In

the temple of Pooluj, south of Punderpoor, there is a slab six

or seven feet long, and two and a half broad, covered with an

inscription in the Kanree language ; and in Punderpoor the
streets are paved apparently with the same basalt. At

Jehoor, and near Ahmednuggur, is found a compact kind,

like the last, but not so heavy ; it has a crystalline character,
and sharp fracture, and has angular siliceous pebbles im-

bedded : an occasional pebble is found loose in its cell. In

the Happy Valley, near Ahmednuggur, the basalt is compact

and smooth, with reddish flat transparent crystals imbedded.

It opposes a feeble resistance to the hammer, and flies into

fragments, some of which have right angles. The basalt,

even of the true columns, is not of a uniform texture in

different localities ; at times it is blackish or grey, and very

small, granular, or compact ; at others, earthy and ferru-

ginous, particularly externally. The base of the amygdal-

oids is clay, with more or less hornblende disseminated;

they embrace the cellular, porphyritic, hard, friable, and

decomposing. I endeavoured to class them agreeably to the

prevalence of quartz, chalcedony, lime, mesotype, or stilbite,

as imbedded minerals, but found the method of very limited

                                 o2
--228 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

application ; sometimes one mineral only is imbedded, occa-

sionally two, and often the whole.

   In Hurreechundurghur quartz amygdaloid prevails ; at Akla-
poor, on the Mool river, it is characterized by mesotype, that

mineral being imbedded in large masses, and the radii (six or

seven inches) are the longest I have seen ; at Nandoor it

is porphyritic, with several crystalline specks of lime ; near to

Ahmednuggur is seen a cellular, indeed spongiform kind,
Awhich is hard, and the cells are empty.
                                                                                      small cellular and

pisiform variety is found in the wonderful cave temples

of Ellora ; and some of the sculptured figures appear as

if marked by the small-pox. This observation is partially

applicable to the Boodh and Hindoo cave temples of Ele-

phanta, Salsette, Karleh, Joonur, the Naneh Ghat, and the

Adjuntah Ghat, all of which are excavated in basaltic or

amygdaloidal strata. The stilbite, or heulandite amygdaloid, is

of very common occurrence ; but the most prevalent kind

is that in which all the minerals noticed above are asso-

ciated. The stone usually selected for building is of various

shades of grey or bluish grey ; has hornblende disseminated

in very  small  crystals                                         works  much  easier  than  some of the
                                                              ;

compacter basalts, but takes a good polish. The entire

temples of Korrul and Boleshwur, with their innumerable

alto-relievo figures and laboured ornaments, are built of this

variety of trap, which is, in fact, a greenstone, although

less crystalline than the European rock. There is a variety,

selected carelessly, also used in building, which has the struc-

ture, and nearly the external characters of the last, but which

in weathering exfoliates, and the buildings fall to ruin : such

is the case with the great temple in Hurreechundurghur.

   I must not omit mention of two remarkable rocks which, as

far as my reading extends, have not been noticed by authors

on European geology. The first is an amygdaloid, in which

compact stilbite is imbedded in a vermicular form ; one of its

localities is the insulated hill on which stands the temple

of Purwattee, in the city of Poona ; and it is met with in
many other places. Captain Dangerfield* observed the same

peculiar stratum near Sagar. He says, " There occurs an

amygdaloidal or porphyritic rock, consisting of a compact

basis of Avacke, in which are imbedded in great abundance

small globular or uniform masses, but more usually long,

curved, cylindrical, or vermiform crystals of zeolite."

The other rock occurs as a thick stratum of amygdaloid,

                * Malcolm's Central India, p. 328,
                                                                                 ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.                                                                   229

at the elevation of 4000 feet, in the hill forts of Hurreechundur-

ghur and Poorundhur, and in the bed of the Goreh River at
1800 feet, near Serroor. The matrix resembles that of the

other amygdaloids, but the mineral imbedded is a glossy-

felspar in tables resembling Cleavelandite, crossing each other

at various angles, and so abundant as to occupy a moiety

of the mass. I have only remarked it in the above localities,

and it does not appear to have come under the notice of the

--gentlemen I have quoted elsewhere.
   Minerals. Minerals are not uniformly dispersed in Dukhun.

In one part quartz predominates, in another chalcedony ; and
these are more or less associated with jaspars, agates, horn-

stones, heliotrope, and semi-opal or cachalong. In other places,

particular members of the zeolite family prevail, nearly to the

exclusion of the siliceous class ; and elsewhere there is a

diminution of minerals amounting almost to privation. Ame-

thyst quartz is rare in                                                          Dukhun                                                                  when  met with it constitutes
                                                                                                                            ;

the crystal lining the interior of geodes of agate. I have not

seen it in veins.

Pseudomorphous quartz is common ; the most frequent

impression is that of rhomb spar. Lime occurs only in three

crystalline forms ; rhomb, dog-tooth, and the dodecahedron.

The first is found on the surface, and imbedded in masses of

quartz and compact mesotype                                                                                                                              the  two latter forms  are asso-
                                                                                                                                                      ;

ciated with ichthyophthalmite in cavities in the amygdaloid

strata. That comparatively rare mineral ichthyophthalmite is

very common at Poona.

 --Natural Salts. Only two kinds of natural salts came under

my notice, namely muriate and carbonate of soda ; both are

not uncommon                                                                     the first near to Ahmednuggur,                                                                 Koond,
                                                                              ;

Mawleh, and other places ; the latter at Kalbar Lonee. Salt-
petre is artificial in Dukhun.

  --Ores. No other ore than that of iron is found in Dukhun.

It occurs as a nodular hematite, associated at the source of the

Kistna with laterite. This ore produces the celebrated

Wootz steel.

  --Organic Remains. I did not meet with organic remains of

any kind whatever ; and Captain Coulthard in Sagar, Major

Franklin in Bundelkund, and Captain Dangerfield in Malwa,
were equally unsuccessful; and Mr. Calder, in his General
Observations on the Geology of India, says, " But hitherto the
most striking phaenomenon in Indian geology is the almost total

absence of organic remains in the stratified rocks and in the

diluvial soil." Very recently shells are understood to have been
--230 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

found by Dr. Malcolmson on the edge of the great trap

region in the province of Nagpoor. The organic remains

--from the base of the Himalaya mountains are well known.
   Thermal Springs. I am not aware of thermal springs in the

collectorates of Poona, Ahmednuggur, and Dharwar ; but in

Khandesh, in the pergumahs of Arrawud and Amba, in the

Sautpoora mountains, are the hot springs called Soonup Deo and

Oonup Deo                                                      the first is so hot that the hand cannot be borne
                                                            ;

in it, agreeably to the testimony of Colonel Briggs. Hot

springs are numerous in the Konkun, bursting through trap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;

and they are met with in Canara, and in many other parts of

India and Ceylon.

 --Extent of the Trap Region. The trap has been traced con-

tinuously to Neemutch, lat. 240, 27, N. at 1476 feet above the

level of the sea, from a fluctuating southern line, which extends

down as low as the 15th degree of latitude, but one end of which

terminates on the western coast, between the 16th and 17th

degrees of latitude; and the eastern end of the line runs up to

Nagpoor, at 1000 feet above the sea. The longitudinal extent

of the trap, between the above latitudes, would appear to be

from the western sea coast (excluding Goojrat) to the 82nd

degree of E. longitude ; there is thus evidence of a continuous

trap formation covering an area of from 200,000 to 250,000

square miles ! ! However extraordinary this extent may appear,

it is an undoubted fact that offsets from this great region ex-

tend even to the Ganges ! I am not aware of any facts to

guide the judgement in the estimation of the age of the trap

formation.

 --Laterite. Laterite is met with at the source of the Kistna

river at 4500 feet above the sea, and its extensive occurrence

all round the peninsula of India in the narrow tract of land at

--the foot of the Western and Eastern Ghats is well known.
   Nodular Limestone. Kunkur, or nodular limestone, occurs

everywhere in Dukhun, indeed all over India.

  --Granite. Although granite does not occur in the four col-

lectorates of Dukhun, unless in the extreme southern limits of

Dharwar, it is the chief rock eastward of Nagpoor, and it

bursts through the surface in so many places in the peninsula

of India as to have induced Dr. Voysey to express a belief that

the basis of the whole peninsula is granite; an opinion involving

the necessary deduction, when the extent of the trap region

is also considered, that the whole peninsula of India, and the

island of Ceylon, roughly calculated at 700,000 square miles,

is of igneous origin.
             ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.                                                                                                                                                        231

 --Sedimentary Rocks. There are not any sedimentary rocks

in Dukhun, nor am I aware of any south of Broach, excepting

such as have probably originated in the consolidation of com-

paratively recent alluvium.

                        Climate,

  A detailed account of the atmospheric tides, and meteor-

ology of Dukhun having been published in the Philosophical

Transactions, I shall limit myself to a description of such broad

features as characterize the climate. The Ghats and the
Desh have distinct features. The tract along the line of the
former has a lower mean temperature, much more moisture,
greater prevalence of westerly winds, a more limited range of

the thermometer ; but a greater prevalence of fogs before,
during, and after the rains, but not in the winter months

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;

and, finally, is characterized by the absence of hot winds.
The Desh, on the contrary, has the air excessively dry in the

hot months ; a great diurnal and annual range of the ther-
mometer, a comparatively small fall of rain in the monsoon,

the frequent occurrence of hot winds, and the rareness of

--fogs.
   Barometer. The mean monthly pressure of the atmosphere

is greatest in the winter months of December and January ; it

gradually diminishes until July or August, the most damp

months, when it is at its minimum ; it gradually increases again

until the cold months. The greatest diurnal oscillation re-

corded by me in several years' observations was '1950, or less

than two-tenths of an inch ; the smallest oscillation '01 50. The

--mean rise of the barometer from sunrise to 9 10 a.m. for three

--years was  '0445,  thermometer  +  7°*15/                                                                                                                                   The mean fall from
                                                             .

9 10 a.m. to 4--5 p.m., for four years, was '1066, thermometer
-- --+ 50, 21'; and the mean rise from 4 5 a. m. to 10 1 1 p.m., for
--one year, is '0884, thermometer 70-2\ The maximum range

of the barometer at Poona, in the year 1830, at 1823 feet

above the sea, was only '672, or not seven-tenths of an inch.
The mean height of the barometer for that year was 27°*9254,
and the mean height in the monsoon was 270, 8447 ; so that the
constant moisture of the monsoon only occasioned a mean

diminution of pressure of '0807, or less than one-tenth of an

inch. At Madras, for twenty-one years, the mean height of

the barometer was 29 0,958' inches                                                                                                                                            at Calcutta,  the  means  of
                                                                                                                                                                           ;

three years make it 29*764. M. Arago, at Paris, by nine

years' observations, reduced to the level of the sea, makes the

mean height 29*9546 inches, being almost identical with the

mean height at Madras.
232 SEVENTH REPORT-- 1837.

  --Atmospheric tides. There are four tides of the atmosphere

in Dukhun, as indicated by the movement of the barometer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

-- --two diurnal, and two nocturnal : the diurnal rising tide is from

4 5 a.m. to 9 10 a.m., and varies from "0200 inches to '0500

-- --inches ; the falling tide is from 9 10 a.m. to 4 5 p.m, and

varies from '1950 inches to '0150 inches. The nocturnal

-- --rising tide is from 4 5 p.m. to 10 11 p.m., and varies from

·0450 inches to '1140 inches; the nocturnal falling tide is

-- --from 10 1 1 p.m. to 4 5 a.m., and is about "0442 inches. This

order was never deranged or inverted in one single instance
in many thousand observations.

  --Temperature. The climate of Dukhun is subject to very

considerable variations of temperature ; more, however, in the
diurnal than in the monthly or annual ranges ; indeed, less so

in the last particular than in Europe. In 1827, the extreme
range of the thermometer at Edmonton was 75° Fahrenheit
at Cheltenham, 64° - 6. In St. Petersburgh, the thermometer
has been as low as 35°*7' below zero, and as high as 91°'4
the range, therefore, 127 0, 1. At Berne, the annual range has
been more than 75°. In 1826, I observed a range of 53°'4,
viz., from 93°-9 on the 12th March, to 40°'50 on the 15th

January at sunrise. In 1827, the maximum range observed by
me was 48°-8, viz., from 960, 8 on the 28th March, to 48° on
the 12th December at sunrise. In 1828, the maximum oc-
curred on the 7th May, being 101°, and the minimum was 56°,

the range, therefore, 45° ; but, for a very short time, the ther-

mometer rose on the 7th May, between two and three o'clock,
to 105°; and this was the more remarkable as I was then en-
camped on the edge of the Ghats at the source of the Beema
river, at an elevation of 3090 feet above the level of the sea.
This instance of unusual height of the thermometer, however,
is not confined to Dukhun, for we learn from M. Arago, that it

--has been higher than 101° Fahrenheit in the shade in Paris.
   Monthly means. The monthly means do not differ more

than from 13° to 17° from each other. In 1826, the dif-
ference between the hottest month (May, 83 0, 28), and the

coldest (January, 65°-90), was only 17°-38. And in 1829,
March was the hottest month, and November the coldest,

--their difference of means being 13°*66.
   Diurnal range. The greatest diurnal range in 1826 was

on the 5th March, being 37° -30, from 50°'5 to 87°-8. In 1827,
it was 39°-5, on the 12th December, from 49°'5 to 89°. In
1828, it was 34°-8, on the 16th July, from 56° to 90° -8. In

1829, the maximum diurnal range was 37°*5 in December.
The minimum diurnal range occurs in the monsoon months of
                                       ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  233

June, July, August, and September ; indeed, occasionally, on

--some days in those months, the mercury does not move at all.
   Mean Temperature. In 1828, Dr. Walker, at Ahmednug-

gui', at an elevation of 1900 feet above the sea, made the

mean temperature 78° ; and though I was living in tents, and
moving about the country, I made it only 77 0, 93. Of course,

on higher or lower levels this mean temperature will be di-

minished or increased. It is necessary, however, to note one

remarkable fact, namely, that the mean temperature of places

on the table -land of the continent of India is much higher than

the calculated mean temperature of the same places agreeably

to Mayer's formula. The calculated mean temperature of

Ahmednuggur is 72°'27, observed 78°; of Poona 72°-78, ob-

served   77°-7                         of Mhow, in Malwa, 69°-86,  observed 74° :
                                    ;

temperature of a spring in the hill fort of Hurreechundurghur

69°"5, calculated temperature 65° '45.

   The results of several years' observations indicate that the
annual mean temperature of 9o, 30 a.m., is nearly identical

with the mean temperature deduced from the maxima and the

minima.

With respect to the gi'eatest diurnal, and the greatest

monthly range of the thermometer, the winter months have

a range nearly in a quadruple ratio to the monsoon months.
The latter have mostly the temperature very equable, the

difference of the monthly means rarely exceeding 3°, and the

greatest diurnal range in five years only once amounted to

lo° # 6. The latter end of March, and April, and May are the

hottest periods of the year, from the position of a nearly

vertical sun, the intensity of whose influence is but slightly

modified by the occasionally cloudy weather : the temperature

falls in June, and continues nearly stationary until the end of

September : it then rises in October, but falls at the end of

the month, until its annual minimum in December or January.

It is low the early part of March, but rises suddenly after the

middle of the month, occasioning a difference of 6° or 8°

between the means of February and March, which is more

than double that of other consecutive months in the year.

The rise in October is also sudden, but does not occasion so

great a difference of means as between February and March.

It will thus be remarked that the temperature does not fol-

low the sun's declination, owing to the interference of the

monsoon.
--AMoisture.
                                       remarkable feature in the climate of Dukhun

is the small quantity of aqueous vapour generally suspended in

the air, compared with the proximate climate of Bombay and
--234 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

Mythe coast, or even the hilly tracts of the Ghats.  obser-

vations were made with Daniell's hygrometer, and extended

over several years. There is a gradual increase of moisture in

a cubic foot of air, from the most dry month, February, until
June and July. Hence the moisture remains nearly stationary
until the beginning of October, when it diminishes somewhat

rapidly and regularly until February. The annual mean dew-

ing point is greater at 9-| a.m. than at sunrise or at 4 p.m., but
this does not uniformly hold good in each month of the year.

In 1826, the highest dewing point was at four o'clock on the

21st October, being 76°*, temperature of the air 84°*5, a

cubic foot of air holding 9*945 grains of water. The lowest

dewing point was on the 4th December, at sunrise, being 44°,

temperature of the air 56°, a cubic foot of air containing 3*673

grains of aqueous vapour ; but the lowest dewing point did

not indicate the driest state of the atmosphere, as a dewing
point of 45° in November, with a temperature of 87° at 4 p.m.,
gave only 3 "587 grains.

   The most moist month was July ; the mean weight of water

in a cubic foot of air was 8*775 grains, and the point of satu-

ration was only 4°'85 from the dewing point. The greatest

monthly range of the dewing point was, in October, 30°, and

the smallest range, 7°, was in July and August. The monthly

range was not coincident with the movements of the barometer

and thermometer ; but there were curious approximations.

The extreme dewing points differed 32°. The dewing point

has been as high as 76°, temperature of the air 79°, a cubic

foot of air containing 10*049 grains of aqueous vapour; but

this is a rare occurrence. An instance occurred of the dewing

point being obtained at 3° below the point of the congelation

of water, the temperature of the air being 62°, and a cubic foot

of air holding 2*146 grains of water. There is also an instance
of a dewing point, in February, 1828, being 61° below the

temperature of the air, viz., from 90° to 29°, but I never after-

wards succeeded in determining anything like so great a

depression.

In January, 1827, there was a range of the dewing point of

38°, and the extreme range of the year was 47°, viz., from 29°,

temperature 62°, in January, to 76°, temperature 79°, in June.

In 1829, the mean dewing point for the monsoon was 69°*62,

temperature 75°*83 ; the cubic foot of air containing 8*191 grains
of water. In 1830, the observations are only complete for

9-10 a.m. ; the mean dewing point was 61°*9, temperature
78 0, 4, and a cubic foot of air contained 6*351 grains of water
the extreme range of the hygrometer was 47°, the lowest
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  235

dewing point 31°, temperature 50°, in December. It might

be supposed that the hottest months in the year, March,

April, and May, would also be the driest ; but such is not the
fact. The powerful action of the sun on the ocean, in the

middle of March, raises a large quantity of aqueous vapour,

which continues to increase in the ratio of the sun's progress

north : the westerly winds waft this vapour into Dukhun

much of it is arrested by the Ghats and hilly tracts eastward

of these mountains ; accounting for the sensible moistness of

the air, the frequent night fogs, and deposition of dew in this

line, in the end of March, and in all April and May. The

supply of moisture diminishes in proportion to the distance

eastward from the sea, to the limits of the Coromandel coast

Wemonsoon.  in consequence find the Ghats, Poona, Ahmed-

nuggur, and the Bala Ghat, all with very different dewing

points in the hot months.

The hygrometric state of the air in Bombay and Dukhun is

remarkably contrasted : in fact, there is more aqueous vapour
suspended in the air in Bombay in the hot months, than there

is at Poona at any time during the monsoon. In April and

May, 1826, in Bombay, the monthly mean dewing points were
respectively 72°*84 and 75° -59, temperature 83°*48 and 84° '52,

a cubic foot of air holding 8*988 grains, and 9*748 grains of

water suspended ; whilst July, the most rainy month during
the monsoon, at Poona, had only a mean of 8*775 grains of

water suspended. In 1827, the means of ten days' observations

in Bombay, in April, gave 10*243 grains of aqueous vapour in

a cubic foot of air ; and the greatest mean quantity at Poona

was in June, and it amounted only to 8*931 grains. In 1828,

in the month of March, the following were the dewing points

in consecutive days, travelling from Bombay to Poona ; Bom-

bay, 10th March, 4 p.m., 11*205 grains of water in a cubic

foot of air ; at Poona, at the same hour, on the 14th March,

2*273 grains. At Bombay, on the 10th, at sunrise, and at 9^
a.m., the dewing points were respectively 72° and 71°, tem-

perature 75° and 81°*5, a cubic foot of air containing 8*873

grains at the former hour, and 8*487 grains at the latter hour.

The following morning at Kundallah, on the top of the Ghats,

1744 feet above the sea, at the same hours, the dewing points

were 36° and 40°, temperature 72° and 78°, equivalent only to

2*690 grains, and 3*004 grains of water in a cubic foot of air.

In the afternoon of the same day, at Karleh, 2015 feet above

the sea, seven miles east of Kundallah, a cubic foot of air held

2*954 grains, and on the 12th, at 4 p.m., 2*611 grains of

aqueous vapour. On the summit of the hill fort of Loghur,
236 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

3381 feet above the sea, and 1366 above Karleh, the dewing
point at sunrise on the 13th, was 5° Fahr. below the freezing
point, temperature of the air 67°, and a cubic foot of air held
only 1 *995 grains of water in a state of vapour. These facts
fully establish the remarkable discrepancies between the hy-

grometric state of the air in Bombay and Dukhun, and that

too within a difference of a few miles of latitude and longitude.

A comparison of the absolute falls of rain in Bombay and in

Poojia, for the years 1826-7-8, shows an agreement (to a
certain extent) in their ratio to the hygrometric state of the

air at Poona and Bombay, above noticed. The mean fall of
rain at Bombay in those years was 93*62 inches, and at Poona

--26"926 inches, or 28f per cent, only of the fall in Bombay.
   Main. In Dukhun the rains are light, uncertain, and, in all

years, barely sufficient for the wants of the husbandman, and
a slight failure occasions much distress. They usually com-
mence at the end of May, with some heavy thunder showers
from E. to S.E., the lightning being terrific and frequently
fatal, and the wind furious but they do not set in regu-

                                                                                                                                                                      ;

larly until the first ten days in June, and continue until the

end of September from the W. to the S. W., and break up

with thunder-storms from the E. to the S. E. before the
middle of October. During the remaining months of the

year an accidental shower or two may fall from the Coro-
mandel monsoon ; and the further the distance eastward from

Poona, the greater the chance of showers in the cold months.

The monsoon temperature is equable and agreeable, and the

rain occurs almost always in showers, rarely continuing un-

interruptedly for a day or more, as is common on the coast
and in the Konkun. The greatest quantity of rain falls in the
months of June and July. The greatest fall of rain in any
one day was 2*58 inches, on the 6th July, 1826; at Bombay,

on the 24th June, 1828, there fell 8-67 inches ; and at Hurnee,
on the 15th June, 1829, there fell 8-133 inches in 24 hours.

   The mean annual fall of rain for all England, from many

years' observations, appears to be 32'2 inches, but the means
of different counties vary from 67 inches in Cumberland to
19 inches in Essex.

   The clouds supplying the monsoon rains in Dukhun would

appear to have a low elevation, as I have frequently seen
through breaks as they were passing swiftly from west to east,
a superior stratum, apparently stationary, or moving slowly in

--a contrary direction, and gilded by the sun's rays.
   Winds. The great features in the observations respecting

the winds, are the prevalence of winds from the west and westerly
    ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                                                 237

quarters, east and easterly quarters, and the extreme rareness

of winds from the north and south, and the points approxi-

mating to them ; and these features appear to be constant in
successive years. In 5229 observations the wind blew from

the west, or points adjoining, 2409 times ; and in this number

the S.W. (305), and N.W. (122), amount only to 427. From

easterly points 949 times, including 246 from the N.E. and

S.E., thus leaving 703 from the east. From the north 115

times, and from the south 36 times only. Another feature is

the frequent absence of wind, particularly at sunrise, and

more so in the months of January, February, March, October,

and November than in other months of the year. The cessa-
tion of wind from May to September inclusive is comparatively

rare ; . and, generally, throughout the year the absence of wind

at 4 p.m., may be looked upon as unusual. In my records
there are 1720 observations of " No wind," and 847 of these

belong to sunrise, 452 to 9 10 a.m., and 304 only to 4 p.m.

   The observations were continued through five years, three

--times daily ; sunrise, 9 10 a.m., and 4 p.m. There is consi-

derable uniformity in the direction of the wind in the same

months in consecutive years. The westerly winds begin to pre-

vail in March, alternating with easterly winds, which blow the

latter part of the night; but the easterly winds disappear as the

monsoon approaches, and do not re-appear again till October.

In October the winds are variable, and the records of " No

Awind," increase suddenly and rapidly.                                           few easterly winds,

however, about the end of the month, indicate the change which

is  to take place                                                                they gradually increase, and with those from
                                                                              ;

the N.E. and S.E., almost entirely supersede the winds from

the westerly points during the cold months.

    In March, from the sun's approach, the interior land during

the day gets heated ; an influx of air from the sea coast com-

mences daily after 10 a.m. ; but as the earth, at this period,
cools more rapidly than the sea at night, the interior is cooler

than the coasts, and there is a reflux of air towards the

ocean ; the easterly and westerly winds thus alternate day and

night. This alternation, however, diminishes in the ratio of

the sun's increasing power; and when the earth gets so

thoroughly heated that it cannot reduce its temperature by

radiation below that of the sea, the consequence is the preva-

lence of winds from the westerly points to the almost entire

exclusion of those from easterly points. In June the westerly

winds set in regularly. There are occasional instances of the

wind blowing with much steady violence from the west for
--238 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

many hours in the hot months with a sunny sky. In the early
part of March some unaccountably cold winds, affecting vege-
tation even, have been known to blow.

  --Hot Winds. The well-known hot winds of tropical conti-

nents do not prevail near the Ghats; but the same wind, which
is pleasant in their neighbourhood, may become a hot wind as it

travels to Ahmednuggur and Arungabad. The east wind is

characterized by its extreme dryness, and it is dangerous

--to sleep exposed to it.
    Whirlwinds. Those curious whirlwinds noticed by travellers
in Africa, and which in the deserts are dangerous, are of com-

Amon occurrence in Dukhun in the hot months. score or more

columns of dust, in the form of a speaking trumpet or water-

spout, may be seen rapidly coursing over the treeless plains,
marking a vortex of heated air. They are sufficiently powerful
to unroof a thatched house, strike tents, and whisk away all

light matters.

 --Hail Stones. Hail stones of considerable magnitude some-
--times fall in the thunder-storms of the hot months.

   Deivs. Dews appear plentifully after the monsoon, and

during the nights of the cold months; but their frequent local

--occurrence has often excited surprise.
   Fogs. Fogs are of so rare occurrence in the Desh, or
country eastward of the Ghats, that I have only nineteen
records of them during five years. Along the Ghats they
are much more common ; and during April and May, for
three or four nights in the week, fogs drift rapidly to the
eastward from the Konkun, or low country at the foot of the

Ghats. On some nights no drift takes place, and the fog
remains resting on the Konkun ; and, seen from the crest of

the Ghats at sunrise, has the appearance of a sea of milk.
As the sun rises the fog creeps up the chasms of the Ghats,

--and finally disappears by 10 a.m.
   Salubrity of the Climate. With respect to the salubrity of

the open parts of the country, it will only be necessary to state

that, in my little camp, consisting of more than a hundred souls

(natives), I had not a single death of an adult during six years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

nor a case of illness (excepting one) that I did not cure without

regular medical aid. Dr. Walker, long civil surgeon in the
city of Ahmednuggur, found the casualties in 1828 in that city
(exclusive of losses from spasmodic cholera) to be only 1*82
per cent., or 1 in 55*1 persons ; and, including cholera, 2- 48

per cent., or 1 in 40*2 persons. Dr. Lawrence, in charge of a
regiment of natives. 1000 strong, lost only 0*85 parts of an
                                                  ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                                                                                         239

integer per cent, per annum, or about five men in 600 during
the years the regiment was in Dukhun.

   Parts of Khandesh have not credit for the same salubrity.

                                                                                                                                    Botany.

Under this head I shall confine myself to a simple enume-

ration of the agricultural and garden products, and wild fruits.

To enter into the botany of Dukhun generally would be

misplaced in this digest. And first with regard to cultivated

--native fruits; they are forty-five in number, viz.
   Cultivated Fruits. Amba, Mangifera indica*; Oombur.

Ficus glomerata; Phunnus, Artocarpus integrifolia h ; Cheents,
Tamarindus indica c ; Ambarra, Spondias Mangifera d ; Hur-
parewree, Cicca disticha; Ramphul, Annona reticulata 6 ; See-
taphul, Annona squamosa ; Raeebor, Zizyphus jujuba ; Jam-

blee, Calyptranthes caryophyllifolia; Awlee, Phyllanthus

emblica;                                   Bail,  JEgle Marmelos i                                                                           Wowulee,     Mimusops elengi;
                                                                                                                                          ;

Narlee, Cocos nucifera e ; Jamb, Eugenia Jambos h ; Mohha,

Bassia latifolia ; Toot, Mortis alba » ; Shatoot, Mortis indica k                                                                                                      ;

Choonchoo, .Mbn/s^                                                                                                           l      Kurumbul, ^e/rAoa       Carambolam
                                                                                                                                 ;                                                                                        ;

Kuweet,                                    Feronia  elepkatitum 11                                                                           Bhokur,       Cordia  latifolia;
                                                                                                                     ;

Anjeer, Ficus                                       Carica °                                                                 Daleemb,        Punica granatum,          (two
                                                                                               ;

kinds) P                                   Weer, Citrus limon^; Chukotur, Citrus decumanus r                                                                           ;
                                       ;

Maloong, Citrus medica*; Nareeng, Citrus aurantiumt, of these

there are several kinds                                                                                                      Ambut           neemboo,       Citrus acida u
                                                                                                                          ;                                                                                                    ;

Sakur neemboo, Citrus Union var. x ; Peroo, Psidium Pyri-

ferumv                                     Peroo tambra,                                                                     Red Guava ;         Kajoo, Anacardium
                                        ;

occidentale z ; Gondnea, Cordia myxa ; Tarh, Borassus flabel-
liformis ; Phopy, Pupeea Carica ; Badam, Terminalia ca-

tappa ; Sooparee, Areca faufel aa ; Kujoor, Phoenix dactili-

fera^ ;                                    Ke]  or  Kail,  Musa                                                                     paradisiaca  cc        there  are  several

                                                                                                                                                      ,

species or varieties. Sonkel, Musa sapientum ; Draxhs, Vitis

JiniferadA. There are seven species of grapes in Dukhun, the

Mahratta names of which are Kalee, or black ; Ahbee, or

watery; Phukree, or Muscadina; Saheebee, Bedana, or seed-

less ; Sooltanee ; and Suckree, or sugary. Khurbooz, Cucumis

Melo ee                                    Phoot,   Cucumis                                                                  momordica ;     and      Kulungrah,       Cucur-
                                 ;

» Mango.                                            b Jack fruit.                                                                            c Tamarind.           d Hog-plum.
                                                                                                                                                                  h Rose apple.
e Sweet-sop.                                      f Bengal quince.                                                                           B Cocoa nut.   ' Small mulberry.
                                                                                                                                                            ° The garden fig.
' White mulberry.                                            k Red mulberry.
                                                                n Wood apple.                                                                                               "Citron.
m Country gooseberry.                                                                                                                                                   y Guava.
                                                                                                                                                                      cc Plantain.
P Pomegranate.                                      q Lemon.                                                                                 'Shaddock.

1 Orange.                                           u Lime.                                                                                  * Sweet lime.

* Cashew nut.                                       aa Betel nut.                                                                            Dbb at e .
dd Grapes.
                                                        ee Musk melon.
--240 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

bita  Citrullus       3      There are several species or varieties of the
                         -.

melons.

  --Wild Fruits. The wild fruits are twenty-two in number,

viz. Beebah, Semicarpus anacardium h ; Cher, Chirongia sa-

pida; Ratamhee, Garcinia                         c ; Torun, Zizyphus albens

Kurwund, Carissa Carandas and diffusa, both of them excel-

lent  fruits  ;  Seendee,        Phoenix Sylvestris,   or                                                   Elate Sylvestris^
                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

Jungle  Jaeephul,            Myristica   dactyloides e                                                      Peempree,    Ficus
                                                                                                         ;

comosa ; Rahbor, Zizyphus Xylopyrus ; Bunkeil, Musa tro-

glodytarum       f    two    varieties;  Gfooloom, Loranthus bicolor

                   ,

Lotowl, a genus and species not determined ; Ambgoolee,

Elceagnus                    , a very nice fruit, tasting like a gooseberry.

Ulloo, Vanqueria spinosa ; Temboornee, Gardenia,                                                                                ;

Thurtee, Capparis erythrocarpus; Neptee, Capparis aphylla ;

Wagatee, Capparis Zeylanica ; Makur Neembonee, Citrus

        s · Wuhr, Ficus Indica ; Loheer, Ficus                                                                           ,a

noble tree, 80 to 100 feet high.

The above comprise the wild fruits of Dukhun; many of

them are not only passable, but very palatable, particularly

the Ambgoolee, the Kurwund, and the Char. The Ratambee,

or wild mangostein, is in extensive use as an acid seasoner,

and is met with for sale in most markets in a dried state. The

wild nutmeg is frequently imposed upon the ignorant for the

real nutmeg. The oil of the Beebah is used for marking

linen, like indelible ink ; but the kernel roasted is agreeable.

The   wild lime         Citrus)  is  only met with in  the                                                  Ghats ;  it  forms  a

                      (

handsome dense tree, but the cultivated fruit is so abundant that

the wild is not made any use of. Many of the above fruit

trees produce good timber. With respect to the mango,

which is met with both cultivated and wild, it is considered by

the people less as a luxury, than as an auxiliary to the neces-

saries of life, or as a substitute for them in seasons of scarcity;

for the mango is in fruit, and seldom fails an abundant crop,

at a time when the earth is parched up by the heats of May

and beginning of June.
--AAgricultural Products.
                                         brief notice only of the agricul-

tural products can be given. The harvests are of two distinct

kinds : one is the Khurreef, or rainy season harvest; the other

--is the Rubee, or dry, or cold, or spring season, harvest.
   Wet Season Harvest. This harvest produces twenty-

two kinds of grain and pulse ; but the products of the Desh,

a Water melon.               b The marking nut.                                                             c The wild mangostein.

d Wild date.                     e Wild nutmeg.                                                             f Wild plantain.

6 The original apparently of some of the species of Citrus in Dukhun.
                                                              ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.       241

or open country, are different from those of the Mawuls,

or hilly tracts along the Ghats. The following are the pro-

ducts of the monsoon crop in the Desh : Jondla, Andropogon

Sorghum, and of these there are many varieties ; Sujgoora,

Panicum spicatum; Rahleh, Panicum Italicum; Bhadlee,

Paspalum pilosum ; Kodroo, Paspalum frumentaceum; Mukka,

Zea Mays a                                                    Moog, Phaseolus  Mungo ;  Ooreed,  Phaseolus
                                                           ;

radiatus ; Tooree, Cytisus cajan; Muht, Phaseolus aconiti-

folius ; Teel, Sesamum orientate, two kinds ; Ambaree, Hi-

biscus Cannabinus ; Oolgeea, Dolichos bifloris ; Waal, Doli-

chos spicatus ; Rajgeerah, Amaranthus oleraceus Candidas

Chuwluya, Dolichos catiang ; and Gowarya, Dolichos fabcc-
formis: there are thus seventeen products of the monsoon

harvest of the Desh. The first six are bread grains, and are

reduced to flour; Teel and Rajgeerah are eaten unground;

Ambaree is a cordage plant, the rest are pulse, and are cooked

in a variety of ways. Tooree is the universal substitute for

the split pea of Europe ; it is much more agreeable than the

pea, and is more commonly used.

The produce of the rainy season harvest in the hilly tracts

is Dhan, Oryza sativah, seventeen or eighteen kinds ; Natch-
nee, Eleusine coracana, or Cynosurus coracanus ; Sawa, Pa~

nicum miliaceum ; Wuree, Panicum miliare ; and, finally,

Karleh, Verbesina sativa. All these require a superabun-

dance of water. The rice, which is the chief support of the

people of the hilly tracts, is sown in the valleys, because it can

be constantly flooded. Karleh is an oil plant only ; the others

are sown on the sides of the mountains, in places inaccessible

to the plough. They are either used whole, or are reduced to

flour for bread. Rice is never reduced to flour.

It is not to he understood, that the above products, as

separated into those of the hilly tracts and Desh, are rigidly

confined to those tracts ; where the physical circumstances

permit of it, they are indiscriminately cultivated in both tracts.

The returns of some of the above plants are prodigiously great.

I have seen a plant of Paspalum frumentaceum with twenty

stalks radiating from a common root, and with thirty-three

spikes of grain, giving the astonishing return of 61,380 for 1;

a single head of Andropogon Sorghum gave 2895 for 1 ; eight
stalks of Panicum spicatum from a single root 16,960 for 1

and a single head of Panicum Italicum produced 1850 for 1 !

 --Dry or Spring Season Harvest. The next harvest is that

of the Rubee, or dry or spring season of the Desh. In this

                            a Indian corn.                                     b Rice.

VOL. VI. 1837-                                                R
--242 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

harvest, of twenty-three products, there are four species of fine

wheat, viz. Guhoo Bukshee, Triticum spelta ; Kupleh Guhoo,

Triticum          ; Kateh Guhoo, Triticum                                                                                                          ; and Poh-

teeyai, Triticum           , called bellied wheat, from the seed

being very much swelled out in the middle. Urburee,

Cicer Arietinum; Shaloo, Andropogon saccharatum ; Juw,

Hordeum hexastichon* ; Watanah, Pisum sativum 13 ; Kurdee,
Carthamus Persic us ; Juwus, Linum usitatissimum ; Mohuree,

Sinapis racemosa, and two other kinds ; Taag, Crotolarea

juncea; Yerund Tambra, Ricinus communis* ; Yerund Eerwa,

Ricinus viridis ; Oos Tambra, Saccharum qfficinarum d ;

Oos Poonda, Saccharum               e                                                                                                Oos  Pandra,  Sacckarum

                                         ;

f          Oos Bet, Saccharum,                                                                                                            S; Shet Wallook,

     ;

Cucumis           , the literal meaning is field cucumber ; Paw-

teh, Dolichos             ; Tumbakoo, Nicotiana tabacum; Shet

Kapoos,    Gossypium herbaceum^                                                                                                      Bhoeemoong,   Arachis  hy-
                                                                                                                                  ;

pogced}.

The above are chiefly produced in the Desh, in the dry

season. Urburee, Cicer arietinum, is the universal substitute

for oats for horses ; and, excepting in the rains when green

grass is obtainable, the juicy, sweet, and nutritious stalks of

the Shaloo, Andropogon sorghum, and varieties, is their

only forage. Oil is expressed from the seeds of Kurdee,

Juwus, Mohuree, and Yerand. Juwus is not used for its

flax. Although there are four kinds of sugar-cane, and much

raw sugar is produced, the processes of refining are not

carried on. The bark of Taag is used for ropes and coarse

canvas. The returns from the wheat are very considerable

I have a specimen of Kupleh Guhoo, with twenty-five stalks

from one root, giving a return of 1450 for 1 ; ten stalks are

very common ; a specimen of the Kateh Guhoo, also in my

possession, with fifteen stalks from a single root, giving a

return of 480 for 1. The average on tolerable land is eight

stalks or ears to a plant. The tobacco from some parts of

the country is reckoned very fine.

The dry season harvest of the hilly tracts is almost entirely

confined to Mussoor, Ervum hirsutum ; and Pawta, a variety

of Dolichos Lablab.

  --Garden produce. The produce of the gardens is of great

importance to the natives of India, from their poverty limiting

them very much to a vegetable diet, corrected by aromatic

seeds and condiments. Most of the plants cultivated in the

a Barley.         b Peas.  c Castor oil.                                                                                                         d Red sugar cane.

e Variegated sugar cane.   f White sugar cane.                                                                                            s Reed-like sugar cane.

h Field cotton.   ' The earth nut.
                                                                              ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.                                                                            243

gardens of the Desh are also produced in the gardens, where

they exist, (which is rarely) of the hilly tracts. The products

are forty-six in number, viz., Dhunya,                                                         Coriandrum sativum*
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

Mehtee, Trigonella foznugrecum ; Shepoo, Anethum sowa

Bureeshep, Anethum fceniculum b ; Wowa, Ligusticum agi-

vaen ; Hulwee, Lepidum sativum ; Meerchya, Capsicum an-

nuum c                              of this there are many species.                            Patee,       Allium                                                                    cepa d
                                 ;                                                                                                                                                                         ,

red, white, and yellow ; some of which are so mild as to be

used as vegetables. Chakweet, Chenopodium album ; Chooka,

Rumex Vesicarius t ; Wahlea, Basella rubra and alba; Aaloo,
Arum campanulatum ; Tandoolja, Amaranthus polygamus

Maat Tambree, Amaranthus oleraceus, Var. ; Paluk, Beta

Bengalensis ; Mohtee gohl, Oxalis monadelphus ; Gohl, Por-

tulaca oleracea ; Pokulla, Amaranthus,                                                                      ; Poodna, Mentha

riridis ; Chundun Butwa, Chenopodium,                                                                       ; Bhang, Can-

nabis sativa f                                                                and Nagwail, Piper Betel.     The most valuable
                                                                           ;

of the above plants produce aromatic or pungent seeds ; most

of the rest are pot-herbs held in considerable estimation.

  --Edible roots. The next division of garden produce is de-

nominated Mool Bojee, which literally means "root-greens,"

properly edible roots.                                                        Mooleh, Raphanus sativusS Rutalee,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;

Convolvulus batatas^ ; Kohn, Dioscorea purpurea or alata*;

Gajur,                              Daucus carotai ;                          Lussoon,         Allium sativum^                                                                        Soorun,
                                                                                                                                                                                   ;

Arum,                               ; Rungeh, Dioscorea fasciculata ; Alluh, Amo-

--Amum Zingiber^.                                                             further division is made of Phul bajee
   Fruit vegetables.

or fruit greens, which means fruits eaten as vegetables, viz.,

Bhendee, Hibiscus esculentus ;                                                         Wangee, Solanum melongenam
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,

several species or varieties ; Gewree, Dolichos,                                                            ; the seeds

are eaten as pulse, and there are several varieties ; Dorkee,

Cucumis acutangulus ; Gosaled, Ltijfa pentandria ; Karlee,

Momordica Charantia ; Tondlee, Momordica monadelphia ;
Purwal, Trichosanthes anguina ; Purwar, Trichosanthes cucu-
merina ; Turkakree, Cucumis usitatissimus ; n Kateh Wallook,
Cucumis sativus, warty, prickly cucumber ; Doodh Boplah,

Cucurbita longa ; Boplah-tambra, Cucurbita Pepo, red pump-

kin                     specimens of this fruit are sometimes more than eighteen
                     ;

inches in diameter ; Kohwall, Cucurbita alba ; Dhendsee,

Cucurbita,                                                                    ; Kasee Boplah, Cucurbita lagenaria.

Such are the cultivated garden products of the natives : it

will be seen that they are rich in the cucurbitaceous family,

1 Coriander.                                                                  b Sweet fennel.  c Chilly.               d Onions.
                                                                                                            h Sweet potatoe.
e Blister sorrel.                                                             f Hemp.          £ Radishes.
                                                                                                                      Eggplant.
1 Yam.                              J Carrots.                                k Garlic.        l Ginger.

n Common cucumber.

                                                                                       r2
--244 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

and not less so in the aromatic and pungent plants ; and the

edible roots are various. Edible leaves, used as greens, are

very numerous, particularly those produced spontaneously.

My limits do not permit me to give even the names of wild

plants producing greens, fruits used as vegetables, or edible
roots ; the flowers of some plants are used as greens ; such as

the Angustee, /Eschynomene grandiflora ; the Shewga, Hy-

peranthera morunga, or horse-radish tree ; and those of the
Kanchun, Baukinia purpurea ; the foot-stalks of the flowers

of the splendid Convolvulus candicans are used in a similar

way. The tender twigs of the common bamboo are good as
greens, and they are also made into a pickle. The flower,
stalks, and roots of the Lotus (Nympha esculenta) are reck-

--oned fine ; but I must stop.
    Grasses. The grasses are innumerable, and are not less
distinguished for their beauty than their variety. One of the
most common is that highly nourishing grass the Agrostis

linearis, which, it appears, is a native of Cornwall, under the
name of Panicon dactylon. In biting the knots or joints of
the Ghateea (Andropogon Martini?) there is a strong, pungent,

aromatic, and oleaginous exudation. The well-known aromatic
Khus Khus (Andropogon muricatus) is abundant in Dukhun,
as well as the sacred grass Durb, Poa cynosuroides. In
speaking of the grasses it may be as well to say that it is not
the practice of the natives to make hay from meadows ; they
allow the grass on waste lands to become perfectly dry, and
then cut it down with the sickle, as a substitute for hay.

  --Wild cordage p>lants. The spontaneous cordage plants are

 the Gayal, Agave vivipara ; the Kaswuree, Sida patens ; and
 some others.

  --Wild oil plants. The wild oil plants are the Kurunj, Gale-

 dupa arborea ; and the Kurd Kangonee, a small tree of the

 class and order Pentandria monogynia.

  --Wild tanning plants, The plants used in preparing leather

 are the Chambar Heerda, Terminalia Chebula; Rahn Turwur,

 Cassia auriculata ; the Sadrah or Aaeen, Terminalia alata

glabra ; and the Baubul, Mimosa arabica, the bark of which

 is in great repute.

  --Medicinal plants. The medicinal plants are numerous.

 Amongst the most useful are the Khyr, Mimosa catechu ; the
 Seegeekaee, Mimosa abstergens ; many species of Datura
 Kuntuh Kareeka, Solanum jacquini ; Sagurgotta, Ceesalpinia
 bonduccella ; Korpur, Aloe succotrina; Dadmaree, Euphorbia
 tiruculU; Gooleea Eendrawun, Cucumis colocynthis ; Reeta,
 Sapindus detergens ; Sahl Phul, Boswellia thurifera; Baw-
                                                     ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.             245

cheea, Psoralea corylifolia ; some of the Ocimums, and many
of the Asclepias family. Of the powerfully scented plants,

the Michelia Champaca, (Champa), Pandanas odoratissimus,

several species of Jasmine, Polyanthus, Rose, &c, abound.

 --European fruits. Very few of the European fruits are cul-

tivated in Dukhun ; indeed, those produced are almost con-

fined to peaches and strawberries, both of which are as fine

as in Europe. All the European vegetables thrive, such as

cauliflowers, cabbages, asparagus, spinach, and broccoli.

Potatoes, when properly attended to, are also good. Carrots,

turnips, and radishes are indigenous.

 --Flowering plants. It is not within my present view to attempt

an enumeration of the wild flowering plants of Dukhun, many

of which are splendid and curious. Nothing can exceed the

magnificence and beauty of the vegetation in the Ghats

during the monsoon. The brilliancy of the ErytJirince, the

Cassia; (particularly the Cassia Jistularia,) , the lofty Bombax,

the varieties of the Liliaceae, Cannae, Convolvulaceae, and Mal-

vaceae, would surprise and delight a European florist.

In the Desh, the dwarf Cassia auriculata, with its numerous

yellow flowers, enlivens the whole country ; and the numerous
species of Mimosa (particularly the Mimosa odoratissima),

perfume the air.

The Dukhun produces few ferns and no heaths, and none

of the coniferous family, excepting Cupressus ; the Musci

(true mosses) are rare ; there are many of the Euphorbiaceae ;

no oaks, elms, or hazels, or indeed any of the Amentacece, ex-

cepting Salix tetrasperma ; multiplied genera and species of

the Jasminece, Labiates, Compositce, Umbelliferae, Legumi-

nosae, and Cucurbitaceae ; the Cruciferae are not abundant

but the Capparides are very much so. The rosaceous plants

are rare                                             but the Solanaceae {Luridce)  are  very  abundant
                                                  ;

although the potatoe is not indigenous.

Such is the meagre sketch of the botany of Dukhun ; for

the elaboration of which there are abundant materials at the

India House, in a Hortus Siccus collected by myself.

I must not omit to notice that the Sandal-wood tree, San-

--talum album, is met with, both in the cultivated and wild state.
   Timber trees. The Warsa, Bignonia quadrilocularis ; the

Tamarind, Tamarindus Indica ; the Jack, Artocarpus integri-
folia ; and the Bauhinece, produce excellent wood for fur-

niture ; and all the species of Mimosa furnish hard durable
wood for tools and machinery.

                                       Zoology.
Like the account of the botany, the zoology must be con-
--246 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

fined to little more than a mere catalogue of the beasts and

birds of the country.

   The inhabitants of Dukhun have the Georgian form of

skull : their stature is low, but not very slender ; the colour
of the skin is brown, with shades running into yellow and
white in the higher classes, and black in the lower ; the females

are not distinguished for beauty or fertility, the average number
of births to a marriage being less than in Europe ; more males
are born than females, and, unlike Europe, they preponderate
through all periods of life.

  --Quadrumana. Of the monkey tribe I met with only two

Akinds, Semnopithecus Entellus and Macacus radiatus.

new species described by me, Cercopithecus albogtdaris, was
not from Dukhun.

  --Cheiroptera. Three species of bats, Wurbagool, Pteropus
--medius ; Nyctinomus plicatus ; and Rhinolpltus Dukhunensis.

   Plantigrada. Chuchoondur, Sorex Indicus, or musk-rat
Aswail, Ursus labiatus, or labiated bear Juhl Manjur, Lutra

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ;

Nair, otter.

   Digitigrada.-- Of these animals, the first is the Kolsun or wild

dog, Canis Dukhunensis, which was first described and brought
to Europe by myself; Landguh, Canis pallipes, wolf, a new
species; Kholah, Canis aureus, jackal; Kokree, Canis Kokree,
a new species of fox ; of the Viveridoe, the Juwadee Manjur,

Viverra Indica or civet cat of Dukhun ; Moongus, Herpestes
griseus, Mungoose ; Ood, Paradoxurus Typus. The Hyaena,
Turrus of the Mahrattas, Hycetia vulgaris, is common in Duk-
hun, and is capable of domestication like a dog. The Felinidce

are numerous, not only in individuals, but in species, excepting

the lion, which is not met with. Puttite Wagh, Felis tigris,

royal tiger ; Cheeta, Felis leopardus or genuine leopard, is

rare ; but the Beebeea Wagh, or panther, Felis Panther, is

most abundant. Cheeta, Felis jubata, or hunting leopard,

is common. Mota Rahn Manjur, Felis chaus; Lhan Rahn

Manjur, Felis torquatus, or lesser wild cat ; the preceding

being considered the larger wild cat. The species of the
genus Felis here terminate. Of the rat family there is the
Ghoos, Mus giganteus, or Bandikoot rat ; Chooa, Mus de-
cumanus, or Norway rat ; Mus musculus, the mouse ; and a
very pretty field mouse of a bright chestnut colour, which is a
new Mus oleraceus, also a second new mouse, Mus plat ythrix.
Of the squirrel family there are only two species ; the first, a

splendid animal as large as the Sciurus maximus, of a chest-
nut colour, with a whitish tail; I have called it Sciurus Elphin-
stonii, the Mahratta name is Shekroo : the other species

is the Khurree, or Sciurus palmarum. The porcupine, Sayal,
ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.  247

is a new species, which I have called Hystrix leucurus. The
hare, Sussuh, which ahounds in Dukhun, is the Lepus nigri-
collis of F. Cuvier. That very curious animal, the Pangolin,
Manis crassicaudata, is common ; the Mahrattas call it Kuwlee

Manjur, or tiled cat, the scales being imbricated as tiles on

the roof of a house. The Dookur, or wild hog, Sus
scrqfa, abounds : every village also has a number of tame

hogs, which are the public scavengers, but all property in

them is abjured by the inhabitants. The Dukhun is cele-

brated for a breed of fine horses with a dash of the Arabian

blood in them : the pony also is bred to a great extent to

carry baggage. The Ass, Gudha, Equus asinus, is not much
larger than a good-sized Newfoundland dog ; it is not met

--with in the wild state.
   Ruminantia. The Dromedary, Oont, Camelus dromeda-
rius, is rarely bred in Dukhun, but is in general use ; the two-
humped camel is unknown. Of the other Ruminants, the first
is a beautiful little creature called Peesoreh, Moschus memina;

the next is the Sambur, Cervus equinus, of the size of a small
cow; the third is the Baikur, Cervus muntjak: all the above are

inhabitants of dense woods. Of the antelopes there are four
species ; Bahmunee Hum, Antilope cervicapra ; Kalesepee,
or black tail, a new species, Antilope Bennetti ; Antilope

quadricomis ; and finally, the Rooee, Antilope picta, or

Nylgau : the two former are only found on the open plains
the two latter prefer the woods, but are sometimes seen on
the plains. Goats, Bukree, Capra hircus, abound ; and
sheep are so extensively bred in Dukhun, that flocks of many
thousands are constantly met with grazing on the uncultivated

lands ; the wool is coarse and crisp ; the price of a sheep is

from two to four shillings ; they afford excellent, although

small mutton. The Pohl is the Brahmany bull, with its re-
markable hump, Bos taunts var. Indicus, and is a noble
animal ; when put into the yoke, or when employed in car-
rying loads, he is called Byhl, and he loses his hump and his
fine appearance. The cow does not yield much milk. Cattle

are extensively bred, as it is chiefly by their means the transit

of merchandize is effected. The female buffalo, Muhees,
Bos bubalus, is highly valued for the quantity of milk she
gives. The male, called Tondgah, is used in the hilly tracts
in ploughing the muddy fields for rice. The above is the
catalogue of the Mammalia of Dukhun, and a few comments
will suffice respecting it. The musk-rat is a pest, from its in-

fecting with its nauseous odour everything with which it

comes into contact, even a bottle of wine, although corked.

The bear is harmless. The wild-dog hunts in troops in the
--248 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

woods, and runs down the fleetest of the ruminants. The

wolves sometimes attack women and children, but never men.

The jackals are in large troops, and do much damage in the

vineyards. The fox is mostly solitary or in pairs. The
moongus is useful in destroying snakes. The hyaena is

cowardly, entirely nocturnal in his movements, and never at-

tacks live animals. The royal tiger and the leopard are for-

midable to man and beast ; but the people consider themselves
safe against the attacks of the panther and smaller cats, when
armed with a good stout stick. The Mus giganteus under-

mines buildings. Of the rest of the wild animals it is not

necessary to say more, than that they, like those just enu-

merated, are most of them objects of the chase with the

Mahrattas, who are capital horsemen, and many of them

keen sportsmen.

 --Birds. The birds are very numerous ; many of them not

less useful to man, than agreeable from their plumage. Song-

Mybirds are, however, rare.  catalogue contains i£32 species

of the several orders, families, and genera.

 --Raptores. There are 13 genera of the first order Rap-
--tores, Vultur Indians, Vultur Ponticerianus, Vultur Benga-

lensis, Neophron Percnopterus, Haliaetus Ponticerianus, Cir-

caetzis brachydactylus, Aquila chrysaeta, Aquila bifasciata,

Hccmatornus Bacha, Accipiter Dukhunensis, Accipiter Dus-

sumieri, Astur Hyder, Falco Tinnuncidus, Falco Chicquera,

Circus pallidas, Circus variegatus, Milvus Govinda, Otus

Bengalensis, Strix Javanica, Strix Indranee, Ketupa Les-

chenaidti, and Noctua Indica. Of the above order there are

two new Accipiters, one new species of Circus, one Milvus,

and a Strix. The Neophron is the Ractamah of Bruce, the

sacred vulture of the Egyptians, and it is a most useful sca-

venger, removing all offal matters. The golden eagle is the

same as that of Europe, and so is the Falco Tinnuncidus;

and the harriers are scarcely distinguishable from the Euro-

pean birds. The falcons, hawks, and goshawks, are used

by the natives in hawking.

 --Insessores. There are 53 genera, and 116 species of the

order Insessores. Few or none of these can be said to be

useful to man, and only two of the species are songsters :

Merops viridis, Hirundo filifera, Hirundo Jewan, Hirundo

concolor, Hirundo erythropygia, Cypselus affinis, Capri-

mulgus monticulus, Caprimulgus Asiaticus, Caprimulgus

Mahrattensis, Halcyon Smyrnensis, Alcedo rudis, Alcedo

Bengalensis, Ceyx tridactyla, Muscipeta Paradisi, Muscipeta

Indica, Muscipeta fiammea, Muscipeta peregrina, Muscicapa

melanops, Muscicapa Banyamus, Muscicapa Poonensis, Mus~
ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.  249

cicapa cceruleocephala, Muscicapa picata, Rhipidura albo-
frontata, Rhipidura fuscoventris, Dicrurus Balicassius, Di-
crurus cosrulescens, Hypsipetus Ganeesa, Collurio Lahtora,
 Collurio erythronotus, Collurio Hardwickii, Lanius Musci-

 capoides, Graucalus Papuensis, Ceblepyris fimbriatus, Ceble-

pyris canus, Oriolus galbula, Oriolus melanocephalus, Oriolus
Kundoo, Turdus macrourus, Turdus Saularis, Turdus cya-
notus, Petrocincla Pandoo, Petrocincla Maal, Petrocincla

 cinclorhyncha, Timalia Malcolmi, Timalia Somervillei, Ti-
malia Chatarcsa, Ixosjocosus, Ixos cqfer, Ixosfulicatus, Po-

matorhinus Horsfieldii, Iora Tiphia, Sylvia montana, Sylvia

sylviella, Sylvia Rama, Prinia socialis, Prinia inornata, Or-
thotomus Bennettii, Orthotomus Lingoo, Rudytes citreola,
Budytes melanocephala, Budytes Beema, Motacilla variegata,
 Motacilla Dulthunensis, Megalurus rtificeps, Anthus agilis,

 Saxicola rubicola, Saxicola bicolor, Saxicola rubeculoides,

 Saxicola erythropygia, Phaznicura atrata, Phoenicura Sueciea,
 Parus atriceps, Parus xanthogenys, Alauda Gulgula, Alauda
 Deva, Alauda Dulchunensis, Mirqfra phosnicura, Emberiza

melanocephala, Emberiza hortulana, Emberiza cristata, Em-

 beriza subcristata, Linaria Amandava, Ploceus Philippensis
 Ploceus flavicollis, Fringilla crucigera, Lonchura nisoria,
 Lonchura cheet, Lonchura leuconota, Passer domesticus, Pas-
 tor tristis, Pastor Mahrattensis, Pastor roseus, Pastor Pago-
 darum, Corvus culminatus, Corvus splendens, Coracias Indica,
 Buceros, several species, Paloeornis torquatus, Palceornis me-
 lanorhynchus, Bucco Philippensis, Bucco caniceps, Picus
 Mahrattensis, Upupa minor, Leptosomus Afer, Eudynamys
 orientalis, Cuculus canorus, Cuculus fugax, Centropus Phi-

 lippensis, Chloropsis aurifrons, Cinnyris lepida, Cinnyris
 currucaria, Cinnyris Vigorsii, Cinnyris minima, Cinnyris

 Mahrattensis, and finally, Cinnyris concolor. The above
 catalogue requires very few observations. The weaver-bird,
 Ploceus Philippensis, is remarkable for its pendent nest, woven
 in the most curious and ingenious manner from fibres of grass.
 Not less curious are the nests produced by the tailor-birds,

 the Prinia socialis and the Orthotomus Bennettii, which sew
 leaves together to inclose their nests, with the skill of a veri-

 table knight of the thimble. The lark, Alauda Gidgula, has
 the habits and delightful song of the skylark of Europe
 and two or three species of the genera Budytes and Mota-

 cilla have sweet notes : the Collurio Lahtora has also a sweet

 note. The Muscipeta Paradisa and Indica are distinguished
 for their beautifully elongated tail-feathers. The Coracias

 Indica is characterized by its splendid colouring; and not

 less so is the Cinnyris Vigorsii. The cuckoo is the identical
--250 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

bird of Europe, and so is the sparrow. In the above list I
have named many new species of Insessores, and have intro-
duced one new genus.

  --Rasores. That order so highly useful to man, the Rasores,

does not contain one single species in Dukhun that is not
valuable as an article of food. There are 12 genera and 40

species. Ptilinopus Elphinstonii, Columba mcena, Columba
tigrina, Columba humilis, Columba rasoria, Columba Cambay-
ensis, Columba JEnas, Meleagris Gallopavo, Pavo cristatus,

Galius gigantei/s, Gallus Sonnsratii, Gallus domesticus, Gal-

lus morio, Gallus crispus, Numida Meleagris, Coturnix dac-

tylisonans, Coturnix textilis, Coturnix Argoondah, Coturnix
Pentah, Coturnix erythrorhyncha, Perdix picta, Francolinus

Pondicerianus, Francolinus spadiceus, Pterocles exustus,Ptero-
cles quadricinctus, Hemipodius pugnax, Hemipodius Taigoor,

Hemipodius Dussumier, Otis nigriceps, and Otis fulva. Of

the above, Turkeys and Guinea fowls are not indigenous, and
it may be doubted whether the gigantic cock be a native.

The original of the domestic fowl is most abundant in the
woods of the Ghats. The real partridge, Perdix picta, is
found in the valleys of the Ghats. What is usually denomi-
nated a partridge in Dukhun, is the Francolinus Pondi-

cerianus ; it is numerous, and affects cultivated lands and

garden grounds. The common quail of Europe is a native of
Dukhun ; and three new species, which I have described, as
well as the Coturnix textilis, literally swarm. That noble

bird the Otis nigriceps is met with in large flocks, and the

--floriken is by no means scarce.
   Grallatores, Of the fourth order, Grallatores or Waders,
there are 25 genera and 46 species, and very many of the
species are common to Europe. Grus Antigone, Ardca
Egretta, Ardea Garzetta, Ardea Asha, Ardea cinerea,
Ardea nigrirostris, Ardea Malaccensis, Ardea Caboga, Ardea
Grayii, Ardea Javanica, Ardea cinnamomea, Botaurus stel-

laris, Nyctieorax Europceus, Phoznicopterus ruber, Platalea

leucorodia, Platalea junior, Ciconia leucocephala, Ciconia
Argala, Anastomus Typus, Tantalus leucocephalus, Ibis re-

ligiosa, Ibis ignea, Ibis papillosa, Ibis falcinella, Tetanus
ochropus, Totanus Glareola, Totanus hypoleucos, Limosa
Glottoides, Limosa Horsfieldii, Gallinago media, Gallinago
minima, Rhynchea picta, Pelidna Temminckii, Parra Si-
nensis, Gallinula Javanica, Rallus Akool, Porphyrio Sma-

ragnotus, Fidica atra, Cursorius Asiaticus, Vanellus Goensis,
 Vanellus bilobus, Charadrius pluvialis, Charadrius Philip-

pensis, Himantopus melanopterus, and CEdicnemus crepitans.

Of the above, the Ibis religiosa is undoubtedly the sacred or
ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.       251

mummy Ibis of the ancient Egyptians, according to Cuvier's

description. The species of the family of the Ardeidce are
varied and beautiful. The snipes are those of Europe, as

well as most of the species of the Scolopacidce, and some of

--the Rallidce.
  Natatores. The last order, Natatores or swimmers, con-

tains 13 genera and 20 species, and, as in the preceding

order, several of the species are common to Europe. Plec-

tropterus melanotics, Anser Giria, Tadorna rutila, Anas stre-
pera, Rhynchaspis virescens, Mareca poecilorhyncha, Mareca

Jtstularis, Mareca Awsuree, Querquedula Circia, Querquedula

Crecca, Fuligula rufina, Fuligula  , Fuligula cristata,

Podiceps Philippensis, Phalacrocorax Javanicus, Plotus me-

lanogaster, Sterna acuticauda, Sterna similis, Sterna Seena,

and Viralva Anglica. The geese, ducks, and teals abound

most in the cold season, and are at that period excellent

eating. The domestic goose and duck of Europe is not in-

cluded in the above list, but both are extensively bred in
Dukhun. That rare English bird the Viralva Anglica is

very common in Dukhun. I did not meet with the Pelican,

--although it is a native of India.
   Ichthyology. The rivers of Dukhun abound with fish, and

some of them are not only palatable, but very fine flavoured,
particularly the Tambra, a new species of Cyprinus, and the

Waam, Macrognathus armatus ; the Singhala or Pimelodus is

also in very general use by the people, but is not esteemed by

Europeans. The fish observed by me consisted of forty-six

species ; two belonged to the sub-order Apodes, three to

Thoracici, and forty-one to Abdominales. The whole were

comprised in twelve genera. There was one Murena, one
Macrognathus, one Chanda, one Ophiocephalus, one Gobius,

two species of Silurus, nine of Pimelodus and sub-genera, one

Ageneiosus, one Mystus, twenty-four of Cyprinus and sub-

genera, one Essox, and three species of Cobitus. It is re-

markable that the fresh water Essox of Dukhun so closely

resembles the salt water species of England, as to be scarcely

distinguished from it, not only in external characters, but in
the colour of its bones.

 --Reptilia. Reptiles are numerous in Dukhun. The Trionyx

Indica abounds in the rivers, and there are two smaller

species. Many genera of the Saurian family are met with

from the four to five feet Monitor, to the minutest Lacerta.

Serpents of all kinds, from the gigantic Boa Constrictor to the
small and beautiful carpet snake. The first, however, I have

only seen carried about the country by people who exhibit
--252 SEVENTH REPORT 1837«

the feats of the reptile in swallowing small animals. Inde-

pendently of the deadly Cobra da Capello, {Coluber Naag)

there are some other poisonous species, but in general the

snakes are harmless.

  --Crustacea. Of the Crustacea, I shall have only to notice

the Kenkra, Thelphusa cunicularis, a new species which per-

vades the valleys and table-lands of the Ghats, and whose

numbers are so great that their burrows riddle the earth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;

they remain quiet in their holes during the cold and dry

seasons, but, in the monsoon, they are abroad in such num-

bers, that travellers drive over them, ride over them, and

trample upon them in the high roads : they are not an article

--of food with the natives, but are, I believe, wholesome.
   Testacea. There are some few genera and species of land

and fluviatile shells, the largest of which is a Unio ; but they

do not call for notice.

  --Entomology. Like all tropical climates, the Dukhun teems

with insects. The domestic fly is a pest at certain seasons

the most rigid precautions and the greatest cleanliness cannot

secure the most fastidious person from the inroads of the

bed-bug; and there is no getting beyond the "maximum leap

of a flea" ; the fact is, these plagues are not only the constant

companions of the people, but the flea inflicts serious injury

on poultry, dogs, and cattle. Domestic, and indeed wild

animals are subject also to the attacks of a small blue tick,

(Acarus,) which multiplies upon them in such an incredible

manner as to affect the vital functions and produce paralysis

and death. There are three species of honey-bee in Dukhun,

the honey from the whole of which is remarkably fine. It

boasts also its lac insect, Coccus laccus ; and several silk-pro-

ducing moths, particularly the Kolesurra, Bombyx Papliia.

The most destructive of the insect tribe is the white ant,

Termes, which, working under cover with the most inde-

fatigable perseverance, finds its way everywhere, and every-

where occasions loss and injury ; books, papers, clothes,

leather, wood, &c, are indiscriminately devoured. Several

Aspecies of genuine ants are also a great nuisance.  species

of sphex makes its earthen nest within the locks of the dooi's,
and blocks up the key-holes. The musquito, Culex, is not

quite so troublesome in Dukhun as on the coast. The scor-

pion, of which there are two or three species, so abounds in

the stony lands of Dukhun, that on encamping my regiment,
on the march from Punderpoor to Ahmednuggur in 1818, I
had from two to three hundred brought to me in the course
of a day by my men : their sting produces intolerable pain for
             ON TUB STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  253

a few hours, but is not dangerous unless to the diseased and

weakly. The centipede does not attain the growth of its type

in South America, nor is it very numerous.

   As in other countries, the Coleopterous order is the most

numerous. Some of the genera are remarkable for their

habits, (Copridce,) and some are remarkable for their beauty

(Buprestidce). Amongst the Lepidoptera many are very hand-

some, both in the diurnal and nocturnal families (Papilio Hector

and Bombyx Atlas). In the Hemipterous order, the Ci-

micidce abound, and are cursed with all imaginable abominable

smells.  In  the  order  Orthoptera,  the  Gryllidce are numerous
                                                                                                                                                  ;

but the locust is unknown as a scourge. In this order also,

the multiplied and strange forms of the Mantis and Phasma

are very striking. The Blatta is troublesome and injurious.

The Hymenoptera includes some valuable and interesting

genera. Of the Apterous insects I have already spoken.

The Neuroptera are both numerous and beautiful, some of
the Libellula and Myrmeleons particularly so. Of the Di-

ptera, the genera Musca, Culex, Bombilius, Hippobosca, and

Tipula, exhibit the greatest number of species and individuals.

In Arachnida the genera are endless. The prevalence of

scorpions I have spoken of.

                                          Civil Divisions.

  The British territories in Dukhun are divided into four
collectorates, Poona, Ahmednuggur, Dharwar, and Khandesh
or Candeish. Over each of these there is a European civil ser-
vant of the Company, with several European assistants, for the

purpose of collecting the revenue. These gentlemen are armed
with magisterial powers, and can call upon the military au-
thorities for assistance. These collectorates are divided into
Talooks (great divisions), provinces, Pergunnahs (counties),

and Turrufs (hundreds) ;* and 'native officers called Mam-

lutdars, aided by inspectors of cultivation, accountants, trea-
surers, and a police force, are placed over one or more
Pergunnahs. All these terms are of Moosulman introduc-
tion; the ancient Hindoo civil officers being differently named,
and their territorial divisions were Prant, Deshmookee, and
Naikwaree. The aggregations of habitations are called Sher
(city), Kusbeh (market-town), Mouzeh or Ga6n (village), and
Waree (hamlet). The cities and towns may comprise several
villages, and they have their suburbs called Peit. The vil-
lage constitution is noticed under land tenures.

   · Provinces, counties, and hundreds are not the exact equivalents of the
native territorial divisions, but they afford sufficiently approximate types.
254 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

 --Poona Collectorate. The Poona Collectorate is the nearest

of the four collectorates of Dukhun to Bombay : its bound-

aries towards the coast approach within about fifty miles of that
presidency, but they do not descend the Ghats into the strip

of land at the foot of the Ghats, called the Konkun (Concan).

This collectorate has an area of 8281 square miles, including

the lands held in military tenure (Jagheer). It contains
550,313 inhabitants, 1897 towns* and villages, and 114,887
houses ; averaging 66*45 inhabitants to a square mile, 4*79 to
a house, 247*36 to a village, exclusive of the population of

Poona. The chief town is Poona, recently the capital of the

Mahratta empire, containing a population of 81,315 souls.

The other principal towns are Tullegaon (2050 males, 2007

females), Joonur (4218 males, 3759 females), Kheir (1999

males, 1794 females), Goreh (1154 males, 1145 females), Ootoor

(2521 males, 1928 females), Narraingaon (1286 males, 1180

females), Alley (1396 males, 1 064 females), Sassor (1880 males,

1696 females), Jeejooree (885 males, 860 females), Tullegaon,

Tnrrtif Paubul (1710 males, 1427 females), and some others;

but the most populous of the number, as is seen above, contains

only 7977 souls. There are, excluding Sholapoor, 8 pergun-

nahs and 32 turruffs in the Poonah collectorate. In Sholapoor

sub-collectorate there are 4 talooks, 19 pergunnahs, and 12

turruffs ; but as divisions which in the other collectorates are

called turruffs, are here called pergunnahs, there are few tur-

Myruffs.  limits will not permit of detailed descriptions of

these pergunnahs, although there are many physical facts of

interest connected with some of them.

The following number of towns and villages constitute the

different pergunnahs and talooks: Sewnere 190, Indapoor,

86, Kheir 236, Pabul 65, Poorundhur 130, Beemthuree 92,

Hawailee 165, the Mawuls 233, Sholapoor 122, Mohol 145,

Indee 236, and Moodebehal 226. This makes a total of 1926,

which is 29 villages more than was previously stated, but this

is owing to depopulated villages being included; of this 1926,

47 towns and 1429^ villages belong to the British ; 4 towns

and 264^ villages are held in free gift (Eenam), and 3 towns

and 178 villages are held on tenure of military service (Su-

--rinjam).
   Hill forts. In the Poona Collectorate are situated many

remarkable hill forts, impregnable in fact if properly defended,
from their geological structure, which consists of beds of
basalt, with vertical edges, alternating with beds of amyg-

   * Trifling transfers have taken place between the different collectorates, so

that this may not be the exact amount at the present moment.
               ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                                             255

   daloids, whose edges form a talus. Many of these in then-

   superficial plane manifest a strong disposition to a trigonal

   character. Such is the case with Teekonee (the word being
   almost Greek,) or three-angled, Koaree, and some others.
   Koaree is situated at the edge of the Ghats in the civil
   division called the Powar Khoreh ; its summit is 2910 feet
   above the sea ; and some parts of the rock within its area are
   so powerfully magnetic, as to draw the needle quite round the

   compass. The hill forts of Singhur, Poorundhur, and Wu-

   zeerghur are seen from Poona : the summit of the first is ele-
   vated 4192 feet above the sea, and the second 4471 feet.
   The hill-fort of Sewnair, in which the celebrated Sewajee was
   born, is situated close to the city of Joonur (Jooneer). Jewdun,
   is on the edge of the Ghats, a few miles westward of Joonur,

   and Hurreechundurghur, which is said to be eighteen miles in

   circumference at its base, is situated a few miles N.W. of

   Joonur. But I have not space to enumerate all these points

   --of defence provided by nature, Loghur, Eesapoor, &c. &c.
     --Boodh cave-temples. Some works of art must not be over-

   looked. The first is that magnificent cave-temple situated in
   the civil division called Naneh Mawul ; it is usually denomi-

   nated the cave of Karleh (Carlee), from being within two
   miles of a village of that name ; the temple is associated with

   many cave-chambers. The other Boodh excavations are

    pierced in the hills around the city of Joonur, under the hill-

   fort of Joonur, and at the crest of the pass into the Konkun
    from Joonui-, called the Naneh Ghat. Numerous inscriptions,

    in so antique a form of the Sanscrit alphabet as not to be
    readable by modern Sanscrit scholars, abound in these caves.*
    These astonishing works of art, resulting from the labour of
    ages, and which are met with, not only in the Poona Col-
    lectorate, but in many other parts of India, would seem to
    indicate that the country was once inhabited by a Boodhist

    population, although it has so entirely disappeared, that not a

    solitary worshiper of Boodh remains in the peninsula of India.
       In the Under Mawul, at the village of Mhow, there is

    an extraordinary large Wuhr-tree (Ficus Lidica) ; it has

    sixty-eight stems, most of them thicker than a man's body,
     and, with the exception of the original stem, the whole of
    them originate in roots let down from the branches ; it was
     capable of affording shade, with a vertical sun, to 20,000 men,
    being 201 feet long by 150 feet broad. At the town of Mun-

   * Within the last year, those indefatigahle and learned orientalists, Principal

,  Mill,  Mr.  James  Prinsep,  and  Mi-                Stevenson  have  succeeded  in  reading  most
                                                     .

   of the inscriptions which are found to relate exclusively to Boodhism and

   Boodhists.
256 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

chur, in the pergunnah of Pabool and Turruf Wurgaon,
there is a Baubel-tree {Mimosa Arabica,) of surprising mag-
nitude ; at eighteen inches from the ground the trunk mea-
sures nine feet and half an inch in circumference ; its head is
ramous and dense, and it gives a vertical shade covering 5964
square feet : this species produces gum arabic. In the turruf
of Chakun, pergunnah Kheir, near to Mahloongah, on the
slopes of some hills, the shrub or small tree, producing the gum
olibanum, (Boswellia thurifera), is met with ; and it is seen
also in other parts of the country. At Mahloongah there is a
garden of flourishing cocoa-nut trees ; and considering that
they are at 2000 feet above the sea, and 100 miles inland,
the fact is sufficiently remarkable : clumps of them are also
met with at Pabool and other places.

  --Rivers. The rivers flowing through the Poona Collectorate

are the Mota, the Mola, the Inderanee, Under, Beema, Goreh,
and Kokree, and some smaller streams. All these have their
sources in the Ghats, within the limits of the collectorate
they converge to the Beema, which falls into the Kistnah, and

thus finally reach the Bay of Bengal. The rivers are only

navigable during the monsoon, and then only partially. Boats
with sails are not seen upon them.

  --Ahmednuggur Collectorate. The Ahmednuggur Collect-

orate adjoins the Poona Collectorate on the east and north.
Part of its frontier is along the Ghats; the rest. is bounded
by the Chandore range of hills on the north, and by the
Nizam's territories on the east and S.E.

   Ahmednuggur has an area of 9910 square miles ; it con-
tains 666,376 inhabitants, dispersed in 2465 towns and villages,

averaging 263*47 inhabitants to a village, (exclusively of the

population of Ahmednuggur) ; 67*24 inhabitants to a square
mile ; 136,273 houses and 4*89 inhabitants to a house*.

   Ahmednuggur is divided into 14 talooks, 36 pergunnahs,
and 51 turruffs. Talook Ahmednuggur contains 157 towns
and villages, Kurdeh 172, Sungumnair 226, Akoleh 194,
Newassa 359, Nasseek 280, Sinnur 107, Chandwur 153, Pato-

deh 255, Wun Dindooree 175, Barsee 124, Kurmulleh 82,

Jamkheir 90, and Kortee 115. The total of these is 2488,

instead of 2465 ; the difference originates in 23 depopulated

villages being included. Of the above, 43 towns and 1858^

villages belong to the British ; in 27 towns and 554£ villages
the British government has a quit rent, these villages being
called Doomaleh,f alienated. Only one village in free gift

    * This return is for 16 pergunnahs only.
    t The proper meaning of Doomaleh is " two properties," the chief part of
the revenue being alienated, but the government having a quit rent.
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.              257

was returned to me, and one town and three villages in military
or feudal tenure ; but the villages in free gift (Eenam) are
included in the Doomaleh villages.

   The chief town is Ahmednuggur, with a population of
17>838 souls in 1822 : men 5953, boys 3350, total males 9303

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;

women 5976, girls 2559, total 8535. The other chief towns

are Kurdeh, Nasseek, Chandore, Sungumnair, Parnair, &c.

but their population I cannot state, as the total amount of the

population of pergunnahs only was sent to me by the col-
lector*. The most populous pergunnah would appear to be
Nasseek, containing 71,581 inhabitants. The least populous

pergunnah was Soagaon, containing only 9400 inhabitants.

  --Rivers. The rivers running, through the collectorate are

formed by numerous streams originating in the Ghats and

--Chandore range, such as the Peera, the Mool, the Doornail,

and the Gooee, which converge to that noble stream the
Godavery, which also has its rise in this collectorate, near
Trimbuck, and flows to the eastward to the Bay of Bengal.

The Seena is the only river of consequence which does not

originate in the Ghats. It has its course at the edge of the

plateau on which the city of Ahmednuggur stands, about ten

miles north of the city, and flows in a S.S.E. direction into
the Beema.

   There are several remarkable hill forts in the western part
of the collectorate, such as Trimbuck, &c. Ahmednuggur

was once the capital of the Ahmed Shahee dynasty of kings.

 --Khandesh or Candeish Collectorate. The area of the pro-

vince or collectorate of Candeish, deduced from a map in the
Deputy Surveyor General's Office, including tracts belonging

to foreign states and to Jagheerdars, is 12,527 square miles.
It is bounded on the north by the Sautpoora mountains ; on
the east by the province of Berar, belonging to the Nizam

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;

on the south by the Indyadree range of mountains, which

separate it from Ahmednuggur ; and, on the west, by Dang

and Raj Peeplee, which bring it into contact with Goojrat.

It is literally a Khind or Khund, a great gap between ranges
of mountains, whence its name of Khandesh or Candeish.
Some of the northern and western parts are little better than a
jungle, and the whole province is miserably depopulated. The

populated part of the collectorate belonging to the British,

derived from the returns of the lands of 1982 populated villages,

* The population returns forwarded by me not having been filled up, in

consequence of a census of the population having been made by the collector

himself within three years preceding.

vol. vi. 1837.                         s
--258 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

give an area of 6760 square miles, with a population of nearly

55 inhabitants to the square mile ; but supposing 1681

alienated and deserted villages to have a proportionate quan-

tity of lands, the area will be 12,504 square miles, with 38^

inhabitants only to the square mile, and this I believe to be

very near to the truth. It is curious that the area derived

from the village lands should approximate so closely to the

area determined trigonometrically.

   The collectorate is divided into sixty-six pergunnahs, some

of which do not contain more than one village each, whilst the
largest, Nanchporbar, has 259 towns and villages, Nowapoor

236, Sooltanpoor 232, Rawere 160, Jamnair 144, Amulnair
140, and Bhamere 150, including deserted villages* The total
number of towns and villages is 3666 ; but of this number 330

are pyegusta, which means that the villages are deserted, but

that part of the lands are cultivated ;  999 are entirely deserted
                                                                                                                                                                                      ;

but great confusion and uncertainty prevails in the details, for

of this number there are 51 whose limits are unknown, 12

whose sites are unknown but names known, and 135 whose

names and sites are unknown but a record remains of their

number. There are 237 populated Jagheer, or alienated vil-
lages-, and many amongst the Pyegusta, and deserted also, be-

long to Jagheerdars, so that it does not appear that more
than 2032 populated villages belong to the British * ; of this

number 1968 sent in population returns. The most populous

town in Khandesh was Nandoorbar, and it had only 6429 inha-

bitants ; and only one other town (Chopra) had a population of

6000. The towns and villages average only 178 inhabitants,

and each house averages 3*96 inmates. The total of the

inhabitants is 478,457.

   From the village lands in Khandesh being kept universally

in Beegahs, the amount of land under cultivation is readily

determined. It would appear that 15,958 acres were watered

by perennial streamlets. Lands so watered are called PaJit-

stul, and are the most valuable of all, as the supply of water

is mostly permanent, and the chief labour required is to open

the channels and let it flow over the lands ; 46,064 acres were
watered from wells, and lands so watered are called Moht-

stul ;f 600,556 acres were under field cultivation, and are not

   * In the Collector's revenue return for 1827-8 the number of villages is
stated to be 2697+, so that 335^ of the deserted villages had become inhabited,
independently of 330 uninhabited villages whose lands were included in the

return.

   f Paht means a water-channel, and Moht means a well-bucket; implying
in the first instance that lands are watered from streamlets, and in the second

instance from wells.
           ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                   259

--watered, these lands are called Zerhaeet. The per centage

of cultivated and waste lands in this collectorate is as

follows :

Watered by perennial streams^)

Watered from wells            > 15*32 per cent.

Field cultivation             J
                                   84*68 do.
Waste land

                                100 ...

--Rivers. The River Tapty runs through the whole length

of the collectorate, and, unlike the rivers of the other collect-

orates, disembogues into the Gulf of Cambay, below Surat

the water-shed of the counti'y being in fact from the east to

the west, instead of from the west to the east ; there are some

exceptions in rivers which rise in the Western Ghats, or the

Chandore range, and run to the east for some distance, then

sweep round in a segment of a circle and join the Tapty ; such
are the Guirna, Roharee, the Moosum, &c. Timber is floated

down the Tapty in the monsoon.

 --Boodh Cave Temples. Near to the Adjunta Pass, through

the Chandore range, from Ahmednuggur into Khandesh, are

a multitude of those astonishing remains of Boodhist art,

consisting of excavations in the mural faces of the trap rocks,

the interior walls of which excavations are covered with bas-

reliefs ; indeed, with fresco paintings also, illustrative of the
arts and social relations of life, like the paintings on the tombs

of the Egyptian kings.

 --Dharwar Collectorate. Agreeably to information obtained

from the Revenue Survey Department, that part of the

southern Mahratta country, bounded on the north by the

Kolapoor territory and the Kristna river, on the east by the

Nizam's dominions, on the south by Mysore and the Toom-

boodra river, and on the west by Soonda and the Syhadree

Ghats, comprises an area of 11,747 square miles, namely,

                                              Square Miles.

British possessions                              8378*439

Do. Manowlee Talook, from the Kolapoor territory 390*474

Sawanoor Jagheer                                 74*750

Sawuntwaree territory                            188*934

Nizam's territory                                47*930

Gudjundurghur jagheer                            69*344

Putwurdun and other jagheers                     2597*167

                                Total         11747*038

                       s2
--260 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

The Talooks of Cheekooree, 354 square miles, and Munowlee,

390 square miles, have been added to Dharwar, so that the

area of the collectorate now amounts to 9122*913 square miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

but 39 per cent, of this consists of wood and jungle, and uncul-

tivated lands, and 61 per cent, appears upon the returns as

cultivated.

Dharwar is divided into 22 Talooks and 137 Turritffs,

Mahls, Summuts, or A7«Vy«fo, independently of the subdivisions

of the Talooks of Cheekooree and Munowlee. The Talook of

Dharwar has 136 towns and villages, Meesreekoht 133,

Purusghur 59, Nowlgoond 43, Hoongoond 170, Dumbul 96,
Bunkapoor 115, Nuwee Hooblee 97, Ranee Beednoor 139,
KettoorSl, Sumpgaon 70, Beereeh 135, Rhone 77, Bagul-

koht 141, Hangull 173, Goottull 123, Badamee 148, Padsha-
poor 202, Kohr 182, Talooks of Cheekooree, and Munowlee
225. To the above are to be added 189 villages, 47 of which

sent in population returns, although their names were not in

the government lists ; 108 were not included because they

were Jagheer or Eenam villages ; and 34 were depopulated
and overlooked. The total number of villages in the collect-

orate amounted to 2734 ; of this number 2491 were populated,

and 243 were deserted. Of the above, 1899 British villages

sent in returns, 225 did not send returns; 155 were deserted,

but their lands were under cultivation by neighbouring vil-

lagers 230                         alienated villages   sent in returns,                    137              alienated
                                ;

villages did not send in                           returns                                  and 88 deserted villages had
                                                                                         ;

not their lands under cultivation. With the aid of some

trifling estimates the total amount of population appeared to

be 838,757, averaging 91*94 inhabitants to the square mile,

336-71 to a village, and 4*48 to a house. Of the 119 British

towns, there are only three whose population exceeds 1 0,000

souls, viz. Dharwar 11,802; Belgaon 11,037; and Mujeed-

poor 15,387. One town has above 8000 inhabitants, (Bagul-

koht)                            two with  6000 ;  one  5000 ;                              thirty-six with  from  2000
                              ;

to 4000; and seventy-seven with from 1000 to 2000 souls.

All the village lands being kept in definite measurements, it

appeared that the cultivated land of the whole collectorate

was 61*11 per cent., and waste only 38*89 per cent.

  --Rivers. All the chief rivers of Dharwar flow to the eastward

they have their source in the Ghats, and join the Kistnah.

The principal are the Gutpurba, the Malpurba, and the
Wurdah : the falls of the Gutpurba, near to Gokauk, are said

to be strikingly fine.

 --Hill Forts. Dharwar, like the other collectorates, has to

boast of its hill forts.
       ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                                                                 261

    Viewing Dharwar, whether with respect to its numerous
towns and well-peopled villages, the comparative density of its
population, the size of its farms, the quantity of land in culti-
vation, the amountof its revenues, the lightness with which they
press supposing they were raised as a poll tax, the indications
of manufacturing industry (so languishing elsewhere) in the
number of its weavers, and its superior means of school
instruction, it is unquestionably the finest of the British pos-
sessions in Dukhun.

                         Population.

The great feature in the population of Dukhun is the

excess of males over females in a greater proportion than

exists in Europe. By the last census in England there

were 100 males to 93 females. In the British possessions

in Dukhun, in a population from which returns have

been received of 2,802,902 souls, there are 100 males to

87*36 females, and this difference obtains, with very little

variation, throughout the different casts. It is subject to

modification, however, by a very singular fact, exhibited in

the excess of grown up women over men wherever the

returns distinguish the adults from children ; but the excess

of male children over female leaves the ultimate prepon-

derance in favour of the males. From Sir Stamford Raffles'.

History of Java, the same relative proportion of the sexes

would appear to exist in that island. He states that the pro-

portion of males and females born in Bantam, and over the

whole of Java, is nearly the same as in Europe, and as is found

generally to exist wherever accurate statements can be ob-

tained. From the information he collected in a very careful

survey of one province, the preponderance seemed to be

on the side of male children to an extraordinary degree
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

the male children being about 42,000, and the female 35,500,

i. e. 100 males to 84*52 females. He says also there were

formerly great drains on the male population, and which, in

advanced stages of life, might turn the balance on the other

side ; indeed, in some of his returns this is shown to be the

case.

In Dukhun, wherever the means have been afforded to me

of ascertaining, I have found the preponderance of male over

female children to be marked, not only in births, but as long

as they continue to  be  classed  as  children                                            although  a great
                                                                                       ;

mortality, at a subsequent period, makes the grown up

females outnumber the grown up males.

 --Males and females. In the Poona Collectorate in 1826 the

births of males in 32 turruffs were 100 to 94 - 27 females,
262 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

or very nearly 20 males to 19 females. The result of

eighteen years' very careful observations for all France, from

1817  to  1834 inclusive,  gives                17 males  for  16  females                                   and as
                                                                                                          ;

this is derived from more than seventeen and a half millions of

births, it is worthy of every confidence. Taking each year of

the above period, the extreme variation was from 15 males to

My14 females, as far as 19 males to 18 females.                         deduction

varies so little, that we may fairly say the same law equally ob-

tains, whether in a tropical or an extra-tropical climate.

Amongst illegitimate births in France it would appear that the

number of females approximates more neai-ly to males than in

the legitimate births ; the numbers, according to the French

tables, being 24 males to 23 females : reducing all these to a

common denomination, we have in the

Poona Collectorate . . 94*27 per cent, of female births.

In France, the average^!

    of 18 years, legiti- >-94*Il do.                               do.

    mate        J

In     France, legitimate^  9  g.gg              do>             do
                                                 do>
    lor 1 year, .... J                                                      -extremes.
                                                 do              do
In France, legitimately 94<7g                   amongst
    lor I year                                                   d
                J                                         illegitimate children

In France illegitimate,
                                       95 . g3

   average ot 18 years, J

    It would thus appear that

there are nearly two more females born to every hundred

males than amongst legitimate births.

    In the abstract of the census of the population of the

Ahmednuggur Collectorate, taken in 1822, the boys were to

the girls as 100 to62'16; a singular disproportion, there being

in the whole collectorate 96,447 boys, and only .59,956 girls;

but the men were to the women only as 100 to 102*18,
the number of men being 146,750, and the women 149,945.

In the city of Poona, in 1822, the boys were to the girls as

100 to 73*26, a greater disproportion than Sir Stamford Raffles

found in Java ; at the same time the adult men were to the
women as 100 to 103*40. In the classes only of the Brahman
priests, mendicants, and traders, were the men found to ex-

ceed the women. In the city of Ahmednuggur, in 1826, there

were 100 boys to 67*62 girls, but 100 men only to 106*06

women ; but the ultimate relation of males to females was as

100 males to 92*46 females.
                ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  263

   The following table shows the proportion of males to

females in the different collectorates, and their principal cities
and towns :

Collectorates.
--264 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

was raging in the country in that year, and that the deaths

from that unaccountable and dreadful malady in two turruffs

amounted to nearly 5 per cent., and in one turruff to 6 per

cent, of the whole population. It is to be presumed, there-

fore, in the absence of cholera, the births would exceed the

deaths, as was in fact the case in some of the Mawuls, or

hilly tracts, where it was known the cholera did not penetrate.

In deaths the Moosulmans were the greatest average sufferers,

(1 in 20'15) and the low casts were the least sufferers, (I in

42-94).

As Dr. Walker found that the cholera in the city of Ahmed-

nuggur increased the usual deaths 0*66 per cent., the loss

being 2*48, while the cholera raged, and only 1*82 per cent,

when the scourge ceased, it is but fair to infer that such would

have been the case in the country at large ; and this element,
applied to the mortality in the Poonah Collectorate, would

reduce the annual loss to 2*01 per cent., or one death in

50 persons, which would indicate a greater degree of healthi-

ness than all France, all Belgium, or the town of Glasgow,

the loss in all these places being 1 in 39 and a fraction.

 --Marriages. The average number of marriages in the

Poona Collectorate is proportionably more than in England

and France, being 1 in  125*87 souls                                                                 the proportion in En-
                                                                                                  ;

gland being 1 in 128, and in France 1 in 130*4 inhabitants.

The range in the different turruffs is from 1 in 40*11 to 1 in

493*77 ; but in 14 turruffs the average is considerably under

that for England. The Shoodruhs (Mahrattas proper) and

Moosulmans are almost identical, in their proportional number

of marriages, namely, 1 in 116*21 and 1 in 116*86, and they

have the greatest number of marriages ; the low casts have

the fewest marriages. The births in 1826 being only 4954

and the marriages 1998, the average of children to a marriage

was 2*48 or not quite 2j. In France the average is 3*72

children to a marriage ; in England and Wales 3'55. In

Java the births were 1 in 39, deaths 1 in 40 persons.

  The constituents of the population in the different collect-

orates were
                                   ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                                                            265

In the above^analysis the chief features are the permanent

and nearly equal proportions of the Shoodruhs or Mahratta

cultivators and other genuine Mahrattas, which obtain in the

different collectorates ; the fact being, that three-fourths of

the population are of that most useful class the Shoodruhs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;

and it will be seen by the notice on agriculture, how large

a proportion of them are engaged in tillage. In the Poona

Collectorate, as might be expected from its having been the

chief seat of a Brahman government, there is a considerable

number of Brahmans ; every ninth person, in fact, being a

Brahman. In the other collectorates scarcely one in twenty

persons is a Brahman. Genuine Rajpoots are little known in

Dukhun, and I should doubt whether or not the 3% per cent,
of Rajpoots, in the returns from Khandesh, should be added

to the Mahratta population ; who, by the bye, have some pre-

tensions to being descended from the Rajpoots. The propor-

tion of low casts,* men who are only engaged in vile or discredit-

able offices by the natives, although otherwise employed by

the British, does not differ very much in the different collect-

orates                             the increase in the Khandesh collectorate is attri-
                                ;

butable to large tracts of the country being inhabited by

Bheels, who are a low cast ; in fact, less than every seventh

person is a low cast; in Poona about every tenth, and in

Dharwar about every eighth. The Moosulmans are few in

number in the Poona and Ahmednuggur Collectorates, not

being one-twentieth of the population in the first, nor one-

fifteenth in the second ; but, in the Dharwar Collectorate they

displace the Brahmans, and amount to nearly one-eleventh.

Although the Moosulman power has been paramount nearly

throughout all India for centuries, it is believed they have

never constituted one-fifteenth of the whole population. In the

abstract of the population returns from the Ahmednuggur Col-

lectorate, the casts are not distinguished ; but, in a return of

1828, from the city of Ahmednuggur, the Hindoo inhabitants

are distinguished from             the  Moosulman                                                      and  it  is  found  that
                                                                                                    ;

there is the very unusual proportion of one Moosulman to 3*45

Hindoos, or 29 per cent, of the whole population. This is to

   * The low casts comprise all that part of the Hindoo population which
cannot claim to be Shoodruhs, such as Mahrs, Dhers, Maangs, shoemakers,
skinners; Ramoosees, Beruds, and Bheels. The Mahrs and Dhers are the
scavengers, the Maangs, executioners; shoemakers and skinners speak for
themselves ; the Ramoosees and Beruds are bom thieves, or are thieves by-
cast, and they are usually employed for the protection of villages, on the
principle of setting a thief to catch a thief. The Bheels are supposed to be
the aborigines of the countries where they are found.
--266 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

be referred to the fact of Ahmednuggur having once been the
capital of the Ahmed Shahee dynasty of Moosulman kings

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;

with these exceptions, although I have not detailed returns to

guide me, I believe that the constituents of the population of

the Ahmednuggur Collectorate do not differ in their propor-

tions from those of the Poona Collectorate. In the census of

1822, the families in the fifteen pergunnahs in the Ahmednuggur

Collectorate, with a population of 409,279 souls, were enu-

merated, and it appeared that there were 4*53 persons to a

family. With respect to the styles of building in the Ahmed-

nuggur Collectorate, it will be fully illustrated by the facts,

that the tiled houses amount only to 10*84 per cent, of the

whole ; the thatched houses to 32*27 per cent. ; and the mud

flat-terraced houses to 56*89 per cent.

Bearing in mind the clouds of horse that covered the Duk-

hun in the war of 1817, it is sufficiently remarkable that in

1822, in the whole Collectorate of Ahmednuggur there were

only 405 full-grown horses, 1298 full-grown mares; the total,

including colts and fillies, being only 2500 ; the ponies amounted

to 12,632, of all kinds.

 --Proportions engaged in agriculture. In 1828, in this col-

lectorate, 1878 British villages contained 41,94S cultivators or

farmers, and a population of 512,818 souls, and allowing five

persons to a cultivator's family, 40*89 per cent, of the people

were engaged in agriculture. In Poona there were 52,668

farmers, being a per centage of 55*50, with five persons to a

family. In Dharwar 60,701 cultivators, being a percentage of

41*76*, and in Khandesh 44*608 cultivators, being a per

centage of 53*16 occupied in agriculture. It is to be under-

stood these proportions have reference to the population of

British villages only, and not to the whole population of each

collectorate. Moreover, as these proportions are derived from

the registered farmers only, and as they are in the habit of sub-

letting their lands, I have no hesitation in expressing my

opinion that exact returns would prove that three-fourths of

the population are directly engaged in agriculture. In the

Poona Collectorate, families were not enumerated, excepting

in the retux*n from the city of Poona, and here families average

4*82 persons                                                        each house in Poona averaged Q>\ persons ;  but,
                                                                 ;

for the whole collectorate 4*79 persons to a house ; so that it

is probable the returns of the number of houses would give

the number of families. In Khandesh the proportion of in-

   * Including some returns of alienated villages, an estimate makes it 48
per cent.
                                                   ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  26/

habitants to a house falls short of the other collectorates,

being only 8*96 persons. In Dharwar the number is 4*48 to

a house, for the whole collectorate ; but the towns exhibit

other figures ; namely, Belgaon 5*24, Chabee 5*78, and Gun-

ness Pait 5*77 inhabitants to a house ; England and Wales

has 5*60. The average inhabitants to the square mile, in the

different collectorates, has been noticed under the head of

civil divisions ; and the fewness will disappoint European ex-

pectations ; but there is plainly a great mistake in the common

estimation of the denseness of the Indian population. Bengal

proper is said to have 203 inhabitants to a square mile, and

Orissa, in the cultivated parts, agreeably to Mr. Stirling, the

commissioner, has 135; but, for the whole area of Orissa, the

average is only 14£ inhabitants to the square mile ; England

--has 192.
   Southern Jagheerdars. The Southern Jagheerdars have

917 villages, with an estimated population of 263,236 souls.

 --Rajah of SattaraKs territories. The Rajah of Sattarah, in

his territories, has 1703 towns and villages, with an estimated

population of 488,846 inhabitants.

With the data in my possession I am enabled to give an es-

timate of the population of the late Peshwa's territories in

Dukhun                                         it  affords a closer approximation to the truth than
                                            ;

has hitherto been obtained.

Collectorate.
--268 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

                Towns and   Explanations.                                               Total inha-

                 Villages.                                        Number of bitants in

                                                                  inhabitants. cachCollect-

                                                                                                 orate.

Poona Collec-   895i           In the collector's revenue state-
                            ment for 1828 there appeared
       torate.  212i
                  56        1469J British villages ; viz. 895§
                    4       towns and villages inclusive of

                574         the city of Poona, which sent in

                 155        population returns in 1826, the
                   29
                            villages averaging 226*10 inhabit-

                            ants, exclusive of the population

                            of the city, give                     283,567

                            212^ alienated villages sent in

                            population returns                    48,048

                            56 alienated towns and vil-

                            lages, and 4 British villages, did

                            not send in returns, averaging a

                            population of 22610 souls each 13,566

                            574 British villages of the

                            Sholapoor sub-collectorates did
                            not send in returns, averaging by

                            estimate 226-10 souls each            164,294

                            Had the average number of

                            inhabitants to a village in the

                            Ahmednuggur collectorate been

                            used as an element, the result

                            would have been 151,145

                            155 alienated towns and vil-

                            lages of the Sholapoor sub-col

                            lectorate at 226-l^souls each ... 40,838       550,313

                            Depopulated villages.

                1926           Total towns and villages in the
                            Poona Collectorate.

 Khandesh                   In the collector's revenue state

Collectorate,               ment for 1828, there were 2697J
                            villages; of this number, 1968
                1968
                            British towns and villages sent

                            in population returns in 1826,

                            averaging 187-39 inhabitants to

                            a village, equal to                   368,781

                CI 64 villages, refused returns, at               8128
                         127 souls each

                330            330 villages are cultivated, but
                            not inhabited, making a total of
                            2362 villages. To make up the

                335* number in the collector's revenue
                          statement therefore, 335| villages
                         must be added as having become

                            populated since the population re-

                            turns were sent in, at 127 souls each 42,608

                14 14 Jagheer villages sent in                    2623
                         returns

                30Qi        Jagheer, or alienated villages,

                            2 did not send in returns, at an

                            average of 187-39 souls each          56,317   478,457

                654         Depopulated villages, lands not

                            cultivated.

                3666        Total towns and villages in the

                            Khandesh Collectorate.
                 ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                                                                                                                                      269

                 Towns and      Explanations.                                                                                                                                                   Total inha-

                  Villages.                                                                                                                                               Number of bitants in

                                                                                                                                                                          inhabitants. eachCollect-

                                                                                                                                                                                                        orate.

Dharwar Col-                 In the collector's revenue state-

    lectorate.               ment for 1828, there appeared

                             2279 towns and villages                                                                                                             of this
                                                                                                                                                              ;

                 1899 number, 1899 British towns and

                             villages sent in population re-

                             turns, averaging 348 inhabitants

                             to each village                                                                                                                              660,852

                 225         225 British villages in the ta

                             looks of Cheekoree and Munow-

                             Iee did not send in returns ; es-

                             timating their population from

                             the revenue they yield, falling as

                             a poll-tax as in other parts of

                             Dharwar, there are                                                                                                                           65,805

                 155         British depopulated villages,

                             lands under cultivation.

                 230         Alienated villages sent in po

                             pulation returns                                                                                                                             79,727

                 137         Alienated villages did not send

                             in population returns, at the

                             lowest average of population,

                             236-30 each                                                                                                                                  32,373   838,757

                             Deserted villages, lands not

                           under cultivation.
                 2734

Southern 3i       917        The area of the Southern Jag-
heerdars'        1703
lands.                       heerdars' territories is 2978-125

Rajah of Sat-                square miles at 88-39 inhabitants
 tarah's terri-
                             to the square mile, the lowest
        tories.
                             average of the Dharwar Collect-

                             orate gives by estimate                                                                                                                      263,236  263,236
                                                                                                                                                                                   488,846
                             1703 towns and villages under

                             the Sattarah government, with

                             an estimated population of 287-05

                             inhabitants to a village, which is
                             the mean between Dharwar and

                             Ahmednuggur, will give                                                                                                                       488,846

                 12,155      Populated villages.
                  1,279      Depopulated villages

                 13,434 Total.                                                                                                                                                     3,285,985
270                   SEVENTH REPORT- -1837-
                     ABSTRACT OF THE ABOVE.
    Collectorate or
        Territory.
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                                                                                                                                                        271

would disable them from letting their children profit by in-

struction, even though gratuitous. In a stage of civilization

which is by no means contemptible, the general illiterateness

of the cultivators is remarkable. It might have been supposed

that the pressure of the inconveniencies and the risk of loss

attending the solving their constantly recurring arithmetical

computations, whether in settling their assessments with go-

vernment, in ascertaining the amount of their produce, or in

computing its saleable rate to ensure a profit, or in their

money transactions with each other, would have stimulated

some families of the past or present generations to have pur-

sued steadily a course of instruction for their children, which,

by its example and the visible beneficial results attending it,

would have originated a thirst of knowledge, and advanced

the march of intellectual improvement. The Shoodra, however,

is led to believe by the wily Brahmans that letters and science

are not within his province, and the farmer is content to go on

mastering his arithmetical difficulties with the assistance of his

fingers, and relying upon the village clerk for the keeping his

accounts with the government, and on his ability, judgement,

and secrecy in the management of his private correspondence,

which, it may be supposed, will not be very important or volu-
minous. Were it ascertained, I believe not one cultivator in

a hundred would be found able to write, or count up to 100

but by fives ; and my daily unreserved intercourse for hours

with numbers of this class of persons has given me facilities for
forming this opinion. And yet the Koonbees are far from

wanting intelligence ;  they are not slow in observing                                                                                                                              they are
                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

quick in communicating, and the rationale of an agricultural

process is frequently explained with a simplicity and effect
which we might not always meet with in the educated En-

glish farmer. There would not be any difficulty in teaching

the Koonbees, provided the instruction were gratuitous, and

that the farmer could spare his children ; and several im-

portant effects might attend this instruction: the mind of the

cultivator would be invigorated with new ideas ; enlarged views
of action would break in upon him ; a spirit of improvement,

enterprise, and innovation might spring up, in place of the

apathetic routine that at present prevails in rural ceconomy,
and in the social relations of life ; and an amelioration, both

physical and moral, would take place in his condition. But

* at present the little education that exists is confined to the

 Brahmans and to the shopkeepers, Shaitees*, and Mahajuns.f

* Heads of trades.      f Bankers,
--272 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

The Koolkumees *, or accountants and village-clerks, are

always Brahmans                                                                                          many of them  are  shrewd and very quick,
                                                                                                      ;

and possessed of infinite ingenuity in avoiding the detection of

a fraud or mistake in their papers ; many of this class, how-

ever, I found too stupid to keep an individual's account, much

less the complicated details of a village assessment. The

shopkeepers being generally people from Goojrat, keep their

accounts in the Goojratee language. The character in universal
use for business is the Mohr in the districts. The following will

--show the number of schools, as far as the returns received

from the collectors will permit, not any account of schools
was received from the collector of Ahmednuggur. In the Col-
lectorate of Dharwar there is one school to 2452 inhabitants
in Khandesh thei'e is only one school to 4369 souls ; and, in
the Poona Collectorate, deducting the population of the city

of Poona, there is one school to 3337 souls. It is fair to infer
therefore, that as Dharwar supports proportionably so many

more schools than the other collectorates, that information is

more generally spread amongst the people, and that they are

better able to manage their affairs than others less instructed

and the breadth of cultivation, and general manufacturing and

commercial industry of the people, would seem to justify the

inference.

                                                                                                         Irrigation.

    Preliminary to speaking of agriculture, it is necessary to
state that lands are watered artificially in two ways. First, by
conducting streamlets from running rivers or brooks. Lands
so watered are called Paatsthul, from Paat, a channel, and
Sthul, a field. f These streamlets do not always last through
the hot season ; and though this species of irrigation, while
available, is infinitely less onerous and less expensive to the
cultivator, affording also a more plentiful supply of water than
the well watering and great returns; yet it is not so certain, and,
on the whole, is less permanently efficient than well watering.

The second method is by well watering. Lands so watered are
called Moht Sthul, from Moht, the water-bucket, and Sthul, a
field. There is a good deal of trouble attending this method,

and it requires the continual expense of the support of two or
four bullocks, the wear and tear of materials, and the keep of
one man, who, however, can readily manage two buckets, and
two pairs of bullocks : at the same time it requires also a boy
in the garden or field to open and shut the different channels.

            * Village clerks and accountants,
            t Literally " firm land."
                                                                        ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                      2/3

This is the most common method of irrigation in the districts

reported on. Usually only two bullocks are attached to each

bucket ; in some instances, however, where the wells are deep,

four bullocks are attached to each bucket. The cattle pull

down an inclined plane and discharge the water, and readily

walk backwards up the plane to the highest part of it; on the
bucket being refilled, they go down the plane again ; the
driver sings to them and rides down on the rope. The pro-

cess is suspended for an hour or two during the middle of the

day. The accompanying drawing illustrates this process, and

Adoes not require any explanation.                                                          very considerable quan-

tity of water is brought up by this method. The buckets in

use vary little in size, and the wells, probably, range from 25

to 45 feet deep ; some experiments of mine, therefore, to
ascertain the quantity of water brought up from a well 35 feet

deep in a certain time, may be considered as an average of the

efficiency of this method of irrigation. I found a moht (of six

paahls) average a delivery of 198 wine bottles of water each

time. The bottle contained 28 ounces of water, apothecaries'

measure, consequently the bucket contained 5544 ounces wine

measure, 231 quarts, or 57 gallons 3 quarts. There is a

singular uniformity of time between the delivery of two

buckets, seldom exceeding seventy seconds ; a man and a

pair of bullocks, therefore, in an hour deliver 2931 gallons of

water; and, labouring seven hours a day, give 20,517 gallons

wine measure                                                            and  the  same  man with two pairs of bullocks
                                                                     ;

delivers 41,034 gallons of water ; a quantity infinitely exceeding

what Europeans usually believe to be drawn up by the simple

means employed. At eight pounds troy to the gallon, the

weight of water drawn up by one pair of bullocks in one day

will bel64,1361bs. troy; and bytwo pairs of bullocks, 328,2721bs.

troy. This account appears very considerable, but my ex-

periments  have                                                         been repeated with  care                          and, on the whole,
                                                                                                                       ;

the delivery of water may be rather underrated than over-

rated.

   Near the village of Piroorgoot, 1 observed a simple method
of watering a field. The bed of a nullah, or rivulet, with very

low banks, had been dammed up; three pieces of wood, like

a gin, were put over the water ; a scoop was suspended by a
rope to the apex of the gin, and a man scooped out the water

into his field. The labour was great, and the supply of water

small. This apparatus is called Dohl.

It would appear to be of considerable importance to encou-

rage the making of wells, as the only means of increasing the

very limited exports of the Dukhun.

vol. vi. 1837.                                                                          t
--274 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

                                            Agriculture.

   Some general observations will be necessary, as the crops
and agricultural process in the Mawuls * differ materially from
the crops and agricultural process in the Desh.f The princi-
pal crop of the Mawuls is that of the rains, and the most
valuable of its produce is rice %. The severe labour attend-
ing the preparation of the rice ground in the hot weather
is great, and in the rains the cultivator has to trample up to
his knees in water and mud ploughing the rice field, pro-
bably in a deluge of rain, but with his head and back most se-
curely protected by the Eerluh \, however much exposed the
rest of his body may be. The transplantation is performed
under similar exposure. The other monsoon grains of the
Mawuls are the Sawa, Wuree, and Natchnee, and Karlee,
or KaleeTeel|| which is an oil plant of the only other monsoon

product.

   The labour attending the cultivation of these grains, in a

very unfavourable climate, at the time they are grown, falls
very severely on the people, but they are compensated for
their labour and suffering by good returns of that valuable

produce rice ; and the returns of the other grains are great,
and the crops seldom fail.

   The Koonbees, or farmers of the Mawuls, also have an
advantage which those of the Desh are not always assured of,

i. e. the certainty of finding a market for one of their products,

--rice.
   Dry Season Crop {Mawuls.) The dry crop of the Mawuls

does not call for any mention in this place.

  --Dry Season Crop (Desh.) With respect to the Desh, the

most valuable is the Rubbee, or Spring crop^[. The agricul-

tural processes in both crops is certainly defective, less owing to

the ignorance of the cultivators, who are well aware of the

advantage of a ploughing adapted to the character of the soil,
of good manuring, complete weeding, rotations of crops and fal-
lows ; than to their necessities, which compel them to rack their
land ; they cannot generally afford to purchase a sufficiency of

* Hilly districts along the crest of the Ghats.

  Flat country, eastward of the Mawuls.

f-

I Vide No. 118, wet crop, Mawuls.
§ Eerluh, or basket-work hood, covered with leaves and quite impervious to

rain.                                         Shaloo, (Andropogon Succharaittm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;
     Wet season crop (Mawuls.)

              ||

        Consisting of wheats, gram, barley ;

          ·[f

Dhal, (Cytisus cajan), oil-plants, &c.
ON THJ5 STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.  275

manure, they have not any stable-yards, and the dearth of
fuel compels them to burn much of their cow-dung ; and, with
a singular fatuity and injurious caution, they sow half a dozen
grains and pulses together in the same field, which necessarily
impede the growth of each other, exhaust the soil, and give

limited returns. The professed object is to assure, in the oc-

casional uncertainty of the monsoons, some kind of return at
least for their labours, which might have been wholly unpro-
ductive had one grain only been sown. In short they want to
have half a dozen strings to their bow instead of one.

  --Wet Crop (Desk.) The grains so sown ripen in succes-

sion, and two of them remain on the ground between nine and
ten months ; that is to say, from the beginning of June to the
end of February. In their management of the plough, the
Koonbees do not want dexterity. Their cattle have all
names, know their names, and are obedient to them ; with
four bullocks to a plough, the leaders are guided entirely by
the voice, and I have frequently seen quite a youth managing
alone very cleverly his plough and four bullocks.

   In the Desh, in manuring land, the cart called Jang or
Janjeea, is used ; it consists simply of the common cart with a
quite flat basket tied on the top of it, made by the Koonbees
from the twigs of the Neergoondee, ( Vitex trifolia,) or of the
twigs of the Tooree, (Cytisus cajan.) The manure generally

consists of the sweepings of their houses, which, from being
usually cow-dunged every day and daily swept, are not trifling,

and from the ashes also from their hearths.
    Crops are carted to the Kulle/i, or farm-yard, from the fields

by the Garra. This consists of an upper horizontal rude frame-
work supported on a thick axle-tree, and is removeable at

pleasure. The wheels are of solid wood, small, placed under

the frame-work, are not sufficiently far apart, and consequently
subject the cart to upset, which is but too frequent an occur-

rence. Wooden pegs and thongs keep the whole vehicle to-

gether, and there is no more iron about the cart than the tire
round the wheels and the hollow cylinders within the naves.
This vehicle, considering the circumstances of the Koonbees,
is expensive, costing from eighty to one hundred rupees,
and it is only the most substantial among them who have
carts. Having carted their grain, the Koonbees remove it to

--the Kulleh, or farm-yard.
    Farm-yard. The grain is stacked round a spot in the open
 air in a corner of one of their fields. This spot is circular, and
 has been prepared by beating and cow-dunging ; a pole, called

  Tewrah, is fixed in the centre of it. In the reedy grains the

                                   t2
--276 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

heads are broken off by women, and strewed round the pole*

to the depth of 5 or 6 inches. In the ligneous pulses, the

extreme twigs, bearing the legumes, are broken off and

strewed round the pole ; and in the herbaceous leguminous

pulses and straw-culm grains, the whole plant is put on the

floor : six, or eight, or more bullocks (I saw sixteen atMunchur)

are tied side by side, half on one side of the pole and half on

the other ; they are muzzled and driven round the pole, tread-

ing out the grain. This process usually occupies two men,

and it is called the Mullnee. It is neither inefficient, nor

dilatory. It would appear to be of great antiquity, and

widely practised; in Deuteronomy, xxv. 4. we read, " Thou

shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn."

  Winnowing.?-- We are now brought to the winnowing the

grain. This is dor.e in the Kulleh; and when there are suffi-

cient members in the family of the farmer after the first tread-

ing, the process is carried on simultaneously with the

Mullnee. The process is very simple, but certainly not very

efficient, as it is dependent on the wind blowing. In case the

wind blows very hard, the grain is blown away ; and in case the

Awind is not strong enough, the husks fall with the grain. man

stands upon a tall three-legged form, called the Wawhree, and

pours the grain taken up from the treading ground, out of

the winnowing basket (popunwutee) . The full grain falls per-

pendicularly and is pretty free from husks, but the lighter

grain falls obliquely, and is partially mixed with the husks.

A man sits at the base of the stool or form with a broom

(aatuee) in his hand to assist in removing the chaff from the

edges of the mass of fallen grain. After all is done, however,

it is requisite to pass a good proportion of the grain through

the sieve, (Chalun). After the grain is winnowed it is carried

--home and laid in store.
   Preserving Grain. There are various ways of preser-

ving the grain. Where the soil is sufficiently dry, cham-

bers are dug in the earth for it ; but the most usual plan in

the districts is to preserve it in large baskets, called Kuneeng,

made of twigs of the Neergoondee, ( Vitex trifolia,) or of those
of the Tooree, (Cytisus cajan). These baskets are plastered

with cow-dung inside and out, and are perfectly impervious to

rain or damp. Where the habitations are sufficiently large,

or the baskets few in number, they are lodged in the house,

but not unfrequently are placed outside of the house within

Areach of any pilfering hand.  few stones are put under each

· Tewrah.
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  277

basket ; the lid, in case it has a lid, is sealed down with cow-
dung, and in case it has not a lid, a plaster of cow-dung a

couple of inches thick is put over the grain ; a little cap, or

roof of grass, is put over the basket, and it is left exposed till
required, being deemed equally protected from the elements
and man. In the Mawuls, in the hot months, the whole of the

grain baskets of the village, full of grain, may be seen assembled
in front of the village temple, and left to the custody of the
village god. The roofs of all the houses are of grass in the

Mawuls, and the dread of fires (the people having no chimneys
to their houses) induces them to put their monsoon and winter
stores in a place of safety, the extreme dryness of the period

rendering accidents by fire frequent. It is not an unfrequent
practice with the Koonbees of the Mawuls to unroof their
houses for the months of April and May.

    In addition to the baskets for the preservation of grain,

earthen jars, called Kothee, made by the people themselves,

--are met with to hold grain, but they are not common.
   Preparing Grain for Food. The preparation of grain
for food is the last process. Husk grains, such as rice,
Wuree, (Panicum miliare); and Sawa, {Panicum frumen-

taceum) ; and the Johr, or husked wheat, require to be
pounded to remove the husks. This process is entirely

within the province of the women : the implements used may

be called the pestle and mortar ; the mortar is called the

ookul, and the pestle, moosul. The mortar in the Mawuls is

frequently very rude in form, being a rough stone with a hole
scooped in the middle of it to receive the grain. In the Desh,
however, the mortar is of wood, of a good form, and some-

times carved. The moosul, or pestle, is always of wood, four

or five feet long, tipped with iron, and in thickness and weight

suitable to the strength of the person to use it. The final

process is the grinding the corn; this also is the duty of the
women, and two of them are usually employed at the mill.

Christ says, " There shall be two women grinding at the mill ;*

one shall be taken and the other left."

 --Hand Mill. The mill is portable, and is called Jatuh : it

consists of two flat circular stones, fourteen or eighteen inches in
diameter, placed one on the other; the lower one has an upright
peg in it, the upper one has a hole in the centre through which

the peg of the lower stone passes, and the upper stone is made
to perform an horizontal rotatory motion round the peg by
means of another upright peg near its margin. The grain is
put in at the hole in the centre. This form of mill must be

* Matth. xxiv. 41.
--278 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

very ancient, for I saw remains of such mills in the ruins

of Pompeii, and one nearly perfect in the ruins of the Roman

villa of Sir William Hickes's estate near Cheltenham, Glouces-

--tershire.
   Raw Sugar Mill. Under the head of agriculture it will be

necessary to speak of the Gool, or raw sugar-mill. Sugar

cane is not so much cultivated as it might be, and it is seldom
found but at populous villages. I have seldom seen more

than two mills at a village ; and as the screws and accom-
paniments are somewhat expensive for the circumstances of a
cultivator, the mills are seldom found belonging to him, but

he is a renter of them for the term requisite. The mills are

in the open air, and consist of two vertical screws which are
sunk in a square chamber excavated in the earth ; one of them
is moved by a double lever so much elevated above the level
of the field as to admit of bullocks being attached to the ends

of the lever. The cattle go round incessantly in a circle and
work the mill. The bits of sugar cane are passed twice be-
tween the screws, and the juice runs out into a wooden or
copper vessel placed to receive it. The fire-place (Choo-

langun) and great iron pan (Kurhuee), to boil the juice in, are
close at hand ; a ladle to stir and skim the juice as it boils,
and some circular holes in the ground to receive the juice
when sufficiently thick, complete the material and close the

process. The work is continued night and day till the cane-

--field is exhausted. Sugar is not refined in the Dukhun.
    Oil Mills. Although the oil mills belong to a class of per-
sons who are not agriculturists, the Koonbee is quite depend-
ent on them to turn his numerous oil seeds to account ; some
mention therefore of them is necessary under " agriculture."

The body of the mill is generally of stone, and the machinery,
even when of the rudest construction, shows a good deal of

ingenuity and an acquaintance with some of the mechanic
powers. It is entirely the work of the village carpenter.

   At Neelsee, a Kohlee village in the wilds on the brink of
the Ghats, the body of the mill is of wood, the lever works in

the hollow of an upright cylinder, and by the great weight at-
tached to its upper end constantly presses against the sides of
the hollow and forces the oil from the seed which is put into

the mill. The whole expense of the machinery of this particular
mill was only five rupees *. In the Desh the body of the mill

is of stone, the machinery is the same as in this mill. It is

--worked by a bullock.
   Average She of Farms. There are not any farms of large

                                          * About ten shillings.
                    ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.               279

size under the management of a single farmer ; the largest

I recollect meeting with was about 200 acres, but in ge-

neral they average very considerably less in size. In the

Poona Collectorate the average size was 29 beegahs *, in

Ahmednuggur 35 beegahs, in Dharwar 43T§n beegahs, and
in Khundesh 23T%% beegahs. The average rent of a farm
in Poona was less than 48 shillings per annum ; in Ahmed-

nuggur about 86 shillings ; in Dharwar 64 shillings ; and in

Khandesh, where a good deal of the land cultivated is garden

land, 74 shillings per annum. In Poona the average rent per
beegah is within a fraction of two shillings ; in Ahmednuggur
about two shillings and six pence per beegah ; in Dharwar
not quite eighteen pence ; and in Khandesh, where there is
proportionably a good deal of garden land, it is somewhat
more than three shillings a beegah. The average for the
whole of the lands of Dukhun is two shillings and ninepence,

one-eighth per English acre, or one rupee and fourteen reas

per Dukhun beegah.

 --Proportion of Yoke Cattle to each Farmer. Generally in

the population returns there were great omissions of the draft

or yoke cattle of the cultivators ; no very satisfactory state-

ment can therefore be given of their agricultural means in

this kind of stock. In one Talook, or county, of the Dharwar

Collectorate, the yoke cattle were filled in, with the exception

of two or three village returns, and the proportion is only

1*38 bullocks to each cultivator ; but as the ploughs are 3733

in number in the Talook, at two bullocks to a plough, the pro-

portion should be 2*89 bullocks (nearly 3) to a cultivator: the

returns must be defective, for I am satisfied, although a farmer

may not have two bullocks to each of his ploughs, and he has

generally a heavy plough and a light one, yet he has always

two bullocks at least for one of his ploughs.

  In the Ahmednuggur Collectorate the yoke cattle are not

distinguished from the pack or carriage cattle, but the whole
amount is very considerable, being 212,008. In the Poona

Collectorate the returns give 2j yoke bullocks to each farmer,

but the farmers near to the city of Poona are much better off,

averaging 3| bullocks each. Only a portion of the returns
from Khandesh had the column of draft or yoke cattle filled

up                  it is impossible, therefore,  to give the  proportion to each
                 ;

farmer for the whole collectorate ; but as far as the returns

went, it appeared that each farmer averaged only l - 62 bul-

locks, not quite If.

  * The Dukhun beegah is three-fourths of an English acre. The rupee is
valued at two shillings.
--280 SEVENTH REPORT 1837»

--Milch cattle. The proportion of milch cattle, on which so

much of the comfort of the people depends, whether rural or

urban, in the Dharwar Collectorate, is greater than in the

other collectorates, being one cow or milch buffalo to 2*45 souls.

In Poona it is 1 to 5*24 persons ; in Ahmednuggur 1 to 3"04

and in Khandesh                                                       cow or buffalo to 2'26 souls.
--persons                                                         1
                                              ;
Ploughs, As 1 have before stated, ploughs are of two

kinds, the Nangur or heavy plough, and the Hulka Nangur or

light plough ; the same obtains with respect to drill ploughs, no

grain being sown broadcast, the heavy drill plough being called

Mogurh, and the light Pabhar. The proportion of ploughs

in the Dharwar Collectorate is 1*41 to each cultivator, or

nearly three ploughs to two farmers; the number of ploughs in

--the returns being 99,883, and the number of cultivators 70,488.
   Carts. Were a judgement to be formed of the state of the

roads, and of the facility of communication and transit by

wheel carriages, from the proportion of carts to the farmers,

the estimate would be low indeed.* In the Dharwar Collect-

orate there is only one cart to thirteen farmers. The carts

are universally of two wheels.

 --Pack cattle. The unusual number of pack bullocks, which

carry loads on their backs, in the Dharwar Collectorate, would

seem to indicate that they are the chief means by which agri-

cultural and other produce is transported from place to place.

In Khandesh there is the least number of pack cattle, and the

greatest proportional number of carts. In Poona a great

number of pack cattle, and only one cart to eleven farmers.

The proportion in Ahmednuggur I do not know.

                                                       Land and other Tenures.

Lands are held under a great variety of tenures in Dukhun,

some by virtue of offices which are hereditary, some as here-

ditary freehold property, some in free gift from the state,

some in Jagheer or military or feudal tenure, some on a quit

rent, and in many other ways ; but a rapid notice of the dif-

ferent tenures, and of the office-bearers holding lands, will

best assist to give a clear idea of their quality and number.

In the first place, the proprietary right of the soil was

(and is) in the people, and not in the sovereign. The sove-

reign could assess the land as he pleased, and assign away a

part or the whole of the revenue arising from the land-tax

or assessment, either in free gift (Eenam), military tenure

(Jagheer),  or                                   quit  rent,  or  in  any  other way                                                    but  he  could  not
                                                                                                                                     ;

   * It is nevertheless true, that had the farmers carts, they could rarely use
them from the want of roads, unless in the dry season.
ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.  281

justly take away a man's land either for his own purposes or

to give it to others; although, as a despotic prince, like all

other princes of India, he had the undoubted ability to do so
at his pleasure : yet few instances are known of this oppressive
exercise of their power, and there are many instances on
record of their purchasing land from their subjects. I have

laid before the public translations of official documents, in

which the sovereigns have been parties, containing the most

irresistible proofs of the people having the uncontrolled right

to dispose of their lands as they pleased, by gift, or sale, or
devise, or in other ways. These translations are too lengthened

to be introduced in this report, but they will be met with in
the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and

Ireland.

   All lands in Dukhun were classed within some village

boundary or other ; and to this day these boundaries are
guarded with such jealousy by the inhabitants as to be pro-
 ductive of broils and bloodshed on their slightest invasion.

The village lands were divided into family estates, called
Thuls, which bore the name of the family, and the estates
bear the name to this day, although the family be extinct or
Gutkool, as it is called ; and half the estates in Dukhun are
now Gutkool, but preserve their family names. These estates

 were hereditary and freehold, burthened only with the sove-
 reign's land-tax, and assessments for village expenses, as a
 gentleman's estate in England is burthened with land-tax and
 assessments for highway and poor-rates, &c. ; there were not
 any tithes, but in each village there were lands assigned for

 religious objects, either to temples or to sacerdotal persons.
 Every village had a constitution for its internal government
 it consisted of the Pateel or chief, assisted by a Chowgulla

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;

 the Koolkurnee, or village accountant, kept the village records
 and details of assessment and revenue ; and there were twelve
 hereditary village officers, the well-known Bara Bullooteh,
 whose numbers were complete or otherwise as the population
 of the villages was capable of supporting them. All these
 officers and the chief land-owners formed a village council,
 called Pandreh, which managed the external and internal re-
 lations of the village, whether with respect to raising the
 government assessments, managing its police, or in settling
 civil disputes, excepting in cases where Panchaeits or juries
 of five persons were specifically appointed to arbitrate by

 mutual consent of the litigating parties. And it is somewhat

 remarkable that this isolated and internal government has
 withstood the shocks of all the changes of dynasties, invasions,
--282 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

rebellions, and the destructive anarchy which have so fre-

quently disgraced the annals of India.

  A certain number of villages constituted a Naikwuree, over

which was an officer with the denomination of Naik. Eighty-

four villages constituted a Deshmookee, over which was an

officer called a Deshmook, or governor,* possibly equivalent

to our lord-lieutenant  of counties                                                          this officer was assisted by
                                                                                          ;

a Desh Chowgulla ; and for the branch of accounts there was

a Deshpandeh or district accountant and register. The links

connecting the Deshmooks with the prince were Sur-Desh-

mooks, or heads of the Deshmooks ; they were few in number.
It is said there were also Sur-Deshpandehs. The Sur-Desh-

mooks, Deshmooks, and their assistants, Naiks, Pateels, and

Chowgullahs, indeed all persons in authority, were Mahrattas

the writers and accountants were mostly Brahmans. Such

was the state of things under the ancient Hindoo govern-

ments. The Moosulmans on their conquest, in the civil di-

visions of the country, introduced the terms of Soobeh (a

province), Pergunnah (county), Tallook (manor, lordship),

and Turruff (a division of a county). The Hindoo hereditary

officers were deprived of their authority, (excepting those in

the village constitution,) but, very liberally, they were not de-

prived of their tenures ; and their places were supplied by

Zemindars, f Maamlutdars, Sheristehdars, Havaildars, &c.

   I have stated that the family estates were called Thuls,
from the Sanscrit Sthul, " firm land ; " and in case the family
became extinct or Gutkool, from the Sanscrit Gut, " gone,

passed away," and Kool, "a race or family," the property did

did not pass to the sovereign, but it was at the disposal of the

Pateel solely, or the village corporation conjointly, to do as

they pleased with it ; and I have multiplied proofs in my pos-

session of freeholds having been created in such estates of

extinct families, by letters of inheritance, called Meeras Putra,

which were granted by the Pateel or village authorities for a

sum of money ; and such letters became title-deeds, similar to
those of an estate in England. The law of succession by pri-

mogeniture not obtaining amongst the Hindoos, these estates

   · Called also Desaee or Deshaee in some parts.
   f Mistakes, very serious in their consequences, have been made with
respect to the supposed rights of Zemindars. They were introduced by the
Moosulmans, superseding the ancient Hindoo Deshmooks and Desaees, and
were government officers for the collection of the revenue, and for the civil
government of districts. In Bengal, the British considered them proprietors
of the soil, and constituted them as great freeholders ; sweeping away the vil-

lage freeholds.
                           ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                                                                                                          283

became necessarily much divided, and the individual holders

were called by the Hindoos Thulwaee or Thulkuree ; and the

light in which the Moosulmans looked upon such proprietors,

when they took possession of the country, is sufficiently mani-

fest by the term they applied to them, namely, Meerasdars, or
patrimony-holders, from the Arabic word Meeras, " patri-

mony," "heritage," and Dar, "a holder;" and this is the

term by which such proprietors are distinguished at the

present day.               The                                                              Meerasdars  were  of  two  kinds                                the  de-
                                                                                                                                                         ;

scendants of the original proprietor, whose surnames and the

name of the estate or thul were identical, and those who had

obtained a share of the estate by purchase or otherwise, whose

surnames were not the same as that of the estate. In no in-

stance, that I am aware of, have the former class documentary

proofs of their right ; with the latter class documentary proofs

are not uncommon.

There is further proof of the Moosulmans having ac-

knowledged hereditary rights in the term they applied to the

Deshmooks, Desaees, Deshpandehs, and others, namely,

Hukdar. Huh, in Arabic, meaning " right," and Dar " a

holder;" these persons in virtue of their offices having lands

in tenure and fees in money and kind in the districts in which

these duties lay. The Meerasdars considered that they might

be temporarily dispossessed of their freeholds in case of non-

payment of the government assessments and dues, but they

claimed to resume them whenever they had liquidated their

debts ; and they did not consider the question of these freeholds

compromised by the government doing justice to itself, any more

than the existence of freehold property would be questioned

in England because the owner might be compelled to yield

up his property in payment of arrears of land-tax, poor-

--rates, &c.
   Meerasdars. Meerasdars set a very high value upon their

lands, and they clung to them with that feeling of personal and

family pride which are characteristics of freeholders in Eu-

rope                       even under the most grinding oppressions                                                    of      their own
                        ;

government and its local officers, it was only when driven to

despair that they abandoned them. The Meerasdar had to

pay the government land-tax, all fees in kind to the district and

village officers in common with the tenant at will or leaseholder;

moreover, he had to pay a tax applicable to himself only, called

Meerasputtee, a kind of smart-money for the distinction his

freehold gave him                                                                           this was levied every third year.  Such was
                                                                                         ;

the Meeras tenure of land. His advantages were, first, the di-

stinction; next, his being a constituent of the Pandreh, or village
--284 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

corporation, which the mere renter was not ; and thirdly, in
some parts of the country where such taxation existed, he
was exempt from marriage fees, widows' marriage fees, buffalo
tax, hearth tax, and he may have paid a diminished per

centage, in the rights of district officers levied in kind. Of late

years, from the low prices of agricultural produce and the
comparatively heavy money assessments, Meeras-land has

scarcely had a saleable value. The terms Meerasdar and

"Wuttundar have usually been considered identical, but in
some village papers I observed them classed separately ; and,
on asking for an explanation, was told that the Wuttundars
were hereditary office-bearers, or the relations of hereditary
office-bearers with the possible right of succession, whilst the
Meerasdars were merely hereditary landholders ; a Wuttundar
would necessarily be a Meerasdar, but a Meerasdar was not
necessarily a Wuttundar.

  --Oopuree. From the extinction of numerous Mahratta fa-

milies who were in possession of estates, a considerable por-
tion of the land in Dukhun is without proprietors, and much
of it is rented to Oopurees or annual tenants by the Pateel or
village corporation, under native governments ; but, under the
British government, by the collector or his officers. The
term Oopuree means " a stranger," or a renter of land in a
village in which he has not corporate rights : of course, Mee-
rasdars can let their lands to each other, but they do not become
Oopurees. The Oopuree holds his lands on the Ooktee, or
word-of-mouth tenure, which is a verbal agreement for one

year.

  --Kowl Istaiva. The third tenure is that of Kowl Istawa

Koirl means a contract, and Istaiva is applied to lands let
under their value. In practice, to induce cultivators to break
up land that has long lain waste, a lease is given of three, five,
seven, or nine years; the first year a trifling rent is fixed, and

it is annually increased, until in the last year of the lease the
full rent is paid; this tenure is highly desired, and great
abuses exist under it : the permanently assessed cultivator is
prompted to quit his village, and abandon even his hereditary

lands, and get Kowl Istawa lands in another village ; and the
moment the favourable lease is up he changes his location,
and endeavours to obtain similar terms elsewhere : the prac-

tice, therefore, is detrimental to the permanent revenue, detri-
mental to the sound advancement of agriculture, and detrimental

to the cultivator himself in encouraging vagrant habits. The
local authorities also are found to be great occupiers of Kowl

Istawa lands.
ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.  285

  --Owand tenure. Any inhabitants of a village, cultivating

lands in a neighbouring village, but not residing in that vil-

lage, do so on the Owand tenure. The rate and terms are

the Ooktee, and with respect to the village such cultivator is,

in fact, an Oopuree, but his distinctive appellation is Owand-

Kuree.

   The above are the tenures on which the government land
revenue is raised, which in the four collectorates of Dukhun

amounts to 82*372 per cent, of the whole revenue ; this per

centage, however, includes some trifling rents from government

lands, gardens, orchards, grass lands, and sheep grazing, quit
rents, fees, Hukdars, and extra cesses.

  --Tenures involving alienations of lands. I have now to

speak of tenures which involve alienations of lands, from a
few beegahs in a village, to whole districts : these are Jagheer

and Eenam in Khandesh ; Surinjam, Eenam, and Doomalla
in the Ahmednugguv Collectorate ; Eenam, Surinjam, and
Eesaphut in Poona ; and in Dharwar, Jooree Eenam, Surwa
Eenam, and Jagheer : at least, such terms appeared in the

population returns sent to me, and in the public papers which ·

I have.

  --Jagheer. Jagheer, which is a Persian word in its origin, is

applied to lands given by government (or the government
share of the rents) for personal support, or as a fief for the
maintenance of troops for the service of the state : some ser-
vice is implied in the personal as well as in the military

Jagheer. In the Collectorates in Dukhun upwards of 400

--populated villages appear to be alienated in Jagheer.
   Eenam. Eenam is a word of Arabic origin, meaning a

"'gift," "present;" and lands so held should be entirely free
from tax to government ; but a subsequent explanation of

various tenures will show that Eenam has a much wider sig-

nification than is generally supposed. This tenure is very

extensive in Dukhun ; for independently of the grants of whole

towns and villages to individuals, of which there are 231
alienated in the Poona Collectorate alone, and the other Col-
 lectorates have a proportional share ; independently also of
 grants for temples and religious institutions, almost every

village has Eenam land held by the Pateel, Koolkurnee, and
Mahrs, and very commonly the Deshmooks and Deshpandehs

 have also land rent free appertaining to their offices in the vil-

lages of their districts. The Bara Bullooteh, or twelve village
 artizans and officers, have often Eenam lands, but their Eenam

 is qualified by the imposition of some professional service, and

 it pays also a quit rent. Many of the Eenams are very
 curious in their objects; for instance, at th village of Wan-
286 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

gee, Pergunnah Wangee, Poona Collectorate, 15 beegahs of
land to a mendicant for reading stories before tbe goddess
Dawai at ber festival; 15 beegahs to the tabor players at the
temple ; 30 beegahs to the tumbling and dancing women at
the temple ; the clarinet and double-drum players had respect-
ively similar Eenams ; the gardener, for the supply of flowers,
had 30 beegahs or 2%l acres. These Eenams existed un-
touched under the bigoted Moosulman government, and still

--remain.
   Surinjam. Lands held in Surinjam involve the condition
of military service : the term is of Persian origin, meaning
" furniture," "apparatus," implying that the lands are to defray
the expense of equipment : in fact, Surinjam is synonymous
with military Jagheer. In the Poona Collectorate 181 vil-

lages appear to be alienated in Surinjam.

  --Doomalla. Doomalla, in the etymology of the word, means

" two rights" or " properties," from Do two, and Maal pro-

perty : the term is only found in the list of villages of the

Ahmednuggur Collectorate, applied to villages and lands
granted to individuals, on which government has a reserved
right. In this sense the tenure appears to be that of quit
rent, and the term is synonymous with the Jooree Eenam of
the Dharwar Collectorate. In the Ahmednuggur Collectorate

581^ villages appear as Doomalla, but this, no doubt, includes

Jagheer and Eenam villages.

  --Eesaplmt. In the Poona Collectorate the term Eesaphut

 is applied to 37| villages : it is probably a corruption from the
 Arabic Zeaphut, meaning " feast," " entertainment." Lands

 so held are rent free, and may have been given to assist in

 celebrating festivals.

    In the Dharwar Collectorate the terms Jooree Eenam,
 Surwa Eenam, and Jagheer occur : the first corresponds to
 the Doomalla of Ahmednuggur, and is, in fact, a quit rent
 tenure; the second means " all gift," from Surwa "all," and
 Eenam "gift," there not being any tax or fee upon these
 lands : Jagheer has been explained before.

  --Tenure of Deshmoolc and Desaee. It is a general belief that

 these officers were coeval with the establishment of the land
 institutions of the Mahratta people.* Deshmooks were the
 civil governors of districts, collectors of the revenue, and

 executive officers of the government. The name is probably

 a corruption of the Sanscrit Deshuk, a governor or ruler. In
 early times they were exclusively Mahrattas, and not Brah-

 mans or Moosulmans. The importance of the office is at-

          * I mean, of couree, long antecedent to the Moosulman invasion.
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  287

tested by the fact that, in the earliest mention of the chiefs of
the present great Mahratta families, they are styled Desh-
mooks of such and such districts. Their rights were here-
ditary, and saleable, wholly or in part, like those of every

other hereditary office or right : the right of alienation is

proved by different casts being now associated in the office.
At Ahmednuggur a third of the Deshmookee belongs to a
Brahman, and hvo-thirds to the ruling Mahratta family at
Nagpoor. Similar instances are very numerous. In some
cases a Deshmook is also Pateel of one of the villages in his
district. The rights and emoluments of the Deshmook are

very extensive, but not uniform throughout the country ; they
had a per centage on the revenue varying from one to five

per cent. In the Poona Collectorate the mean charge for
Deshmooks and Deshpandehs amounted to 3 06 per cent, of
the gross revenue, but on the nett revenue it amounted as

nearly as possible to six per cent ; although these persons are

now non-efficient, their authority being superseded. As a
single illustrative instance, it may be as well to state, that at the
village of Ankoolsur, Talook Ahmednuggur, out of a village
revenue of 4533 rupees, the Deshmook received 265 rupees,
and the Deshpandeh 150 rupees ; the former sharing 5*84 per

cent., and the latter 3*31 per cent. Their next advantage
is in some of them enjoying villages in free gift ; the third,

in possessing Eenam land in most of the villages in their dis-
tricts, sometimes to a large amount. At Mohol Talook
Mohol, the two sharers in the office of Deshmook have each
450 acres of free (or Eenam) land. The fourth right of the
Deshmook is a portion of grain from each village, called

Googree, from all the land under cultivation. In addition to
the above, from some villages they were entitled to a sheep
and some butter annually ; from some villages a dress, from
others a turband, and where sugar-cane was cultivated, they

had a portion of the raw sugar. They possessed the above

advantages on the tenure of executing the duties previously

stated. They were to a district what a Pateel is to a vil-

--lage.
   Deshpandehs. The Deshpandehs are contemporary in their
institution with the Deshmooks ; they were the writers, ac-

countants, and registers of districts ; they were always

Brahmans. The terms appear to be derived from the Sanscrit
Desh, country, and Punnah, to do business. They were to

districts what Koolkurnees were to a village : they had, and
have nearly the same rights and emoluments as the Desh-
mooks, but in a diminished ratio of from 25 to 50 per cent.
--288 SEVENTH REPORT 1837»

The offices of Deshpandeh and Koolkurnee ai'e sometimes

found united. Their duties are in abeyance, but, like the
Deshmooks, they enjoy their rights.

  --Pateel. The next and the most important tenure of all is

that of Pateel or headman of towns and villages. Pateel is a
Mahratta term, and may be derived from the Sanscrit Pattruh,
"deed," "lease," the Pateel anciently having had the disposal
of all vacant lands in his village by deed or lease. Originally
the Pateels were Mahrattas, but sale, gift, or other causes
have now associated in the office various casts, and there are

--sometimes six or seven or more sharers in the office, Brah-

mans, Mahrattas, Moosulmans, Shepherds, Lingaeets, &c,

and these not holding in equal proportions. I have elsewhere*
given a translation of a very remarkable and curious Mahratta
document, proving in the most distinct manner the right of

the Pateel, not only to sell his family or hereditary property,
and the lands he held in virtue of his office, but also the
lands of extinct families, and his other emoluments and ad-
vantages ; but, in doing so, he also alienated part of his dig-
nity, rights, and authority as Pateel : the honours went with

the lands. The rights and emoluments of the Pateel are very

numerous ; free land, fees of grain on the cultivation, called
googree, presents on investitures, on granting letters of in-
heritance, on marriages ; annual presents from the shoemaker
of shoes, from the potmaker of pots, from the shopkeepers of
cocoa-nuts, &c, market fees, all the sheeps-heads offered in

the temple of Dawai ! daily service, and supply of wood and
water by the Mahr and the potmaker precedence in all re-

                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

ligious or other festivals, in communicating with government,

and with others. The details of the translation before noticed

show with what jealousy the Pateel maintained all the minutest

rights and dignities. Of such importance and so profitable

was the office, or in such estimation was the dignity of Pateel
anciently, that princes of the Mahratta empire established
themselves wholly or in part in the office in various towns and
villages ; Holknr, for instance, at Munchur ; Seendeh (Sin-

diah) f at Jamgaon ; the Nagpoor Bhosleh at Ahmed-
nuggur, and Powar of Dhar at Multun and Kuweeteh. There

are traditional accounts of a share of the Pateel's office
having been sold for 7000 rupees.

   The right of the Pateel to dispose of the village lands not

occupied by hereditary proprietors, together with his respon-

   * Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society.
   f This prince lias six out of seven shares in the office; nevertheless the
poor Mahratta who has the seventh share has precedence of the prince.
                 ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.  289

sibility for the government revenue, involves the proof that

the government assessment was anciently Mozehwar, or by

the whole village, and not by direct agreement between the

government agents and individual farmers. The village, in

fact, was assessed at a certain fixed sum, which was called the
Tunkha, which means an assignment ; and this Tunkha appears

in village accounts to this day, although no longer a standard

of assessment, as the British government settles directly with

the farmer, and has also abrogated the right of the Pateel and

the village corporation to dispose of waste lands ; in alienated
villages, however, these rights remain. Although the trans-

lation before noticed gives a minute detail of the rights and

emoluments of the Pateels of Kuweeteh, it is to be under-

stood they are not uniform either in number or value through-

out the country. An idea of the value of the Googree, or

right to a share in the grain-produce of cultivated lands, may
be formed from the fact, that at Kurjut, Ahmednuggur col-

lectorate, in 1827, there were 8491 beegahs of land under

cultivation, and the Pateel was entitled to 128 seers for every

120 beegahs ; he received therefore, 9057 seers of grain, a
sufficiency for the annual support of 25 persons.

  The duties of the Pateel were, to be responsible for the

revenue of the village, to superintend its police, and regulate

its internal economy. He had power to seize, imprison, and

fine offenders.

With regard to joint proprietary in the office, independently

of shares being held by different casts and families, the Hin-

doo law of inheritance, which gives equal shares of all property

to all children, necessarily made many joint owners in a family;

but as the executive duties are only performed by the head
of the family, this person is called Mokuddum, "chief" or
" leader ; " and the term of course is applicable to the head of

each proprietary family, who is designated in the village papers
as half Mokuddum, quarter Mokuddum, or seventh Mokuddum,

according to the share of the Pateelship held by the family.

 --Koolkurnee. The next village tenure is that of Koolkurnee,

from the Sanscrit Kool "to count," and Kroot "to do," "make;"

literally an accountant. The office is of very great import-

ance, for the Koolkurnee is not only the accountant of the go-

vernment revenue, but he keeps the private accounts for each

individual in the village, and is the general amanuensis ; few

of the cultivators, the Pateels frequently inclusive, being able

to write or cypher for themselves. In no instance have I

found the office held by any other cast than the Brahmanical.

The office is sometimes united with that of Deshpandeh, and

vol. vi. 1837.   v
--290 SKVKNTH REPORT 1837-

not unfrequcntly to that of Johesee or village astrologer. The

Koolkurnec, like the Pateel, has Eenamland, sometimes salary,

fees of grain, and miscellaneous rights of butter, raw sugar,

&c, rarely having equal rights, either in number or value,

with the Pateel, but commonly averaging from !25 to 75 per

cent, below. Where the villages are very small, there is only

one Koolkurnee for several villages, as in the case of. Turruff

Muhr Khor, Poona collectorate, where the duties of this in-
dividual extend to one small town and eleven villages. He is

here paid by a money rate for every 30 beegahs of land under

cultivation ; it varies from 1 rupee the 30 beegahs to 3 rupees.

   Unlike the Deshmooks and Pateels, no instance came to my

knowledge of shares of the office being alienated from the

family ; the numerous sharers being all connected by ties of
blood, who each in turn take their annual duties ; and these
sharers are sometimes so numerous, that at one town the exe-

cution of the duties only came to the same individual after a

lapse of 20 years. The executive duties should be confined

to the same person.
--AMahrs Tenure.
                     very important tenure in villages is that

of the low-cast people, called Mahr by the Mahrattas, and

Dher by the Moosulmans. They have Eenam lands in all vil-

lages, divided into Hurkee and Arowlah ; the former is rent

free, and generally bears a small proportion to the latter,

which pays a low quit rent. The Mahrs conceive that they

have the right to mortgage or otherwise dispose of lands held

for the performance of specific duties to the village and the

government, and numerous instances of mortgage came to my

knowledge ; but whether they can wholly alienate their lands
or not, they cannot absolve themselves and their descendants

from their duties : these are to cut wood and grass for go-

vernment officers and travellers, to act as guides, as porters to

carry baggage from village to village, and to go as messengers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

they have to attend strangers and see to their wants being

supplied, and if the strangers be of consequence, they or the

Ramooses have to look to the safety of their baggage at night.

They are the guardians of all village land-marks ; they are the

Pateel's messengers, (something like parish beadles,) and it is

their duty to carry the collections to the treasurer of the dis-

trict ; they have to pass on all news or information received,
whether written or verbal, whether by sign or by token, to all

the surrounding villages, and it is perfectly astonishing the

rapidity with which intelligence is diffused by their means.

It is no uncommon thing for a distant public event to be whis-

pered about in towns before any account of it has been received
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  291

by the government post. Occasionally the answer to my in-

quiries respecting the duties of the Mahrs was, that they were .
to do every thing they were ordered, whether by the Pateel,
the village corporation, or by the government. There are
many families of them in every village : in some villages they
have to pay a tax to government called Rabta Mahr, and this
is in lieu of personal service in cutting wood and grass for the
officers of government, but it does not absolve them from their
other duties. So strictly is it their province to cut wood and
grass, that their signature to all village or public documents is

a sickle or hatchet to cut grass and wood, and a rope to tie

them up. In addition to their Eenam lands, the Mahrs, in virtue

of their office as one of the Bara Bullooteh or twelve village
officers, craftsmen, and professions, receive fees in kind from
all the cultivators ; the fee in kind is a per centage upon the
produce, but it is not uniform in amount throughout the Duk-
hun. These twelve village officers are divided into three

classes, according to the supposed importance of their services
to the village ; the first class in some villages received 50, the
second 20, and the third 10 or 15 bundles or sheaves of Joaree,
(Andropogon sorghum,) stalk and grain included upon every
1000 cut down ; and the same proportion of other grains.

Many farmers in various parts of the country assured me that

they put by 25 per cent, of their produce for the village crafts-
men and professions ; and as the Mahrs from their usefulness
share in all those classes, their returns must be considerable
the individual benefit depending of course upon the magnitude
of the body constituting this class of persons in the village.

As low casts do not cultivate their Eenam lands, they derive
less advantage from them than other Eenamdars, but make

the best terms they can with the Koonbees to cultivate their
lands for them. The Mahr does not pay any tax to govern-
ment upon his Bullooteh. In the whole of the duties of the
Mahrs, whether for government, the village, or individuals,
they are not bound to go beyond the village next to their

--own ; here they hand over their charge and return.*
    Bara Bullooteh Tenure. The twelve craftsmen or pro-

 fessions which were originally in every village were, the Sootar
 (Carpenter), Chambar (Shoemaker), Lohar (Ironsmith), and

 Mahr ; these constituted the Torlee Khas or first class. In

 the Mudlee Khas, or second class, were the Pureet (Washer-

 man), Koombar (Pot-maker), Nahwee (Barber), and Maang

     * In speaking of the duties of the Mahrs I ought to have used the past
 tense instead of the present in some cases, government having partly absolved
 them from duties, the performance of which is their tenure for holding their
 lands and fees.

                                  u2
--292 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

(Skinner and Rope-maker). And in the third or Dhaktee

Khas, the Kohlee (Waterman), Johesee (Astrologer), Goormo

(cleaner of, and attendant at the temple), and the Sonar

(Silversmith) ; and, since the Moosulman rule, the Moolana or
Moosulman priest and schoolmaster has heen added. These

persons, in their several lines, and according to their several

abilities, were to do for the cultivators individually and the

village collectively whatever might be required from them

and they were paid by an annual per-centage in kind upon the

produce of the farmer ; and this was called their Bullooteh,

whence the term Bara Bullooteh : the fee being called Bul-

looteh, and the receiver of it Bullootehdar. Very rarely could

I get either farmer or Bullootehdar to state specifically what

the one gave, and the other was entitled to receive ; it de-
pended very much upon the crops, and also upon the extent

of services performed for each individual cultivator. These

craftsmen have frequently small portions of Eenam lands, and

part of their Bullooteh goes to government as a tax.

 --Shet Sundee Tenure. Lands were given to a kind of militia

in the districts in place of pay, for the performance of certain

duties, principally in the protection of their villages : this te-

nure is called Shet Sundee from Shet " a field," and Sunnud

"a grant;" constituting the holders, in fact, a landed militia.

Although this tenure may have been general at one period,

I only observed lands set apart as Shet Sundee in five Per-

gunnahs of the Poona collectorate, and I remarked it also at

Kurmulla, Ahmednuggur collectorate.

  --Tenure of Chowgullet. There are several other tenures, of

which a brief notice only may be given. The Chowgulla is

the Pateel's assistant; he is found in most villages ; sometimes
he has a trifling grant of land, but most commonly gi'ain-fees

from the landholders. This personage is called Buglah where

the Kanree language is spoken.

   In some Turruffs a Havildar is met with ; the term is of

Arabic origin, from Hawala " charge," " custody," and Dar

" agent," "holder." This officer was introduced by the Moosul-

mans as a supervisor in the collection of the revenue of a cer-

tain number of villages. He replaced the Hindoo Naik, who

is still met with in some of the hill districts. The Havildar

was paid by half a seer of grain from each beegah under culti-

vation                             and for the Hindoo officer the same is levied, under the
                                ;

name of Naikwaree. At Kanoor, Ahmednuggur collectorate,

the Naikwaree is 12 seers of grain on every 30 beegahs under

cultivation.

  --Tulwar. In the southern villages bordering on the Kanree

tracts, I met with the village or TurrufF officer called Tulwar
                                              ON THE STATISTICS OF DTJKHUN.                         293

but the term is unknown to the genuine Mahrattas. His du-
ties assimilate him to the Havildar and Naik of more northern

--tracts.
    Tenure of Ramooses. Between the parallels of latitude 17°
and 19° north, and longitude 73° 40' and 75° E., there are few

villages in Dukhun without their Ramooses. These vagabonds

are thieves by birth and cast, which is abject ; most of the
villages have them in employ to guard the village from robbery.

In some villages they have Eenam lands, but they are generally

paid in fees of grain upon the cultivation. There is a perfect
community of interest amongst the fraternity, however di-

spersed                                  and  as  they are dissipated,  idle,  and reckless,  they  not
                                      ;

unfrequently assemble in bands, take to the hills, and commit

depredations in the country, and it is necessary to chase them

back to their villages by means of the regular troops. They

are expert sportsmen and good shots.

 --Bheels. Where the Ramooses are wanting, their places are

mostly supplied by the Bheels, or by the Kohlees ; the former
are low casts, the latter are Shoodrahs. Their duty is to

afford protection to the villages, and they have either Eenam
lands or fees in grain. In many parts of the country, parti-

cularly in Khandesh, the inhabitants of entire villages, and

even districts, are Bheels, or Kohlees (Coolies).

 --Sheteh. Sheteh is the person by common consent admitted

to be the head and spokesman of the mercantile and trading

classes, in places in the districts where they are in sufficient
numbers to require one ; and as combination is universal, he
is of some importance in the districts as their organ in regu-

lating prices. The Sheteh is assisted by the MaJiajun, which
properly means a banker ; but, as the colleague of the Sheteh,

he is an inferior personage in the districts : both these people,

in some towns and villages, have trifling Eenam lands and

claims for money and grain ; but on what tenure of service to

the community is not very apparent.

  --Sur Pateel, and Sur Deshmook, and Sur Desaee. I should

scarcely have introduced any mention of the Sur Pateel, and Sur

Deshmook, and Sur Desaee, as it has not come to my notice

that they hold lands in tenure, but their names frequently

occur in village accounts as Hukdars,* or entitled to certain
rights in money, grain-fees, &c. One of the Sur Pateelships

is vested in the great family of Eshwunt Rao Dabareh, of

Tullegaon ; and one of the Sur Desaeeships in the ancient fa-

mily called Chaskur. Captain Grant Duff, in his History of

the Mahrattas, makes mention of several Sur Deshmooks, and

                                                  * Huh " a right," and dar " a holder."
294 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

says, that Arungzebe allowed the old Sur Deshmooks 2 per

cent, on the revenue. But the Sur Deshmookee of modern

times which appears in all village accounts, was 10 per cent,

of the Moghul revenue, exacted by Sewajee from the Moosul-

mans                           it was levied  over  and  above  the  land  tax.  The suf-
                            ;

ferers, therefore, by Mahratta violence were the Mahratta

cultivators ; and on the whole of the possessions of the Moo-

sulmans coming into the hands of a Mahratta government, the

Sur Deshmookee should have been abandoned, but it remains
to this day ; for instance, at Jehoor, near Ahmednuggur, the
Tunkha, or government revenue or assignment, from the town

was 10,817 rupees, 2 qr., 3 reas ; the Sur Deshmookee 1350 ru-
pees, 3 qr., 3 reas ; but the Kumal, or total sum raised from the
cultivators, including village expenses and Hukdars, was

19,363 rupees, 3 qr., 1 reas : so that the Moosulmans origin-
ally took little more than half of the revenue now raised from

the town, that is to say, the Moosulmans took 10,817 rupees

then came Sewajee, the Mahratta, and wrenched from

them 10 per cent, of their revenue, which should have been

1081 rupees. The Moosulmans, instead of paying it out of

10,817 rupees, clapped the demand of Sewajee upon the town

as an additional burthen ; and instead of honestly fixing it at

1081 rupees (10 per cent, of 10,817), they adroitly took oc-
casion to exact a little more from their Mahratta subjects.

   Many individuals have shares in the village revenues under
the names of Mokassa, Sahotra, Babtee, and Nargowra. The

most intelligible way to describe these, is to say that persons
have money assignments, amounting to a definite per centage

on the revenue, under these names. In their origin, Mokassa

is 66 per cent., Sahotra 6 per cent., Babtee 25 per cent., and

Nargowra 3 per cent, of the Chont, or fourth of the whole Mo-

ghul revenue, which was extorted from the Moosulmans by

the Mahrattas. Sewajee and his chiefs shared it amongst

themselves ;                   the chiefs had the Mokassa for military services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

the Sahotra was given to the Punt Suchew, one of Sewa-

jee's ministers ; the prince's own share was the Babtee ; and

the Nargowra, which is synonymous with Sur Pateel, or chief

of all the Pateels, was at the disposal of the prince. As these

grants were hereditary, the equal division of property and

rights amongst children has occasioned the reduction of some

of the shares to the most trifling amount where families have

multiplied.

   Such are the tenures that came under my notice ; and it is

necessary to state that, with the single exception of Surwa
Eenam or " entire gift," there was an obligation of specific

service on the individual or parties enjoying advantages under
              ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  295

 the several tenures ; the non-performance of these duties in-
 volved the forfeiture of their rights ; but independently of such
 forfeiture, all grants whatever (unless specified to the contrary)
were resurnable by the sovereign or other grantee. Grants
for religious purposes were rarely recalled j but for other ob-
jects they were frequently abrogated, particularly Jagheer,

 Surinjam, and Hukdar grants. To such an extent did this
exist under the Peshwa's government, that the Hon. M. El-

phinstone, in his report as commissioner, enumerates as an
item of revenue, Wiittun Zubtee, or sequestered lands of Zu-
mundars, which yielded annually 50,000 rupees.

                                           Revenue.

   A few figures perspicuously arranged, are more efficacious in

affording just impressions of the resources of a country, their

--ramifications, pressure, and availability, than the most laboured

verhal details. In 1827 28 the assessments in the four col-

lectorates of Dukhun amounted to 8,435,244 rupees, 3 qr. 79 reas,

being a diminution of 539,399 rupees, 2 qr. 80 reas in the re-
venue of Fuslee 1231, a.d. 1822, as stated in Mr. Chaplin's

report ; from this sum also were to be deducted the remissions
of 415,000 rupees, 1 qr. 25 reas in the Ahmednuggur, and

--416,320 rupees, 3 qr. in the Poona collectorate in 1827 8,

amounting to a total diminution of 1,360,725 rupees, 3 qr.
05 reas, or 15'16 decl. per cent, of the revenue of 1822.

 --The revenue of 1827 28 in its constituents is shown in the

following table :

Denomination
 of Revenue.
--296 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   From the preceding table it will be seen that in the several

collectorates, although of very disproportionate superficial

extent and population, in Ahmednuggur, Poona, and Khan-
desh there is a close approximation in the total amount of their
revenues, although with some difference in the value of their

great branches.

   The following table exhibits the proportion per cent, of the

great branches of the above revenue.

                    Denomination
                       of Revenue.
               ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.  297

   Names of

CoUectorates.
298 SEVENTH REPORT-- 1837«

were on the collector's list \ they contained 494,669 souls, esti-
mated from the average number of inhabitants to a village,
namely, 263*47, struck from the census of 1822, to which the
present population of the city of Nuggur is to be added,
namely, 21,208. The revenue from the collectorate was
2,033,994 rupees, 3 qr. 78 reas ; equal, therefore, to 3 rupees,
3 qr. 77 reas per head.

  --In Dharwar the averages have the following elements : in
--1827 28, 2279 British towns and villages produced a revenue

of 2,421,516 rupees, 1 qr. 39 reas. This included the villages,

revenue, and population of the Talooks of Cheekoree and Mu-

nowlee, received from the Kolapoor state; population returns
were not received from these Talooks ; their revenue from 225
villages, namely, 197,406 rupees, 3 qr. 29 reas, is therefore
deducted from the total revenue of the collectorate, leaving

2,224,199 rupees, 2 qr. 10 reas, and 2054 villages. From the

latter are to be deducted 175 depopulated villages, but having
a small part of their land cultivated by neighbouring villagers,
leaving 1879* British villages, with a population, agreeably to
the census, of 653,892 souls, giving 3 rupees, 1 qr. 60 reas

per head.

   There is some difficulty in ascertaining how the revenue of
Khandesh would fall as a capitation tax, in consequence of the
increased number of villages (335 £) rendered productive since

--1825 26, (the date of the population returns,) their population
--not being known. In 1825 26 the inhabited villages amounted

to 2032, and 330 were Pyegusta, i. e. deserted, but having
part of their land cultivated by neighbouring villagers. Sup-
posing the new villages to be peopled in the same ratio as the
old ones, the number of inhabitants in the government villages
in 1827-28 would have been 443,548, which is 24,031 souls more
than I have put into the population returns ; and as the revenue
was 1,987,733 rupees, the people averaged an individual pay-
ment of 4 rupees, 1 qr. 92 reas : nevertheless, I have reason to
doubt the actual increase in population to the extent I have
given Khandesh credit for ; and should it have remained sta-
tionary, the revenue as a poll-tax would amount to 5 rupees,
 1 qr. 40 reas per head.

    With respect to the branch of revenue called Sahyer, it will

be seen that the different collectorates raise it in very unequal

proportions. The unusual lowness of it in the Ahmednuggur
collectorate is of difficult explanation. The following table
shows the number of persons of each class paying this tax, the
amount paid, and the average per head.

             * Subsequently increased to 1899, with a population of 600,852.
         ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  299

Collectorates.
--300 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

identical, the population of the former being 23*75 per cent,

greater than that of the latter, while a parity seems to exist in

--the wants and export resources of the people of both.
   Expenses. I have put into juxtaposition some of the items

of expense in the collectorates, and their rate per cent, on the

gross revenue ; but the want of a systematic classification of

charges under common heads throughout the collectorates,

renders a rigid comparison, item for item, unattainable. The

-- Ainformation is extracted from the Jummabundy returns of the
collectors for 1827 28.  government form for this paper

for common adoption would render the multitudinous details

involved in it more available for comparison by inspection than

in the present forms. The total expenses of two of the collect-

orates only is given in the following tables.

   Few comments are necessary, as the charges and the rate

per cent, they bear upon the gross revenue of each collectorate

are seen at a glance.

                 TABULAR VIEW OF THE EXPENSES.

Denomination of
      expenses.
ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.                 301

TABULAR VIEW OF THE PROPORTION PER CENT. OF

                                 EXPENSES.

Denominations of expenses.
--302 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

cent., and remissions were granted in that year to the amount
of 20*40 per cent. ; the total deduction from the revenue was
63*43 per cent. In Khandesh, without any remissions, the
charges were nearly six-tenths of the whole revenue. In
Poona I have only shown the charges which are strictly and
permanently fixed upon the land in all the collectorates, which
are not mutable, and therefore scarcely susceptible in justice
of modification ; these amount to 14*46 per cent : they com-
prise village expenses, militia, Mokassa, and Hukdars. In
Dharwar, the collector's establishment has been added to the
above, and it brings the charges strictly bearing on the land to
24*12 per cent, on the revenue.

  A review of the above tables and abstracts suggests the fol-

lowing observations. The collectorate of Dharwar, having the

smallest area a (with the exception of Poona) of the collect-
orates of Dukhun, has the greatest population, and produces
the greatest revenue, which bears lightest by average upon the
inhabitants individually.1. Judging from the lowness of the
customs, it has the weakest indications of commercial industry
nevertheless, the manufacturers, particularly the weavers, ex-
ceed those of the other collectorates in the ratio of 100 to 11,

or 89 per cent. The shopkeepers and tradespeople are very
numerous, and their individual taxes rise to the average of
those of Poona and Khandesh. Finally, the means of the
people (remissions not being called for) must be more efficient
than in the other collectorates, and a proportional ratio of
imports and exports might have been looked for.

   Khandesh has the largest superficial extent,d a population e
29 per cent, less than that of Poona, or granting an increase
to its population 15*32 per cent, less, with a revenue never-
theless equal to that of Poona, bearing in consequence with
unusual pressure upon the people, its average being 5 rupees,
1 qr. 40 reas to each soul ; involving the fact that the assess-
ments in this collectorate are greater than in any of the others.
Admitting, however, the estimated increase to the population
previously noticed, (which certainly exceeds the truth,) the
average f individual payment will still exceed that in the other
collectorates. It is possible this apparent pressure may be

* 9122 square miles, including the cultivated area of the Talooks Cheekoree

and Manowlee.

b 838,767, including the estimated population of the Talooks of Cheekoree

and Manowlee, 3 rupees, 1 qr. G reas per head.

c 10 rupees, 2 qr. 2 reas.   d 12,527 square miles.

' 371,404, but supposed this year to be 443,548 in government villages.

f 4 rupees, 1 qr., 92 reas.
                  ON THE STATISTICS OP DT7KHUN.                    303

inferred to the extent of its garden cultivation, which is much

greater than that of Dharwar, and, as far as I can judge from
observation, that of Poona and Ahmednuggur also. In Khan-
desh in 1826., there were 82,697 beegahs a of garden-land,
being 9*36 per cent, of the whole cultivated land, the garden-
land in Dharwar not amounting to one-half per cent. In the
Nuggur and Poona collectorates, in the towns of Kurmalleh,
Kurjut, Angur, and Rawgaon, the proportion of garden to
field-land in cultivation was 5 '45 per cent. only. But, under
all circumstances, the villages of Khandesh average b the least

revenue in Dukhun ; it stands third in the number of its cul-
tivators, but second in the amount of the rent of its farms. d
The magnitude of this rent, it is inferred, originates in the

comparative high rate of assessment per beegah, and not in the
greater size of the farms. I have not the number of beegah

of land in cultivation in 1827-28 in Khandesh, but justify my

--inference from the following data : In 1826 there were 37,311

cultivators, and 883,548 beegahs under cultivation, averaging
23*68 beegahs to each farm.*3 Last year, there were 44,608
cultivators, and supposing them to hold individually the ave-
rage number of beegahs of 1826, the result will be as

cult.                 beegahs.  cult.  beegahs.

37,311 : 88,348 : : 44,608 : 1,056,345;

and as the land revenue of 1827-28 was 1,664,904 rupees,
the rate per beegah is therefore 1 rupee, 2 qr. 30 reas,f which
exceeds s that of the other collectorates from 50 to 100 per cent.

   In the Sahyer branch of revenue' the increased pressure is still

visible upon the people ; it exceeds the mean pressure of Dhar-
war and Poona 10*35 decl. per cent., and that of Ahmednuggur

in the extraordinary ratio of 63*91 per cent.

   The customs' per centage on the whole revenue is identical
with that of Ahmednuggur, although, in the present state of
Khandesh, it could not have been looked for.

   Ahmednuggur stands second in superficial extent.*1 The
land revenue is only inferior in amount to that of Dharwar,
although it has the least number of cultivators i in all the col-
lectorates. The average rent of farms therefore is the greatest

a                     h 839 rupees, 3 qr., 7 reas.            c 44,G08.

 . 62,023 acres.

d 37 rupees, 1 qr., 33 reas.

_~e Beegahs 883,448, 9,,.rs     f Rupees 1,664,904 ru.qr.rs.

Cultivators-37^lT.              =Beegahs 1,056,345 * 2 30 P er ^egah.

8 Poona and Nuggur 3 qr. 58 reas per beegah, including garden-land. The

whole of Dharwar 2 qr. 94 reas per beegah, including garden-land.

h 9910 square miles.                   > 41,948 cultivators.
--304 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

and from averages struck in different villages in various parts
of the Desh in this collectorate, I would refer it to the
increased size of the farms rather than to enhanced assess-
ments.

    In a table, which will be met with in treating of the condi-
tion of the people, farms are made to average about 45 beegahs
each ; and the assessments, including extras, do not amount
to a rupee per beegah. a In the hilly tracts the farms are neces-
sarily much reduced in size, and an average for the whole col-
lectorate would bring them down probably to 35 beegahs each
41,948 cultivators therefore would occupy 1,468,180 beegahs
of land, which, divided into the land revenue, (1,815,837 ru-

pees,) 15 give 1 rupee, 95 reas per beegah. I am rather disposed

to rely upon the general average, than upon the average struck
from the examination of the papers of a few towns in the most

favourable parts of the country.

   The very low amount of the Sahyer, which is only 2*90 per
cent, of the whole revenue, has been already adverted to.
The taxable persons, nevertheless, under this head, exceed
those of Khandesh.

   The customs bear a fair proportion to the whole revenue.
   The average revenue d per village may be subject to a slight
modification, as in the number of British villages, amounting to
1878^, furnished to me by the acting collector, which paid

revenue last year, deserted villages are not distinguished, part
of whose lands are under cultivation ; and the want of popula-

tion returns disables me from ascertaining them.
   The revenue, viewed as a poll tax,e bears easier than in any

other collectorate, excepting Dharwar. The means to insure

an approximate accuracy in this calculation have been already

explained.

   Poona has the smallest land revenue, and the smallest super-
ficial extent/ Previously to the addition of the four Talooks
of Sholapoor, Mohol, Moodeebeehall, and Indee, agreeably
to information furnished by the Survey Department, it com-
prised an area of 4990 square miles only. Neither the extent
nor population of these Talooks being known, it was necessary
to estimate them ; the process was conducted by analogy,
which has been explained elsewhere ; 2888 square miles

.  _    ,,,                 =b Rupees 1,815,837    n>. qr. rs.
»
   2s.  8d.  per acre.            ^ ''             1  95        per  beegaah.

                            Beegahs 1,468,180                   l

e 14,267.                   d 1082 rupees, 2 qr. 99 reas.

e Revenue as a poll tax, 3 rupees, 3 qr. 77 reas.

   Area 7878 square miles.
                ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                            305

resulted from the calculations, giving the Poona collectorate an
area of 7878 square miles. Poona has the greatest number of
cultivators a excepting Dharwar ; and this is to be attributed, not
to the extended cultivation, but to the Mawul, or hilly tracts,
occupying a great deal of the collectorate, where the farmers are

multiplied and the individual agricultural operations of very li-
mited extent. In the whole Turruff of Mhurkhoreh the farms
average only 13 beegahs each b but in the eastern and south-

                                                                                                              ;

eastern parts of the collectorate they have the same average as is
given to Ahmednuggur. From the above facts the farms might
be expected to average a very low rent, as is found to be the case.
The following estimate justifies the inference that the land

assessments are comparatively not very onerous.

In the Desh, or Table Land, the farms average . . 45 beegahs.

In the Mawuls, or hilly tracts                       13 do.

                                                     2)58

                         Mean average of farms .... 29 beegahs.

    In 1827-28 there were 52,668 cultivators, which multiplied
by 29, the average number of beegahs to each farmer, will give
1,527,372 beegahs of land under cultivation; and as the land
revenue of 1827-28 amounted to 1,516,323 rupees, 37reas;
the assessments would only be at the rate of 3 qr. 97 reas per
beegah,c including garden land and extras. There are still
however some marked features which are not satisfactory : the
villages average a greater revenue (excluding the city of Poona)
than in the other collectorates, although the average village po-
pulation is less for that part of the Poona collectorate, whence
population returns have been received.

   The 574 villages of the sub-collectorate of Sholapoor average
1272 rupees, 1 qr. 12 reas each,d including customs. The magni-
tude of the average of the remaining villages may be attributed to
the great amount of the customs e but deducting a suitable pro-

                                                                                                                    ;

portion of the customs f for the inhabitants of the city of Poona,s
and the whole of the revenue of the city, Sahyer/* land,1 and
Abkauree,k and mint 1 ; villages (always excluding the four
talooks of Sholapoor) still average 1241 rupees, 1 qr. 76 reas

                             = Rupees 1,516,323

                             1^372 = ^Beegahs
» 52,668. > 94 acres.                 3 V- n,, reas per bteegah, .

d Revenue of sub-collectorate of Sholapoor 730,289 rupees, 1 qr. 93 reas.

e 215,361 rupees, 2 qr. 37| reas.     f 61,756 rupees, 1 qr. 63 reas.

8 81,515 inhabitants.                 ·> 56,202 rupees, 3 qr. 50 reas.

1 27,981 rupees, 81 § reas.        k 12,000 rupees.  ' 3301 rupees.

VOL. VI. 1837.                     x
306 SEVENTH REPORT-- 1837-

each, which is higher than in any other collectorate ; and as the
villages in this part of the collectorate average a fraction more

than 226 inhabitants,8 the taxes, assessments, and customs,1'

after deducting the share for Poona, 151,241 rupees, fall upon

the people with the unexampled pressure of nearly 5g- rupees

per head,c while the people in the city d average only I rupee,

3 qr. 44 reas per head, including a proportional share of the

customs, and the city, Sahyer, and land-tax, &c.

    For the whole collectorate of Poona, including the four talooks

of Sholapoor, hy a process previously explained, the assessments

average 4 rupees, 1 qr. 78 reas per head, which closely approxi-

mates to that of Khandesh.

    Poona has the greatest number of taxable persons e after

Dharwar in the Sahyer branch of the revenue, and ranks

second in the total amount, of the sum raised, which falls with

a less pressure individually than in Dharwar and Khandesh, but

greater than in Ahmednuggur. The manufacturers, as contri-

butors to the Sahyer, are very limited in number.

    The proportion that the customs bear to the whole revenue

is a very striking feature : they are derived principally from

imports, a good part of which passes on to the eastward ; much

is consumed in the city of Poona, and the rest is dispersed into

the districts. I have observed that imports from the coast

have gradually cheapened in their retail price within the last

three or four years, owing, no doubt, to the combined causes of

increased importation and scarcity of money in Dukhun.

    The collectorate of Dharwar, whether viewed with respect

to  the     quantity         of land under   cultivation ;  the  size  of its  farms f
                                                                                                            ;

the amounts of its revenue; the lightness with which it falls

upon the people, considered as a poll-tax ;? the magnitude of its

Sahyer ; the comparative denseness of its population ; its nu-
merous towns b and tolerably well-peopled villages ; the facility
offered for instruction in the number of its schools, and the mani-

festations of manufacturing industry in its numerous weavers, 1

--is unquestionably the finest British province in Dukhun.
   Dharwar Land Revenue. The land revenue, in its pro-
portion to the whole revenue, stands third in the Dukhun col-

lectorates, being 80*336 per cent. ; but this apparently inferior
station is to be attributed, not to the diminished quantity of

a 894£ villages with inhabitants, 202,252.                  b 1,110,470 rupees.
c 5 rupees, 1 qr. 9G reas.

d           Inhabitants  of  Poona  81,315.  Taxes and proportionate share of customs

         .

S-c. 151,211 rupees.

e 23,042.                f 32-74 acres, or 4365 bcegahs.    & 3 rupees, 1 qr. GO reas,

i> 119.                                      i 13,315.
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  307

land under cultivation," which far exceeds that in the other
collectorate, (i. e. 61*11 decls. per cent, of the whole lands,
leaving only 38*89 decls. per cent, of waste,) but to the lowness
of its land* assessments, amounting only to 2 qr. 94 reas per
beegah, including all extras falling on the land. The process
by which this average assessment was struck is as follows. In
1827, agreeably to the population returns, the land in occupa-
tion of a cultivator averaged 32*74 decls. acres, or 43*65 decls.

beegahs ; in 1828, in the Jummabundy settlement, there were
60,701 cultivators, which, multiplied by 43*65 decls. gives

2,649,598. 65 decls. beegahs of land under cultivation. These
divided into the land revenue, 1,945,323 rupees, 2 qr. 8 reas,
give 294 reas per beegah, a low rate, which neither the exami-
nation of village accounts, nor a similar process, will give in
Poona, Ahmednuggur, nor Khandesh. b This light assess-
ment, equal only to ls.ll^d. per acre, is certainly advantageous
in insuring the realization of the revenue ; but when put into
comparison with the rent of land in England, shows the unpro-
ductive and limited character of Indian agricultural resources.

   The Sahyer branch of the revenue is highly favourable,
amounting to nearly 14 per cent, of the whole, and, though so
productive, falls as a tax lighter on individuals than in Khan-
desh. The customs, being 2 per cent, lower than in Khandesh
and Ahmednuggur, is at variance with the tolerably efficient
character of the general resources of the Dharwar.

   From the examination of village papers I find that remissions

were very rare under native governments, and the facility with
which they are granted under the British government, and their
magnitude, testify strongly to its paternal character. Great
caution, however, is requisite in granting them, not less on ac-
count of the government than on account of the cultivator him-
self. If obtained with facility, and without rigid and sharp

examinations, and some personal inconvenience to the applicant,
(from the habitual indolence of the native character,) his ordinary
industry, which always requires stimulating, would be paralyzed,
applications multiplied, labour diminished, and the farmer would

trust to the forbearance of government rather than to his own

exertions. There is another reason for caution in the strong
motives that the native agents have for urging remissions, with
a view to intercept them in the transit of accounts through

their hands.

    The collector cannot possibly personally ascertain the truth of

   a 2,308,064 acres in 1827.

   b Ahmednuggur 1 rupee, 95.reas; Nuggur and Poona, partial average, 3 qr.

58 reas ; Khandesh 1 rupee, 2 qr. 30 reas per beegah.

                                   x2
--308 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

one-hundredth part of the claims set up ; he must leave this la-
bour to his servants, and it can scarcely be believed they will not
avail themselves of the opportunity to turn the discretion given
to them to private profit ; in fact, I know such to be the case.

    In an examination of the papers of the villages of Muhrkoreh,
Poona collectorate, I found that many of the cultivators had paid
instalments of their assessments (for 1827-28) previously tore-
missions being granted, which exceeded the amount they were
required to pay after the deduction of the remissions ; the
poverty of some of the cultivators, consequently, must have
been misrepresented. I ascertained also that part of the
remissions of 1827-28 had been intercepted. Remissions are
unavoidable in all calamitous visitations of Providence, which
are not of confined or local operation, and which affect the re-
turns of the earth ; but to insure the benefit of the remissions
to the cultivator, they should be made in a definite per centage
on his total assessment, and the amount should be proclaimed
more than once, and by different persons, in the public place of

every village.

  A few words in conclusion will suffice with respect to the

great branches of the revenue. It is seen that 82*30 decls. per
cent, of the whole is derived from the land : already the supply
of agricultural produce exceeds the demand, and the farmer has
a difficulty in finding a mart. In the present state of agriculture

therefore, this branch of revenue is at its maximum, and will
probably decline until supply and demand be adjusted.

   The prospects of improvement in the Sahyer branch are
not more favourable than in the land revenue.

   The trades pay to the full extent of their means at present,
and manufactures cannot increase when the European import-

ers of cottons can afford to undersell the native manufacturers.

Indeed I believe little more than coarse Sarhees a for women,
and common tent cloth, are now manufactured in the British
provinces in Dukhun.

   The improvements in customs should usually depend upon in-
creased wealth and commercial industryin the people. Theextent
of imports will only be commensurate with the means of pur-

chase. If therefore the opinions I have advanced on the land
revenue and Sahyer be well founded, with respect to the
limited means of persons paying taxes under those heads, the
customs will be influenced by causes affecting them.

   Any general improvement in the revenue would seem

to require the creation of exportable articles in agriculture,
horticulture, or manufactures ; and to effect this desirable

                                                              a Dresses.
                               ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.                                        309

object, the introduction of persons with capital, enterprize,

ingenuity, commercial tact and industry, is necessary ; essen-

tials, of which the country is at present destitute.

The manner in which the revenue yielded by a village is

partitioned, is well exemplified in Neembawee, Pergunnah,

Kurdeh, Ahmednuggur collectorate. The village is in Jagheer

to Bala Sahib Rastea, one of the great Jagheerdars. The

shares                in  the  village  are  called    amuls    a    and  there   are         six  of

                                                                  ,

them                  Rastia has three, Suchewb Punt                 one, and the  Honour-
                   ;

able Company two. The whole shares are considered as an

integer of 123 parts.

                          Sun, 1236.--A.D. 1826.                                   50
                                                                                   23
Rastia has the Jagheer
Sur Deshmookee and Nuzzurd                                                           7
Kussur,e or remainder

buchew Punt has the Sahotra                                                        23

The Honourable Company has the Mokassa                                                    15       23
                                                                                                   20
and the Neem Chowthaee, or half of the tribute

called " Fourth"                                                                          5

                                                                          Total               123

In addition, the fixed money rights on the village are                                    Rupees.
                                                                                                   5
bur Pateel Dabaree of Tellegaon
                                                                                              101
Kundeh Kurdehkur Deshmook                                                                     101
Amrut Row Joonurkur Deshpandeh

Besides the Pateel and Koolkurnee, Chowgulla, Bullooteh, who

   have their fees.

   It would seem very desirable to abolish the above absurd
verbal distinctions, and to fix the rights of individuals as simple
money dues, without reference to Jagheer, Nuzzur, Kussur, &c.

   The revenue of Dukhun, contrasted as a capitation tax, with
that of England, France, and America, would appear to be
as follows. In England, the gross revenue of 1828 was
£50,700,000; poor-rates, parish rates, lighting, watching,

a Amul, " rule," " sway."

   b Suchew,              "friend,"  "minister;"  one  of  the  eight  ministers  of the  Raiah    of
                                                                                                J
Sattara.

A° fief.

d Nazar, "sight," "look," a present made on introduction to a person.

e Kasr. " a fraction."
310 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

£12,000,000; contributions of congregations to their clergy,

colleges, schools, &c. about £17,300,000 :  total  £80,000,000    a
                                                                      .

The population being 20,000,000, the tax per head is £4. In

France, the taxation, including provision for the clergy, schools,

&c. is £40,000,000; the population 30,000,000; equal therefore

to £l. 6s. per head. In America the population is between

10,000,000 and 11,000,000, and the taxation £5,000,000, or
not quite 10*. per head. The revenue of Dukhun, viewed as a

capitation tax, is 8s. per head.

                          Assessments.

Assessments and land measurements are so intimately con-

nected, that it would not answer any good purpose to treat

of them in separate sections. With respect to the portions of

land variously denominated for the purpose of assessment, I

am clearly of opinion that the prevailing denominations

amongst the Hindoos were not descriptive of superficial extent,

and that the assessments were founded on the productive

power of the land without reference to its quantity, and were

uniform only for similar denominations of land in a village.

The Moosulmans, no doubt, endeavoured to be more system-

atic; they measured garden lands, and probably in some few vil-

lages, the field lands, under the denominations of Kundhee,Mun,

Tukeh, Piceh, Seer, &c. with a view to the general conversion

of such terms into the uniform and appreciable term of Bcegah;

but the Hindoo terms not applying to quantity, the bcegahs of

different villages could only be equal when there existed an

accidental identity in productive power in the unmeasured

Mun or Kundhee, &c. of land in one village with the measured

Mun, Kundhee, &c. intended as common types. This will

account for the varying extent of the beegah in field cultivation

in Dukhun. How little successful the Moosulmans were in their

attempt to supersede the old terms, is proved in the limited

extent to which the assessments by beegahs obtained when we
took possession of the country. It may be well doubted whe-

ther we shall be more successful in our introduction of acres :

the ramifications of ancient usages amongst a people are in

general too deeply fixed to be eradicated by legislative enact-

Aments.  plant may be cut off by the surface, but there is

always a latent disposition to reproduction from the untouched

roots. Whatever may be our success, a revenue survey was

imperatively called for under the indefinite Hindoo land deno-

minations, to enable a collector to regulate his assessments

with a shadow of equity.

a Speech of Colonel Davies in the House of Commons, May 8, 1829.
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                    311

With respect to the denominations under which land is as-

mysessed in the comparatively limited space of  inquiries, their

variety and absurdity demonstrate a wanton bizarreness that

could scarcely have been looked for in a people reputedly sim-

ple and uniform in their opinions and economy. The assess-
ment on a beegah is definite as it depended on positive mea-

surement, and I have remarked that it obtains at, and in the
neighbourhood of the established seats of Moosulman author-

ity, as at Ahmednuggur, Purunda, Sholapoor, Mohol, Bar-

lonee, Wamoree, Tacklee, &c. The Chahoor and Rookeh, as

at Alkootee, Kheir, Wangee, Taimbournee, Kurkumb, Angur,

Mahreh, Kurmalleh, Kurjut and Meerujgaon, being multiples

of the beegah, are intelligible. Even the Doree or rope, used

at Hungawarreh and Neembee, as it implies measurement and

superficial extent, is admissible. The old Hindoo terms,

Kundhee and Mun, at Ranjungaon, Jamgaon, Parnair, &c. &c.

as they are founded on positive properties, furnish sufficiently

precise ideas. But the Tukeh, with its constituents, of Suj-

gunnees and Piceh, (copper coin,) at Dytna and Ankolner,

the Seer of weight and its Nowtanks or ^ Seer, as at Koorul and
Wangee, and the Pyhnee and its Annas a at Serrolee, Brulunun-

warreh and Muhr, are not reducible by any operation of the

mind to an appreciable portion of land, whose produce shall

admit of the government share on it being equitably assessed.

The assessment by the hatchet, rude as it is, still involves the

idea of as much copse-wood land as one hatchet can clear, and
one man can sow and reap in the year. To add to the confusion,
similar denominations of land are not made up of common and

uniform constituents. The Tukkeh at Kothoul is raised from

the Rookeh, each of which is supposed to contain 10 beegahs,

or 7^ acres. At Ankolner the Tukkeh is composed of Suj-
gunnees, Piceh and Rookeh ; the Rookeh being equal only to 2|
beegahs, or If acres. At Lakungaon there are 10 Tukkeh to
one Pyhnee, and as the Pyhnee is said to contain 30 beegahs,

the Tukkeh here contains only 3 beegahs instead of 480, as at

Tellegaon; or 240, as at Ashtee.

  In respect to the Mun at Ranjungaon, it is rated at 10

beegahs ; at Jamgaon, belonging to Seendeh, it is not reducible
into beegahs at all ; at Parnair 6^ beegahs only are equal to
the Mun. The Pyhnee at Seerolee has the Chahoor of 120

beegahs as a typical standard, 4 Pyhnees being equal to one

Chahoor, or 120 beegahs ; at Muhr the Pyhnee of 30 beegahs is

considered as identical with the Kundhee of 20 Muns, reducing

the Mun therefore to 1| beegahs.

a One-sixteenth of a rupee.
--312 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   Under such complex definitions and involved contradictions,

my limits will not permit me to give further explanations,
but which my lengthened tables afford.

   The principal assessment necessarily falls on the land, and
it is raised on the various land denominations above noticed
the land in the first instance being separated into the two great
classes of Bhaghaeet, or garden-land ; and Zerhaeet, or field-
land. Both these terms are evidently of Moosulman intro-
duction, Bhaghaeet being a word of Persian origin, meaning
"gardens," "orchards;" and Zerhaeet, of Arabic derivation,
meaning a "sown field," "sown land."

    There are marked traces of the land assessment having once
been systematic in the Sostee or permanent rate, which was
uniform and unchangeable for all lands of the same denomi-
nation. This rate is found in most villages, it is distinctly
stated in the accounts, and separated from subsequent and in-
creased assessments, and its existence is a proof that assess-
ments formerly were not on the superficial extent, but on the
productive power of the soil; since, as lands were not all equally
fertile, more of the unfertile land must have been held than
of the fertile, to enable the cultivator to pay a fixed sum in

quantity of grain for a piece of land under a common denomi-
nation. The Sostee Dur, or permanent assessment, was the

pride of the Meerasdar, but unhappily not his safeguard.

The various governments which have passed away do not
appear ever to have raised the pemument rate, but they rendered
 the advantages derivable under it abortive from gradually

 adding extra cesses ; their excuses in the first instance being

unlooked-for contingencies. The cesses were originally mostly
 in kind, and temporary ; but the exigencies of government, or
the facility with which they were raised, made them perennial,
 and their pressure upon the cultivator has been enhanced, par-
 ticularly under our government, by the cesses in kind being
 commuted into money payments. The Moosulmans, on intro-
 ducing measurements, must necessarily have subverted the
 Sostee, or uniform rate, since the same rate could not have

Webeen equitable for beegahs of land of different qualities.

 find, in consequence, that when the lands are classed in bee-
 gahs otherwise than as constituents of Hindoo land denomi-

 nations, that there the assessments are on the quality of the
 soil, and vary accordingly.

     Gardens being dependent on the local advantages of a suit-
 able supply of water and some depth of soil, usually met with
 in hollows or on the banks of rivers, it might be expected that
 considerable uniformity would prevail in the quality of garden-
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                        313

land, and that it would rarely be divided into classes j such is usu-
ally found to be the case. Most commonly all garden-land apper-
taining to a village pays the same rate per beegah ; and where
classification exists, it is founded, not on the quality of the

land, but on the extent of the supply of water.
   The first great feature, in this respect, is whether the garden

is watered from small streams conducted from rivulets or rivers,
or whether it is watered from wells ; in the former case it is
called Paatsthul,a and in the latter Mohtsthul.b Most Pahts
failing in the dry months of March, April, and May, the
former land is usually assessed at a lower rate than the latter,
as at Tellegaon and Parnair; but where the Paht supply is
perennial, as at Dytna, both descriptions of land pay the same
rate. Dependent on these primary distinctions, are modifi-

cations, affecting garden assessments : land with a perennial
and sufficient supply of water, whether from pahts or wells, is

called Wohol-Waho, or fully watered, and pays the highest
rate ; this rate, unless on rice land, and isolated spots, where
fruits of considerable value are raised, such as grapes and

golden plantains, &c, as at Joonur, within my observation,

has never exceeded 6 rupees per beegah, c including sugar-cane

land. The other classes of land are comprised in the Kord

Waho or not fully watered. It is readily intelligible that a well
may supply a sufficiency of water for great part of a garden

within a reasonable distance of the well, but that the extremities

may be inadequately watered, and this affords just grounds to de-
mand a lighter tax for the extremities : two classes should

 result from such circumstances, i. e. fully watered and not
 fully watered, and such is generally the case where distinc-
 tions are made at all : but at Ahmednuggur there is an af-
 fectation of discrimination, which has determined that gar-

 den-land receives its watering in the proportions of "fully,"
 " thirteen-twentieths," "three-fifths," and "one-half," and
 such lands are respectively assessed at 5 rupees, 3£ rupees, 3

 rupees, and 2\ rupees per beegah. The assessment on garden-
 land at present is unequal, and the whole requires revision.
 There is every motive to make garden- cultivation assessments

 light with a view to insure to each cultivator, if possible, his
 well and little, plot of garden ground. Gardens produce all
 the year round ; they are comparatively unaffected by the
 droughts which destroy field crops ; and independently of the
 constantly saleable garden stuffs, fruits, and aromatic seeds,
 there is usually room for a beegah or more of bukshee or johr

a From Paat " a channel," and Sthul " a field."     c 16s. 8d. per acre.
b From Moht "a water-bucket," and Sthul "a field."
--314 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

wheats, which require watering, and a plot or two of sugar-

cane. To his garden the cultivator is indebted for many of the

little enjoyments his situation is susceptible of. In some in-

stances, in the Mahloongeh Turruff, Poona collectorate, I

found cultivators paying their entire assessments, and reaping

profit by their garden produce of chillies a alone, which were

sent into the Konkun.

Usually it has been deemed sufficient to arrange Zerhaeet or

field-land into four classes, as at Jehoor, namely, Awul (best),

usually black land, Rehsee (modified black), Burrud (dashed

with lime and some decomposing greenstone), and finally,

Khumid (stony, thin, and poor). The first, throughout the

country, does not average more than 1 rupee the beegah, the

second f ,  the third |f ,  and  the  last    8  of  a  rupee per beegah

                                            T6

but at other places there are other distinctions. In the Ma-

wuls, or hilly tracts along the Ghauts, lands are classed as

Bhat, Khatan, and Wurkus, the first being rice land, the

second wheat and grain land, and the third being on the slopes

of hills, producing the dry grains Sawa b and Wuree c there
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;

being a great deal of red soil also in these tracts, it is di-

stinguished by the term Tambut or copper-coloured. The Awul,

or best, where it occurs, is called Kalwut (black), and the rocky

and stony Maal.

These explanations are sufficient to show that where assess-

ments on the quality of the land have been introduced, uni-

formity has not obtained in distinguishing the qualities ; they

show also that the people were satisfied to limit the qualities to

four gradations ; but at Ahmednuggur, the Shaikdar or in-
spector of cultivation has had the microscopic ability of vision

to mark twelve shades of difference in the field-land. The ac-

counts are, in consequence, a mass of perplexity, and it is very

probable the revenue is frittered away in distinctions which the

cultivator never dreamt of, and never profits by.

Field-lands,, on which the cultivators sink wells, are not as-

sessed as garden-lands. At Kanoor, Nuggur collectorate, I

found lands so circumstanced had been free from any extra

assessments from a period beyond the memory of man.

The above notices are sufficient to show the anomalous cha-

racter of the money assessments strictly on the land. Not only

are they arbitrarily fixed on the productive power of the land, or

on measurements, real or supposed ; but lands of the same deno-
mination and quality are differently assessed in neighbouring

villages without apparent cause.

            " Capsicum annuum, and other species.

b Panicum frumentaceum.                          c Panicum miliare.
ON THB STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  315

   The average of all the rates at many towns and villages in all

parts of the country, derived from personal inspection of the
village accounts, gives 3 rupees, 41 reas for a beegah of garden-
land, or 8*. 3^d. for an English statute acre. The average of
field-land is 3 qr. 93f reas per beegah, or 2s. *]\d. per Eng-

lish acre.

   To determine an approximate average assessment per beegah
in Khandesh, I may use elements, which although not just, may

be expected to give results not very far from the truth ; namely,
the total number of beegahs of land under cultivation in the
population returns in 1826, and the land revenue in 1827-28 :

the former is 883,548 beegahs, and the revenue 1,664,904 ru-
pees : the average rate per beegah is 1 rupee, 3 qr. 54 reas, a

much higher rate than exists in the other collectorates.
   These assessments comparatively with those of all European

countries, of most Asiatic countries, and relatively to the va-
luable nature of the garden produce, comprising, independently

of the ordinary fruits and vegetables, grapes, oranges, sugar-

--cane, cotton, two kinds of fine wheat, and aromatic and pungent

seeds, the field produce also embracing all the bread grains,

--gram, and other pulses, are unquestionably very low; and were

there no extra cesses even in the present depreciated value of
agricultural produce, could not only be borne by the cultivator,
but he might flourish under them even with the burthen of 25

--per cent, on his produce fees paid to the Hukdars and Bul-

lootehdars. These rates, howevei*, are considerably enhanced by

extra cesses called Puttees, many of which were levied for con-

tingencies and particular exigencies, or resulted from the con-
version of voluntary offerings in kind into compulsory money

payments.
   These cesses are no less than 62 in number in the three col-

lectorates of Poona, Ahmednuggur, and Khandesh, and the
whole of them are for different objects ; many of them result
from local circumstances, and are therefore of a local bearing.
The majority of these Puttees are not of uniform operation in
the three collectorates, but one or more of them up to a score
may be found in every village.

  A few observations on the origin, character, and practical

effects of some of these Puttees may be necessary. Most of
them profess to bear directly on the land, such as those for

grain, forage, and ropes to government, grain to Ramooses,
Havildar, Gosawees, and Meeras tax, tax for sugar, &c. : other
taxes which originally fell upon tradespeople, such as those
 for skins, shoes, wool, blankets, and oil, are no longer derived
from their legitimate sources, but fall upon the cultivator.
--316 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

Milch cattle, fowls, mango trees, and pumpkin beds respect-
ively continue to supply the means to pay the taxes for Ghee,
thickened sour milk, fowls, and fruits. Some of the Puttees

involved personal labour, such as those for grass cut and fur-
nished gratis to government, for firewood, for dinner plates
composed of leaves sewn together, for monsoon great coats
made of wicker work and leaves, and for sticks to pound rice
with. The Rabta Mahr, spoken of under "tenures," is in lieu

of personal services. Some of them in their name indicate their

professedly temporary character, such as the Eksalee, or foe
one year, and yet they have been perpetuated. The Shadee or
marriage cess at Angur, Pergunnah Mohol, and Ashtee Per-
gunnah Oondurgaon, amounted to nearly 12 per cent, of the
whole revenue of the towns, and could only have been for a

passing event. The Wurgut at Wangee and Ashtee, which
was raised by the village authorities for village expenses, is one
of these unjustifiable taxes. At Ashtee, the scene of the battle

of Ashtee and capture of the Sattarah princes, in 1818, the

Wurgut was 1405 rupees, in a revenue of 6386 rupees, or 22 per
cent. ; of this sum government took 900 rupees, leaving 505

rupees to the villagers for their expenses. This Puttee at the
town of Kurjut, Pergunnah Kurreh Wullet, is 6 annas per rupee,
or 37 h per cent, on the land and Sahyer assessments, and Bur-

goojur or tax on betel gardens. At Rawgaon, the Wurgut
amounted to 14| annas per rupee on the land assessments and
taxes, or more than 90 per cent. The Kaateh Mornawul, or
pecuniary punishment, inflicted on a village for a Mamlehdar's

running thorns into his feet on perambulating its lands, should

have had some limits in its duration. The Puttees for sturdy
Gosawees, Havildars, Ramooses, Naikwarees, should have
ceased when there were no longer Gosawees to beg with arms
in their hands, or Havildars, Naiks, and Ramooses to exercise

respectively certain functions.

   The fractional apportioning the above taxes to the cultiva-
tors, involving also the compound operation of providing reduced

shares for the privileged classes, the fractional deductions,

in a certain ratio in case of remissions, the fluctuating amount
of the individual shares dependent on the fixed commutation
cesses, heing yearly divisible amongst a variable number of cul-
tivators, the mutable character of the Seerusteh Butta, which
necessarily changes with the yearly varying total assessments
of the village, and which Seerusteh Butta is not determinable
until all other assessments be fixed, combine great evils, and,
unless to the most practised, patient, and persevering investi-
gator, present an inexjtricable mass of confusion. The evils
ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.                          317

are, that a cultivator, be he lettered or not, cannot by possibi-
lity know what he will have to pay the ensuing or even the

present year, because fixed sums, payable by the village, are
divisible amongst a varying number of cultivators. Even if
fixed sums were divisible amongst a fixed number of cultiva-

tors, the limited progress in arithmetic of the poor people
would utterly disable them from determining their respective

fractional shares; for instance, of 4 rupees for skins and

1^shoes, 1 rupee for beit, a 4f for ghee, and  for leaf plates,

&c. &c. In the whole course of my personal inquiries amongst

this class for more than six years, I never met with one Koon-

bee who could or would give me a detail of his assessments or

their amount ; the constant reply was, " The Koolkumee

knowsJ' This very uncertainty of their means and liabilities

makes men improvident and careless.

   The next evil is, that the Koolkumee, in apportioning the
fixed sums, and the Seerusteh Butta, the commutation money

for grain, for ghee, sugar, pumpkins, &c. &c. is assured of
impunity in defrauding the cultivators, from their want of liabi-

lity in their accounts, even if they were aware of the value and
amount of the cesses and the number of persons they were to

bear upon. It is almost waste of labour to give the cultivator

a note from government of what he will have to pay, as in nine

instances out of ten he cannot read it ; his expounder is the
Koolkumee, or the Koolkurnee's relations, and they read it

agreeably to their own calculations.

   The above is an exposition of the assessments as they now

bear on the land, which produces 82-30 per cent, of the whole
revenue. The remaining portions of the revenue, which appear

in village papers are usually classed under the term Sahyer,

and are in fact taxes. The two principal heads of Sahyer are
Mohturfa, properly " Arhan," or taxes on shops, houses, and
professions ; and Bullooteh.

   Operation of Sahyer Taxes.--An idea of the operation of

these taxes will be formed by the following details from
Wangee, Pergunnah Wangee.

Wanees, or sellers of grain and groceries, from 4 to  6 rupees.
   6 rupees a shop ; oilman, for one oil-mill in      3 do.

  TM ork
                         ···

Weavers, per loom

   Other tradesmen pay proportional taxes. The threshold
tax is called Oombraputtec, from Oombra, threshold: it is

generally a rupee per house.

At Tellegaon, Pergunnah Paubul, Poona collectorate, the

* Beit, " o present."
318 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

taxes on trades are fixed on a scale of annas relatively to the

visible means and profits of the tradespeople. The anna is

considered equivalent to 3£ rupees. The trades are taxed from
^th anna to 2 annas, or 7 rupees, which is the highest sum

for one shop.

The highest tax on one weaver is half an anna, or If rupee

oilman, highest rate one anna, or 3^ rupees ; the saddler, dyer,

and butcher, at half an anna each, or If rupee; fishermen,

dealers  in  sweet  potatoes,  and  makers  of bridles,  1  rupee  each
                                                                                   ;

the community of braziers, 10 rupees. All the Momeens who

are Moosulmans and weavers of turbands taxed in the lump at

25 rupees ; shepherds at 14 rupees. These taxes are not raised

--on any systematic principles of application.
   Bullooteh Tax. The Bullooteh is a tax levied on the per-

sons called the Bara Bullooteh, or artizans and functionaries

twelve in number, who are important personages in the village

constitution.

The taxes on the Bullooteh are generally deemed to be on the

exercise of their profession ; but this is a mistake, as the

astrologer and Guruw, or sweeper of the village temple, pay
Bullooteh tax, although not artizans ; and I have known indivi-
duals of a trade (in one instance a boy the survivor of a family)

paying from 20 to 25 rupees per annum, which they could not

possibly do from the gain of their handicrafts.

The fact is, the Bara Bullooteeh have annual grain fees from the

cultivators ; and government, in former times, deeming these
fees more than commensurate with the value of the labours per-

formed, took a part of them in money. The taxes on the Bul-

lootehdar, are therefore indirectly derived from the land ; some
of these taxes fall very heavily. At Wangee three carpenters
pay 36 rupees Bullooteh tax, Wurgut 9 rupees, and house tax 3

rupees for three houses. At Tellegaon, Turruff, Paubul, the

Bullooteh taxes are yet higher : carpenter 50 rupees, shoe-

makers 60 rupees, Guruw or sweeper of the temple 30 rupees,

barber 24 rupees, washerman 8 rupees, Moolana, or Moosul-
man priest, who also gets Bullooteh, 8 rupees ; but the culti-

vators are numerous, and the lands of Tellegaon under cultiva-

tion extensive. The Bullootehdar on the whole therefore reaps

a rich harvest, in spite of government participating in his fees,

from the cultivators. It is unnecessary to multiply instances of

the bearing of the Sahyer taxes. Taxes for the sale of spirituous

liquors, and the amount of customs or transit duties, rarely

appear in village papers, as those branches of the revenue are

mostly farmed.

  My limits do not permit me to give a detailed statement of

the manner in which village accounts are kept under a native
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  319

government. It would much assist to illustrate the internal
ceconomy of a village and many local usages, but I have not space.

I can only say that the whole accounts of a village are kept on
a ribbon of paper, about five inches wide and some yards long, not
rolled up but folded in lengths of twelve inches or more : one of

these is required for each year. At Wangee it is called Gao

AJarah, or village search ; at K.ur muMaJhartee kaar, or figures

or signs of search ; at Barlonee it has the compound term of
Lownee Putruck, (detail of cultivation,) and Zumeen Jarha,
(land search) ; at Rawgaon it is called Wussool Jarha, or
search of collections : occasionally it is Akaarbund, or roll of
signs, items, figures. These varying names result from the
union of two papers which are usually kept separate ; namely
the Thul Jarha, or roll of lands by family estates ; and the
Loivnce Putruck, or roll of cultivation and assessments.

   In closing the notice of assessments, a few words are neces-
sary to explain the method of keeping village accounts. At the
head of the paper called Gao Jarha is the name of the village,
the Pergunnah and Soobeh it is in, the year and the name
of the government it is under ; this is followed by the Tunkha
or Moghul money assignment upon the village, the Moosul-
mans having fixed each village to pay a definite sum, leaving
the whole details of assessment and distribution to the Pateel
and villagers ; then follows the total quantity of land belonging
to the village : deductions are made for land in boundary
disputes, for Eenams of all kinds, whether to the temples,
to the village officers, to the Deshmook or Deshpandeh, or
to individuals, the quantity to each being carefully marked ; all
these being deducted, the remainder is distinguished into
garden and field-land ; then follows a roll of the cultivators, with
a number of columns to record the quantity of land held upon
each tenure, and the amount payable for each ; a column for

the share of the extra assessments, previously noticed, inclu-
ding the share of village expenses, which is always consider-

able ; also columns for totals of the different heads. Then follow
rolls of the Bullooteh, shopkeepers, trades, and others subject
to fixed taxes, with columns for the proportion of tax upon
the particular trade ; the Bullooteh, the house-tax, and share
of extra assessments, which these people pay although they are

not landholders.

   An abstract of the preceding details is now made, called the

Ekunder Tereej. The contract for the transit duties, if not
farmed, is added ; and the Kumall, which means "total," "all,"

--"whole," is put at the bottom. Then follow the deductions under

the heads of money Eenams, Hukdars, village, and other ex-
penses, every item of which is detailed. Amongst the expenses
--320 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

are village festivals, dinners to government officers, donations to
brahmans, feeding pilgrims, interest on money borrowed, ex-
penses of tbe Pateel and village officers when attending the go-
vernor of the district, oil in the temples, the Moosulman saint's
tomb (if there be one) coming in for its share of donation or

annual allowance, strange as it may appear, from Hindoo cul-
tivators. I regret much that my limits do not permit me to
detail the expenses, many of which are very curious, and illus-
trate habits and customs. The expenses being deducted from

the collections, a balance is struck, which, under native govern-
ments, left the Tunkha, or government original assignment,
together with any extra assessment, if levied, such as Sur Dcsh-

mookee, Chouth, &c. &c. To show how large a proportion of

the village collections did not go to government, in one village,
whose accounts I translated, the Tunkha, or government share,
was 5500 rupees ; and the Kumall, or total collections, 8522
rupees; 60 that 3022 rupees, or more than 35 per cent, of the
whole, went in village expenses, Hukdars, (Deshmooks and
Deshpandehs,) and other claims.

                                           Wages.

   The amount of wages of agricultural labourers is of so much

importance to the class constituting the major part of the
community, and it assists the judgement so materially in
estimating the condition of the people, that I shall offer all the

details I was able to collect in the Dukhun bearing on the

question.

  --Farmers' Artificers'' Work executed for Fees in Kind.

The trifling artificers' and mechanics' work required by the
farmer being performed by the village artisans, in virtue of their
offices and for fees in kind, it will not be necessary to enlarge
on the remuneration for their labour : but to afford distinct
ideas of its value, at the end of this paper I shall put into
juxtaposition the rates paid by the Peshwah's government and
the British government to artificers, mechanics, and others.

   I made my inquiries on the subject of wages in towns and

villages, the most distant from each other, to prevent the mistake
 of the adoption of local rates for those of general operation.

  --Wages of Husbandmen and other Labourers at Nandoor.

At Nandoor, a British town in the Ahmednuggur collectorate,
in March, 1827, I found that yearly husbandry servants got
from 12 to 20 rupees" per annum and their food; a smart
active man got about 15 rupees per annum and supplied him-

 self with clothes.

                                     » From 24 to 40 shillings.
                ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  321

    Day labourers, when paid in cash, get If anna per day, or

 gz of two shillings, (about two pence farthing,) supplying them-
 selves with every thing : but day labourers are never paid in

--money unless when grain' is very dear.
    Quantity given. The most usual plan in harvesting crops

is to give each labourer three sheaves of whatever grain he is

cutting down ; and provided he ties up the sheaves and stacks

them, he gets five sheaves a day.

  --Value of Wages in Kind, converted into Money. The grain

in five sheaves, in ordinary seasons, amounts to about two seers.
At the price of Bajree*, in March 1827, at Nandoor, namely 42

seers per rupee, the value of the labour was one penny and T^ths

per day. Joareef, at 56 seers per rupee, was y^^ths of a penny
per day, or rather more than three farthings. Wheat, at 18

seers per rupee, would have been two pence tuo> or something-
less than two pence three farthings per day. Allowing the
grain in five bundles to be double the quantity stated, which is

rather possible than probable, the highest wages in harvesting

wheat would not have been five pence halfpenny per diem.

When men are employed in ploughing or harrowing, nine

times out of ten, they are paid two seers of Bajree for their day's

--work, from daylight to night, allowing one hour for dinner.
   At Kanoor. At Kanoor, a town in Jagheer, Ahmednuggur

collectorate, in March 1827, I found that the two Pateels had
each a permanent domestic servant in his employ; one paid
his man 15 rupees per annum and his food; the other gave
15 rupees per annum, food, and five articles of wearing

--apparel, the value of which was 3 a rupees.
   Wages at Dyivuree. At Dywuree, Nuggur collectorate,
in November 1826, the cultivators did not pay their day-
labourers in money, but gave them five sheaves of grain for
every hundred cut down ; a very able man indeed might cut
down two hundred sheaves in a day, which would give him
four seers of grain, the value of which (Bajree) in November,

--1826, was about T%ths of a rupee, or three pence English.
   Wages at Dytna. At Dytna, Nuggur collectorate, in Fe-
bruary 1827, I found a man getting 25 rupees per annum,
his food and a blanket, his son being also in employ at six
rupees a year, food and clothes ; but this was looked upon as

high, and the individuals getting such wages fortunate : the

village belonged to a Gosawee \ who paid his people well.

  --Wages of Women Day Labourers. At Chambergoondeh,

a large town belonging to Seendeh, Nuggur collectorate, in

* Properly, Sujgooreh, Panicum spicatnm.

t Properly, Jondleh, Andropogon Sorghum.  % Gosawee, a religieux.

VOL. VI. 1837.  Y
322 SEVENTH REPORT 1837?

November 1827, women weeding in fields got T^th of a rupee

per day, or one penny halfpenny, and worked from sunrise to

sunset.

 --Wages at Kurkumh. At Kurkumb, a Jagheer town in the

Poona collectorate, in December 1827, I found a husbandry

servant getting only twelve rupees per annum, and food twice a

Aday : no clothes.  man watching a field of grain was a monthly

servant at three rupees a month, without food or clothes.

 --Highest Wages at Kurkumb. From the authorities of the

town I learned that the highest rate paid for the cleverest

gardener's assistant or ploughman was 25 rupees per annum

and daily food, but without clothes. The monthly rates for

agricultural servants were from 2f to 3 rupees, without food,
or clothes, fee, or advantage.

  --Pay of Seypoys at Angur. At Angur, a British town in

the Poona Collectorate, on the 9th of January, 1828, in looking

over the village accounts, I found two village seypoys charged

respectively three rupees and two rupees for a month's pay.

  --Wages of Women Labourers at Poona. On the 21st July,

1827, I found a great number of women weeding in gardens in

the neighbourhood of the city of Poona ; they received each
six pice in money, or (fyths of two shillings, (two pence one-third

per day,) and worked from daylight until dark. This may be

considered high wages, and its amount is to be attributed to

the paucity of field labourers in a great city.

  --Wages at Pait. At Pait, a Jagheer town in Pergunnah

Kheir, in the Poona collectorate, on the 16th February, 1829,

in my evening excursion, I overtook twelve or fourteen men
and women with bundles of wheat in the straw on their heads

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

on inquiry I found they had been employed as labourers in

pulling up a field of wheat at Pait. Their wages had been five

sheaves for every hundred gathered ; two or three of the men

only had got five sheaves each, the majority of them only four,

and the women none more than three. Five sheaves they said

would yield about four seers of wheat, and as wheat was

selling in Pait at 28 seers per rupee, each man with five

sheaves received for his labour nine pice, or 3£d. English. These

poor people belonged to the town of Owsuree, five miles

distant from Pait ; they had therefore a march of ten miles to
make besides their day's labour.

  --Wages at Joonur. At the city of Joonur, at the end of

February 1829, I found a brahman cultivating the Hubbus

Baugh (about 80 beegahs of land) ; he employed numerous la-
bourers. While I was encamped near his garden, fields of wheat,

and gram, and Booee Moong*, &c. were harvested. For the

* Earth-nut, Arachis hypogea.
ON THK STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  323

wheat and gram and bread-grains the men got five sheaves
per cent. In the field of Booee Moong there were between
fifty and sixty women employed ; and I learned that, in this

particular product, from the labour and tediousness of digging
it up, and the cheapness of the produce, the labourers were
allowed one-fourth of the whole. In cutting down sugar-cane,
gathering fruits or vegetables, and indeed where the produce
was too valuable to give the labourer a share of it, the Brahman

paid a man eight pice a day (little more than 2^d.) and a woman

four, and they worked from daylight until dark, with an allow-

ance of one hour for dinner.
   The above data are gathered from places widely separated in

the Poona and Ahmednuggur collectorates ; and although in dif-

ferent years, are remarkable in their uniformity ; they supply

therefore just estimates for the general rates of wages, and it may
be fairly stated that the highest money wages paid by the natives

to any husbandry or domestic servant is four rupees per

month, with which he finds his own food and clothes, and 2 T g-
rupees per month is the pay when the master supplies food and
clothes ; and the most favourable wages to a man day-labourer
are eight pice per diem *, and to a woman five pice f.

Artificers' and servants' wages, and price of Bread-grains
           under the Peshiva's and British Governments.

 Rates of hire for a month of thirty days
     of artificers, servants, and labourers
     in Dukhun, under the British govern-
     ment in 1828, and Peshwa's govern-
    ment in A.D. 1814.
324 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

                                       Table continued.

        Denominations
                    of
       ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.         325

under the Peshwa. In the wages of the numerous servants of
European gentlemen the same advance has taken place. The
superior cheapness in some grains has extended to more than

100 per cent.
    In the above notices the rupee has been considered equal to

two shillings ; the seer of weight equal to 1 lb. 15 oz. 8 drs.
18f grs. avoirdupois, or 2 lbs. 4 oz. 6 grs. troy ; and the seer
of capacity to 2lbs. 6 oz. 3 drs. 24 grs. 92 dec. avoirdupois of
Jerwail rice ; its cubic contents, 72 in. 2 dec. of water at a
temperature of 75° Fahrenheit, at a temperature of 60° there-
fore being equal to 48 per cent, less than two imperial quarts,
or very nearly one quart. Rigidly, the seer is 4 # 17 dec. per

cent, larger than an imperial quart.

                         Manufactures.

Celebrated as was India for its costly and ingenious cotton

fabrics, little more than the memory of them now remains.

The machinery of England has enabled her manufacturers to

take the raw material out of the hands of the grower, and return

it to the continent of India, worked up in various ways, with-

out even affording an opportunity for the application of a prop

or stay to the sinking industry of its once flourishing manufac-

turing classes. As far as relates to Dukhun, its cotton and

silk fabrics are confined to coarse dresses for women, tent-

cloths, some silk handkerchiefs, and trifling pieces of silk for

bosom cloths for women. From an examination of the cotton

and silk goods for sale in the markets of Poona, in July 1829,

it appeared that every product of the loom, without any excep-

tion, with any claim to notice from texture, costliness of

material, or ingenuity in the design or workmanship, was an

import into the collectorates from native states not under

the British government. Turband cloths, varying in length

from 24 to 60 cubits, in breadth from three-quarters to l\

cubits, and in price from one rupee up to sixty rupees each,

were from Peytun, Bheer, Narrainpait, Tahr Putruh, Wus-

wunt,  Nandergaon,  and  Shaghur,  in  the  Nizam's dominions
                                                                                                                  ;

Boorhanpoor and Jehanabad, in Seendeh's (Scindiah's) domi-

nions, and Chundaree in Malwa, while those made in the

city of Poona did not exceed three rupees each in value. The

only valuable Dotruhs or loin cloths, in length from 20 to 22

cubits, breadth 2\ to 2f cubits, and in price from 10 to 40
rupees, were from Muheshwur, in Malwa ; the rest were from

the Nizam's, Holkar's, and the Rajah of Berar's (Nagpoor) ter-

ritories. Shahpoor and Belgaon, in the Dharwar collectorate,

produced some loin cloths of the value of 25 rupees ; those from
--326 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

Poona did not exceed three rupees in value. The Doojmttehs or

Shelehs, cloths for throwing over the shoulder and enfolding the
body, in value from 10 to 200 rupees, were from Peytun, Jehana-
bad, and Boorhanpoor ; those from Poona were of the value of
five rupees only. Loogreh or Sarhehs *, varying in length from
13 to 20 cubits, in breadth from If to 2-f cubits, and in price
from 1^ rupee to 80 rupees, had a wider field of production,
even Poona producing these dresses, from one or two looms

only I believe, of the value of 80 rupees. New Hooblee,

and Shahpoor, in the Dharwar collectorate, produced some
dresses of the value of 30 rupees. Cholkun or bosom cloths
are manufactured at the above places : the highest value of one
would appear to be 10 rupees, and the lowest about three-
pence. The silk handkerchiefs were chiefly from the Car-

natic.

   The price of the above articles is influenced partly by the
colours, partly by the fineness of the fabric, but chiefly by the
quantity of gold and silver thread worked up in them.

    Some cotton carpets are manufactured at Ahmednuggur,
and in the Jail at Poona, but do not call for notice.

    Turbands are dyed of twenty-one colours, but I have not
space to give the names ; few or none of them are fast colours,
with the exception of black and red.

    The only woollen manufacture in the collectorates is that
of a black smooth blanket, (Kianlee) the colour being that of

the wool. In general the blanket is coarse, but there is

a very fine fabric from Bijapoor. The low state of manu-
factures is otherwise attested by the fact that, in the Poona
collectorate, in the population returns sent to me, the weavers
only amounted to 0*35 per cent, of the people, or one weaver
for every 280 souls ; in Khandesh 0*57 per cent., or one to
every 173 inhabitants; and in Dharwar 1*80 per cent., or one
in 55 inhabitants, which is prodigiously above the other col-
lectorates. I estimate the proportion in the Ahmednuggur
collectorate to be the same as that in Poona.

                                       Transit Duties.

   The transit duties are farmed ; the stations for collecting
them are numerous ; the rates, although fixed, are unjust, as
they are not levied on uniform principles with respect to defi-
nite tracts of country. The Carrier is not only interrupted at
irregular intervals by British stations, but the alienated
towns, so numerously interspersed in the British territories,

                                          * Women's dresses.
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  327

endeavour to levy duties ; moreover, he is perplexed by the
money claims of hereditary district officers upon the duties,

independently of the customs-farmer's dues. How the con-

flicting interests are arranged I do not know ; but they are so
various and troublesome, that the merchant is commonly driven

to the expensive necessity of contracting with a class of people,

called Hoondeekuree, who undertake for a fixed sum to pass

all the merchandize through a country to its destination,
paying all duties ; constant practice, adroitness, and bullying,
enabling them to arrange with the collectors better than the

merchant could.
   All transit duties should be abolished ; their amount in the

interior of a country materially affects consumption, and is

therefore injurious to trade.

                                                      Coins.

   The only coins in use in Dukhun are silver rupees, half ru-
pees, and copper pice. The rupees are of many mints, and have

a different value in relation to the copper coin, resulting from the

age of the rupee, and the number of punches or marks it may
have on it made by the Shroofs or money-changers in passing

through their hands * j the same rupee, of the same standard,
and same mint, has not the same value in copper in neigh-
bouring districts; this value fluctuates at the pleasure of the

money-changers. On what principles they regulate the rela-

tive values I do not know. The multiplicity of coins of dif-
ferent mints, and the gradations of coins of the same mint,
are great evils. It is unnecessary to enumerate these coins, as
they are in the Bombay Almanac.

                            Weights and Measures.

  A very considerable diversity prevails in every district, and

often in neighbouring villages, in the weights and measures in
use, whether of weight, length, or capacity ; this diversity goes
so far, that the subdivisions are often found not to be in a
determinate proportion to each other. All this confusion is
referrible to the want of an ancient permanent standard ; to the
abrasion or decay of the weights and measures tolerated by go-
vernment, the knavery of the owners of the weights, and the
apathy or connivance of the district authorities f. Everywhere

   * These marks occasion a depreciation of one or more per cent,
   f So great are the discrepancies, that they range from 41 per cent, below to
100 per cent, above the Poona standard.
--328 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

the apparatus of metrology is characterized by clumsiness in con-
struction ; rough stones are commonly substituted for stamped
metal weights, and joints of the hollow bamboo for authorized
definite measures of capacity. The seer of weight was directed
by the authorities at Poona and Ahmednuggur to be of eighty
Ankoosee rupees, and such a weight may be in use where the
 district officers are located, but in very few other places. With
 respect to measures of capacity, not only has each village its own,
 but I might almost say that each shopkeeper has his own, for it is
 rare that the weights and measures of any two shopkeepers are
 identical ; and when it does occur it must be referred to acci-
 dent. Even the stamping of weights and measures by govern-
 ment officers has not been effectual to insure uniformity ; for in a
 table that I drew up of the discrepancy between the weights
 and measures of some scores of places all over the country,
 very many of the weights and measures had the government
 stamp upon them.

    One feature of the measures of capacity is, that, with some

 exceptions, those of villages are always larger than those of

 towns and cities. The extent to which this fraud has been carried
 in military cantonments and large bazaars immediately under
 British control, is shown in the fact of the reduction of the
 Serroor cantonment seer, one-twentieth below the standard of
 Poona city, one-fourth below the standard of Ahmednuggur city,
 and two-elevenths below the measures of neighbouring districts.
 But in Bombay it is still more glaring, the origin of whose weights
 and measures is unquestionably referrible to the Dukhun and
 Konkun; and yet the Bombay measure of capacity is 41 per
 cent, less than that of Poona, and about 33 per cent, less than
 that at Panwell in the Konkun, the nearest great mart to
 Bombay on the continent. The diminution in the seer of weight
 in Bombay is even more striking. I found the standard seer
 of weight in the collector's office in Bombay to weigh 4970
 grains troy only, while the Panwell seer weighed 13,110
 grains, and the Poona seer neighed 13,800 grains, troy. The
 Panwell seer therefore was 163 per cent, and the Poona seer
 177 P er cent, larger than the Bombay seer. The knowledge of
 these facts is of importance to the European and native mer-

 chant, as well as to the general consumer.

    The evil of a progressive diminution in the weights and mea-
 sures of Dukhun is arrested in the cities of Poona and Ahmed-
 nuggur and the neighbouring cantonments, by standards being
 kept in the collectors' offices ; but as they are not founded on
 any scientific principles by which they could be restored if lost
 or lessened, their safe custody is of great moment. The seer
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                   329

of weight is directed to be made of a certain number of pieces
of the current silver coin, and can therefore be tested without

difficulty ; but there is not any test, saving the solitary standard

in the collector's office, for the measure of capacity. It will

be seen that I have given the weight of water of a certain tem-

perature these measures contain, and this determination may be

--of use at a future period.
   Grain measures. The largest measure of capacity in use is
the Adholee, of two seers ; its name means " the half," it being
the half of the Puheelee, of four seers, which is not in use.
This measure is in the form of an hour-glass. I found the
Poona city standard to contain 36,400 grains troy, of water,

at a temperature of 75° Fahr., or 5 lbs. 3 oz. 3 dr. 5| grs., or
144*4 cubic inches ; and at a temperature of 60° Fahr. it con-
tained 36,462 grains troy, being 48 per cent, less than an im-
perial gallon, or very nearly two quarts ; rigidly, the seer is 4*17

per cent, larger than an imperial quart. It is curious that the
first subdivision of the Adholee is not one- half but one-fourth,

or half a seer, a seer measure being very rarely in use ; then a
quarter of a seer, and finally, one-eighth.* In some places
there are what are called male and female Adholees, one being
a little larger than the other ; retail traders buy with the largest
and sell by the smallest. The multiples are 2 Adholees 1 Puheelee

or 4 seers, 12 Puheelees I Mun (Maund), and 20 Muns 1

Kundee (Candy) ; but in some places there are 16 Puheelees

to the Mun : and along the Ghats, and in the Konkun, there

are only 3|- seers to the Puheelee. Determined by the weight
of the contents of the Adholee of well- dried Jerwail rice, the
Kundee would be 20 cwt. 1 qr. 26 lbs. 10 oz. 12 drs. 16 grs.

avoirdupois.

    It is necessary to mention that the flour of all grains is sold
by weight and not by measure.

   Oil, spirits, and milk, are sold by different measures of ca-
pacity. These are all professedly founded on the seer of

weight; but their discrepancies may well render it doubtful.
At one place I found the seer of oil measure to contain 26 ru-
pees' weight of water, at others, 66 rupees', 80 rupees', &c. The
forms of these measures are various. The same observations
apply to spirit measm'es. The seer of milk in one place con-

tained 88 rupees' weight of water, in another 93, and elsewhere

--up to 109 rupees' weight.
    Weights. The standard seer of weight in Poona weighs 80
Ankoosee rupees or 13,800 grains troy, or 1 lb. 15 oz. 8 dwts.

* Sellers of sweetmeats have -rVth of a seer.
 330 SEVENTH REPORT-- 1837-

 18| grs. avoirdupois ; but the most common seer in use in Duk-
 hun is one of 76 rupees; the divisions are Adh seer (half), Pao
 seer (quarter), Adh pao or Nowtank (one-eighth), and Chettank

 (one-sixteenth). For the convenience of calculation, the seer is
 divided into 72 tanks or tollahs, and one-eighth, of course, is
 JVotvtank or nine tanks, and one-sixteenth is Sarhee chartank
 or 4i tanks, which is corrupted into Chettank. The multiples

 are Panch seer (five seers), the mun of 40 seers equal to

 78 lbs. 13 oz. 11 drs. 11 grs. avoirdupois, or 951b. 10 oz. troy

 exactly ; the Pullah of 3 muns, and the Kundee of 20 muns.
 But I have shown how far the weights really in use differed from
 the above, and in the tract lying between the Seena and Beema
 rivers, the weight called the Bureedee had not even the same

--constituents or multiples as the Poona weights.
    Goldsmiths' tveights. The lowest goldsmiths' weight is no-
minally the mustard seed, but the lowest I met with was the
 Goonj, a seed of the Ahrus precatorius, the mean weight of
which was 1*914 10 grains troy : 96 goonj make a tollah, which
 should therefore weigh 183*7536 grains troy; but as the tollah
is the 72nd part of a seer of 13,800 grains, it should weigh

 191,666 grains troy; the goldsmiths' weights in use conse-
quently are below the nominal standard. Eight goonj or four

ivaals* make one massah, and twelve massah one tollah. I
put the goldsmiths' weights to the same test in different parts of
the country, I did those of capacity, and found that two weights
of the same denomination in different shops were seldom uni-
form. The scales used by goldsmiths are called Kantah, and
are of metal ; those used by dealers generally are called Tajwa

--or Tagree, and are made of leather or parchment.
   Itinerary and Lo?ig Measures. Distances between places
are estimated by the Kohs (coss), I cannot say measured, for I
believe the actual determination of distances between places was
as little attended to by the native governments, as the facilitating
communications through the country by the construction of
roads and bridges. I think the Kohs averages about two miles
English, varying, however, from l£ to 1\ miles. In Mahratta
writings long measure is raised from the barleycorn ; 8 Juiu or
barleycorns make a Boht or finger, 24 fingers a Haht or cubit,

(18 inches), 4 cubits a Dmwosh (a bow) or fathom, measured

by a man's outspread arms, and 8000 cubits or 2000 fathoms a
Kohs. The Kohs therefore would equal 2\ English miles and
40 yards. In Sanscrit 2 Kohs make a Guivyotee, and 2 of the
latter make a Yojun or 9 miles and 160 yards ; but these terms

                       * Waal is the seed of the Caesalpinia sappan.
ON THE STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.  331

are unknown to the common people. In fact, however, the
measure of length originates in the well-known Haht or cubit,
determined by the mean length of five men's arms, measured
from the elbow-joint to the end of the middle finger : the Haht

or cubit so determined, is a little more than 18 inches in length ;
this is divided into 2 Weets or spans, into 6 Mooshtees or fists,
and each fist into 4 Bohts or fingers, and the latter into 8

barleycorns each. Tailors and sellers of cloth use a Guj,

which is divided into 16 Ghirra, each of 1-J- Tussoo, each Tussoo
of 2 Bohts, and as each Boht is equal to a fraction more than
| of an inch, the Guj would be a little more than an English

yard.

  --Superficial Measure. The only land measure of any exact

and appreciable extent is the Beegah, which is of Moosul-

man derivation, but by some referred to the Sanscrit word
Weegruhuh, although this word is not applied to land measure-

ments ; and as all genuine Mahratta terms applied to the ca-

pacity, extent, or capabilities of land, are not referrible to the

beegah or its multiples, I must consider the Beegah of Moosul-

man introduction. Like itinerary measures, it is raised from
the Haht or cubit of a fraction more than 18 inches in length

                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;

5 Hahts and 5 Mooshtees (fists or palms) make 1 Kattee or
stick, 20 square Kattees or sticks make 1 Paand, and 20
Paands a Beegah ; reduced to English measurements, the 5
Hahts and 5 Mooshtees will be equal to 105 inches in length,
and the square of this sum will be 11,025 inches in a square
Kattee or stick, and 20 Kattees a Paand equal to 220,500
inches, and 20 Paands a Beegah or 4,410,000 square inches

and as the English statute acre contains 43,560 square feet, the
Beegah is to the acre as 70^ is to 100, or as 211 to 300, being a

trifle more than seven-tenths of an acre. But as the Haht or
cubit is a fraction more than 18 inches, the Beegah may fairly
 be considered equal to three-foui'ths of an acre : but I very much
 doubt whether any other than garden lands were actually mea-
 sured by the Moosulmans ; and in converting the Hindoo terms
 Kundee, Man, Doree, and fifty other denominations, into Bee-

 gahs, it was done by estimate ; and this explanation will account
 for the vai'iable size of the Beegah in different parts of the
 country, which the British survey has discovered. The only

 multiples of the Beegah, to my knowledge, are the Rookeh of

 6 Beegahs or 4§ acres, and the Chahoor of 120 Beegahs or 90
 acres : these terms are of Moosulman origin.

     Adverting to the past and present state of the knowledge of
 native governments in politics, political economy and science,
--332 SEVENTH REPORT 1837»

it would be idle to refer the origin of their weights and mea-
sures to scientific principles, immutable standards, or even to
any uniform, although arbitrary system. Their long measure is
derived from the human arm, and their weights from a seed.
In these derivations they have not been a whit more irrational
than the good people of England, whose standard measure of
length, the Ulna or Ell, is derived from the arm of one of their
kings, (Henry the First), and their weights from grains of

wheat. There is a great coincidence between the native
weights and measures and those of antiquity. The first five

subdivisions of the scripture measures of length are identical

in their derivation, and nearly so in their length, with those of

Dukhun ; namely, the finger, fist or palm, span, Haht or cubit,

and fathom ; both also have the coincidence of being destitute
of a measure equivalent to a foot. The foot was a constituent

of the ancient Greek and Roman measures ; but in practice

these nations used the finger, palm, and cubit ; and the Pecus
or great cubit of the Greeks was precisely of the length of the

Dukhun cubit, namely, a fraction more than 18 inches. The
ancient grain and liquid measures of England were raised from
weight from a pound troy. For a very long period I had be-
lieved the measures of capacity in Dukhun to be entirely arbi-

trary ; but in the southern part of the country between the Seena

and the Beema rivers, I met with Adholees with stamps on

them, directing that they should contain a certain iveight of
orain ; for instance, at Punderpoor the Adholee was to contain

as much Johr Guhoon (wheat), as would weigh 200 Ankoosee
rupees, at Mohol 160 rupees' weight of Joaree (Andropogon

 Sorghum), at Taimbournee 131 rupees' weight of Joaree, and at
Kothool, near to Ahmednuggur, 200 Ankoosee rupees' weight
of Bajree {Panicum spicatum) . I know not whether this slight
indication of systematic deduction of measures of capacity from
those of weight is attributable to the Moosulmans or to the
 Hindoos. The places where they were met with, with one
exception, had until recently, been for ages under a Moosulman
government (the Nizam's), but it might have been practised be-
 fore the arrival of the Moosulmans. It does not appear to have
 occurred to the natives to use the weight of water, as the least

--changeable standard by which to fix the capacity of a measure.
    Army. The army consists of some of the royal troops paid
 by the India Company ; of European regiments of artillery and
 infantry belonging to the Company, and of native regiments of

 cavalry, infantry, and pioneers, armed, clothed and disciplined
 in the same manner as the European troops. The army is
ON THE STATISTICS OP DUKHUN.  383

separated into divisions commanded by General Officers and
Brigadiers-General, and the divisions are divided into brigades,
which are so stationed as to co-operate in the readiest and
most efficient manner in emergencies, for the protection of the

--country and the maintenance of the civil power.
   Justice. Not having been able to get blank forms filled up
at the India-House with the necessary data respecting crimes
and punishments, I abstain from any notice of judicial matters.

                          W. H. SYKES, Lt.-Colonel, F.R.S.,

                                          Late Statistical Reporter to the Government of Bombay.
334 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

CONTENTS

OF THE SPECIAL REPORT ON THE STATISTICS OF THE BRITISH
               COLLECTORATES OF DUKHUN, (DECCAN).

Introductory Observations                                                           Page
                                                                                    217

                                Extent and Physical Circumstances.                  218
Area, Elevation, Rivers, Roads, Bridges

                           Geology.

Ghats                                                                               220
Valleys, Terraces                                                                   221
Escarpments, Columnar basalt                                                        222
Schistose structure, Basalt en boules, Dykes, Ferruginous clay                      223
Pulverulent limestone, Nodular limestone                                            225
Loose stones, Rocky heaps, Sheets of rock                                           226
Structure and mineral composition of rocks                                          227
Minerals, ores, Natural salts, no organic remains, Thermal springs,
                                                                                    229
    Extent of trap region, Laterite, Granite, Sedimentary rocks

                                                                 Climate.           231
                                                                                    232
Barometer, Atmospheric tides, Temperature                                           23G
                                                                                    238
Monthly means, Diurnal range, Mean temperature, Moisture
Rain, Winds, Hot winds, Whirlwinds

Hail, Dews, Fogs, Salubrity of the climate

                           Botany.

Cultivated fruits                                                          fruits,  239
                                                                                    240
Wild fruits                                                                         240
Agricultural products, Products of wet season harvest                               241
Do. Dry or spring season harvest                                                    242
Garden produce, Edible roots, grapes, &c
Spontaneous oil, tanning, and medicinal plants, European                            244

   Flowering plants, Timber trees

                                                            Zoology.                246
                                                                                    248
Quadrumana, Cheiroptera, Plantigrada, Digitigrada                                   250
                                                                                    251
Birds, Insessores
Rasores, Grallatores, Natatores
Ichthyology, Reptilia, Crustacea, Testacea, Entomology
CONTENTS OF STATISTICS OF DUKHUN.                                                                                                                                             335

                                                                                                                                                     Civil Divisions.

Poona Collectorate, Pergunnahs, Towns, Hill-forts, &c                                                                                                                         Page
                                                                                                                                                                              254
Ahmednuggur Collectorate : Talooks, Pergunnahs, Towns, Forts, &c.                                                                                                             256
                                                                                                                                                                              257
Khandesh Collectorate                                                                                                                                Pergunnahs, Towns, &c     259
                                                                                                                                                  :
                                                                                                                                                                              259
Rivers, Boodh cave temples

Dharwar Collectorate : Talooks, Pergunnahs, Towns, Rivers, Hi'li-
   forts, &c

                                                           Population.                                                                                                        261

Proportion of the sexes, Constituents of population, Casts, Births,                                                                                                           266
   Deaths, and Marriages                                                                                                                                                      267
                                                                                                                                                                              270
Proportion engaged in agriculture to the square mile, to a house, in
   villages, towns

Population of Southern Jagheerdars, Rajah of Sattarah's territories ...
Abstract of the population of the late Peshwa's territories

                                                        Education.                                                                                                            270

Proportion of schools in the different collectorates, &r c.

                                                                 Irrigation.                                                                                                  272

Different kinds of, Quantity of water supplied by the well-bucket

                                                            Agriculture.                                                                                                      274

General observations, Agriculture of the wet season crop                                                                                                                      274
                                                                                                                                                                              276
Do. Dry season crop (Mawuls), Dry season crop (Desk, Mawuls), Wet                                                                                                             278
   season crop (Desk), Ploughing, Treading out, Farm yard, Win-
   nowing

Preserving grain, Preparing grain for food, Pounding, Grinding, Sugar
    mill, Oil mill

Average size of farms, Proportion of yoke cattle, milch cattle,
   ploughs, &c

                                                                                                                                                     Land and other Tenures.

Estates hereditary and freehold                                                                                                                                               280
Meeras tenure, Kowl Istawa, Owand, Tenures involving alienation of
                                                                                                                                                                              283
   lands, Jagheer, Eenam, Surinjam, Doomalla, Eesaphut                                                                                                                        286
Deshmook and Desaee, Deshpandeh, Pateel, Koolkurnee
Mahrs tenure, Bara Bullooteh, Militia, Chowgulla, Havildar, Tulwar,                                                                                                           290
                                                                                                                                                                              293
   Ramoosee

Bheels, Sheteh, Sharers in village revenues

                                                          Revenue.                                                                                                            296

Amount and account of, Per centage of branches of.                                                                                                                            297
Viewed as a capitation tax ; Average village revenue ; Shops, Excise,
                                                                                                                                                                              300
   Customs                                                                                                                                                                    306

Tabular view of expenses and charges upon revenue, Number of culti-
   vators, Size of farms, &c

Land revenue in the different collectorates
--336 SEVENTH REPORT 183j\

                          Assessments.

                                                                         Page

General observations, Various names applied to different proportions of  310
    land for assessment
                                                                         311
Chief assessment on land, Sostee or permanent assessment, Varieties      311
    of assessment                                                        313
                                                                         317
Zerhaeet or field lands                                                  319
Average per beegah garden and field, Extra cesses, names of
Shop taxes, &c, Evils of extra assessments
Description of village accounts and papers

                                                            Wages.       320
                                                                         323
Agricultural labourers', Artificers', &c, in kind or money
Table of rates of all classes of servants and artificers

                                                      Manufactures.                  325

Names and prices of the few remaining                                ,

                          Transit Duties.                                           '326

Transit duties, how paid

                          Coins.

Silver and copper                                                        327

                                          Weights and Measures.          327
                                                                         330
Of capacity, grain, oil, milk, and spirit. Weights: goldsmiths'
Itinerary, long, and superficial measures ; weights and measures, how

    divided

                          Army.

Constitution, Stations                                                   332
        ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON.                   337

On the relative Strength and other mechanical Properties of
  Cast Iron obtained by Hot and Cold Blast. By Eaton

   HODGKINSON, Esq.

                                                  [With a Plate.]

From the great abundance of the ores which produce iron

from the fortunate circumstance of these ores being frequently

found in the neighbourhood of coal and limestone, by which

they are reduced to the metallic state ; from the great strength

--of the metal, and the facility with which it can be moulded

into any form required its uses in the arts have become very

extensive. Every discovery, therefore, tending to facilitate

its production, or to improve its quality, must always be re-

garded with great interest, whilst distrust and suspicion are

likely to be felt respecting any process by which that quality

may be supposed to be impaired.
   The recent and very general introduction of a heated blast

into the smelting furnaces has consequently, as might be ex-

pected, given rise to much discussion, and at the same time

to great difference of opinion. Iron masters in one part of the

country had come to a conclusion that the new process greatly

deteriorated the quality of the iron produced, and they rejected

it accordingly. Gentlemen from other neighbourhoods, on the

contrary, maintained that no deterioration of the metal resulted

from the process, which was admitted by all to diminish the

expense of its production.

These very different conclusions, drawn by persons largely

connected with the manufacture of cast iron, caused the honour

of an application from the British Association for the Advance-

ment of Science, at its meeting held at Dublin, to my friend
Mr. Fairbairn and myself, requesting us to make a series of

experiments tending toward the determination of this matter.

  We intended to commence the inquiry immediately, but there

was found to be great difficulty in obtaining irons suitable for

the  purpose                                      a matter which will be adverted to in Mr. Fair-
                                               ;

bairn's report, where a description of the irons used will be

given.

In the prosecution of this research it was conceived desi-

rable to subject the metals operated upon to more than one

species of strain, in order to elicit their peculiar properties

and accordingly they were generally broken in the following

three modes :

1st. By tension, or tearing the metals asunder in the direc-

tion of their length.

vol. vi. 1837.                                    ,z
--338 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

   2nd. By compression, or crushing specimens of different

lengths, and various forms and sizes of base.

   3rd. By a transverse strain, and this under different forms

of section.

   In this last mode of fracture some bars have been broken
under various temperatures, and others have been loaded for
a very long time with weights, neai'ly as large as would have
broken them at once, and they are still bearing the loads.

   The experiments on the transverse strain (excepting those

on the Carron iron, No. 2, the Devon, and the Buflfery, of
which I read an account at Bristol) were made by Mr. Fair-
bairn, who undertook also the experiments on the effects of
temperature and time. I was desirous that he should try the
effect of time upon loaded bars, being convinced that it would
do little or nothing to destroy their power of bearing a dead
weight ; having arrived at this conclusion from experiments
made in a different way upon malleable iron. As I was pre-
sent at many of Mr. Fairbairn's experiments, I may mention
the great care and ability with which they were made ; they
will form the subject of the next paper.

   The experiments on the tensile and compressive forces of

the metals, and those on the transverse strain read at Bristol,
were made by myself and are given below.

  --Tensile strength of Hot and Cold Blast Cast Iron. To

determine the direct tensile strength of the different kinds of

cast iron made use of in these experiments, a model was made
of the same form as I had previously used in some experiments
on cast iron, of which a notice was given in the Cambridge
volume of the Association. The castings from this model were

very strong at the ends, in order that they might be perfectly
rigid there, and had their transverse section for about a foot

in the middle of the form annexed  . This part, which

was weaker than the ends, was intended to be torn asunder by a

force acting perpendicularly through its centre. The ends of
the castings had eyes made through them, with a part more

prominent than the rest in the middle of the casting where the

eye passed through. The intention of this was that bolts pass-

ing through the eyes, and having shackles attached to them
by which to tear the casting asunder, would rest upon this
prominent part in the middle, and therefore upon a point

passing in a direct line through the axis of the casting.

   Several of the castings were torn asunder upon the machine
          ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OP CAST IRON. 339

for testing iron cables belonging to the Corporation of Liver-

pool. Others were made in the same manner but of smaller
transverse area ; these were broken by means of Mr. Fair-
bairn's lever, which was adapted so as to be well suited for the

purpose.

   The form of casting here used was chosen to obviate the
theoretical objections made by Tredgold and others against
the conclusions of former experimenters. The results are in

the following table :

 Results of Experiments on the Tensile Force of Cast Iron.

                           Description of Iron.
--340 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

give from 7 to 9 tons per inch, results not widely differing
from those above ; they are noticed with some suspicion by Mr.
Tredgold (Essay on Strength of Cast Iron, pages 91 and 92),

who concludes from reasoning on the transverse strength of
cast iron, according to the theory which he had adopted, that
the direct tensile strength must be 20 tons or more. Mr.
Barlow too, whose reasoning has better foundation than Tred-

gold's, concludes, whilst he gives these gentlemen's results,
that the strength must be upwards of 10 tons per square inch,
(Treatise on the Strength of Timber and other Materials, art.

123). I am not aware of any objection which can be brought

against the tensile results given above, except some slight
error which Mr. Barlow conceived (in his earlier work on the
Strength of Timber, &c.) might arise from the use of testing
machines, and that, in this case, would affect but four of the ex-
periments ; all the rest were made upon Mr. Fairbairn's lever.
I hope to explain the cause of this difference of opinion among
 our ablest inquirers at a future meeting.

   The resistance of materials to a crushing strain is equally

a matter of doubt. Rondelet found {Trait4 cle V Art de bdtir)
that cubes of malleable iron, and prisms of various kinds of
 stone, were crushed with forces which were directly as the
area, whilst from Mr. Rennie's experiments, both upon cast
iron and wood, it would appear that the resistance increases,

particularly in the latter, in a much higher ratio than the

 area, (Mr. Barlow's Treatise, Art. 112). 1 have endeavoured,
by repeating with considerable variations the ingenious ex-
 periments of Mr. Rennie, to arrive at some definite conclu-

 sions.

    In order to effect this, it was thought best to crush the
 object between two flat surfaces, taking care that these were
kept perfectly parallel, and that the ends of the prism to be
 crushed were turned parallel and at right angles to their axis,

 so that when the specimen was placed between the crushing
 surfaces its ends might be completely bedded upon them.
For this purpose a hole 1 1 inch diameter was drilled through
 a block of cast iron about 5 or 6 inches square, and two steel
bolts were made which just filled this hole, but passed easily

 through it ; the shortest of these bolts was about 1 \ inch long,
 and the other about 5 inches ; the ends of these bolts were
 hardened, having previously been turned quite flat and per-
 pendicular to their axis, except one end of the larger bolt

which was rounded. The specimen was crushed between the

 flat ends of these bolts, which were kept parallel by the block
ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OP CAST IRON. 341

of iron in which they were inserted. See fig.

Awhere  Band represent the bolts, with the
Dprism C between them, and E the block of

iron. During the experiment the block and

Bbolt rested upon a flat surface of iron, and

Athe rounded end of the bolt was pressed

upon by the lever. There was another hole

drilled through the block at right angles to

that previously described ; this was done in
order that the specimen might be examined

during the experiment, and previous to it, to

see that it was properly bedded.

The accompanying sketch will show more clearly the mode

of performing the experiment, in which the lever was always

kept as nearly horizontal as possible. Other apparatus, not

here shown, were used to lift up or lower the lever during the

experiments.

The results are given in the following tables
--342 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.
ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON.          343

                           o

*

3f 60

                                            to.c

                      SS^ r

tfC22 =
     .3 «
344 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

   By comparing the results in the two preceding tables, it will

be seen that, where the length is not more than about three
times the diameter, the strength for a given base is pretty
nearly the same, as has been shown by Mr. Rennie and others.
In that case, the prism, in cast iron at least, either does not
bend before fracture, or bends very slightly, and therefore the
fracture takes place by the two ends of the specimen forming
cones or pyramids, which split the sides, and throw them out;
or, as is more generally the case in cylinders, by a wedge
sliding off, starting at one of the ends, and having the whole
end for its base, as has been before mentioned ; this wedge
being at an angle dependent upon the nature of the material.
In cast iron, this angle is, as will be seen further on, such that
the height is somewhat less than f of the diameter ; if the
height of the specimen is less than the length of the wedge,
the resistance is somewhat increased, and if the height be
greater than from three to four times the diameter, the resist-
ance, on account of the flexure of the specimen, will be de-
creased. In estimating the strength of the iron from the above
tables, I shall mostly confine myself to such specimens as vary
from about the length of the wedge to twice its length, avoid-
ing such results as are reduced hy flexure. Taking then the
results from the cylinders and prisms of different dimensions
of base, giving the means, with the number of experiments
from which they were taken, we have the following abstracts :

                   FROM TABLE I--HOT BLAST.

    Diameter of cylinder.
          ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON.  345
                   FROM TABLE IL-COLD BLAST.

Diameter of cylinder in
      parts of an inch.
--346 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

out of a larger body of metal than the small ones ; a matter
which we have seen greatly reduces the strength.

Admitting, then, that the strength per square inch in each of

the preceding cases would have been the same if the iron had

always been of equal hardness, we must conclude that "the

resistance of short cylinders of cast iron to a crushing force is

directly as the area."*

If we refer to the abstract from tables 1 and 2 for the mean

strengths per square inch, as given by the equilateral triangle,

the square, the rectangle, and the cylinder, we shall find them

in the latter, 99,769, 98,152, 107,971, 96,361;

in the former,                       100,416, 101,062.

The strength, 107,971 and 101,062, as given by the prisms

whose base is a rectangle, is the greatest ;t and this may be

accounted for from their superior breadth to that of the other

specimens, and consequently, from their having in them more

of the outside and harder part of the bar, out of which they

were cut, than the others. In the other forms the difference

of strength is but little ; and therefore we may perhaps admit
that " difference of form of section has no influence upon the

power of a short prism to bear a crushing force."

                    Mode of Fracture. (See Plate.)

  When a rigid body is broken by a' crushing force, which is

prevented from acting after it has effected a rupture, it will be
found not to be crumbled or reduced to a shapeless mass, but
to be divided according to mathematical laws, and sometimes

into very interesting forms of fracture. The accompanying
plate will show how the fracture was effected in a variety

of cases, and that these were all subject to one pervading law.

The figures in the plate are of the same size as the specimens.

Fig. 1 represents a cylinder before it was crushed ; fig. 2

* Conceiving it desirable that this matter should be left without a doubt,

and as Mr. Fahbairn had some very good teakwood which had been many

years in store, 12 cylinders were turned whose diameters were £ inch, 1 inch,
and 2 inches, 4 of each; the latter 8 out of the same piece of wood; the

height in each case was double the diameter : the strengths were as below.

Cylinders i inch dia.     Cylinders 1 inch dia.  Cylinders 2 inches dia.

2335")                    10507"]                38909"]

2543 I Mean               9499 I Mean            39721 I Mean

2513 [2439                10507(10171            41294(40304

2335 J                    10171 J                41294 J

These quantities, taking the means, are nearly as 25,100 and 400, which is the

ratio of the areas, and therefore the strength is nearly as the area, though this

varies as 4 and 1 6 to 1

   t Rondelet (Traitc de VArt de bdlir, book 9, page 150) found that prisms of
stone, whose base was a rectangle, as above, bore somewhat less than those

with square bases of the same area.
7 * Report Brit. Assoc.*- ft. VI p 3 ,

                                                   tSfiojire a&v.
       ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 347

represents a wedge broken off from the same cylinder, the

point of the wedge being flattened by the crushing apparatus
after the fracture. There is a small crack in this wedge indi-

cating a disposition to slide off in another direction, or rather

to form a double wedge, nearly equilateral, having the diameter
of the end of the cylinder for its base, and its height about

half that of the former. The operation of this double wedge

would be to split the cylinder and throw out its two sides.

Figs. 3 and 4 represent another cylinder before and after

crushing ; in fig. 4, a double wedge formed at each end threw
out the opposite sides. Figs. 5 and 6 represent a cylinder

before and after crushing ; in the latter, as in fig. 4, the ends
of the figure have formed the bases of imperfectly formed

cones, whose tendency has been to separate the sides. Fig. 7

is intended to represent one of these cones, the vertex of

which is a sharp edge or point. Fig. 8 represents another

cylinder of rather soft iron ; the pressure was removed in the
commencement of the fracture, and the circumference was

found  to be  surrounded with parallel  cracks  both ways                                               the
                                                                                                     ;

angle of these cracks with the base being that of the usual

inclination of the wedge. Fig. 9 represents the appearance

of a very short cylinder after fracture ; the vertex of the cone,

formed upon the end not shown, has split the end here repre-

sented, leaving a part in the middle unbroken ; the opposite

end is sound for a much greater central area than this, but

its edges are a little broken.

   Fig. 10 represents a rectangle ;* and fig. 1 1 its appearance

after fracture. One end of the specimen has been formed into

a pyramid A, sharp pointed at D, which has split the opposite

base and thrown off the end B, and the part C very nearly.
The sides and angular piece at the end are lost.

Fig. 12 represents a short rectangle before crushing ; figs.

13, 14, 15, the different appearances of specimens of the same

size after fracture. In fig. 14 the fracture has been caused
by a sliding off in the way of the diagonal; in fig. 15 the
specimen slided off in the direction b c, as before, and was
cracked through its whole length in the direction a d ; in fig.
13, the top of the specimen formed the base of a wedge which
had split the bottom, and the bottom itself had formed the base
of a wedge. Fig. 16 represents a rectangle of the same base

as the preceding, but of double the height. Figs. 17, 18, 19,
20, represent its appearances as shewn by different specimens

after fracture. Fig. 20, in which the parts are separated,

Ashows a wedge C D, which has for its base the bottom of

* The prism is, in this and many other places, designated by the form of its
--348 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

the prism ; this wedge has, commencing at its vertex C, a

CD,!sharp line  inch long                                                 and by the operation of its sides,
                                                                       ;

the wedge has removed the parts E and F, and separated the

Gsides and H, which before joined together at the top and
Aformed part of the upper side of the prism. The part B,

adhering to the lower part of the wedge, and which had

formed part of the side-of the prism, was nearly separated by

the action of another wedge formed by the lower end of the

part G, which formed a wedge not represented by the

figure, but whose vertex formed a sharp line about *43 inch

long in the direction I K. This wedge occupied the space

between B and CD, and its tendency was to split off from the
Aprincipal wedge the only remaining portion B.

Fig ~1 represents a prism of the form of an equilateral

triangle, and fig. 2-2, is its appearance after fracture. The

tendency is here, as before, for opposite wedges to be formed,

which split off the angles and separate the sides. Figs. 23,

--We24, 25, give direct representations of the three sides.
Angle of Wedge.  have seen that when bodies are

subjected to a crushing force, their fracture, if they do not

break by bending, is caused by the operation of a cone or

wedge, which seems, under various circumstances, to slide off

at nearly a constant angle. If a prismatic body, as for instance

a short cylinder, be subjected to a crushing force, there

seems no reason why fracture should take place one way more

than another ; there is usually too in soft irons a bulging out

in every direction round the cylinder, which shows that it is

equally strained all round : a matter which is otherwise exem-

plified in fig. 8. If then the cylinder be longer than the wedge,

or than the two cones which are always in operation at the

ends during crushing, it is evident that the angle of the wedge

and cones, which is the same, will depend upon the nature of

the material, and the cones must be isosceles. Cylinders

longer than the wedge usually slide off in one direction with-

out showing the cones, but some examples in other forms

have been obtained ; as for instance, in the fracture of a rect-
angular specimen whose base was l'00x*26, and its height

·50 inch (Table I.), the rupture took place by wedges, which

appeared to be isosceles, being formed at the top and bottom

of the ends of the specimen, and dividing the sides in the

middle, (as in the fig.
   In cases however where the height of the specimen was not
           ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 349

equal to that of the two opposing or double wedges, then these

cones and wedges could not be isosceles after fracture com-
menced. It is shown by several of the figures (figs. 4, 6, 11,
13, 20, &c.) how fracture takes place, and that in such cases

the wedges do not meet directly and crush their opponents,

but have sharp points and slip past each other to effect the

destruction of the piece of which they are formed. It is evi-

dent therefore that the angles, which the sides of these wedges
make with
           their  base,                                              cannot in          this   case  be             equal                               this* is
                                                                                                                                                     ;

shown by the rectangles one inch high, and it was found to

exist in a higher degree in the fracture of those of half the

height. In these the angle with the base was further reduced,
through an almost necessary tendency of the specimen to divide

itself in  the  diagonal                                             though             the  angle  there was              less,                        on
                                                                  ;

account of the compression of the prism, than the natural

angle in this material. The angle of the wedge as obtained
from different specimens is as follows :

                                                                     Cylinders.

Carron Iron, No. 2, 54° 15', 54° 15' 52° 10' "1

59°, 56° 15'       j*Mean. . . .                                                                                                                        55° 11'
                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                               .                                                        57° 8'
                                                                                                                                                        53° 40'
Buffery Iron, No. 1, 58°, 54°, 56°' 58°,' 56° 1                                                                                                         56° 10'
62°, 56°                                                                                             '[ Do.
                . .. .

Coed-Talon, No. 2, 55°, 56°, 56°, 531°, 53°, 49° Do.
Mean angles from cones 56i°, 54i°, 57|°
                                                                                                                    . Do.

Mean from the whole,                                                 being          21  cylinders   of various"!>5"5Z°7372,'

   lengths. . .                                                                  .

   Rectangular prisms 1 inch high, Carron Iron, No.                                                                        3,                           angles
made by the sides of the double wedge, with the base

Cold Blast 54° "1

              58 J                                                   551°           1               )>Mean56°43'
Hot Blast 58A 1                                                      60"
                                                                                           53
              57 J'                                                                  f»

                  If}
                                                   J

Rectangular prisms A inch high, Carron Iron,

48°, 51°, 52°, 54°, 57°, 52°, . .                                                                    Mean 52° 40'

Mean angle from the above rectangular prisms . 54° 41'

                Prisms, Base -50 x '50 inch.

Carron Iron, No. 2. . . 53°, 54°                                                               . Mean 53° 30'
--350 SEVENTH HEPORT 1837-

   From the preceding examination of the angles obtained from

specimens of different forms and lengths, it appears that amidst
great anomalies, there is, taking the mean results, a considerable
approach to equality, as is more particularly shown from the
angles of the cylinders and rectangular prisms ; and this approach
would doubtless have been greater and the anomalies less if the
specimens had always been longer than the wedge. The defect
in the angle from this cause is evident in the shorter rectangular

prisms, and has been alluded to before.

  We may assume therefore, without assignable error, that in

the crushing of short cast iron prisms of various forms, longer
than the wedge, the angle of fracture will be the same. This
simple assumption, if admitted, would prove at once, not only
in this material but in others, which break in the same manner,
the proportionality of the crushing force in different forms to
the area ; since the area of fracture would always be equal to
the direct transverse area multiplied by a constant quantity de-
pendent upon the material.

   The preceding experiments on crushing have been confined
to one sort of iron, the Carron No. 2, hot and cold blast. The
results from other irons are given in the following table :
ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OP CAST IRON.  351

ed
352 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

       Ratio of Tensile to compressive forces in Cast Iron.
   Having obtained the forces per square inch necessary to
tear asunder and to crush masses of cast iron of the kinds
previously enumerated, we will seek for the ratio of these
forces, taking the breaking weights from the preceding table
and that on tension.

                     Descript
         ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OP CAST IRON. 353

cast iron, malleable iron, we may therefore assume that it is in

operation in the crushing of all rigid bodies, and consequently

that, in any particular one, the resistance will be as the area

of its section.

I may perhaps mention that this subject ought to be studied

in conjunction with optics and crystallization. The singular

structure of the mineral called analcime, or cubizite, as shown

by polarized light, and given by Sir David Brewster, Optics,

chap, xxv., has so much the appearance of some of our frac-

tures, as to lead one to conceive that it may have arisen from

compression.

  --Transverse strength. It is to ascertain the resistance of

materials to a transverse strain that the efforts of experiment-

ers have chiefly been directed. One reason for this seems

to be the great facility with which bodies can be broken this

way comparatively with others, which require lai'ge weights or

complex machinery, and often considerable attention to theo-

retical requirements.

In making the following experiments, it has been the au-

thor's aim, whilst he kept in view the inquiry respecting hot

and cold blast iron, to make the results subservient to some

other purposes, besides giving an extended view of the appli-

cation of these irons.

As the inquiry was a comparative one, and required that a

number of experiments, and those similar to each other, should

be made upon each iron from any particular place, several

models were made, and castings, both of hot and cold blast

iron, obtained from them ; and as it seemed desirable to trust

in these experiments as little as possible to theory, some bars,

one inch square, were always obtained from the same model.

From these, and from others, a satisfactory comparison of the

relative strengths of the irons would have been obtained with-

out the use of theory, could the castings have always been got

of the exact size of the model ; but as small deviations in this

respect were unavoidable, theory was employed to effect the

slight reduction in the results of each bar to what they would

have been if the bars had been of the exact dimensions of the

models.

All the bars used in these comparisons are uniform and of

the same length, and the theoretical assumptions with regard

to the strength and deflection are of the simplest and most

generally admitted kind. They are as below, the strength in

rectangular bars is taken as the breadth multiplied by the

square of the depth, and the ultimate deflection is supposed

to be inversely as the depth. To these there has been added

vol vi. 1837.           2A
354 SEVENTH REPORT 1837«

another, namely, that the power of bearing an horizontal im-

pact from a given weight is measured by the strength of the
beam multiplied by its ultimate deflection. This last assump-

tion supposes that all cast-iron bars of the same dimensions

in our experiments are of the same weight, and that the de-
flection of a beam up to the breaking weight would be as the

pressure. Neither of these is true, they are only approxi-

mations                                    but the difference in the weights of cast-iron bars of
                                        ;

equal size is very little, and taking them as the same, it may

be inferred from my paper on Impact upon Beams (Fifth Re-

port of the British Association), that the assumption above

gives results near enough for practice.

   After the following tables, therefore, there will always be
given a summary of the strengths and deflections, reduced to
what they Mould have been supposing the bar to be of the

exact size of the model ; and attached to these there will be

the other values mentioned above, representing the power of
the beam to bear impact.

   The modulus of elasticity is set down that it may serve as

a measure of the comparative stiffness of the irons. It is given
in pounds per square inch.

   The ultimate deflection attached to each experiment was

derived from the results last obtained, and as these results
were usually more numerous than those set down, the deflec-

tion cannot often be calculated from those which remain, but

is nearer to the truth than those which might be obtained from

the remaining ones.

   In all the future experiments, the bars were cast 5 feet
long, and were supported on props 4 feet 6 inches asunder,

except it is otherwise mentioned, which will only be found in

two cases.

   In the prosecution of the experimental part of this research,

it gives me great pleasure to acknowledge the efficient manner
in which my views were carried into execution by Mr. John

Patchett, an intelligent pupil of Mr. Fairbairn.
ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON.  355

2A2
            356                                  --SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

15.         same  last.

                                     broad.
                                           lbs.

                         deep,

            the the                     77

Experiment         as inches
            from
                              ...
                                   Weight

                        model
                             4-97 1-02

            Bar
                               ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OP CAST IRON.  357

 c *;                          « 'N

©£ a.                          COIN

gi.S

                     ·OJ3

C
            si
            3a
          Si

                           CO

                         ©

:
    --358 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

        a ££.£      i
        o. § £ 3  m·sq[

to

a

CD

£S
^§ s

   5-1
        ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON.  359

        ·Oil o ·©© '83

        cc ex;  © M ©© OS K5 OS  ?J

        Q-31

        50.0

                ·*il5!DNX3lO©

    1c

    Di

 a

Eh
--360 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

  a
 a

  l-H -+J
    GO n;

pq *

       o
        3

 Tl
          ON STRKNGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 361

--Note. I have been favoured by Mr. Fairbairn with the an-

nexed examination of the structure of this and the following

Irons :

   " The Carron No. 2, cold blast iron, when viewed with the

microscope, presents a dull grey colour, finely granulated with

an appearance of greater porosity in the centre than round the

extreme edges of the fracture. It is a free working iron, easily

cut with the turning tool, but indicates stiffness under the file.
   " Carron No. 2, hot blast. This iron has nearly the same

character in its working properties as the above ; it files with

rather more freedom, and possesses an appearance of greater

fluidity than the cold blast. Colour, a greyish blue, accom-

panied with a greater degree of uniformity in its crystalline

structure than the cold blast.
   " Buffery No. 1, cold blast, is finer grained than either of the

Carron irons. It is chiefly composed of minute granules in-

termixed with small brown specks                                                                                                                                                                       it works with less freedom
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

than the hot blast, and cuts with difficulty under the tool. In

this respect it is much akin to the Milton iron (described in

Mr. Fairbairn's paper).

   "Buffery No. 1, hot blast, has a similar appearance to the
Carron, No. 2, cold blast ; it has more lustre than Buffery
No. ], cold blast; the crystals are widely separated in the
centre, but more compact as they approach the outer edge of

the bar.

" This appearance is nearly peculiar to the whole of the hot

blast irons."

  --Re??iarks upon the Experiments in the preceding Tables.

In devising the preceding experiments the writer had several

objects in view, which he will now proceed to state. It has

been remarked above that the first five experiments on the hot

blast iron, and the first three on the cold blast, in the tables

above, were made after the others. These will therefore be

passed over for the present, and we shall commence with ex-

periments 6 and 7, which, like most of the others, are on bars

from the same model in both tables. The object of these ex-

periments was to show the influence of form of section in beams

of cast iron ; and it will be seen from the results, that when

the rib was downwards, the casting broke with 2801bs. in the

Whenhot blast iron, and 2661bs. in the cold blast.                                                                                                                                                     the rib

was upwards, the breaking weights were 9S01bs. and 10501bs.

respectively; the bars bearing nearly four times as much one
way up as the other. These results are contrary to the opi-

nions of some leading writers, as Tredgold and others, who,
from their principles, would maintain that the strength should
--362 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

be equal in the two cases. An experiment of this kind I gave

in a paper on the strength and best forms of iron beams (Me-
moirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester,

vol. v.), and it formed indeed the basis of the inquiry in that

paper.

   I had remarked in some of the experiments upon the Carron
iron, and more particularly the Buffery following, that the
elasticity of the bars was injured much earlier than is generally
conceived ; and that instead of it remaining perfect till one-
third or upwards of the breaking weight was laid on, as is
generally admitted by writers (Tredgold on Cast Iron, Article
59, &c), it was evident that 4-th or less produced in some cases
a considerable set or defect of elasticity, and judging from its
slow increase afterwards, I was persuaded that it had not come
on by any sudden change, but had existed, though in a less
degree, from a very early period. I mentioned the fact and

my convictions sometime after to Mr. Fairbairn, and expressed

a desire to have bars cast of greater length than before to ren-
der the defect more obvious.

   All the future experiments on a transverse strain, whether
made by myself or Mr. Fairbairn, have tended to prove the

matter.

  We passed over the experiments placed at the beginning of

Tables 1 and 2: referring now to them, it will be seen, that in

3 out of 6 experiments, 161bs. produced a visible set, whilst

the breaking weights in these cases were 469, 462, 518 : in

other words, the elasticity was injured with 3^ of the break-

ing weight, or less. In experiments 4 and 5, Table I., which

were on longer bars than the others, cast for this purpose,

and for another mentioned further on, the elasticity in the for-

mer experiments was sensibly injured with 71bs., and in the

latter with 141bs., the breaking weights being 3641bs. and

1120lbs. In the former of these cases a set was visible with

   '  and  in  the  other with -fa  of  the breaking weight,  showing

TT,
that there is no weight, however small, that will not injure the

elasticity.

   In two other bars, from the same model, which were laid
against vertical supports at the same distance asunder as be-
fore, the force being applied horizontally by means of a pulley,
71bs. showed a defect of elasticity in that which had the rib
submitted to tension, and 21 in the other.

   The mode used to observe when the elastic force became

injured was as follows. When a bar was laid upon the sup-

ports for experiment, a "straight edge" was placed over it,
the ends of which rested upon the bar directly over the points
ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON.                                           363

of support. These ends were slides which enabled the straight

edge to be raised or lowered at pleasure. In this manner it

was easy to bring it down to touch in the slightest manner a

Apiece of wood tied upon the middle of the bar.                                    candle was

then placed at the side of the bar opposite to where the ob-

server stood, by the light of which, distances extremely minute

could be observed. Should it be asked why this had not been

noticed before, the answer of the writer would be, that most

experimenters have used bars shorter in proportion to their

depth than are here employed, and therefore the set was much

less obvious than here ; and in deep bars or beams it is almost

imperceptible till the weight laid on is considerable.

From what has been stated above, deduced from experi-

ments made with great care, it is evident that the maxim of

loading bodies within the elastic limit has no foundation in

nature ; but it will be considered as a compensating fact, that

materials will bear for an indefinite time a much greater load

than has hitherto been conceived.

  When a body is subjected to a transverse strain some of its

particles are extended and others compressed ; I was desirous

to ascertain whether the above defect in elasticity arose from

tension or compression, or both. Experiments 4 and 5 show

this ; in these a section of the casting, which was uniform

                                                                                c  . During the experiments the

throughout, was the form g j

broad flat part a b was laid horizontally upon supports ; the

vertical rib c in the latter experiment being upwards, in the

former downwards. When it was downwards the rib was ex-

tended, when upwards the rib was compressed. In both cases

the part a b was the fulcrum; it was thin and therefore easily flex-

ible, but its breadth was such that it was nearly inextensibleand

Weincompressible comparatively with the vertical rib.                              may

therefore assume that nearly the whole flexure which takes place

in a bar of this form arises from the extension or compression

of the rib, according as it is downwards or upwards. In ex-

periment 4 we have extension nearly without compression, and

in experiment 5 compression almost without extension. These

experiments were made with great care, and their results are

generally in accordance with those from two others alluded

to above, but not inserted. They show that there is but little

difference in the quantity of the set, whether it arises from

tension or compression.

The set from compression however is usually somewhat less

than that from extension, as is seen in the commencement of

the two experiments, and near the time of fracture, in that
364 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

submitted to tension. The deflections from equal weights are

nearly the same, whether the rib be extended or compressed,

(as was shown by Duleau in experiments upon triangular bars

of malleable iron,) but the ultimate strengths, as appears from

above, are widely different.

It is to be hoped that the observations made above will ob-

viate objections which have been offered against a form of cast

iron beam arrived at by the writer, in a paper alluded to above.
From this paper it appeared that a beam bore the greatest

weight from the same quantity of metal when the strengths of

its bottom and top ribs were as 6 or 6\ to 1, and this was found

in the subsequent experiments of the writer to be nearly the

ratio of the tensile to the compressive strength of the iron.

   To ascertain the correctness or otherwise of the assertion of

Emerson, so often shown to be true in theory, that if a small

portion be taken from the vertex of a beam whose section is a

triangle, the part will be stronger than the whole, castings

were formed both from the hot and cold blast iron (experi-

ments 8, 9, 10, in the one, and 8, 9, in the other). They were

all from the same model and ground to the exact size, and the

part taken off in the frustums was T^th of the whole height

of the triangle. The breaking weights of the whole triangle,

in the hot blast iron were 672 and 812 lbs., mean 742 lbs. and

of the frustum 728 lbs. In the cold blast iron the whole tri-

angle was broken with 815 lbs., and the frustum with 677.

The difference in the transverse strengths of the hot and cold

blast Carron irons, No. 2, is very small, the ratio between them

being 99 to 100. (See recapitulation at the close of this re-

Weport.)  may therefore assume their strengths to be the

same, and taking an arithmetic mean between all the strengths
we have strength of triangle 766 lbs., strength of frustum
702 lbs. The frustum is therefore weaker than the triangle.

It is often asserted by practical men that if the hard skin at

the outside of a cast iron bar be removed, its strength, com-

paratively with its dimensions, will be much reduced ; to try

this, four bars, \\ inch square each, were made, two of hot and

two of cold blast ; they were then planed in the middle to one

inch square nearly : their results are in experiments 11 and 12

in Table 1, and 10 and 11 in Table 2. Their strengths were

fully equal to those of bars 1 inch square, which were cast with

them but not inserted.

It is generally admitted that the strength of a rectangular

beam, whose length and breadth are given, is as the square of

the depth. To ascertain how far this important law agrees

with experiment, castings were formed both in the Carron and
ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OP CAST IRON. 365

Devon irons ; they were 1 inch broad, and had their depths 1,3,
and 5 inches, the distance between the two supports being as

usual, 4 feet 6 inches. It is evident then, that if the strength

of each of these beams, when reduced to the exact size, be

divided by the squai'e of the depth, the quotient should be the

same in each case. Hence, taking the mean reduced strength

of the 1-inch bars for the first number in each iron, the reduced

strength of the 3-inch bars divided by 9 for the second num-

ber, and the reduced strength of the 5-inch bars divided by

25 for the third number, we have

In Carron, No. 2, hot blast . 452    427

Do.  cold blast. . 453

In Devon Iron, No. 3, hot blast 537

Do.  cold blast 448
--366 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-
ON STRENGTH A.ND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 367

               13 6,
               5- that
   7.                  from        Weight

                               as

               beam

                                   Experiment

                     deep,model

   Experiment

                                               Blast.
                                                                     ofbar,91ilbs.

               Uniform inches

                               same Hot

                                  in

Q
368 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

       °aa                                          J-~

        3 C--                                         3'"o
5<
                                             ST1
      X~ H
                                             5 BS
 m
                                                                             Sr'2

               cq

                                                            ::        c   :
                                                                   :      :
                                                                      «j

h

^ v.

1*3 ft?

                                        §~=

                        Mii
                        sX aXy*
           ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 369

   The last experiment in both the preceding tables was upon a
beam of the best form of section, according to the writer's expe-

riments, (Manchester Memoirs, vol. 5.) the top and bottom
rib being nearly in the ratio of the tensile to the compressive

forces of the metal, as mentioned above. The intention was
to compare the strength of the beam with that of a rectangular
one of the same weight, length, and depth. For this purpose

the beams were cast uniform throughout, and in comparing the
strength of that in the hot blast iron with the mean from the
strengths of the two preceding rectangular beams, reduced as
above, we find that the breaking weight of these is 19,108 lbs.,
and the beam of best form was broke with 25,817 lbs. In the
cold blast Devon iron the difference in strength is much greater.

The rectangular beam, from the mean of the two experiments
on the beams 3 inches and 5 inches deep, when reduced as

above, gives 11,183 lbs. for the breaking weight, whilst the

beam of the best form required 22,227 lbs. to break it.

VOL. vi. 1837.  2b
        370  --SEVENTH REPORT 1837-
o5
           ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON.          371
                    ©-©t»H©£i©(c>p.©cicn-©c«*c1©--ICeMHoirn

S                cocococom>-<cs*>»
       -J        --CMco-'tfintoto^.

   o«£           ©' cm         Tjl CO CM

                 ©-tf to it!
                 © © © © © I--

                 CC 03 CO -* to <N "2

                 2--1 CM CO Tt< its to

                                                  St5

                 ©CM to ^< CM  "* CM
                 © © mco in    t-- -**<

PQm£

                 _c©o t0o-t*o ©0«©!*H»

                  ©CM to       o(M tJi

                 I

                    toeo<N-*to«Mcoco

           I"

                 ©t»CO

                 CM in
                 in            ,M
                 O>C0
                               O

SI'S.            m sm >* to 00 10
o.g'3            © m1--I CM CO "*

                 H©©J©i-Bh J©©Om|B-H i©|-rH C©tM

           c £»  ©co i-H  cm to ,m
                 ©CM to
           'Sj=           CM -f o

              m * ©cm to cm co                    a «o
              © 1-- CM CO OS -* OS                5ii
P«? 1" 1-1 ph CM CO CO <* ^*

                                                  2b2
--372 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

                General Abstract of transverse strengths.
    In the following abstract the transverse strengths of hot
and cold blast irons to bear pressure and impact will be given,
together with the ratio of these strengths.

   The comparison will be made between the results of bars

from the same models, taking the reduced results, where such
reduction has been made.

                                Carron Iron No. 2.

                                    Strength of Irons.
         ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OP CAST IRON. 373

   Having now subjected the irons which are tried in this paper
to a variety of strains, and given the results under their pro-
per heads, a summary of the whole will be added, with remarks
to show the general bearing upon the question of Hot and Cold

Blast Iron.

                                        Recapitulation .

Taking only the means from all the experiments in the present
   paper, and attaching to each value a number, in a parenthesis,

  --indicative of the quantity of experiments from which it has

   been derived, we have as below :

                                 Carron Iron No. 2.

Tensile strength in lbs. per "1      16683 (2)                13505 (3)                Ratio representing
                                                                                       Cold Blast by 1000.
square inch                   J
                                                                                       1000 : 809
Compressive strength in lbs. 1
                                                                                       1000 : 1020
per inch from castings torn I 106375 (3)                      108540 (2)
                                                                                       1000 : 1001
asunder                       J                                                        1000 : 970
                                                                                       1000 : 991
Do. from prisms of various"!         100631 (4)               100738 (2)               1000 : 1005
                                                                                       1000 : 973
forms                         J                                                        1000 : 1018
                                                                                       1000 : 931
Do. from cylinders                   125403 (13) 121685 (13)                           1000 : 997

Transverse strength from all")

the experiments               J            (11)                     (13)

Power to resist impact                     (9) (9)

Transverse strength of bars one 1    476 (3)                  463 (3)

inch square in lbs            J

Ultimate deflection of do. in in.    1-313(3)                       1-337 (3)
                                                              16085000 (2)
Modulus of elasticity in lbs. per")
                                 17270500(2)
square inch
                              J

Specific gravity                     7066                     7046

                              Devon Iron No. 3.

Tensile strength                                                   21907 (1)
                                                                  145435 (4)
Compressive strength
                                                                                 (5)
Transverse ditto from the ex- "1
                                                                    W
  periments generally         J                          (5)                           1000 : 1417
Power to resist impact                                                 537 (2)
                                            W                                          1000 : 2786
Transverse strength of bars"!                                           1-09 (2)
                                              448 (2)         22473650 (2)             1000 : 1199
  one inch square             J
Ultimate deflection ditto                        ·79 (2)             7229 (2)          1000 : 1380
                                                                                       1000 : 981
Modulus of elasticity ditto          22907700 (2)                                      1000 : 991
                                            7295 (4)
Specific gravity

                              Buffery Iron No. 1.

Tensile strength                     17466 (1)                     13434 (1)           1000 :  769
                                                                   86397 (4)           1000 :  925
Compressive ditto                    93366 (4)                                         1000 :  931
                                                                                  (5)  1000 :  963
Transverse ditto                           (5)                                  (2)

Power to resist impact               ··' (2)                          436 (3)

Transverse strength of bars!         463 (3)                           1-64 (3)
                                                              13730500 (2)
one inch square               J                                                        1000 : 942
                                                                    6998
Ultimate deflection ditto            1-55 (3)                                          1000 : 1058
                                                                                       1000 : 893
Modultls of elasticity ditto         15381200 (2)                                      1000 : 989

Specific gravity                     7079
--374 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

                              Coed-Talon Iron, No. 2.
           ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 375

greater in the hot blast. The cold blast iron is the better, but

the difference is very small.

   In the iron No. 2, from the Coed-Talon Works in North

Wales, the tensile strength is greater in the cold blast than
in the hot ; but the resistance to compression is higher in the
latter than the former, and that is the case with the specific

gravity.

   So far as my experiments have proceeded, the irons of No.

1 have been deteriorated by the hot blast ; those of No. 2 ap-
pear also to have been slightly injured by it ; whilst the irons
of No. 3 seem to have benefited by its mollifying powers.

The Carron iron No. 3, hot blast, resists both tension and
compression with considerably more energy than that made

with the cold blast ; and the No. 3 hot blast iron from the
Devon Works, in Scotland, is one of the strongest cast-irons
I have seen, whilst that made with the cold blast is compara-
tively weak, though its specific gravity is very high, and higher

than in the hot. The extreme hardness of the cold blast De-
von iron above prevented many experiments that would other-
wise have been made upon it, no tools being hard enough to
form the specimens. The difference of strength in the Devon

irons is peculiarly striking.

   From the evidence here brought forward, it is rendered ex-

ceedingly probable that the introduction of a heated blast into
the manufacture of cast iron has injured the softer irons, whilst
it has frequently mollified and improved those of a harder
nature and considering the small deterioration that the irons

                                         ;

of the quality No. 2 have sustained, and the apparent benefit
to those of No. 3, together with the great saving effected by
the heated blast, there seems good reason for the process be-
coming as general as it has done.

    Additional evidence will be obtained from the experiments

in the next paper.
          ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 377

On the Strength and other Properties of Cast Iron obtained
  from the Hot and Cold Blast. By W. Fairbairn, Esq.

The collecting of material for ascertaining the comparative

values of iron, made from the hot and cold blast, has been a
work of no small labour and expense. The chief difficulties
arose from the greater part of the works in this country having
only one sort of iron: large quantities of both sorts were ob-
tained ; but, excepting those irons experimented upon, none
could be found for comparison, nor any on which we could de-
pend for analogous results.

   Nearly the whole of the Scotch irons are now prepared by
the hot blast ; and, with few exceptions, we may consider those
of this country and Wales produced under circumstances pre-
cisely similar. The great saving effected in the process of

smelting by heated air, is in itself a sufficient inducement for
its extended application ; and in those districts where the iron
is not deteriorated, there cannot exist a doubt as to the advan-
tages derivable from its introduction. In confirmation of this opi-

nion, it may be important to know, that one-half or three-fourths
of the British ores are now reduced by heated air. In the Staf-
fordshire and Shropshire districts it has become almost univer-

sal ; and in North and South Wales the old process is rapidly
giving way to the more economical application of the hot blast.
In Yorkshire it has been tried with indifferent success, first at

the Low Moor Iron Works, near Bradford, and more recently at

the Milton Works, near Sheffield. The proprietors of the for-
mer establishment persevered for some time in the use of the
hot blast, but after repeated trials and experiments (part of
which are briefly detailed in this Report), they abandoned the
process, as injurious to the material, and reconstructed the old

apparatus for the cold blast.

   I believe at the present moment they use air at the tempera-
ture of the atmosphere : it is forced from the blowing cylinder
into a dry receiver, and from thence into the furnace. Whether

the failure which took place at the Low Moor was owing to

some peculiarity in the ores, or from the presence of sulphur in

the fuel, I am unable to determine. It is however obvious, that

a considerable deterioration of strength was the consequence

and from that cause, and that alone, I am informed, the hot

blast was discontinued.
   At the Milton Works, the heated air is still in use ; and al-
--378 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

Ltptthhreoopunogenrheitvgitehohrbnetohuoierfrlioetnnshg!eprmwUooulrdcvkuehscr,esidttmohpiensreEoilvnosfreieedcrsai,bro,yrawbithonheuestrteir6nettnhprgeeotrdchuoccltetdonitbto.lhn,aasotitfnmiacas ordumaesbeaiadU-t

stanthaetNiooatnpowpiwLltii,htcshatttthiaehonondssioaenfmgfetohturehneesduhlioutntnsftawbhlveeaorsudetirsantibornlitecttoh.bectirareicdnuuemcdsttiianonnicteossfatpahptefteYenoadbrioknng

to the Scotch iron. In those a deterioration takes place less
fYdvriooefruTqfrkaeuaskrebhenilintnecrlgeyet,oaiiasrtgsohennenwsoie,thlrloaIctlbosebnmhlsoesaiuasedltenednr: aocfbfoarlnsoteshrmi;eedsteaephrnxeedpct,teehsxrewpifiremlteruehsiinudmtltiestthsyne,itneisanxpbcpoenetpoahtriwaconaanscyee*o,,uf,n&fttcahh,-ee
I should rather deem them favourable than otherwise.
 ^ged**Previous

desirable to
as possible ;
to eemmenoiBg         esperiinenW it waj

collect as large an assortment of iron of bo th       kinds
and in order to avoid an improper selJ^jon,
                                                      tart

m J*»£W*»application was made to the Woo vwtevs

and subsequently numerous samples were

mmedium of persons whose interests were
                                                        ihe
                                                   received through the

                                                       no way identified
"" way^ kept clear of preconceived opinions, ^col-

WlnBee^cat^trTdteledihiyefyaof,dnimeCecsaoucshelrsuidtnipitdfTeirasoelmndaottnhosefu,prshieaoaecntlindmauoemnpfneedsrrac,ahlotamloepodndsslb,tyltaahsseenitvxdeE; rlctvyshoiizeud.cleasdtscrhcaberraeicnCpifdattoinyMouooninnf.dl,ttahoDneOnesuv*cwtooenmio,-f
ptthhaearnaagwbeeovmceeo-tunalladsm,weidhsahvier« obnousft,:netactheestyshietaysrecaomncefoitnnisemedeq,uoeuonfrts-luvycehmstoairgenaattiluoirnmeistatesod,

Si mnTftouholteEefruxxsbsapietmeSiirhnwaniitvcemlrocleotlondlhuuutenemca,temeddotomtfhfiioetnntthiuhoermeteptgesMohrulerealysattnste;acenahRwrtneiepldsproltoerhsrbetauterivlsoit,Mnsfn.eogIomufwtonteadihssretisenind,ervtoaenhnresodtiwchwsoehtllioilnenlescectstthbeiefdynopdcrcruoamecurselesdd-.
^ oWp« c-
           was written, it was deemed expedient to renew the appli-

M ^.^last year.
r. Had|,k.nsor, expr                                Tof ,he f
temWI ""?tensile forces of
           ?'"              timcnt! . For this purpose a second

their results will be given in the present paper.
ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 379

   After the request of the Association, expressed to Mr. Hodg-
kinson and myself, that an inquiry should be instituted into the
comparative merits of iron made from hot and cold blast, nearly
ten months elapsed before the necessary materials could be ob-
tained. In fact, the experiments would have been of the most
meagre description, for want of samples, but for the friendly co-
operation and assistance of Mr. Murray, of the Monkland Iron
Works. To that gentleman we are indebted for the whole of the

Scotch irons, exclusive of other valuable information relative to
the fuel and analysis of the ores ; I have therefore great plea-

sure in thus publicly expressing my acknowledgments.

   Before entering upon the experiments, I made application to
the greater part of the works from whence iron was received,

for information relative to the nature of the ores, fuel, flux, &c.
also for such analyses as the proprietors might be enabled or
disposed to furnish, including the temperature of the air used in

the process of smelting.

   To these inquiries I received replies which, although of great

importance in themselves, could not with propriety be intro-
duced into this report.*

   During the progress of the investigation, it was found desi-
rable for Mr. Hodgkinson and myself to divide our labours
and in order to examine the different irons with the utmost
care, the experiments were classed and apportioned in the man-
ner described in Mr. Hodgkinson's report.

   This division was attended with considerable benefit, as it ex-
cited a closer investigation of the subject ; and the whole of the

experiments being made at my works, gave a facility for com-

parison that could not otherwise be obtained.

   * Mr. Murray, of the Monkland Iron Works, has, however, supplied me

with the following particulars relative to the Scotch irons, viz. the Carron and
Devon irons, which are derived, like most of the Scotch metals, from argillaceous
carbonate of iron, and are found in the coal-basins of the country. Some of
the poorer ores are found in balls imbedded in argillaceous schistus, and worked
or turned out with the coal ; but the principal is a seam of black band, at a
depth of 15 to 25 fathoms under the splint, or fifth seam of coal, of the Lanark-
shire basin. This iron-stone varies from 9 to 15 inches in thickness, and con-
tains from 35 to 40 per cent, of iron. Two-thirds of this ore is generally used

--to each charge, and one-third of the poorer balls and bands containing from

20 to 25 per cent. Dr. Colquhoun analyzed the black band ore, wlucn gave

Carbonic acid      35-17   Alumina            0-63
Protoxide of iron  53-03
Lime                       Peroxide of iron   0*23
Magnesia             3-33
                           Calcareous or bituminous matter. 3-03
Silica              177
                           Moisture and loss  1-41
                     1-40
                                              100-000

The specific gravity of this ore is 3-0553, colour close brown. The ore con-
tains an intermixture of imbedded bivalve shells.
--380 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

In describing the following experiments, I will first give the

tables and results on the transverse or more usually investigated

species of strain, where the experiment was made without loss

of time, and which may be considered a continuation of the

Wesame class of experiments by Mr. Hodgkinson,  shall then

proceed to experiments on the Coed-Talon bars, in relation to

time or indefinite strain. Afterwards we shall exhibit others on

the effects of temperature ; and finally close with a general sum-
mary of results.

    Before presenting the experiments in their tabulated forms,

it may be necessary to supply a brief description of each class,

--in order to show the methods adopted, and how the results

were obtained. For this purpose, a number of models were
prepared, to be 1 inch and lh inches scpiare; and the metals,
hoth hot and cold blast, were run into the form of those mo-
dels. But as there is generally a slight deviation in the size
of the casting from that of the model, the dimensions of the
bars were accurately measured at the place of fracture, and the
results reduced (when practicable) by calculation to what they
would have been if cast to the exact size of the model. This
was done to ensure more accurate comparisons in the strength
and other mechanical properties of the bars. The mode of re-

duction is described in the preceding report.
    In addition to the methods herein adopted to determine the

strength, tenacity, and value of the different irons made from
hot and cold blast, I conceived it necessary to institute a series
of microscopic observations ; to examine with great minuteness
the appearance of the fracture, and by magnifying the crystals,

to elucidate such visible indications of the fluidity, strength,
and ductility of the irons, as would distinguish the qualities of

the different numbers known in commerce by the name of No.
1, 2, and 3 iron.

    I also pursued in other respects a close and minute examina-
tion of the different specimens of hot and cold blast iron, and
by turning, filing, grinding, &c, endeavom-ed to discover their
properties in relation to each other, and their adaptation to the

arts.

   As the Carron No. 2 irons, hot and cold blast, were among
the first we obtained, I have, in the description of the fractures
attached to each table of experiments, made the Carron No. 2
cold blast iron the basis of comparison. It may therefore he

proper to give here the following short description of it.

   This iron, when viewed with a microscope, presents a dull

grey colour, finely granulated, with an appearance of greater
porosity in the centre than round the extreme edges of the frac-

ture. It is a free-working iron, easily cut with the turning
tool, but indicates stiffness under the file.
                ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 381

.able I.--North Wales Iron.-- Coed-Talon No. 2 Pig-Iron, Cold Blast.

Experiment 1. I Experiment 2.

Depth of bar, 1-042 Depth of bar, 1-061

Breadth of do. 1-021 Breadth of do. 1-018

Distance between Distance between

supports, 4 ft. 6 in. supports, 4 ft. 6 in.

Weight of bar, 5 ft. Weight of bar, 5ft

long, 16^ lbs.                         long, 16 lbs. 2oz.

                '§ S                   J3
                                        60
      "=.5

      A

  56    ·057    ·015
126     ·115    023
154     ·299    ·032
182     ·37     ·06
238     ·451    ·08
294     ·615    ·115
350     ·8       162
406             ·195
434     ·993
448   1-21
      1-332
      broke

. · . Ultimate de-

=flection, 1-394.

Broke 1 inch
                                   J-

from the centre.
382 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

                                   Table II.
 North Wales Iron.--Coed-Talon No. 2 Pig-iron, Hot Blast.

       Experiment 1
          ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 383
         Comparative results of Coed-Talon Iron No. 2.

         Distance between supports 4 ft. 6 in. and 2 ft. 3 in.

Strength of Cold Blast Iron.
384 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

                                   Table III.
    North Wales Iron.--Coed-Talon No. 3 Iron, Cold Blast.

       Experiment 1.
      ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OP CAST IRON. 385

                              Table IV.
North Wales Iron.- -Coed-Talon No. 3 Iron, Hot Blast.

 Experiment I.
--386 SEVENTH REPORT 1837»

                Comparative results of Coed-Talon iYo.3.
       Distance between supports, 4 ft. 6 in. and 2 ft. 3 in.

  Strength of Cold Blast Iron.
          ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OP CAST IRON. 387

Tab. V.--English Iron.--Elsicar No. 1 Pig Iron, Cold Blast.

       Experiment 1.
--388 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

-- --Tab. VI. English Irons. Milton, No. 1 Pig Iron, Hot Blast-

                                              Yorkshire.

          Experiment 1.
          ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 389

Comparative results of Elsicar Cold Blast Iron, No. 1, and
                         Milton Hot Blast, No. 1

                   Distance between supports 4 ft. 6 in.

                      Elsicar.
Strength of the Cold Blast Iron.
--390 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

placed on the centre, and supported on beams or bearers 3 feet
asunder. The results are below :

            Mean breaking weight of the Cold Blast bars 947 lbs.

            Mean     ditto  ditto   Hot Blast bars 787 ,,

                     Difference in favour of Cold Blast 160

being as 94 to 78 in the ratio of 1000 to 831, or nearly the
same in favour of the cold blast as exhibited in the preceding

tables.

It appears somewhat remarkable, that the same, or nearly the

same, results should be obtained in my experiments of 1836, on

the Elsicar and Milton irons, as were elicited in the experiments

at the Low Moor in 1830. In both instances there is an obvi-

ous defect  in  the  strengths  of  the  iron  made  by      the  hot blast
                                                                                                      j

and, judging from the difference in the deflections between the

Elsicar and the Milton, I should consider the hot blast more

tender than the Elsicar, and less worthy of trust than it when

submitted to forcible strain under vibratory action ; the power

to sustain impact being in favour of the former as 1000 to 875.

Before closing these observations, I would venture to mention

the striking anomaly that exists between the Yorkshire ores and

those of other districts when operated upon by the hot blast.

From the experiments generally, such a marked difference does

not exist in the strength of other irons as are herein portrayed

in those of Yorkshire. Some peculiar and probably unknown
affinity in the minerals may be brought into action by the heated

air, otherwise, 1 confess, I cannot perceive any just reason for
such a change. The mere heating of atmospheric air to 600° or

700° before it enters the furnace, should not, in my opinion,

differ so considerably from the same air heated in the furnace.
I hope the results of these experiments will induce Dr. Faraday,
Dr. Thompson, or some other eminent chemist, to inquire fur-

ther into this subject, and, by correct analysis, to ascertain the
cause of differences which at the present moment appear any-

thing but satisfactory.
               ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 391
    Tab. VII.--Scotch Iron.--Carron No. 3 Pig Iron, Cold Blast.

Experiment I.
       392 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-
   Table VIII.--Scotch Iron.-- Carron No. 3 Pig Iron, Hot Blast.

Experiment 1.
ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 393

     Comparative Results of Carron Iron No. 3.
Distance between supports 4 ft. 6 in. and 2 ft. 3 in.

Strength of Cold Blast Iron.         Strength of Hot Blast Iron.   Ratio of strengths.

           446-3 1                             507-0               1000  1170
           436-2 1444-2                        538-3 1520-0
           450-2                               514-7 J             1000  1192

                                  J        1024-0 } 1068 ' 6

           854-5 1
                         896-2

          937-9/

                                     Mean ratio of strengths       1000 : 1181

Results of products and ratio to resist impact.

Product of strength by ulti-         Product of strength by ulti-  Ratio of products, or of
mate deflection in Cold Blast        mate deflection in Hot Blast  power to resist impact.

                       Iron.                              Iron.        1000 : 1196

629-3]                                             710-7               1000 : 1205
564-0 1593-9                                      370-7                1000 : 1201
588-4 J
                                     337-6 J
259-9
             300-1

340-3/

Mean ratio of power to sustain impact
--394 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

    Table IX.--Scotch Iron.--Muirkirk No.l, Cold Blast.

       Experiment 1.
        ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON.   395

   --Table X. Muirkirk No. 1 Pig Iron, Hot Blast.

   Experiment 1.

Depth of bar, 1-015
Breadth do. 1-010
Distance between

  supports i ft. 6 in.
Weight of bar 5 ft

   long.

Q
396 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-
            Comparative Besults of Muirkirk Iron No. 1.

          Distance between supports 4 ft. 6 in. and 2 ft. 3 in.

  Strength of the Cold Blast Iron. Strength of the Hot Blast Iron,
          ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 397

of the weights becoming permanent upon the bars. From the

methods thus adopted it will be seen that the value of the
set has been given with the deflections at regular intervals of
weights, from the commencement of the experiment to the time
of fracture, and the connection between the weights, deflections,
and set, will therefore in all probability be better observed.

   The early period at which the elasticity became injured caused

in addition to the above an extended series of experiments, to
determine whether such injury to the elasticity would not (with
the weight continued) ultimately break the bar. This became
a debatable and very important question between Mr. Hodgkin-
son and myself, the one contending for time, and the other for
a permanent state of elasticity in the ratio of the loads and the

forces respectively.

   The inquiry therefore was, to what extent can cast iron be
loaded, or how much would it permanently bear without en-
dangering its security ? This was in reality a question of great
interest, one which involved important considerations, such as
the stability of bridges, warehouses, factories, and many other
erections to which cast iron is applied, and which depends al-
most entirely upon our knowledge of its ductility and strength.

   It assuredly must be of importance to know that a material

of such value, and so extensively used in almost every branch

of art, can be trusted, and that we may with safety depend upon

its security throughout the endless variety of forms and strains
to which it is subjected.

   Cast iron has hitherto been considered a brittle, and by many

persons an insecure material yet, notwithstanding the distrust
                                                                                                                  ;

and suspicion with which it was viewed, it still continues to
increase in demand, and that to a great extent, in most countries
where the arts are cultivated. Every inquiry therefore which

tends to exhibit its peculiar properties as respects strength,

ductility, &c, must be regarded as an additional step towards
a greater degree of security in its application. Under these

 impressions the following experiments were instituted.
    Five bars of cold, and five of hot blast, Coed-Talon No. 2

 iron, cast to be one inch square, were selected, and having loaded
them with different weights, with their ends supported on props
 4 feet 6 inches asunder, they were left in this position, to de-

termine how long they would sustain the loads without breaking.
    It is now upwards of 15 months since the bars were charged,

 and if we are to judge from the hardihood displayed in their re-

 sistance to the load, there is every chance of a long and pro-
 tracted experiment. In fact, there is every probability of the
 experiments outliving the experimenter.
--398 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

                                  Table XI.

Table of deflections as exhibited with permanent weights of
    280 lbs. suspended from the centre of bars of cold and hot
    blast Coed-Talon iron, cast to be one inch square, and left
    to determine the effect produced on each bar after given in-

    tervals of time.
           ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OP CAST IRON. 399

   From the above it appears, that a progressive increase, in the

deflections of the bars, has taken place, since the time they were
charged, in the ratio of 1000, for the cold blast, to 1303, for the
hot blast.

    The hot blast bar in these experiments being more deflected

than the cold blast, indicates that the particles are more' extended
and compressed in the former iron, with the same weight, than

in the latter. This excess of deflection may in some degree

account for the rapidity of increase, which it will be observed
is considerably greater in the hot than in the cold blast bar.

    The next experiment was from the same metal, cast as before
into rectangular bars 1 inch square, and loaded with additional
weights, amounting to 336 lbs. on each bar.

                                 Table XII.

Table of deflections as exhibited with permanent weights of
    336 lbs. suspended from the centre of bars of cold and hot
    blast Coed-Talon iron, cast to be one inch square, and left
    to determine the effect produced on each bar after given inter-

     vals of time.

                Distance between the supports 4 ft. 6 in.

Experiment 1.
400 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

Results in the preceding Table, shoioing the progressive and
   increased ratio of deflections from the l\th of March, 1837,
   to 23rd of June, 1838.

    Cold Blast Iron,
         deflection in
              inches.
           ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 401

                                Table XIII.

   Table of deflections as exhibited with permanent weights of
392 lbs. suspended from the centre of bars of Cold and Hot
Blast Coed-Talon Iron, cast to be one inch square and left to
determine the effect produced on each bar after given intervals

of time.

   Distance between supports 4 feet 6 inches.

Experiment 1.
--402 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

On comparing the above with Table No. XII, preceding it,

there will be found a greater proportionate deflection in both

the cold and hot blast bavs than is observable with the lighter

weights of 336 lbs., and in both instances the deflection is greater

in the hot than in the cold blast. The same is the case in ex-

periment 2nd of the next Table, where the deflection indicated

by 448 lbs. is less than what is exhibited on the hot blast with

336 lbs., being as 1*437 to 1*803. This may be accounted for

by the bars ·which were newly cast containing, in all proba-

bility, a greater proportion of carbon, and consequently having

more ductility than those in Tables No. XII and No. XIV.

The ratio of increase in the deflections is much higher in the

cold blast iron than the hot; and notwithstanding the silent

and apparently progressive approach towards rupture, there is

every appearance of a long and tedious experiment. It cannot

however be doubted that fracture will sooner take place in the

cold than the hot blast, as the former is advancing to that point

Wewith greater rapidity, or in the ratio of 1000 to 628.  may

therefore expect the bar from the cold blast iron to be the first

to give way, and probably about the time when the deflection

verges on two inches.
              ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 403

                                    Table XIV.

      Table of deflections as exhibited with permanent weights of
   448 lhs. suspended from the centre of bars of cold and hot
   blast Coed-Talon iron, cast to be one inch square, and left to
   determine the effect produced on each bar after given intervals

   of time.
       Distance between supports 4 feet G inches.

Experiment 1.
--404 SEVENTH REPORT 1837

   The greater degree of weakness here exhibited in the hot blast

iron than the cold renders our comparative experiments in this
Table defective ; several bars were tried in succession, but they
 separately gave way, some on laying on the load, 448 lbs., and
 others after supporting it for a few seconds.

     In experiment 1st, Table XIV., it will be noticed that a bar
 from the cold blast iron, after being charged with the full load,
 448 lbs., continued to support it for a period of 37 days ; this
 was not however accomplished without signs of weakness, as
 will be seen from the progressive increase which took place in
 the deflections from the 6th to the 17th of March; and also
 from observed discrepancies sometime previous to its rupture.
 In making these statements it must be observed, that the bar
 in experiment 1st was thinner than any of the others, and had
 borne for thirty- seven days a weight greater than had broken
 bars of the same size in previous experiments upon the Coed-
 Talon iron, when the weights were laid on without loss of time.

  Abstract of comparative increase and ratio of deflections on the
      whole bars from March 6th, 1837, to June 23rd, 1838.
                      ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OP CAST IRON. 405

deflections) that we must at some period arrive at a point beyond

their bearing powers ; or otherwise to that position which indi-

cates a correct adjustment of the particles in equilibrium with

the load. Which of the two points we have in this instance at-

tained is difficult to determine : sufficient data are however ad-
duced to show that the weights are considerably beyond the

elastic limit*, and that cast iron will support loads to a much
greater extent than what has usually been considered safe, or
beyond that point where a permanent set takes place. But in
whatever way this may be determined, it is obvious the pre-

ceding experiments give greater indications of strength than
has generally been supposed cast iron would do ; and should

the bars continue to support the loads for a few years longer,

there cannot exist a doubt as to the security of this metal

under applications hitherto unknown ; and the same majr be

said of other materials.

In the 14th Table we shall find inch square bars loaded on

the middle, within a few pounds of weights sufficient to break

them                  we  shall  also  find  the  bars                                                                                                                                                                                           considerably bent, and  the
                   ;

Nowresisting powers in full operation to sustain the load.                                                                                                                                                                                                               the

question to be determined by this experiment is, the nature of

this resistance ; and to show in the first instance whether the re-

sisting power of the extended particles below, and the powers of

the condensed ones operating above, are sufficient at all times

ad infinitum to support the load ; or whether those particles, in-

stead of being united (as we suppose) with a permanent force,

nicely balanced at all points of resistance, are not absolutely

giving way; and by slow, though imperceptible degrees, be-

coming hourly weaker, until the cohesive power is entirely de-

stroyed and rupture takes place.

myIt is not               intention in this place to offer any opinion upon

the cohesive properties of matter, but simply to inquire how far

the bearing powers of cast iron can be depended upon.

It is evident from these experiments that both sorts of hot and

cold blast iron possess that power in a high degree ; and we need
only refer to the experiments for examples to show the patient

tenacity with which so heavy a load is supported. At first sight
it would appear, that the heavier loaded bars were progressively
giving way, as the deflections continue to increase since the
loads were permanently fixed ; this defect is however not more
conspicuous in the bars supporting 448 lbs., than in those sup-

* The elastic limit is that point where bodies under strain lose the power to

restore themselves when the load is removed                                                                                                                                                                                                      a property which is strongly ex-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

emplified in cast iron. It has been considered by many that materials cannot;

be loaded with safety beyond that point.
406 SEVENTH REPORT 183J.

porting 392 lbs.; the deflection is even greater in the latter,
arising in all probability from a greater degree of ductility in

the bars.

  I hope shortly to inauce my friend Mr. Hodgkinson, Profess-

or Barlow, or some other able mathematician, to investigate this
subject, and by close analysis to demonstrate those truths, so
essential to the interests of all engaged in the use of the metals,
but more particularly in reference to the security of the public

at large.

                               Effects of Temperature.

   When the multiplicity of objects to which cast iron is ap-

plied, and the innumerable situations in which it is placed, is

considered, I may venture to state, that in every work of which

cast iron forms the whole or a part of the structure, it is more
or less liable to change. The rapidity with which it imbibes,
and the facility with which it parts with caloric, is in itself a
sufficient consideration for the labour I have bestowed upon

 these inquiries.

   The present investigation would have been less satisfactory
had the experiments on the effects of temperature been omitted
and I trust, the annexed Tables, which exhibit hot and cold blast

iron under various gradations of heat, will not be without their
uses in the future application of this material.

    Rondelet, in his " Traite de Bdtir," has given and collected
results from experiments, made by himself and others, on the

expansion of bodies under the effects of heat ; but I am not

aware of any that have been made to ascertain the transverse
strength of metallic substances under the various changes of
temperature. It is well known that the effects of heat upon iron
have not escaped the notice of philosophers ; but I believe no
writers on this subject have conducted their experiments in any
way analogous to those now under consideration.

    The celerity with which heat passes through the metals, and
the frequent recurrence of iron being the medium of communi-
 cation between fluids and this powerful agent, it is not surpri-

 sing that the changes of temperature thus induced should cause

 such visible indications of deterioration in the material. Gas
 retorts, and all those vessels exposed to the alternate changes
 of the heating and cooling process, are considerably injured by
 the expansion and contraction of the parts ; and no doubt the
 destruction of the metals is much accelerated when they are
 worked up to a high and excessive temperature. Probably
 steam-boilers are not so much injured as those above-men-
 tioned, as the temperature is kept moderately low by the water
                   ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 407

         they contain, which seldom exceeds 212°. The same causes are,
         nevertheless, in operation, and must continue to be so under the

           varied influences of caloric action.

          Had time permitted, it was my intention to have pursued the

        experiments on temperature under a much greater degree of
         form and change than is here exhibited. For example, it might

         have been desirable not only to load the bars until they were
         broken, but also to charge them with different weights, and, by
        alternate heating and cooling, to have ascertained how far the
         bars so charged were affected by the change. Such an extension
         of the experiments might have led to the development of some

        new feature in the actions thus produced, and that more parti-
         cularly by the introduction, abstraction, re-introduction, &c. of
         the different increments of heat. As it is, the bars were all

          broken at the temperatures indicated in the tables.

                                         Table XV.

                                         Coed-Talon, Cold Blast.

To determine the relative strengths of Coed-Talon Hot and Cold Blast Iron,

       to resist a transverse strain under different degrees of temperature.

      No. 2 Iron.
--408 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

Results reduced to those of bars 1 "00 inch square, and 2 feet
                            3 inches betiveen the supports.

                                     Mean...
                                     Mean...
           ON STRENGTH AND PROPURTIKS OF CAST IRON. 409
Results reduced to those of bars 1 '00 inch square, and 2 ft. 6 in.

                                   between the supports.

                                     Mean...
                                      Mean...
 --410 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

                Table XVII.--Coed-Talon Cold Blast.
  To determine the relative strengths of Coed-Talon hot and

      cold blast iron to resist the transverse strain under different
       degrees of temperature.

       No. 2 Iron.
     Experiment 6-

Depth of bar, 1-030
Breadth do. 1-0J0
Distance between

  supports 2 ft. 3 in.
                1

                      ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 411

                        Table XVIII.--Coed-Talon Hot Blast.

       No. 2 Iron.             No. 2 Iron.            No. 2 Iron.      No. 3 Iron.                                    No. 3 Iron.
    Experiment 6.           Experiment 7.         Experiment 8.       Experiment 9.                                Experiment 11.

Depth of bar, 1-007     Depth of bar, 1-038    Depth of bar, 1019     Depth of bar, -993 Depth of bar, -986
Breadth do. 1-009       Breadth do. 1-017      Breadth do. 1-015      Breadth do. -991 Breadth do. -997
Distance between        Distance between       Distance between       Distance between Distance between

  supports 2 ft. 3 in.   supports 2 ft. 3 in.   supports 2 ft. 3 in.    supports 2 ft. 3 in. supports 2ft. Sin

                                                                      Weight                                       Weight
                                                                                     Temp.                                      Temp

                                                                      in lbs.                                       in lbs.

                a. g                 a -g                             800 broke 212° 889 broke 600c

                1
                E» fe

                                                                      Broke in boiling Broke in melted

+·041                   +112 044               122 037                  water.                                     lead.
                                                             196°
082 006                 224 094 009
123 010                                        224 075
'104 017
215 021                 330 112 012            336 115       195         No. 3 Iron.                                  No. 2 Iron.
271 036                                                               Experiment 10.                               Experiment 12.
329 051                 448 198 010            448 ·151-010

         broke          500 263 020            560 205-018            Depth of bar, -9S6 Depth of bar, 1-034
                                                                      Breadth do 1-000 Breadth do. 1*010
                        072 333 041            672 ·255 024 192       Distance between Distance between

                        700  broke             784 ·314 038             supports 2 ft. 3 in supports 2ft. 3 in.

                                               868 .broke    190

                                                                      Weight
                                                                      in lbs. Temp. Weight in lbs.

                                                                      811 broke 600°                               896 broke

    Ultimate deflec-     .'. Ultimate deflec-   .*. Ultimate deflec-   Broke in melted                               Bar susceptibly
                                                                                                                   red in the dark.
=3ii -386.              =tion -346.            =tion -356.            lead.

Jroke in hot water.      Broke in hot water.    Broke in hot water.

aT r L fcold blast.

possessing
                             tt ainrgaenCw\h-icflh.gtr.heeatfr"acdtuuCrtemtexyhiabnidts,soifttinsesesvtidheanntly
                  Frrom the      *eP                                                                                 No. 3.
                the powers                                                                                         an iron
                             b>,llu?eP

                             of being worked to a greater degree than the cold blast

Results reduced to those of bars 1-00 inch square, and 2 feet

                            3 inches betiveen the supports.
--412 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

     In pursuing the experiments, it unfortunately occurred that
 the stock of No. 2 Coed-Talon metal became exhausted, a
 circumstance which interrupts the comparisons from below the

 freezing point to that of melted lead. The No. 3 should have

 been broken at all the points of temperature, in order to have
 ascertained the loss of strength sustained upon this iron by the
increase of heat. This was however not accomplished, and we
 can now only compare the two qualities No. 2 and No. 3 at the
 boiling point of water, and then proceed to the temperature of
melted lead. I have already noticed that a considerable fail-
ure of the strength took place after heating the No. 2 iron

 from 26° to 190°. At 212° we have in the No. 3 a much
greater weight sustained than what is indicated by the No. 2

at 190°; and at 600° there appears in both hot and cold blast
the anomaly of increased strength as the temperature is ad-
vanced from boiling water to melted lead, arising from the
greater strength of the No. 3 iron.

  A number of the experiments made on No. 3 iron of different

sorts have given extraordinary and not unfrequently unex-
pected results. Generally speaking it is an iron of an irregular
character, and presents less uniformity in its texture than
either the first or second qualities ; in other respects it is more
retentive, and is often used for giving strength and tenacity to

 the finer metals.

    Recurring to the No. 2 iron, it will be observed that the
strength continued to diminish as the temperature was in-
creased. Heating the cold blast iron in Experiments 1 1 and
12 to a perceptibly red colour, we have the breaking weights
663 and 723 ; whereas, in the hot blast, at nearly the same
temperature, the breaking weight is 829 - 7, being as 693 (the
mean) to 829, or in the ratio of 1000 : 1289.

   From the experiments in Table 1, it appears that a bar of

cold blast iron 1 inch square and 2 feet 3 inches between the
supports, broke at the ordinary temperature of the atmo-
sphere with 836*9, and in No. 3 cold blast from Table 3, the
breaking weight is 1137'3. This gives an excess of strength
for the No. 3 iron of at least one-fourth.

  When the bars were heated to a blood red the utmost care

was taken to break them without loss of time. In every in-
stance the deflection was considerable; rather more than 1£
inches was observed on the 2 feet 3 inches bars before they
gave way.
          ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OF CAST IRON. 413

Comparative strength and power to resist impact of the Coed-
    Talon hot and cold blast irons, at various temperatures.
                                Transverse Strengths.

  Temperature.
--414 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

ratio of the forces to resist impact. Before closing the expe-

riments, it may, however, be proper to state that, in addition to

the methods described in the preceding inquiry, that of grinding
was adopted. For this purpose, an apparatus was made to

grind each iron under an equal pressure, in order to ascertain

the comparative resistances of different specimens of the same

size, as compared with the results from chipping and filing

given before. This was done with equal weights, upon equal

sections, and during equal periods of time ; and each piece was
carefully weighed, in order to determine which of the irons was

most easily reduced. Notwithstanding the care taken to en-

sure correct results, I was unable to procure data from which

any thing satisfactory could be obtained. For instance, in the

Coed-Talon, Elsicar, and Milton irons, each specimen (nearly

Wiscubical) was reduced, as in the Table below, where  a

constant weight.
     ON STRENGTH AND PROPERTIES OP CAST IRON.                                                                                                                                                                                                415

General Summary of                   Results, as derivedfrom                                                                                               the experiments
                                     strength of hot and cold                                                                                               blast iron.
       on the transverse

                                                                   Ratio of                                                                                Ratio of powers

                                                                   strength, that to sustain im-
                                                                   of the cold blast
                                                                     being repre-                                                                          pact (cold blast
                                                                                                                                                             being 1000}
                                                                   sented by 1000,

TMe  Hxo?d"g?kairnesforno'ms^f  Carr°n iron           No 2 1000                                                                                              990-9 1000                                                                      1005-1
                                Devon do                                                                                                                :                                                                                 :  2785-6
Mr.
                                                      No' a'"' 1000 :                                                                                      1416-9 1000 :                                                                       962-1
experiments    (. Buffery do                       !!.No! l!!.' 1000 :                                                                                      930-7 1000 :                                                                     1234

                                Coed-Talon do              No. 2... 1000 :                                                                                 J 007 1000 :                                                                       925
                                                                                                                                                            927 1000 :                                                                        875
                                Coed- Talon do             No! 3... 1000                                                                                    818 1000 :                                                                       1201
                                                                                                                                                           1181 1000 :                                                                        823
                                Elsicar and Milton do         ."                                                                                            927 1000 :
                                                                  1000

                                Carron do                  No. 3... 1000 :

                                Muirkirk do                No. 1 1000 :

                                                           Mean... 1000 : 1024-8 1000 : 1226-3

The ultimatum of our inquiries made in this way stand

tT?toTolrs'for                               rGpVagvtliVngas  100° fOT the "old Wast

LenfeoMfSJm^? ^ierence oi 8                                   the small fractional difl
                                104
                                     £bllas

                                favour of the hot blast.*

             ra e                                          impaCt are likewise in &-

Ew^ ^tvour of the hot                                      ratio of 1Q00 to 1226-3.
   ±Fonr tfh>eT ratios
        8                                                  of the hot and cold blast
                                 S   t^hee-m°gpoiwnertshe

                                of>
A^T "** ^*^*$tdforltimmee,
     and  for  the              resisting              «" an              same

                                                powers of the                                                                                              iron   under
variable temperatures, I must refer                                                                                                                        the
contained in their respective tables.                         the  reader^to                                                                                     results

              6

**FSZS2F^*J* ^T ^ --«·accent

^^comparative powe^tStTmpact
                                                "             N°" ir0n in a

                                                                  *·!

                                                                          StrCnS ths' a8 also th«
                ON WAVES.        417

Report of the Committee on Waves, appointed by the British

   Association at Bristol in 1836, and consisting o/Sir John
   Robison, K.H.j Secretary of the Royal Society of Edin-
   burgh, and John Scott Russell, Esq., M.A. F.R.S. Edin.

    {Reporter)

Since the period of their appointment, the Committee have

been almost incessantly occupied in carrying on the researches
committed to them. The extent and multifarious nature of the
subjects of inquiry have rendered it impossible to terminate the

examination of all of them in so short a time ; but it is their
duty to report the progress which they have made, and the

partial results they have already obtained, leaving to the re-
ports of future years such portions of the inquiries as they have

not yet undertaken. As far as they can judge from present

indications, there are wide fields of novel and important science
opening up in this direction, which will furnish an ample har-

vest of rich knowledge for the labour of several succeeding

seasons.

   The Subjects of Inquiry with which the Committee were
charged are the following:--

  --What is a Wave ? What are the varieties, phenomena, and

laws of waves in regard to generation and propagation in

various circumstances ?

   Of what nature are the Waves of the Sea ?
   Is the Tidal Elevation a wave obeying the same laws with

any other order of wave ?
   Is the propagation of the tide-wave affected by Local Winds ?

and if so, in what manner ?

These were questions to which, in the existing state of our

knowledge of hydrodynamics, we had no grounds either dog-

matical or empirical to form a reply, and it was therefore of

importance to the advancement of the science of hydrodynamics

that we should be able to fill up this hiatus valde deflen-

dus. The question of the propagation possessed interest not

only in a scientific view, but also from its practical importance ;
for it had been found in the earlier proceedings of this Asso-

ciation that the beautiful physical phenomena of waves were not

only employed as agents to convey through the air the inti-

mations of distant events to the sense of hearing, and to waft

to the eye the exquisite sensations of light and colour, but were

vol. vi. 1837.               2E
418 SEVENTH REPORT 1837»

likewise employed in the practical uses of every-day life, and
took an important part in that commercial intercourse by means
of which the comforts of life and the advancement of civilization
are immediately promoted. It had been ascertained by former
researches that the resistance of fluids to bodies moving through
them is affected by an element which had not been formerly
recognised ; that the new element which had given rise to con-
tradictory and apparently anomalous phenomena was a wave
produced in the fluid by the moving body ; and that this wave
affected the amount of resistance, either positively or negatively,
according as the velocity of the wave was greater or less than
that of the moving body*. It became, therefore, an inquiry of
theoretical and general interest, as well as of special and prac-
tical importance to the art of navigation, to determine with
great accuracy the laws of this wave. It had already been
satisfactorily established that the velocity of propagation of this
wave was nearly that due to half the depth of the fluid, that
this velocity was independent of the form of the generating
solid, and of the generating velocity of the solid. But this
law had not been extended to channels of different forms

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;

neither had the conditions necessary to the existence of this
wave, nor the nature of the mechanism by which its propa-
gation takes place, been described and ascertained. This wave
had been called the great solitary wave of the fluid, but its re-
lation to other waves, and its identity or diversity, had not been
determined.

   It was also necessary to determine the nature and class of
the waves with which we are most familiar, and which we see
at the surface of water agitated by the wind, and which break

on the shores of the sea. Do these belong to the previous

class of waves, or do they not ? their form and velocity have

been thought to depend in some measure on the depth. Do

they belong to the first class of waves, or are they a dif-

ferent class ?

   But the most important of all these investigations, both in
relation to the advancement of physical science and to the
practical value of their results, are probably those which refer
to the propagation of the tide. The recent researches of Mr.
Lubbock and Mr. Whewell, carried on in connexion with this
Association and by its assistance, have conferred on the subject

of the tides the interest of novelty as well as scientific value.
Their researches have gone far towards removing the stigma

   · Researches in Hydrodynamics, by John Scott Russell, Esq., M.A. F.R.S.
Edinburgh, Phil. Trans. R.S.E., 1 83G.
ON WAVES.  419

cast upon science by the imperfect state of this branch of
knowledge. That the solar and lunar attractions produced
some effect upon the tides, every one knew ; but the problem
was far from having been reduced into that condition in which
it could be said that the phenomena of the heavens being given,
the tides could be determined in magnitude and in time. So
perfect, however, has this prediction lately become, that Mr.
Lubbock has said that, considering how well theory agrees
with observation, he is not sanguine that any material im-
provements in prediction will hereafter be made. And, indeed,
this assurance appears to rest on valid grounds when it is con-
sidered that the tide tables which have resulted from his re-
searches, and those of Mr. Whewell, give predictions whose

errors are within the limits of the errors of observation.

   But although the Celestial Mechanism of the tides has

been thus perfectly analysed and explained, there remain a
great variety of considerations relating to the propagation of
tides along the surface of the globe which are as yet unex-

plained; these constitute the Terrestrial Mechanism of

the tides. It is in the generation only of the tide that the solar
and lunar attraction produce their effects : over the subsequent

propagation of them, they exercise little or no influence. It

is not until 50 or 60 hours after their creation that the tides

reach our shores, having moved in the interval in every possible
direction, and with every velocity from 100 to 10 miles an
hour. This moving elevation of fluid may be conveniently de-

signated a wave, and its history will be the history of the tidal
ivave ; but to confer upon it the name of wave does not imply
that its laws are those which belong to any other similar ele-

vation with which we are acquainted. It was necessary to

--investigate the nature of this tide wave to examine the

hydrodynamical mechanism by which it is transferred from one

--place to another, to determine the laws which regulate its form
--and its velocity to ascertain if any relations exist between the

form and dimensions of its bed, and its own form and rate of
transference. These and many similar points were still un-
known. Laplace has said, in speaking of these points, " les

circonstances dont elles dependent, ne sont pas connues."

Mr. Lubbock, in reference to the fluctuation of the establish-

ment, says, "this perplexing fluctuation presents an insuperable
obstacle to extreme accuracy in tide predictions until it can be

explained ; at present we are only left to conjecture respecting
the cause." And similar sentiments are expressed by Mr.
Whewell in the seventh series of his researches on the tides,

                                2 e2
--420 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

read on the 7th March, 1837. He observes, " I cannot con-

clude this paper without again pointing out that a "great number
of curious facts in fluid motion are established by these tide re-
searches, of which it may be hoped that the theory of hydro-

dynamics will one day be able to render a reason." It was,

therefore, necessary to investigate the subject of the terrestrial

mechanism of the tides, that is, to determine the nature of the
mechanism by which this tide wave is transferred from one
part of the waters of a given channel to another. At the
meeting of the Association at Bristol, Mr. Whewell had ex-
pressed his opinion that the great primary wave of Mr. Russell

and the tidal wave would be identified.
   The effect of wind upon the propagation of the tide wave

was also a subject of importance. The magnitude of the tide
is admitted generally to be affected by it in some way, but it is

matter of doubt, whether the time of the tide, or rather the

velocity of the tide wave, is at all affected. M. Daussy denies the

existence of such an effect in the French observations, while it
has been found by Mr. Lubbock in the London tides. It was

necessary to determine this point with great accuracy.

Besides their direct and theoretical use, there was another

point of some importance in these researches concerning the
tide wave, viz., that if the tide wave shovdd be found to obey
the law of the great primary wave of fluid, we should be put in
possession of the principles on which the improvement of tidal

--rivers might be effected.
   Method of Inquiry. The following order was adopted by
the Committee in the means by which they endeavoured to
carry on the inquiry with which they were entrusted :

   The observations on the nature of the tide wave were those

which it was important to obtain in the first place, as they

required peculiar facilities which were not likely to be readily

found.

   Fortunately it occurred to one of the Committee that the

river Dee in Cheshire was peculiarly suitable to their purpose.
It was their object to determine whether the same law which
regulated the propagation of the wave previously examined by
Mr. Russell in experimental canals, was followed by the tide

wave in its propagation, or whether the velocity of the tide

wave were proportional to a certain depth in a certain form of

channel. It was necessary for this purpose that a channel of

uniform dimensions should be obtained which could be easily

measured, and which should possess a tidal wave capable of

Nowbeing easily observed.  it happened that the river Dee is,
ON WAVES.  421

in part of its channel, tolerably regular, having been formed
artificially through a considerable part of its length; it was
thought likely to answer the purpose.

   In the month of September Mr. Russell visited Cheshire for

the purpose of instituting the observations. He found the

river more perfectly suitable than could have been anticipated.
For more than five miles the channel of the river is perfectly
straight, of a depth and width nearly uniform, inclosed between
banks that are even and well kept, and that have everywhere
the same slope, while the bottom has the slight declivity of 10
inches per mile. Along this channel the tide rolls with a mo-
derate velocity, sometimes marked by a, crested surge, and
sometimes commencing by a motion hardly perceptible, and
here it is inclosed by banks so high as to protect the wave most
perfectly from the action of the wind from every point ex-

cept two.

   The channel of the river was measured and sounded with
great care, and observations of its tidal wave will be found in
this report. The form of the tide wave is given in plate (VI.).

   The observations on the Dee having furnished data for the
determination of the law of the propagation of the tidal wave
in a given regular channel, it was only necessary further to as-

certain the nature of its motion in a channel of a less regular
form, and to determine the effect of the wind upon it. But the
difficulty in this case was enhanced by the circumstance that a
most minute and expensive survey would be required to deter-
mine the figure of such a channel with the accuracy necessary
to furnish data for calculation. In this however the Committee
were again fortunate. The River and Frith of Clyde on the

West of Scotland presents along and varied tidal channel which

has all the variety of form necessary for such an investigation.
The navigation of this river is under the management of a Board
of Trustees, under whose superintendence it has been greatly im-

proved, and who have been at great pains to determine its con-
dition by very careful surveys. To that Board your Committee
made application, and having the kind assistance of Sir Thomas

Brisbane, who, as a former President of the Association, took
a deep interest in forwarding its views, they succeeded in ob-
taining the effective cooperation of the Board of Trustees of the
Clyde in carrying on an investigation which they considered of

much importance to the navigation and future improvement of
their own river.* Their excellent engineer, Mr. Logan, was

immediately placed in communication with Mr. Russell, and

   * The thanks of the British Association were afterwards tendered to the
Trustees of the Clyde for their liberality.
--422 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

instructed to afford  every facility  and  assistance  in his  power
                                                                                    ;

a most accurate survey of the river, with a longitudinal section

and accurate transverse sections at every half mile were obtained,

and a geometrical level of 18 miles was laid down with great

precision. On this line were erected tide gauges of a peculiar

construction, on which a small fraction of an inch could be read

with ease even in a rough sea, and at a considerable distance

from the instrument. These were placed at nine stations, and

were simultaneously observed by careful observers every five

minutes during at least one tide each day. The form and velo-

city of each tide wave were thus ascertained with the desired

accuracy. Application was at the same time made to Captain

Denham, a well-known member of this Association, who was

kind enough to cause such observations of the corresponding high

waters at the Liverpool Docks to be made as the nature of the

situation would afford ; and these, although less perfect than they

would have been had the new arrangements for that purpose

been completed which the interest taken by the British Asso-

ciation has been the means of originating, were yet sufficient to

enable us to determine the tidal interval of the ports in the

Clyde with Liverpool more accurately than hitherto. The

observations after laborious corrections and reductions were all

referred to mean solar line on the meridian of the observatory of

the University of Glasgow, kindly granted by Professor Nicol

for the purpose of regulating the chronometers.

The waves of the sea formed the subject of careful attention to

your Committee. For this purpose one of them obtained the use

of the Mermaid yacht, of Mr. Bogle, of Glasgow, kindly granted

at the request of Mr. Allan, the secretary of the Northern yacht

squadron, for the purpose of making the necessary observations

at sea. The weather was rather unfavourable. The vessel en-

countered alternately severe gales and dead calms, which first

drove her to seek shelter and then prevented her from leaving her

asylum. By means however of these observations, and of others

made in steam vessels crossing the Irish Channel, the results

aimed at were obtained. This series was afterwards completed

by observations made on the sea shore, by which the pheno-

mena of surges have been perfectly explained.

The series was concluded by observations made in experi-

mental reservoirs and channels. These were constructed of a

variety of forms. The waves were generated in different ways

and of very different species. An apparatus was contrived by

which very great accuracy was obtained in the determination

Aof velocity.  considerable series of these observations are

given at the end of this report exactly as they were made, and
ON WAVES.  423

  in such an extent of detail as to furnish any future theorist with
 data as minute as those he might obtain by individual observa-
 tion. This branch of inquiry is however so extensive, that this
 report only gives the commencement of the series, the powers
 of the Committee having been extended during another year for

--continuing the inquiry.
     General Results. The following are nearly the general re-

 sults of these inquiries in so far as they have hitherto been ob-

  tained.

    1. The existence of a great primary wave of fluid, differ-

 ing in its origin, its phenomena, and its laws from the undula-
 tory and oscillatory waves which alone had been investigated
previous to the researches of Mr. Russell, has been confirmed
 and established.

    2. The velocity of this wave in channels of uniform depth is
independent of the breadth of the fluid, and equal to the velocity
acquired by a heavy body falling freely by gravity through a
 height equal to half the depth of the fluid, reckoned from the
top of the wave to the bottom of the channel.

    3. The velocity of this primary wave is not affected by the
velocity of impulse with which the wave has been originally
generated, neither do its form or velocity appear to be derived
in any way from the form of the generating body.

    4. This wave has been found to differ from every other species
of wave in the motion which is given to the individual particles

of the fluid through which the wave is propagated. By the

transit of the wave the particles of the fluid are raised from their
places, transferred forwards in the direction of the motion of

the wave, and permanently deposited at rest in a new place at

a considerable distance from their original position. There is
no retrogradation, no oscillation ; the motion is all in the same
direction, and the extent of the transference is equal throughout

the whole depth. Hence this wave may be descriptively desig-
nated THE GREAT PRIMARY WAVE OF TRANSLATION. The
motion of translation commences when the anterior surface of

the wave is vertically over a given series of particles, it increases
in velocity until the crest of the wave has come to be vertically
above them, and from this moment the motion of translation is
retarded, and the particles are left in a condition of perfect
rest at the instant when the posterior surface of the wave has
terminated its transit through the vertical plane in which they
lie. This phenomenon has been verified up to depths of five

feet.

   5. The elementary form of the wave is cycloidal ; when the
height of the wave is small in proportion to its length the curve
424 SEVENTH REPORT-- 1837.

is the prolate cycloid, and as the height of the wave increases

the form approaches that of the common cycloid, becoming
more and more cusped until at last it becomes exactly that of
the common cycloid with a cusped summit ; and if by any means

the height be increased beyond this, the curve becomes the cur-
tate cycloid, the summit assumes a form of unstable equili-
brium, the summit totters, and falling over on one side forms

a crested wave or breaking surge.

   A6. wave is possible in forms of channel where the depth is

not uniform throughout the whole depth. The full considera-

 tion of this subject is reserved for next report. It appears
 however that where the difference between the depth of the
 sides is considerable, one part of the wave will continue during
 the whole period of propagation in the act of breaking, so as to
 show that in these circumstances a continuous wave is impos-

 sible. In other cases the ridge of the wave rises so much higher

 on the shallower part of the fluid as to produce a given velocity
 without exceeding the limits of equilibrium, and in those cases
 the wave becomes possible, and the velocity appears to coincide

 closely with that which we obtain by supposing the wave re-

  solved into vertical elements, each having the velocity due to

  the depth and then integrating.
     For example, let the form of the channel be

           y = m xn

        =x 8 y vertical element of area

   -- =.«, a?x the square of the velocity of the element,

and

-- --a2 x1 ly the square of the velocity multiplied by wave,

whence,

- PL m/^i_ a2 x* g y
           a9 .r2 n xn - l § x

           =/v m + xnf- af1 * 8

                   n  *%*» + *+  C.

                      + 2'

But since    on n

     fxly  m +n
--426 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

are generally on the surface of the sea several coexistent classes

of oscillations of varying direction and magnitude, which by

their union give the surface an appearance of irregularity which

does not exist in nature.

   12. When waves of the sea approach a shore or come into

shallow water, they become waves of translation, and obeying
the laws already mentioned, always break when the depth of

the water is not greater than their height above the level.

   13. Waves at the surface of the sea do not move with the
velocity due to the whole depth of the fluid : may they not

move with the velocity due to that part which they do agitate,

or to some given part of it ?

  A14. circumstance frequently observed when the waves break

on the shore, has been satisfactorily accounted for by the ex-

amination of the constitution of the waves of the sea. It has

been frequently observed that a certain wave is the largest of a

series, and that these large waves occur periodically at equal

intervals, so that sometimes every 3rd wave, every 7th, or

every 9th wave is the largest. Now as there are almost always

several coexistent series of waves, and as one of these is a long
gentle " under swell," propagated to the shore from the deep

sea in the distance, while the others are short and more super-

ficial waves generated by a temporary breeze of reflections from

a neighbouring shore ; so it will follow that when the smaller

waves are i, or f, or ^th, or in any other given ratio to the
length of longer ones, those waves in which the ridges of the

two series  are  coincident,  will  be  the  periodical  large  waves
                                                                                    ;

and if there be three systems of coexistent waves, or any

greater number, their coincidences will give periodical large re-

curring waves, having maxima and minima of various orders.

  15. The Tide Wave appears to be the only wave of the

ocean which belongs to the first order, and appears to be iden-

tical with the great primary wave of translation ; its velocity
diminishes and increases with the depth of the fluid, and ap-

pears to approximate closely to the velocity due to half the

depth of the fluid in the rectangular channel, and to a certain

mean depth which is that of the centre of gravity of the section

of the channel. It is, however, difficult to determine the limits

within which the tide wave retains its unity ; where portions of
the same channel differ much in depth at points remote from

each other, the tide waves appear to separate.
   16. The tide appears to be a compound wave, one elementary

wave bringing the first part of flood tide, another the high

water, and so on ; these move with different velocities accord-

ing to the depth. On approaching shallow shores the anterior
ON WAVES.  427

tide waves move more slowly in the shallow water, while the
posterior waves moving more rapidly, diminish the distance
between successive waves. The tide wave becomes thus dis-
located, its anterior surface rising more rapidly, and its pos-
terior surface descending more slowly than in deep water.

  A17. tidal bore is formed when the water is so shallow at

low water that the first waves of flood tide move with a velocity
so much less than that due to the succeeding part of the tidal
wave, as to be overtaken by the subsequent waves, or wherever
the tide rises so rapidly, and the water on the shore or in the
river is so shallow that the height of the first wave of the tide
is greater than the depth of the fluid at that place. Hence in
deep water vessels are safe from the waves of rivers which in-

jure those on the shore.

   18. The identity of the tide wave, and of the great wave of
translation, show the nature of certain variations in the esta-
blishment of ports situated on tidal rivers. Any change in the
depth of the rivers produces a corresponding change on the
interval between the moon's transit and the high water imme-
diately succeeding. It appears from the observations in this
report, that the mean time of high water has been rendered 37
minutes earlier than formerly by deepening a portion of about
12 miles in the channel of a tidal river, so that a tide wave
which formerly travelled at the rate of 10 miles an hour, now

travels at the rate of neai'ly 15 miles an hour.

   19. It also appears that a large wave or a wave of high
water of spring tides travels faster than a wave of high water
of neap tides, showing that there is a variation on the establish-
ment, or on the interval between the moon's transit and the
succeeding high water, due to the depth of the fluid at high
water, and which should, of course, enter as an element into

the calculation of tide tables for an inland port derived from
those of a port on the sea shore. The variation of the interval
will vary with the square root of mean depth of the channel
at high water.

   These results give us principles, 1st, for the construction of

canals ; 2nd, for the navigation of canals ; 3rd, for the improve-
ment of tidal rivers ; 4th, for the navigation of tidal rivers ; 5th,

--for the improvement of tide tables. See the Transactions of

the Sections at the end of the volume.
--428 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

                            First Series of Observations.

 --Experiments on Waves in Artificial Reservoirs. As this

portion of the experiments was made in continuation of a series
of experiments in which Mr. Russell had been previously en-
gaged, and of which he from time to time announced the results
to the British Association at Dublin and at Bristol, and as these
notices were omitted in the last volume of the Report, but pro-
mised by the Secretary to be included in the present one, it will
be proper to state what had been brought to light in those ex-
periments on waves previous to the appointment of this Com-

mittee.

   At the Dublin meeting of the Association Mr. Russell stated
that he had been induced to make a series of experiments on
waves in certain circumstances, from having found that the re-
sistance of fluids to the motion of floating bodies was very much
affected by the phenomena of the waves generated in the fluid
by the motion of these bodies ; and that many of the imper-
fections of that part of hydrodynamical science which treats of
the resistance of fluids, would be removed by an acquaintance
with the laws of the motion of waves. One of the great in-
stances of deficiency in our theoretical knowledge, when ap-

plied to practical uses, occurred in the question of the force re-
 quired to give motion to a vessel in a confined channel, a canal,
 or a small river ; in these cases a vessel at certain points of her
 progress encountered extreme resistance, and at other, still
 higher velocities, experienced diminutions of resistance equally
 extraordinary and anomalous. These facts had set at defiance
 all previous theory ; but it was found that a knowledge of the
 laws of the generation and propagation of waves in a fluid was
 all that was required to solve these difficulties and to remove
 these anomalies. For this purpose he had undertaken a series
 of experiments on waves carried on during the years 1 834 and

 1835.

   The Wave which had been thus found to form so important

 an element in the resistance of fluids, was found to be a phe-
 nomenon of a very different nature from those waves which had
 previously occupied the attention of the physical investigator.
 This phenomenon presents itself as a Solitary Progressive
 Elevation of the surface of a quiescent fluid, neither preceded
 nor followed by any secondary or successive phenomena, to-
 tally distinct from the oscillatory waves, and from such waves as
 the ripple on the surface of a lake agitated by the wind, and the
 concentric circular oscillations of a calm sheet of water into
 which a stone has been dropped, and from the waves which are
ON WAVES.  429

presented on the surface of an agitated sea. This wave presents
simply the phenomenon of an elevation of fluid transferred

from place to place of the fluid, finding the fluid perfectly at

rest, and leaving it in an equally perfect state of equilibrium.

Many philosophers have examined the theory of waves, but

they all appear to have considered only the oscillatory, success-

ive, and gregarious waves. Newton considered them as re-

presented by the oscillations of a column of fluid in a bent tube,
and assigned to them laws analogous to those of the pendu-

lum ; Granesaude followed the theory of Newton; D'Alem-
bert adopted Newton's theory, and pursued this investigation
considerably further ; and Lagrange improved it by removing
some former limitations inconsistent with the phenomena
Laplace formed a new theory, in which the oscillatory waves

are supposed to be formed by immersing a solid of a given form
in the fluid and suddenly withdrawing it ; Gerstner gives a
very beautiful theory of waves, in which the observed phenomena
of oscillatory waves of the larger class are very accurately re-
presented; Poisson, Cauchy, and Fourier have discussed
the mathematico -physical question of very minute oscillatory
waves with so much success, as to represent some of the phe-
nomena with considerable accuracy ; and the results of these
theoretical views have been examined very carefully in the ex-
periments of Bremontier, Flaugergues, Bidone, and the
Webers. But in none of these inquiries has the phenomenon
 of the solitary wave attracted any attention ; and, indeed, so
 far from having been satisfactorily examined, its very existence
 does not appear ever to have been distinctly recognised.

     This solitary progressive elevation appears to be the ivave of

 the first order, and has been called by Mr. Russell the Great

 Primary Wave of the fluid. And its phenomena are of that

 invariable and decided character, which claim for it such a di-

 stinction.

    The great primary wave was first observed by Mr. Russell in
 1834. By the impulse of a vessel drawn by horses a consider-
 able portion of fluid was raised above the level of the rest
 of the fluid in a channel of limited breadth and depth. The
 elevation thus formed was observed to assume a peculiar and
 regular shape extending across the whole breadth of the
 channel, and to propagate itself along the surface of the quies-

 cent fluid with a velocity of nearly eight miles an hour ; which
 velocity and form appeared to continue unchanged, although

  followed for about the distance of a mile.

     The following experiments were made for the purpose of
  determining whether the velocity of this wave were not affected
--430 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

by the initial velocity given to the fluid at its generation by
the moving body. The velocity of genesis, or of the vessel by
whose displacement the elevation of fluid was produced, is
given in miles per hour, and the time occupied by the wave in

describing 700 feet is given in seconds.

      Velocity of genesis.  ^ ?^S      ^d Intmal of time-
                                    h

(1.)   5 miles an hour      700 feet   62* seconds
(2.)   3
(3.)  10                    --700      --61-
(4.)                        --700      --61-
(5.)    7                   --700      --62-
(6.)   7                    --700      --62-
       4                    --700      --61*5

   From this it is manifest that the velocity of the propagation

of the wave does not vary with the velocity of its genesis.
   To determine whether the height of the wave produced any

variation in its velocity, the following experiments were made :
                               ON WAVES.                                        431

quently the depth of the fluid was uniform across the whole
depth of the channel ; it was next of importance to ascertain what
law held in those cases where the depth diminished towards the
edges of the channel. For this purpose two channels were
selected having the greatest depths in their middle and diminish-
ing towards the sides. The following are the results :

              Greatest depth in                         Velocity of wave,
                 the middle of Space described.
                  the channel.                   7«84 miles an hour
                                                 6-09
       (13.)  --5-5 feet  --1000 feet
       (14.)               820
              4-0

 In    these  instances   the  diminished depth       at the        sides has

^

diminished the velocity of the wave below that due to the

greatest depth in a ratio in the first example nearly of 9-5 to

7'S, and in the second of 7* to 6\               See  ExpFeriments  (11)        and
                                                                             '

(12).

   The following three experiments are instructive as having
been made on channels in which the maximum depth was

nearly the same in all 5 but in (15) the depth remained con-

stant to the side which was vertical. In (16) the sides had a

slope of nearly 20°, and in (17) a slope of nearly 40°, so as to

diminish the depth towards the sides.

       Maximum depth. ^£^°[             Space described. Velocity.

(15.)         --5*6 feet  Rectangular            486 feet 9-59 miles
(16.)                     Slope of 20°           -- --2038
(17.)         5-5         Slope of 40°                8*83
                                                 --1000-- 7*84
              5-5--

    From these it is manifest that the depth of the channel, while

it modifies the depth of the fluid, affects the velocity of the
wave. It was not found that the breadth of the channel pro-
duced any similar effect.

   The results obtained from the experiments of 1834 and 1835
were considered by the Association of sufficient novelty and
importance to point out the propriety and advantage of institu-
ting a fuller and more minute series of experiments concerning
the nature of the wave, in which all its phenomena and laws
should be determined with as much precision as possible.

   The subjects of inquiry which immediately presented them-
selves were the following

   1. To determine whether different methods of generating the
wave influence its subsequent phenomena.

   2. To determine with accuracy the velocity of the wave in

given circumstances.

   3. To ascertain the form or forms of the wave.
--432 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

   4. To determine the manner in which the depth and breadth

of the channel affect the velocity and form of the wave.

   5. To determine the influence of form in the channel on the

form and velocity of the wave.

   6. To ascertain the nature of the mechanism by which the
wave is propagated from one place to another; or to answer
the question, What is the wave ?

   7. To ascertain the difference between the primary ivave and

waves of other descriptions.

   8. To determine the effects of solid bodies or obstacles on the

--motion of waves, and the effect of waves on one another, and

conversely the effect of waves on solid bodies, either at rest
or moving through them, immersed in them, or floating upon

their surface.

   9. To determine the effects of waves on one another.
   For the purpose of obtaining some of these results with the
requisite precision, there was provided the following

Experimental Apparatus.

--AExperimental reservoir.  rectangular reservoir, formed

with much precision, was provided for the purpose of contain-

ing the fluid to be made the subject of experiment. Its sides

were supported by strong brackets, and the whole was raised

on a strong frame to a height convenient for experiment ; the

whole length of the reservoir was 20 feet precisely, an addi-

tional length of 7*3 inches having been reserved to form a gene-

rating chamber in connexion with the reservoir. The dimen-

sions of the reservoir are,                 ...     20 feet
                                            ...
         Length of experimental reservoir             1 foot.
         Breadth of experimental reservoir

The bottom of the reservoir was placed with care in the hori-

zontal plane, so that it could be filled and emptied conveniently.

AThe reservoir is represented in Plate I., fig. 1.  is the trans-

B Dverse section, and are longitudinal sections of the levels of

the reservoir.                              channel of great

 --AMethod of determining the velocity.

length may appear at first sight more suitable to the determi-

nation of velocity than the comparatively short one here em-

ployed, whose whole length was traversed by some of the waves

in less than five seconds ; and it would have been preferable for

that purpose had not the method of reflection been employed,

by which all the advantages of that method when employed in

the repeating circle and other instruments are obtained for the

diminution of errors of observation, and by which also the pro-
                    ON WAVES.                                          433

bability in favour of accuracy in the result is elevated to the

region of certainty. It was found that when a smooth plane sur-

face, of sufficient rigidity, was immoveably fixed at the end of

the channel, at right angles to the direction of the wave's trans-

mission, the wave was thereby reflected without sensible change

in its form, magnitude, or velocity. Two such reflecting sur-

faces being placed at opposite ends of the reservoir, it was found

that the wave might be reflected from one end to the other over

successive spaces of 20 feet, and thus brought repeatedly to the

same points of observation. In this way the same wave was

observed during so many as 60 successive transits after 60 suc-

cessive reflections, having thus passed over a course equal in

length to 1200 feet, and occupying an interval of 320 seconds,

giving the power of observing it 60 times in its transit past a

given point. It was thus brought under the eye of three ob-

servers at three different parts of the reservoir during a single

transit. The whole internal surface of the reservoir was accu-

--rately divided into feet, inches, and minuter divisions.
   Means of observing the transit. To observe the instant of

the transit of a wave past a given point is a matter of some

Adifficulty, especially when the wave is long and flat.                wave

one-tenth of an inch high and three feet long is scarcely sen-

sible to the eye until its vertex has passed ; its commencement
and end are perfectly insensible, and its summit so flat that it
is impossible directly to observe its place with precision. To

obviate these difficulties, the following apparatus was provided.

A plane mirror, M, (Fig. 2. Plate 1.) was raised on a frame to a

height of four feet above the surface of the water. On this

mirror the image, I, of a bright flame was thrown, and the mir-

ror was adjusted so as to reflect this image upon the surface of

Athe water (at W).  second mirror (m) was placed over this

second image, so as to intercept the rays reflected from the sur-

face of the water, and to return them finally through an eye-

piece to the observer. The path of the ray was preserved

during the whole of its extent in a plane at right angles to the

direction of the motion of the wave. Parallax in observation

was avoided by a micrometer wire in the eye-piece, which was

kept in coincidence with an opaque line passed through the

Mimage at and so reflected in m, and with a line of division, D,

seen directly without reflection past the edge of the mirror m.

The observer was thus enabled to compare the place of the

centre of the reflected image by coincidence with fixed lines.

When perfectly at rest the coincidence was perfect. When the
Wcentre of the wave was at
                            11       figs.  2  and  3,  the  rays  of  light also

                                 -,

reflected from a plane surface, perfectly horizontal, presented the

vol. vi. 1837.                       2f
--434 SEVENTH HErOHT 183/.

Wsame coincidence
                                                                            ;
but when the anterior part of the wave                                         1
                                                                                 -,

figs. 2 and 3, was that on which the rays fell, the image was carried

in the direction of the motion ; and, on the other hand, when

the posterior surface of the wave reflected the image, it was
W mtransferred to the other side, as in the point
                                                   \ When,

therefore, the transit of a wave took place, the following phe-

nomena presented themselves to the observer. The image con-

tinued at rest, as seen in fig. 3, until the approach of the wave
from the instant at which the transit began until the instant of

the passage of the crest of the wave, the image appeared on the

anterior side of the wire, as in fig. 4 ; but during the remainder
of the transit, the image was found on the posterior side of the

wire, as in fig. 5 ; and therefore the instant of the transit of

the crest of the wave across the line was also the instant of the

passage of the image from one side to the other across the wire :
now, as the whole time of the transit did not amount to a second,

this instant was given with the required precision, and although

the elevation of the surface was not in many cases perceptible to

the eye, the transit of the image was perfectly satisfactory.

For obtaining the dimensions of the wave with precision,

various expedients were resorted to ; there were provided glass

tubes (gauges or indices) communicating with the channel at

different depths ; they are represented in fig. 6". The centre of

each tube opens into the side of the reservoir at successive

inches of its height, and after continuing horizontally for a cer-

tain space, is turned up vertically, and rises above the level of

the water ; the tubes thus become filled, and the water in each
tube being tinged with colouring matter becomes distinctly

visible, so that the variations of height are read with ease and

precision on the graduated scale behind the tubes to hundredths

of an inch. For a very elegant method of ascertaining the

length of the wave with precision, Mr. Russell is indebted to
Professor Stevelly of Belfast, who suggested that fine points,

similar to those used in the standard cistern barometers, should

be applied to the surface of the water, so as to show by the

instant of their submersion in the fluid, or emergence from it,

the origin and end of the wave. This method was found to

possess much precision ; the phenomena of capillary attraction
mark the instants of contact and separation with vividness, by

the reflection of rays of light from the concave surface of the

fluid raised around the point, and their disappearance on sepa-

ration. The contact of this point with its image in the water

was also a phenomenon marking the place of the surface of the

fluid with minute accuracy. When the two points, placed at

the beginning and end of the wave, showed the phenomena of
                                                            ON WAVES.  435

immersion and emergence at the same instant, their distance

was equal to the length of the wave. It was, however, neces-

sary to have some means of bringing both points under the eye

at the same instant, in order to determine with accuracy the

coincidence of contact in both cases ; the arrangements are

given in fig. 7» P and P are points in contact with the surface

of the fluid at the extremities of a wave ; rays of light from

them are reflected by the mirrors p and p to the eye at O, and

are thus observed simultaneously. By these means, the points

being removed further apart, or brought nearer, until the con-

tact became simultaneous, and the distance of the points equal

to the length of the waves, the height of the wave was de-

termined by the glass indices in fig. 6.

 --Apparatus for generating the Waves. Generating reservoir

A. fig. 8, consisted of a continuation of the experimental reser-

voir A, B, D, of fig. 1, which was separated from it or con-

nected with it by means of a sluice ; so that by filling the

generating reservoir with water to a higher level than the ex-

perimental reservoir while the sluice was closed, on raising it

the water descended, producing a wave, of which the volume

was known. The area of the horizontal section of the generating

reservoir is 76"27 square inches, its length being 6*33 inches in

the direction of the motion of the wave, and 12'05 inches its

breadth at right angles to this ; the detached generating cham-
ber B, fig. 9, was a rectangular parallelopipedon, open at top and

bottom, and so accurately fitted to the bottom of the reservoir

as, when resting on it, to be capable of containing water to any

height, but on raising it from the bottom by which it had been

thus temporarily closed, the fluid descended, producing a wave

of given volume. The area of the horizontal section of the

chamber is 68*32 inches, being 6*1 inches long and 11*2 inches

Awide.                                                      solid parallelopipedon, C. fig. 10, was used to generate
                                                         .

waves, by protruding it to a given depth in the fluid ; the area

of its horizontal section being 88*32 inches, and its dimensions

24*0, 12*05, and 7"33 inches. Another detached generating

chamber, D., was 2*98 inches, being 11*92 inches broad and

24" inches deep, being an area of 35*52 square inches in its- ho-

rizontal section. In those cases where volume of the wave was

not of importance, the wave was produced by the impulse of a

--flat surface pressed horizontally on the fluid.
   Analysis of Experiments. The original experiments are

themselves given at the end of this paper, for the purpose of

enabling any one who may be disposed to make use of them

for any future purpose, either of framing or testing a theory, to

                                                            2 f2
--43t) SEVENTH REPORT 1837«

make use of them much in the same way as if he had himself
made the experiments. The wave having been generated was

first observed in the glass index, fig. 6, placed near to the gene-
rating reservoir ; then it passed under the transit station where
its transit was observed, and the time registered either by one
or two observers, and then its height was cleared in another
glass index near the other reservoir ; the wave having under-
gone the first reflection was returned, and the same observations

--were repeated during a number of successive reflections. See

Experiments page 46'5 491.
   The collection of tables at the end of this report gives the

history of a series of waves in which these phenomena are care-

fully recorded.

 --Explanation of Tables. For the sake of ready reference,

there is given at the beginning of each table (see Wave 1.) the

approximate depth of the fluid, and the date of experiment,
thus :

2d Aug. 1837.  Wave I.       Depth, 4 inches.

The next line contains the mode of generation, written thus :

     =Created by reservoir A. Volume of added fluid 153-5 inches.

The reservoir A, fig. 1, Plate I., the detached chamberB,fig.9, the

solid parallelopipedon C, fig. 10, and chamber D, have already
been described, and are successively referred to in the manner

now stated ; and in Wave IX. for example, the means of gene-

ration was the flat sluice in fig. 8, held in the hand, passed
down to the bottom of the fluid, and moved horizontally so as

to displace the fluid from the reservoir A.
   The method of observing is next given, as for example in

Wave I.

              Transits observed directly at index, and without reflection

when the unassisted eye of the observer detected by in-
spection the transit of the ridge of the wave passing the place
of the indices at y. fig. 6' ; but in other cases the eye was ar-
rested by the reflected image in the transit apparatus already
described, figs. 2, 3, 4, and 5, as for example in Wave V.,
where we have

           Transits observed by the reflected image at the central station.

The next line gives the depth of the fluid in the channel, pre-
vious to the commencement of the experiment, first of all as
ON WAVES.                          437

directly observed in the glass indices, figure 6, on the scale of
which the deviation from approximate depth, already given at
the head, (Depth, 4 inches,) is read off with the appropriate

+ --sign or ; and the mean depth of the fluid having been al-

ready compared by direct experiment with the scale of the
index, and a correction for error of scale applied, the true result
is given at the end as the mean depth of the fluid when at rest,

freed from instrumental error, thus :

~ ~Statical level observed at < Z  ft . n1 > corrected statical depth=3'942 inches.

  AIn the table of the observations, column gives the number

of feet passed over by the wave, reckoning from the instant at

which the first observation of time in column B was made on
either or both of the chronometers a and /3. In column C are

given the readings of the index 7 at that end of the reservoir
where the wave was generated, and from which the observations
are begun, and of the index 8 placed towards the other end of

Dthe reservoir. In column the observations of column C have

been freed from the error of the index scale, so as to represent

the true height of the ridge of the wave above the statical level

Eof the fluid ; and in column the true height of the wave has

been added to the statical depth of the fluid, so as to give the
whole depth reckoned from the ridge of the wave to the bottom

of the reservoir.

   The observations were made in the following manner. The
wave having been generated, was generally allowed to traverse
the whole length of the reservoir, and return to 7 before com-
mencing the observations of time and space ; this was done for
the purpose of allowing the wave to assume its determinate

form, which it did not generally acquire until it had remained

for some time unaffected by external impulse ; and this delay

also allowed the secondary oscillations of the fluid to disappear.

On the return of the wave to 7 its height was carefully ob-

served ; after passing 7 its transit past the central station was
assumed as the zero for time, its height was observed at 8, and
once more on its return to 7, so that the interval between the
observations was an interval due to 20 feet or 40 feet, accord-
ing as the observations were made on successive or alternate
transits ; the successive transits being used when the velocity
was small, and the alternate ones when the velocity was such

as not to afford sufficient intervals for observing and noting with

composure.

   The intervals between the transits were obtained with con-
siderable precision, as may be gathered from the following
--438 SEVENTH REPORT 1837<
--observations made by independent observers. See Wave

XLV.

          Chrono-
ON WAVES.  439

the top of the wave, ascertained from the mean of three observa-
tions in each distance of 40 feet. The waves were generated by
four different methods, the depth of the fluid and the height of
the wave are different in each ; so that on comparing them to-
gether, we have to take into consideration the variations of the

conditions. Now between the mean interval of the successive

transits in XTX. and XV., the difference is only two-hundredth
parts of a second, and between the mean height of the wave in

the former case, and in the latter, there is a corresponding dif-

--ference with the same sign, amounting to two-hundredth parts

of an inch between VIII. and VII. the same coincidence ex-
ists. The same harmony runs through that whole series of

observations from Wave I. to Wave XXVL, and appears to

warrant the conclusion, that between ivaves of this order, gene-
rated in very different methods, no sensible difference in the
law ofpropagation can be distinguished. In the remaining series

of observations, the protrusion of solid C was the method gene-

rally adopted for generating the waves, as it was found conve-
nient and precise. Various other methods, such as suspending
the fluid by atmospheric pressure and the immergence of bodies

of different forms, were tried, without sensible difference on the

result.

   Waves were then generated in different depths of the fluid,

and having different heights, for the purpose of determining the
velocity due to them with all the precision which the method
was capable of affording. The three columns of figures which
follow, are a short table of results, and in a fourth column are
given a few theoretical numbers, representing the height due to
half the depth of the fluid, reckoning from the ridge of the wave.
The first of these columns gives the total depth reckoned from
the top of the wave, the second column is the height of the wave
itself above the quiescent fluid, and the third the observed ve-

locity.
440          SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

     Total depth.
                                                                                     ON WAVES.                                  441

Reference to                                                           Total depth   Height of the  Time occupied      Space     Velocity of
     original                                                        from the ridge        wave.                    described.  wave in feet
                                                                                                     in describing
observations.                                                         of the wave.                  space in next                  per sec.

                                                                                                         column.

XXXVII.                                                              Inches.         Inches.        Seconds.         Feet.       315
XXXIX.                                                                                                                           307
                                                                      3-50              ·50           190            600
                                                                  .   3-60               66                          400         3 02
                                                                      3-61                            13-0           800         3 24
XXV                                                                   3-69                 5.3                       600         3-20
XL                                                                    3-81                            265            800         3-24
                                                                                         75           185                        3-24
XXVI. ...                                                             3-81               73                           60-0
XXXVIII.                                                              3-84               81           25-0                       333
XXXIX. .                                                              3-90               92                          600
                                                                                         96           185            400         3-22
XL                                                                    397                81           185            800         3-33
XXV                                                                                       19          120           1200         3-24
                                                                      4-00                13                        2400         3-30
II                                                                                       31           24-5           800
                                                                      408                34                                      320
IV                                                                                       13          360              80-0
                                                                      4-12               45           740                        3-33
II                                                                    4-15               24                         1200         3 35
                                                                                         59           24-2          1600         3-40
IV                                                                    420                64                         1600         3-40
                                                                                         42           25             80          3-38
VII                                                                   4-25               56                         120          3-46
                                                                      4-31               74          360            1200         3-76
IV                                                                    4-40               80           477           1600
                                                                      4-45                            4675           80001       3-52
VII                                                                                       10
                                                                      449                34           23-5            80 ·oj     3-73
II                                                                    451                             35-5                       3-77
                                                                      461                 15                        1200        .3-80
IV                                                                                       25           34-75                      3-72
                                                                      4-75               36           42-5          120-0        3-77
VII                                                                                      40                                      3-75
                                                                      520                57           225           1600
XIX                                                                                      70          230             800         380
XV                                                                    5-21               78                         1200         405
XIX                                                                                      72           32             800         400
                                                                      5-25               05           31-5          1600
XLV.                                                                  5-35                13                                     3 93
                                                                      5-40                16          43              80-0       3-90
XV                                                                                       30           21-2                       4-21
                                                                      550                 15                        120-0
XLV                                                                                      27           320                        4 21
XLV                                                                   5-61               34          210             800         4-08
                                                                      5-80               31
XLIU. ...                                                             5-82               45           39-5            80-0       418
                                                                                         59           20-0                       404
XLV                                                                   5-82               54           30-5           800
                                                                      6-15               50                         1200         4-14
XLIII. ...                                                                                61         205            1200
                                                                      615                70           190           2000         405
XLVL ...                                                              626                                           1200
                                                                                         38             l.'VO       1600         4-10
XLIII. ...                                                            6-40                                          1600         4-14
                                                                                                      29-5          1200         4-32
XLV                                                                   640                                                        4-32
                                                                                                      28-7            80-0       4-13
XLIII.  ...                                                           6-47                            49-5                       4-21
        ...                                                           6-54                                           800         4-29
XLVI.                                                                                                 290           2000         4-32
                                                                      656                                                        4-40
XLV                                                                   665                             39-5          160
XLV                                                                   669                                           1600
                                                                                                      390           1600
L                                                                      6-74
                                                                                                      29-0          2000
XLIX. ...                                                             675                              18-5
XLIX. ...                                                             686
L                                                                                                      18-5
                                                                       6-90                           48-5
XLIX. ...
XLVI. ...                                                             720                             38

XLVIII...                                                             7-42                            375
                                                                                                      370
L
                                                                                                      45-5
L

XLVIII....

XLIX. ...

LIII
442                  --SEVENTH REPORT L837*

     Reference to
           original

     observations.
                                 ON WAVES.  443
Analysis of Observations of
--441- SEVENTH REPORT 183/,

  The trapezoidal channel L was formed by the addition of a

rectangular portion, 1 inch deep, to channel K. See Plate III.

fig. 4.

  MThe trapezoidal channel was formed by the addition of a

rectangular portion, 1 inch deep, to channel L.

Analysis of
ON WAVES.                                     445

Aother ; the wave on entering the channel at  was observed
                                                                                               ;

its height was again taken at B, when it had advanced half

the length of the channel, and had been diminished one half

in breadth ; and at C, after having passed along three- fourths of
the length of the channel, the height was again observed.

The wave was observed breaking invariably at the height of

about 3'6 inches above the level of the fluid; and the distance

from D, the end of the channel, when it broke, is given with
the sign minus prefixed. On entering the channel the wave

was low, but gradually increased as it reached the narrower

parts of the channel, becoming acuminated ; and at last having
gained the cusped cycloidal form, broke at the crest, and passed

into the centre angle of the wedge, when it rose suddenly

Aover the sides of the channel in a sharp vertical jet d'euu.

table of these experiments is given at the end, comprehending

Waves XCIV.-- CVI.

   The sloping channel, Plate II. fig. 6, was formed to imitate
a sloping sea beach ; its slope rose 1 in 51. The wave entered
the deep end at a given height, then gradually became more acu-

minated, formed a cycloidal cusp, and broke. Its height on

entering, its height when breaking, and the place at which it

broke were observed and are given in the observations at the end

from Wave CVII. to CXXXII. The numbers in the last column

are the depths corresponding to the place of breaking observed

in the preceding column, and this table shows that the depth at

breaking corresponds with remarkable accuracy to the height of

the wave.

  A considerable number of observations were made upon the

translation of the particles of the fluid during the transit of a

wave, but the results are not of a numerical character, being

all comprehended in the general expression that the translation

of the particles takes place wholly in the direction of the motion

of the wave ; that it is of equal extent from the surface to the

bottom of the channel, that it is permanent, that the particles

which were in the same vertical plane previous to translation

are still so after translation. This is not the case in other

species of waves ; the particles oscillate in opposite directions
with an alternating motion.

Experiments were also made on waves formed by the removal

of a solid body from a quiescent fluid ; these are called negative

waves, but the investigation of them has not yet been completed.

                         Second Series of Observations.

  --On the Waves of the Sea. Are the waves on the surface of

the sea, when it is agitated by the wind, of the same nature with

the waves which have already been examined by experiment ?
--44G SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

Does their velocity depend on the depth of the fluid ? Is their

form cycloidal ? What is the cause of their breaking on the

Whyshore ? And what law is observed in their breaking ?                    do

waves in any circumstances break ? What is a breaker ? These

are some of the questions which the Committee have examined,

and their results are of importance to theory and to navigation.

The Committee obtained for the purpose of their observations

on the waves of the sea the use of one of the yachts of the Royal

Northern Yacht Squadron, which was kindly granted by her

proprietor, James Bogle, Jun., Esq., at the request of the secre-

tary. The Mermaid was an excellent sea vessel, but the weather

was unfortunate ;  she was alternately becalmed andbestormed
                                                                                      tj

one day driven into harbour for refuge and the next day pre-

vented by calms from leaving harbour. Out of eight days oc-

cupied in this way not more than one was favourable to obser-

vation. By subsequently crossing the Irish Channel in steam-

vessels one or two observations of a sufficiently accurate nature

were obtained.

   From these observations it appears to be established that the

velocity of the waves at the surface of the deep water is not a

direct function of the depth.

In a depth of 50 to 60 fathoms the velocity was 13'D miles an hour.
In a depth of 53 fathoms the velocity observed was 20 miles an hour.
In a depth of 60 to 70 fathoms the velocity was 17 miles an hour.
In a depth of 34 to 40 fathoms the velocity was 174 miles an hour.

   In a depth of 51 fathoms the waves produced by a steam
vessel passing at the distance of about a mile, moved at the

rate of only 4*3 feet in a second.

It thus appears that the waves produced by the wind on the

surface of the deep sea do not follow the same law with the

great wave of the fluid. In other words they are not primary
but secondary waves, or waves of some inferior order. They

do not move with the velocity due to half the depth of the fluid

in which they are generated.
   The following are the most important and accurate observa-

vations made on this subject.

  --Observations. The observations were made by bringing the

vessel nearly to rest in a direction at right angles to the ridge

of the wave. The cork fenders of the vessel were then attached

at equal distances to the log-line, and spaces of 200 feet were

marked off upon it. The time was taken by a common chrono-
meter ; the observations made were upon the transits of the top

of the wave under the floating buoys attached to the log-line.

1. 4th Oct. 1836, lat. 55° 38' N., long. 4° 49' W.

Off the Cambray Islands, 60 to 70 fathoms.               25 feet per sec.

                =Space 200 feet, time 7 sec. to 'J sec.
                   = 17 miles an hour.
                            ON WAVES.                                     447

2. 4tli Oct., 1836, lat. 55° 32' N., long 4° 52' W.

Off the Isle of Arran, 50 to 60 fathoms.

= =Space 200 feet, time 10 sec.
                                                     20- feet per sec. 135

miles an hour.

3. 5th Oct. 1836, lat. 55° 29' N., long. 4° 54' W.

Of Pladda Lights, 20 to 16 fathoms.

=Space 200 feet, time 11 sec. to 12 sec.             173 feet per
  =sec. 114- miles per hour.

4. 12th Oct. 1836, lat. 54° 5' N., long. 5° 31' W.

Off Ardglass Light, in 34 to 40 fathoms.

Time,

r 9-3 sec. 1

                      10-0

=Space 345 feet^ 93            = -- =V 35 feet 9 1 7fmiles.

U00 J

5. 12th Oct. 1836, lat. 54° 1' N., long. 5° 37' W.

in 53 fathoms,

r 93 sec. 1
=Space 345 feet-^ 86        = -- =I 39 feet 9 20 miles per hour.

1 8-6                       J

6. 12th Oct. 1836, lat, 53° 58' N., long. 5° 39' W.

in 46 to 44 fathoms.
= = = --9=19Space 345 feet, time 9-3 sec. 37 feet
                                                                  miles.

   The observations (4-6) were made against a very strong breeze
and very high waves, about 8 or 9 feet high, and the vessel was

going in the opposite direction at about the rate of six miles an
hour.

7. In 51 fathoms water the City of Glasgow steam packet passed ; her waves
=were about 20 inches high, about 12 feet apart, and passed over a space
=feet in 35 sec. 4-3 feet per sec.                                        150

    It became of importance to determine whether the waves of
the sea produce an agitation which extends to the deep parts of

--the water. It was found that even in moderate depths they do

not. Thus in a depth of 12 feet short quick waves, 9 inches high
and 4 or 5 feet long, do not sensibly affect the water at the bot-
tom, while waves thirty or forty feet long, oscillating at inter-

vals of 6 or 8 seconds, produce a sensible effect, although

much less than at a point nearer the surface. The circumstances
of these partial oscillations opens up a field of future research.
The observations made on this subject were obtained by plunging
a glass tube to a considerable depth, so that the column of water
contained in it should only be affected by the forces acting upon

the particles of the fluid at the depth of its orifice below the

surface. In this way it was ascertained that neither in velocity

of the wave- surface, nor in the motion of transference of the
particles, do the waves of the sea resemble the great primary
wave of translation of the previous experiments.

   It is difficult to ascertain with precision the form of the waves
of the sea; they appear to belong to the family of the cycloid.
--418 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

The summit of the wave is round and flat so long as its height

bears only a small ratio to its length in the direction of its

motion ; but as the height increases the summit of the wave be-
comes more and more acuminated, and the limit to which the
height of a wave approaches, but which it never appears to ex-
ceed, is nearly a third part of its length. If the wave belong to
the cycloidal family, and if its length being constant the height

vary with the generating radius, the rolling circle continuing the

same, we shall have a series of lines accurately representing

Nowthe form of the waves. See Plate II. fig. 1.  it is manifest

that when the describing radius of the wave becomes greater than

the radius of the rolling circle, the curve ceases to have a form

of possible equilibrium, and that portion which falls down from

the top of the wave constitutes the white crest which we observe

on the summits of the largest waves, when they are said to break.

There is generally much confusion in the appearance of an

agitated sea. The waves do not appear regular in their forms,

their intervals, or their velocities. Sometimes a wave seems to

stand still or even to retrograde, and frequently after the eye

has traced a wave for a considerable time it suddenly disappears

altogether. Close attention will however discover some method

in this irregularity.

The surface of the sea is seldom covered with only one series

of successive waves. Every breeze that ruffles the surface of

the sea generates a series of waves that move in the direction of

the motion of the wind. These waves do not subside with the

breeze which raised them, but continue their oscillations until

the adhesion of the water or the resistance of the shore has dif-

fused the elevated fluid uniformly over the surface. In the mean

time a second breeze springs up in another direction, and new

waves rise to its pressure and follow its direction ; they mingle

with those of the former wind without becoming mixed with

them. Two distinct series of waves are now coexistent, and

Agive rise to more complex phenomena.  third gale arises, and

a new class of waves intersect and overlap the two former,

--while the long low swell the residue and telegraph of some
--distant storm rolls across the whole, and to the untutored eye

leaves nothing to be looked on but a chaos of tumultuous, troubled

waters. The seeming chaos is however to be analyzed by pa-

tient attention : by ascending the mast of the ship, or standing

on an elevated rock on the shore, much of this apparent confu-

sion may be dispelled ; and by attention to the phenomena of
coexistent oscillations every thing may be understood.

When a breeze has been blowing for some time in one di-

rection, and the wind has shifted round into the opposite one

and blown with nearly equal force, the two sets of waves may
                ON WAVES.                           449

be distinctly seen moving in opposite directions ; if they be of

nearly equal dimensions a very singular appearance results.

When the crests coincide, the ordinates of the compound wave

surface become the same ordinates of the elementary waves,

and their difference when the crest of the one is in the cavity of

the other ; so that the sea is alternately in the forms represented

in c and d, fig. 2, Plate II.

  When these two systems of waves are compounded with a

third system arising from some other breeze, or by a third sy-

stem resulting from the reflection of a bold coast, the third series

combines with the two former in the manner represented in

fig. 3, with an appearance of still less regularity, and so on for

any number of parallel systems.
   It is manifest that if these parallel systems be compounded

with transverse systems, making any angle with the first, we

shall have a compound system of surfaces of double curvature
so complex in its structure as to represent the phenomena of the

most troubled sea. On all occasions where the sea was ob-

served, there were found two or more such systems of coexistent

waves.

   The phenomena of the waves at the surface of the sea appear
to coincide very well with the hypothesis, that when a wave
agitates the fluid only to a small depth it may be considered as
formed in a shallow canal of that depth ; for it may be observed
that a short wave of a given height is always more pointed than
a longer wave of the same height, and also that whenever a wave

reaches the limit of the cycloidal form it breaks.

   Whenever the height of a wave exceeds the limit of the cy-
cloidal form due to its depth, the wave, after having become

cusped or pointed, passes into the nodated form of unstable

equilibrium and is broken. See figs. 4 and 5.

Whenever a wave of a higher order coincides with the ridge

of one of an inferior order, its curvature at the crest will be a

maximum, and it may break, although it would not have broken
on any other part of the wave. See figs. 4 and 5, PI. II. From

this cause a large wave frequently exhibits the appearance of a

breaking wave, although its own figure has not approached the
limits of equilibrium ; but in that case it is not the large wave
which is breaking, but the smaller one on its summit, whose

curvature is then increased by the amount of the curvature of

the greater wave at the crest.
   Waves break on the shore when they reach the point where

the depth of the fluid becomes nearly equal to the height of the

wave above the fluid. When at a distance from the shore they

may be observed long and low, see fig, 6 ; as they approach the

vol. vi. 1837-  2g
450 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

shallow part of the shove they gradually assume the greater curva-
ture clue to the increased ratio of height to depth ; the form at last
becomes cusped and perfectly cycloidal, the equilibrium of the
summit ceases, and the particles of water on the extreme ridge of
the wave, abandoned to the force of gravity, and aggregated in
spherical drops by this cohesion, present to the eye the white foam-

ing crest by which breakers are distinguished. Waves of great

height are thus broken on the beach at a greater distance from
 the shore than such as are smaller.

   The depth of water may be judged of by the form and height
of the waves. See fig. 7> Plate II. Where a wave of a given height
can exist, suppose a wave of five feet, the water must have a

depth below the surface of at least five feet, and wherever in a
calm day waves are broken, the depth of the water is equal to
their height above its surface.

    It must be observed that the existence of a strong wind will

often destroy the equilibrium of the ridge of a wave, independent

of depth or of the equilibrium of its proper form. When the

curvature of the ridge of the wave becomes considerable, and
it approaches the cusped form, the direct incidence of the
wind upon the surface of the ridge will derange the equili-
brium of the thin and slender column presented by the top of it
before it reaches the limits of undisturbed equilibrium. Hence
the phenomenon well known to sailors, that a very strong wind
will blow the sea down, in other words, that it will blow off the
ridges of the highest waves, and keep them from attaining the
height they afterwards reach when the gale has subsided. The
highest seas are thus generated by the continuance of a strong
gale in one direction rather than by the sudden and short im-
pulse of a hurricane ; for in the former case the wind only breaks
the summits of the smaller waves as they rise to the top of the
larger ones, so as to add the mass of the smaller to the crest of
the larger waves, without injuring the equilibrium of the latter;
these continual additions increase the magnitude of these great
waves, while the force of the gale is not sufficiently great to de-
range their equilibrium. The waves in these circumstances go
on increasing in magnitude.

   The phenomena of waves breaking on the shore were observed
principally on a very fine smooth beach of sand, having a slope
towards the sea of 1* in 50' ; so perfectly plane and level was it
at the time when the observations were made, that a single wave
a mile in breadth might be observed advancing to the shore, so
perfectly parallel to the edge of the water that the whole wave
rose, became cusped, and broke at the same instant ; a line of
graduated rods was fixed in the water at different depths from
                   ON WAVES.                                                                                          451

G inches to 6 feet in length, and it was observed that every wave
broke exactly when its height above the antecedent hollow was
equal to the depth of the water. At another time when the di-
rection of the waves was oblique to the edge of the water, the
breaking crest moved along from one end of the shore towards
the other, uniformly and gradually as the wave advanced to the

point of breaking depth, resembling the feu tie joie of a file of

soldiers.

   When a wave that has been breaking on a shallow part of the

water comes suddenly into deeper water, the form ceases to be
crested, see Plate II. ; and the wave subsides into the figure
due to the depth.

   The phenomena of waves breaking on the shore were accu-

--rately obtained in the experiments No. 107 132, page 492.

Plate II. figs. 6 and 7-

                     Third Series of Observations.

--On the Tide Wave of the River Dee in Cheshire. The ob-

ject of this series of observations was the comparison of the

tidal wave moving in a given channel with the great primary

wave of translation previously examined by Mr. Russell.

To this object the river Dee is peculiarly suitable. Plate VI.

fig. 1. gives a plan of that river at low water. The upper por-

tion of the channel of the river is artificial. The waters of the

river were turned into a new course about the middle of the last

century. Of this course about 5^- miles forms a perfectly

straight canal, along which a large and rapid tidal wave is trans-

Aferred with great velocity. The two points and B on the

plan were selected as stations of observation. The distance be-

Atween  and B was  carefully measured                                                                     transverse  sections of
                                                                                                       ;

the river were made, and soundings were taken throughout the

whole length of the channel.

A =BThe distance between and                                                                              5'275 miles.
                              . . ..

=The mean depth of the channel at low water 3'0 feet.

The bed of the river has a slope nearly . =3*8 feet.

The opposite sides of the river are parallel embankments

about 500 feet apart at high water mark, but nearly half that

breadth is occupied by groins, as shown in the sections of the

river, figs. 2, 3, and 4, Plate VII., and the intervals between them

are filled up with high banks of sand.

The tides selected to be observed were those which differed

most in magnitude, and which were least affected by disturbing

influences. They were made when the weather was settled,

when there was no sensible wind, and when the river was as

nearly as possible in its natural state. One entire tide wave was

obtained on the 7th of September, and two others on the 9th

                              2G2
--452 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

and 13th of that month. In the latter two cases the river was a
few inches fuller than in the former, as will appear by inspecting
the table of observations which follows.

   From these observations it may be useful to make the follow-

ing extracts.                                 6h 50* m

First wave of flood tide, 7th Sept. reached   7 50*

     AStation at

     BStation at

Time of describing 5*275 miles                1 0'

First wave of flood tide, 9 Sept. reached     8 5-
                                              8 50'
     AStation at
     BStation at

Time of describing 5-275 miles                       45*

First wave of flood tide, 13th Sept. reached  10 15*
                                              11 0-
     AStation at

     Station B at

Time of describing 5*275 miles                     45*

The wave of high water of 7th Sept. reached   9 21*
                                              9 50*75
     AStation at
     BStation at

Time of describing 5*275 miles                       29*75

The wave of high water of 9th Sept. reached   10 35*
                                              10 54-5
     AStation at
     Station B at

Time of describing 5*275 miles                      19*5

The wave of high water of 13th Sept. reached  12 35*
                                              12 53*5
     AStation at

     BStation at

Time of describing 5*275 miles                18*5

   The following table contains the corresponding velocities of

the waves.

WAVE.
ON WAVES.  453

    In order to make these observations the foundation of any

 conclusions, it will be necessary to observe that it is scarcely
possible to determine whether the wave which brings flood tide
to the lower station be the same with that which afterwards
brings flood tide to the higher station ; on the other hand it
 seems more likely that the wave which passed the lower station
was diffused over the intermediate space in the channel, and
was overtaken by a subsequent part of the tide, which had not
 reached the lower station till a considerable time after the first
wave had passed it. This is not a conjecture, but has frequently
been observed in similar cases where the first wave being be-

come diffused in the channel ceased to pass onwards and was
overtaken by a subsequent wave. The result obtained in the
case of waves I., II., and III. of flood tide is consistent with
this view, and shows that in these cases the progress of flood
tide is slower than the velocity due by gravity to the wave of
the fluid. It is also consistent with the experiments of the
previous part of this paper, that a breaking wave or bore, as
this was, has a slower velocity than one which does not break.

   Waves IV., V., and VI., the waves of high water, have almost
exactly the velocities of great waves of translation of the fluid.
It will be seen at once by examining the transverse sections of
the river, that wave IV. must suffer great retardation from the

circumstance that its progress is continually intercepted by the
groins to which it is almost exactly equal in height, while waves

V. and VI. rise above them and accordingly approximate more
closely to the velocity due to the depth. The form of these
waves and their antecedent bores are given in Plate VI. figs. 1
and 2. and the observations from which they are deduced are

given in the following table.
--454 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

      Tide Wave of the 7th Sept., River Dee, 1836.

Station A, Jarvis Obs., Chrott. No. 4 stand.
H. W. 9 h 21 m
=I              9ft. 2-lin.

Flood.          Ebb.

h. m. ft. in.
9 20 9 2-1

     15 1-7

10 1-7

5 1-7

        1-5

3 55    1-5

50
                                      ON WAVES.         455

          Tide Wave of the 9th Sept., River Dee, 1836.

Station A, Jarvis Obs., Chron.
 456 ·SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

          Tide Wave of the 13M Sept., River Dee, 1836.

Station A, Jarvis Obs., Chron. No. 4 stand

       H.W. 12- 35TM =15 ft. Sin.

             Flood.

h. in.  ft. in.

12 35 15 8-

30 15 7-5

25 15

20 15

15 15

10 15

5
ON WAVES.  457

                         Fourth Series of Observations.

  --On the Tide Wave of the River and Frith of Clyde in

Scotland. The observations on the river Dee having been
necessarily very limited in number, and in the means as well as
objects of inquiry, suggested the nature and indicated the ne-
cessity of a more extensive series of observations of the tide
wave in its progress along some limited channel whose dimen-
sions might be determined with the requisite precision. The
river and frith of Clyde on the west coast of Scotland were at
once suggested to the Committee, as in every way suitable to
the objects of their inquiry. That river is, like the Dee, con-
tained in a channel, which is a work of art rather than of

nature, having been rendered one of the finest rivers in Britain
by the perseverance, enterprise, and wealth of the citizens of
the important manufacturing and commercial city, whose mer-

chandise it transports from all quarters of the world. Your
Committee made application, with the assistance of Sir Thomas
Brisbane, the President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and

one of the former presidents of the British Association, to the
board of Commissioners or Trustees of the navigation of the
Clyde, and were fortunate in obtaining their cordial and ef-
fectual co-operation in conducting all the observations and ob-

taining all the information they required. The willing assistance
of Mr. Logan the engineer of the river, was given in conducting
the observations ; at his request simultaneous observations were
made at several other ports in the vicinity ; Captain Denham,
R.N., of Liverpool, was good enough to order similar obser-

vations at that port ; Professor Nicol kindly placed the instru-
ments in the college observatory at their disposal, for regulating
the time-keepers of the observers, and nothing was omitted
that could give the observations value and general interest.
Moreover, it was fortunate that the board of Trustees had just
obtained very accurate surveys of the river with transverse sec-
tions, at distances of each quarter of a mile ; and they further
ordered that the stations of observation should be connected by
 a system of levelling. These were all placed at the disposal of

the Committee by the Trustees and their engineer, who were of

 opinion that observations of that nature were of equal value to
 the practical navigation and improvement of their river, as to

 the theoretical speculations of the British Association.

    Throughout the greater part of 18 miles, the distance be-
 tween Glasgow and Port-Glasgow, the river Clyde is little more
 than an inland tidal canal, excavated and embanked by artificial
 means ; it then expands into a frith of considerable breadth,
--458 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

extending about 25 miles down to the outer Cumbray Island,

wbere it terminates. The whole of this space was embraced by

the observations.

   Plate VII. contains a plan of the river Clyde ; the stations at
which tide gauges were erected and observers placed are marked

in the plan. Nine different stations were occupied; the first

of these was at the harbour at Glasgow, immediately below

which, the river is for about 5 miles of nearly uniform width

and depth, and in this division were three stations, No. I., II.,

and III. The next division of the river is wide, irregular, and of
variable depth, comprehending stations III., IV., and V. The

third division of the river is deep and broad from station V. to

station VII. The river then opens out into a wide and deep

frith, and at a distance of about 5 miles farther down, on op-

posite sides of the frith, were placed stations VIII. and X.

Station IX. was at the light-house on the outer Cumbray Island,

Awhich stands at the mouth of the frith.        great variety of

channel was thus included in the observations.

The observations were made with a tide-gauge, constructed

for the purpose of preventing the oscillations of the waves of

the surface ; a glass tube traversed the scale ; the tube open

above terminated below in a stop- cock, by which the aperture

was regulated, and which communicated with a long narrow

pipe descending into deep water ; the indications of this

gauge were free from inconvenient oscillation, even in a rough
sea, to which it was exposed. The scale of the gauge was so

constructed as to be read with ease at a considerable distance.

This gavigc is recommended as one that can be used with ease
and perfect accuracy by a telescope from a great distance, and
which might therefore afford the means of making observations
in situations where otherwise it would be impracticable. The
indications of the gauge were written down every five minutes

during the entire progress of one tide wave each day, and of
two successive tide waves on the evening of each Friday. The

following table contains the observations of heights, all referred

to the same level, as accurately determined by Mr. Kyle for the
first seven stations, and as interpolated for eight and nine.
                            ON WAVES.  459

a£
460 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

SO

               c©   CM  CO                                                          © --US CM OS OS
                        tV
               "to  ©                                                               cc d5 us «>. cm tc

so

Sow                                                                                 co cm to **r- to

SO                                                                                  --OS t>.CO r-" SO

Ss*                                                                                 ^©J i--* GO CO  fc*

00 eft

                                                                                    -- ©OS i CC OS CO

               © T,,· us us cm *» us os - 9p
<0 -- ^        ©1-1 tC »* OS OS «-» US  to to

So          -  H-HOSt".-* --OS t"» < OS**         ©©©© ©©r- CM CO                   © © © OS © OS

        w

S'SH                        -**-»-* OS **         ©tp OS OS iom          coco©      ©»» cm us us us
                                                  i. ib i". ^i p^H©
                                                  HCQX^HHO               ©·-- --«   t* CO GO OS GO i-h

                                                                         ©©©        © © OS OS © OS

               © © --e us u; CM                   ©©©«--OS OS © © © © T ? CM US © US © © ©

               ""uS©^*-^!
                            CM          -t"©      .© CM cb >rt OS CM OS©-*                          CM
                                        OS OS
                            COCO©

s£*'           j£SM Tf O.CM t»i|>»CM ^i*»         HC4XHriO ~« © © ©>-<os©©os

               © ^C «>· OS -* CM CM OS  CM         ©to CO CO CM CM       OSOS©      © US US CM *» US
                                                                                    © ©to os -* «>.
               "©CMGOOS CMt»I>» --CO              . is Ai -^ os «?. cb   ^n>.tb

o So           --** f-H "* t* < -^l f* i--I CSt*    --I OS CC --> rH OS  -- r-t OS  © ©i-l OS  i--l CO

  -J                                               ©os co us <N    CM    epos©      cm us t-»
                                                  *. co !·* is os  co               os us os
   ffl                                                                   ii ·* os
               'CMuStOGM us to --i us to          H^N"(N«                           © CM CO
If*<                                                                     --i CM CO

E-i 1=103

                                                                                    _) WtoW* to

                                                                                    CI-- .Q '
                                                                                                 I
              ON WAVES.                     461

   From these observations it appears that the summit of the
tide wave increases in height as it ascends the river. From

station VII. to station VI. this increase amounts to about
2 inches ; at station V. it amounts to 5*2 inches ; at III. it has
become 6*1 inches ; and at Glasgow 10*1 inches is the difference
between the level of the wave of high water above that at Port

Glasgow, 18 "5 miles below. This difference varies slightly
with the state of the tides, and with the condition of the current

of fresh water in the river. At low water the surface of the
river is higher at Glasgow than at Port Glasgow by 33 inches

at station III. this difference is 27 inches, at IV. about 25 inches,
and at V. about 12 inches.

              Difference of level at H. W.  Difference of level at L. W.
                                                       33 inches.
Station I.    10" 1 inches.                             31 inches.
                                                        27 inches.
Station II.   9*1 inches.                               25 inches.
                                                        12 inches.
Station III.  7'0 inches.                                   5 inches.
                                                                inches.
Station IV.   6*1 inches.

Station V.    5*2 inches.

Station VI.   2'2 inches.

Station VII.  0*0 inches.

   The comparison of these numbers with the channel of the
rivers in Plate VIII. will be interesting, as showing the influence
of the form of the channel upon the height of the tide wave and

the current of the river.

   Plate V. is a diagram showing the height of the tide wave
as it reached the successive stations in various states of the

wind. The waves are transposed so as to have a common
origin, at station VIII. The effect of westerly winds in in

creasing the height of the wave, and of easterly winds in de-
pressing it, is manifest. The wave of the 24th of April is
curious in this respect, that whereas the wind had been west-
erly, and changed, during the progress of the high water, to
the east, so the wave which previously was higher, afterwards
becomes lower than those adjacent to it ; it therefore intersects
them. The wind was in no case equivalent to what is con-
sidered a gale or storm.

    Plate IV. represents the form of the tide wave as it passed
the successive stations on the River and Frith of Clyde.

A series of stars marks the centre of the wave, and has been

placed there for the purpose of showing the dislocation of the
wave, or the transposition of its higher parts forward, or the
retardation of its lower parts by the shallowness of the water
through which it has advanced. There is a remarkable re-
version of this process in the wave of the Cumbray, Station IX.,
--462 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

which is probably produced by the circumstance that it is the
result of two waves (one behind the other). The corresponding
wave at Liverpool is also given ; it is also a compound of two

waves, which coincide nearly in time.

   From a laborious discussion of these observations, it appears

that the wave of high water travels

From IX. to VIII         in 6 min.     ^jj"- 1 80 miles an hour.
                                          6 miles. J
From VIII. to VII.       in 9 mm.
                                     f^ "^4 20 tnUes i*n hour.
From VII. to VI          in 6 min.
                                     1-25 miles. J
From VI. to V.           in 18 mm.

 rom V.ta IV             in 19 min.  25             miles. 1 8 .lmileBflIltour.
Flrom IV. to III.                    2o             miles. J
                         in 18 mm.
From III. to II.                     2-75 miles. 1 lg miles ftn how
                         in 15 min.
From II. to   I.                     2-7o miles. J
                         m / mm.

   These results show that in the deep water being between 40
and (>0 fathoms, or between 240 and 360 feet deep, the wave
travels at the enormous rate of 30 miles an hour; that on

reaching water from 20 to 30 feet deep, the velocity is di-
minished to 20 miles an hour; and from V. to II. where the

river is wide, shelving, and shallow, the velocity of the tide
wave is retarded to 8 miles an hour ; while on ascending fur-
ther up, where the banks nearly upright, and the contracted
width give an increase of mean depth, the velocity has a cor-

responding increase to 15 miles an hour.

   By examining the plans it will be apparent that we shall not
err greatly if we assume the average depth of the river, from I.
to III., at 15 feet. From III. to V. the river is wide and

shallow, spreading over extensive banks, where there are not 2

feet of water, for which we may be allowed to take a third part

of the greatest as a mean depth, or about 5 feet. In the di-
vision from V. to VII., both depth and breadth increase very
rapidly to about 35 and 37 ; taking 25 feet as the mean depth,

we have

Velocities of the Tide-  Megn d r h                 Velocity due
  wave as observed.                                    to ueptn.
                         --240 300 feet.
    80 miles an hour.                               00--80 miles.
   20 miles an huur.                     2.3 feet.
    8-1 miles an hour.                   5 feet.          !!)·:> miles.
    15 miles an hour.
                                      15 feet.           86 miles.

                                                         11 9 miles.

The following are the results of the observations in regard to

the time of high water :

   --At Cloch Light, High Water is 9 Min. earlier than at Port Glasgow.

Lazaretto- Point         5 do. do.

Cumbray Light-house      15              do.        do.

Port-Patrick             31 do. do.
                 ON WAVES.                                        463

At Cloch Light,--High Water is 51 Min. earlier than at Port Glasgow.

Liverpool        51 do. do.

Whitehaven       62 do. do.

Newry            85 do. do.

Donaghadee       127 do. do.

Port-Rush        5 h. 35 do. do.

--At Garmoyle Light, H. W. is 6 Min. later than at Port Glasgow.

Bowling          24 do. do.
                 43 do. do.
Rashilee         61 do. do.
                 76 do. do.
Clyde Bank       83 do. do.
Crawford's Quay
Broomielaw

Being 1 hour 23 minutes between Port Glasgow and the Broomielaw.

   It is difficult to determine whether the wind produced a de-

cided effect on the velocity of these tides. By a discussion which

was attempted, it appeared that on all the days in which the
easterly wind prevailed, compared with all the days on which
the westerly wind prevailed, there was a difference of one mi-
nute more and of one minute less than the mean ; the tide
being accelerated by the coincident wind and retarded by the
opposing one.

   The continuation of this series of inquiries will be given in

the next Report.

"Description of the Tables containing the original Observa-

   tions of the Waves in Artificial Channels made in 1837.

   Each of the first ninety- three tables contains the history of

a single wave, including the condition of the fluid previous to

-- --generation the method of generation the volume of the wave
--at the commencement of its path the height of the wave at every
-- --transit the interval between its transits the space described,

and the time occupied in describing it. The methods of ob-
serving and the observers' names are given, for the sake of authen-
ticity, except in the first four experiments, which are not suffi-
ciently perfect to form by themselves the grounds of any im-

portant conclusions.

   The approximate depth of the fluid is given at the head of

each table in the first line for convenience of reference.

   The corrected or true depth of the fluid at the commencement
of the observations is given immediately above the columns of
observations, where it is given as " corrected statical depth =".

   The "observed statical level" is the indication of the height
of the fluid on the scale of the glass indices or gauges represented
in Plate I., taken from an arbitrary line and affected by an index
--464 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

 error, from which the " corrected statical level" is derived by a

 correction obtained from observation.
    The modes of generating the fluid were very numerous, but

as the resulting phenomena of the waves were found to be inde-
pendent of the mode of generation, a sufficient number only are

given to establish the means of comparison. These extend from

Wave I. to Wave XXV. Those waves u created by reservoir
A" were formed by filling that portion of the channel at the

end of the experimental channel of Plate I. with a given volume
of water, which was added to the water in the channel by the
sudden removal of the sluice S, and so formed the wave. The
waves " generated by impulsion " of sluice were formed by

placing the sluice at the back of reservoir A, and suddenly bring-
ing it to the front of the reservoir, so as to communicate a hori-
zontal impetus to the fluid forming the wave. The waves

"generated by detached chamber B" were formed by placing

the rectangular vessel B, Plate I., at the end of the reservoir and

filling it with water to a given volume : by raising the sides of
this vessel from the bottom of the reservoir, the column of water
was allowed to descend by gravity and generate the wave.

  AColumn contains the number of feet described by the wave

from the commencement of the observations.

   Column B contains the interval of time given by two observers

and two chronometers, a and /3 : these intervals of time corre-

spond to the spaces in column A.

  --Column C contains the observations of height of the wave

made in two sets of glass indices index y near the end B of

the experimental channel, and index 8 near the end D, Plate I.

  DColumn contains the heights of the waves at y and 8, freed

from error of scale.

  EColumn contains the sum of the corrected height of the wave

and of the corrected depth of the fluid, taken from a mean of

the observations.
                    ON WAVES.                                                  165

   2nd Aug., 1837.  WAVE I.                                   Depth 4 inches.

=Created by Reservoir A. Volume of added fluid 152-5 inches.

Transits observed directly at Index y, without reflection.

~ =Statical level observed at < X ~                           3'942 inches.
                                Corrected statical depth
                    o-01 f

A
--466 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   2nd Aug., 1837.         WAVE IV.                            Depth 4 inches.

Created by Reservoir A. Volume of fluid added = 152-5 inches.

Transits observed directly at Index y, without reflection.
== -- =Statical level observed atr
                           0-05 *                              3-95.
                      y
                           000 Corrected statical depth
                        s

A
                    ON WAVES.                                             467

   3rd Aug., 1837.  WAVE VII.                           Depth 4 inches.

=Generated from Reservoir A. Volume of fluid added 152-5 inches.

Transits observed by the reflected image at the Central Station.

--Observers a Glover, /} Patrick, y Hamil, S Donaldson Transit, Russell.

= =Statical level observed at { £
                    ~\ Q-ig } Corrected statical depth  4-07.

A
--46S SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   3rd Aug., 1837.  WAVE X.                                   Depth 4 inches.

Generated by impulsion of Sluice. Very imperfectly observed.

Transits observed by the reflected image at the Central Station.

--Observers a. Glover, /3 Patrick, y Hamil, S Donaldson Transit, Russell.

\l= + =Statical level observed at \
                    \ «.,,-, \ Corrected statical depth 4-15.

A
                    ON WAVES.

   4th Aug., 1837.  WAVE XIV.                                    Depth 4 inchest

Generated by detached Chamber B. Nimmo op. Volume = 430*4 inches.

Transits observed by the reflected image at the Central Station.

--Observers a. Glover, /$ Patrick, y Hamil, S Donaldson Transit, Russell.

                                              a                  3-89.

~ _ =Statical level observed at < ,,
                                  .  y Corrected statical depth
                    ft . rtt

A
--4J0 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   4th Aug., 1837.  WAVE XVII.  Depth 4 inches.

Generated by detached Chamber B. Nimmo op. Volume of fluid added = 785-68 inches.

Transits observed by the reflected image at the Central Station.

--Observers a. Glover, /3 Patrick, y Hamil, 2 Donaldson Transit, Russell.

^ ~ =Statical level observed at < !
                    q,,- \ Corrected statical depth 3-78 inches.

A
                    ON WAVES.                                             471

   5th Aug., 1837.  WAVE XX.   Negative. Depth 4 inches.

   =Generated by removing solid parallelopipedon C. Volume 276-3 inches.

   Observed directly and timed at gauges y and 3.

   --Observers /3 Patrick, y Hamil. S Donaldson Transit, Russell.

   = X =Statical level observed at I                 4' 10 inches -
                    0-21 } Corrected statical dePth

A
--472 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   5th Aug., 1837.  WAVE XXIII.              Depth 4 inches.

Generated by Chamber D, from a height of 19 inches. Volume=6837 inches.

Transits observed by reflection as formerly in the positive wave. *

Transits observed directly, and at successive transits in the negative wave.

--Observers Patrick, y Hamil, 2 Donaldson Transit, Russell.

TM =Statical level observed at 1 X           3-85 inches.
                    JJ'?q | Corrected depth

A
                            ON WAVES.                                            473

   5th Aug., 1837.          WAVE XXVI.                            Depth 3 inches.

=Generated protrusion of solid parallelopipedon C. Volume 208*3 inches.

Transits observed by reflection at the Central Station.

--Observers /3 Patrick, y Hamil, 2 Donaldson Transit, Russell.
                            + =-f
Statical level observed at  0-05  \   Corrected  statical  depth  3 '08 inches.
                            0-20
                                  J*

A
--474 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   7th Aug., 1837.  WAVE XXIX.     Depth 1 inch.

=Generated by solid C. projected to bottom. Volume added 88*3 inches.

Transits observed successively without omission at Central State.

--Observers, a. Russell, /3 Patrick, y Hamil, 3 Donaldson Transit, Russell.

" =Statical level observed at j ^
                             \ True statical depth 1-00 inches.
                    q.qJ^

A
                     ON WAVES.                                           475

    7th Aug., 1837.  WAVE XXXII.                    Negative. Depth 1 inch.

    Generated by subtraction of solid C.

    Transits observed successively without omission at Central Station.

    Observed and timed at y and 1. Depth 1-0 inch.

    ~ =Statical level observed at J X
                     o.nnn [ True statical depth    1-00 inches.

A.
--476 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   7th Aug., 1837.  WAVE XXXVI.                             Depth 2 inches.

Generated by detached Chamber B. Volume of fluid added = 631-9 inches.

=Statical level observed at J %~Z. Z-O'i r Corrected depth  1-90 inches.

A
                                   ON WAVES.                                     477

7th Aug., 1837.                    WAVE XXXIX.                  Depth 3 inches.

=Generated by protrusion of solid parallelopipedon C. Volume 264-9 inches.

~ =Statical level observed at -I X
                                   q,q,, f Depth  2-94 inches.

AB
                                1
--478 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

   7th Aug., 1837.  WAVE XLII.  Depth 3 inches.

=Generated by protrusion of solid parallelopipedon C. Volume 264-9 inches.
~ =Statical level observed at-| X q.^o [-Depth 2-94 inches.

A
                    ON WAVES.                                                   479

   8th Aug., 1837.  WAVE XLV.                                  Depth 5 inches.

   =Generating solid C projected. Volume added 445 -1 inches.

   Observers, a Russell, /3 Patrick, y Hamil, S Donaldson, Gen. Nimmo.

~ ~ =Statical level observed at · X
                    ,, ,» i- Corrected depth 5*10 inches.

A
480 SEVENTH REPORT-- 1837-

   8th Aug., 1837.  WAVE XLVIII.         Depth 6 inches.

Generated by protrusion of solid C. Volume added = 547*5 inches.

Observers, « Russell, Patrick, y Hamil, S Donaldson, Gen. Nimrao.

+ ^5 =Statical level observed at j % Z.
                    } Corrected depth 6-20 inches.

A
                    ON WAVES.                                        481

   8th Aug., 1837.  WAVE LI.                 Depth, 7 inches.

=Generated by protrusion of solid C. Volume added 309*12 inches.

Observers, a Russell, /S Patrick, y Hamil, S Donaldson, Gen. Niramo

Z~ =Statical level observed at <
                    , .Qg [ Corrected depth  7-04 inches.

A
--482 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

   8th Aug., 1837.  WAVE LIV.*              Depth, 7 inches.

Generated by protrusion of solid C. Volume added = 309-1 inches.

Observers, a Russell, /5 Patrick, y Hamil, X Donaldson, Gen. Nimmo.

~ T =Statical level observed at - X         7*04 inches.
                    ...q V Corrected depth

A
                    ON WAVES.                                          483

   9th Aug., 1837.  WAVE LVI.                           Triangular channel (H).

Generated by protrusion of solid parallelopipedon, C.

Times observed directly at Station y, double transits.

Time, /3 Patrick, Index, y Hamil, Transit, Russell.

~ ~ =Statical level observed at < t
                       101                              4-012 inches.
                    «* «~ Corrected depth
                    )-2j

A
484 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

   9th Aug., 1837.  WAVE LX.                            Triangular channel (H).

Generated by protrusion of solid parallelopipedon, C.
Times observed directly at Station y, double transits.
Time, /3 Patrick, Index, y Hamil, Transit, Russell.

T =Statical level observed at \ X"Z.                    4-012 inches.
                    o-0? r Corrected depth

A
                                        ON WAVES.                             485

   9th Aug., 1837.                      WAVE LXIV.              Triangular channel (H).

Generated by protrusion of solid parallelopipedon, C.
Times observed directly at Station y, double transits.
Time, /3 Patrick, Index, y Hamil, Transit, Russell.

_ T =Statical
   level  observed at                \  Q.15 [ Corrected depth  5-11 inches.
                                  \

A
--186 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

   9th Aug., 1837.  WAVE LXVIII.                        Triangular channel (H).

Generated by protrusion of solid parallelopipedon, C.
Times observed directly at Station y, double transits.
Time, Patrick, Index, y Hamil, Transit, Russell.

X~ T =Statical level observed at-j
                    q.q- > Corrected depth 6*04 inches.

A
                    ON WAVES.                              487

   9th Aug., 1837.  WAVE LXXII.                         Triangular Channel (H).

Generated by protrusion of solid parallelopipedon C.

Times observed directly at Station y, double transits.

Time, /J Patrick, Index, y Hamil, Transit, Russell.

~ ~ =Statical level observed at X
                    ,, r., [ Corrected depth 7*04 inches.

A
--488 SEVENTH REPORT 1S37.

   flth Aug., 1837.           WAVE LXXV.                Triangular Channel (H).

Generated by protrusion of solid parallelopipedon C.
Times observed directly at Station y, double transits.
Time, /3 Patrick, Index, y Hamil, Transit, Russell.

Statical level observed at -  =. ,,,,. > Corrected depth 7'04 inches.

A
                              ON WAVES.                                      489

   11th Aug., 1837.           WAVE LXXVIII.                    Triangular Channel (K).

Generated by protrusion of solid parallelopipedon C.
Times observed directly at Stations y and b, single transits.
Time, a. Russell, Index, y Hamil, Index, S Donaldson.

{rStatical level observed at            =Corrected depth       4*04 inches.

                              !T 0-1 f

A
--490 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

   11th Aug., 1837.  WAVE LXXXI.                      Trapezoidal Channel (L).

Generated by protrusion of solid parallelopipedon C.

Times observed directly at Stations y and S, single transits.

Time, a Russell, Index, y Hamil, Index, S Donaldson.

~ =Statical level observed at \ X ~
                     «.TM { Corrected depth 5 - 00 inches.

A
                     ON WAVES.                                 491

   11th Aug., 1837.  WAVE LXXXV.  Trapezoidal Channel (L).

Generated by protrusion of solid parallelopipedon C.
Times observed directly at Stations y and 2, single transits.
Time, a Russell, Index, y Hatnil, Index, 2 Donaldson.

Z T =Statical level observed fat "!
                     n-10 Corrected depth 5*00 inches.
                                              f

A
--492 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

1 1th Aug., 1837.       WAVE LXXXIX*.                         Trapezoidal Channel (L).

(1.)  Height  of the    wave.  J  On  the  deep side     ...  2-0  0-75
                               \  On  the  shallow side            1-2
                                                              +2#
(2.)  Height  of   the  wave,  J  On  the  deep side     ...
                               \  On  the  shallow side       1*2
                                                              2*0
(3.)  Height  of the    wave.  J  On  the  deep side     ...
                                  On  the  shallow side       1*5
                               \                              2-5
                     ON WAVES.                                      493

   11th Aug., 1837.  WAVE XCIII.                      Trapezoidal Channel (M).

Generated by addition of solid parallelopipedon C.
Times observed directly at y and J, single transits.
Time, * Russell, Index, y Hamil, Index, S Donaldson.

^ 7 =Statical level observed at j ^                   6-01 inches.
                     ft ]05 > Corrected depth

A
--494 SEVENTH REPORT 18o7

14th Aug., 1837.  WAVE CVII-- CXXXII., Sloping Channel (O).

Channel 17 feet long, 4 in. deep at 0-, and 0- in. at 17 feet.

Wave.
                                                                    ON WAVES.                       495

Description of Plates accompanying the Report on Waves.

   Plate I. contains the apparatus of the experiments on waves.

AFig. 1, is a transverse section of the experimental channel,

the sides of which were made smooth and as nearly plane

surfaces as possible ; the whole internal surface being divided

into feet, inches, tenth parts of an inch, &c, for convenient

Dobservation. B and are the two ends of the same channel,

and are elevated, so as to reflect the waves from vertical sur-

faces. C is the generating reservoir referred to in the ex-

periments as " Generating Reservoir A." Fig. 2 shows the

apparatus for observing transits of the wave by reflexion. I is

Mthe luminous object from which the rays falling on the plane
mirror                                               are thrown down on the W,surface of the fluid at

W W Wand thence reflected on the small mirror m, to the eye of the2 3
observer.                                            l         and        show  a  single wave  in  successive
                                                       ,    ,          ,

positions, and figs. 3, 4, and 5, show the places of the image

corresponding to those positions. Fig. 8 shows the generation

of the wave from " Reservoir A," by removing the sluice S.

BFig. 9, represents the generating chamber, resting on the

bottom of the experimental channel, and containing the fluid

which generates the wave when the sides of the chamber are

raised from the bottom. Fig. 10 represents the solid paral-

Dlelopipedon C
                                                                        ;
                                                          and that part of it   towards  represents the

form and magnitude of the chamber and the solid D.

 --Plate IT. gives the forms of the waves of the sea referred

to in pages 445 451 of the Report. Fig. 1, the cycloidal

forms. Fig. 2, a and b, elementary waves, moving in opposite

directions                                           c and d, the result of this combination at successive
                                                  ;

instants of time. Figs. 3 and 5 are forms observed to re-

sult from the combination of three or four co-existent classes

of waves moving in different directions. Figs. 4, 5, 6 and 7

show the manner in which waves break, either from the coin-

cidence of a wave of a higher or with the crest of a lower wave,

so as to give the form of unstable equilibrium, or from the ex-

cess of the height of the wave above the depth of the fluid.

   Plate III. exhibits the relation of the velocity of the waves
to the depth, as taken from the experiments in the rectangular
channel, fig. 1, and in the channels, fig. 2, H, fig. 3, K, and

fig. 4, L. The horizontal abscissa? are depths of the fluid, and

the vertical ordinates the corresponding velocities.

   Plate IV. represents the form of a tide-wave as it passed
--49G SEVENTH REPORT 1837'

the successive stations referred to in the observations on the

Clyde. The corresponding tide-wave of Liverpool Docks is
given in the same plate. The stars in each wave mark its

centre of length, and serve to show the increasing dislocation
of the tide-wave during its ascent along the river.

   Plate V. shows the line described by the summit of the
tide-wave during its transit along the Frith of Clyde and the

manner in which it was affected by the wind. The wave of
the 3rd of May was nearly calm ; and that of the 24th of April

is remarkable as having been described partly during a west-
erly wind and partly during an easterly wind, and so falling
partly above and partly below the 3rd of May, while none of
the others present instances of intersection.

   Plate VI. gives the form of the tide-wave of the river Dee.

   Plate VII. contains the channel of the river Dee, with sec-

tions.

    Plate VIII. is the channel of the river Clyde, with sec-

tions.
                                             *

-+

II

          1L

          :

    'i'i

    ihlL
         n

--

       a
I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
..'                  '
                  ,
                                                                                 Repjrt on .';,'

                                  F& 1.

"
                                                                        Fig. 2.

                                                             Fif.3.

Fig. 4.
                           &-I

                            H^

                                 !

       n mIj                  |

oi                      w  v  vmvi vrr  rx
PLAT£ IT.

 Liverpool
 Dorks

         Station IX
            l rxf: of HOVRS

i\ x  a  1  II III IV V  VI VII  x  xi  xii  i
                                             Stalnu

q3 ;
??*1pril \

              :'

2iAJord
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH. 497

Note by Major Sabine ; being an Appendix to his Report on
   the Variations of the Magnetic Intensity observed at dif-
  ferent Points of the Earth's Surface.

Since the report on the Variation of the Magnetic Intensity

of the Earth, which forms the first article in this volume, was

printed, I have become acquainted with a highly valuable
series of observations of the magnetic intensity made by M.

George Fuss, of the Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Pe-

tersburg, in 1830, 1831, and 1832, in Eastern Siberia and

China. I exceedingly regret that these most interesting de-

terminations do not occupy their proper place in the general

table of my report. I must hope, however, that being included

in the same volume, they may still, to its readers, contribute

their due share of experimental testimony to the system of

terrestrial magnetism.

M. Fuss's observations were made in two journeys ; one from

Irkutzk to Pekin, in the latter part of 1830, including a return

by a slightly different route the following year ; the second

journey was in 1832 from Irkutzk to the eastern parts of

Siberia, as far as the longitude of 122° E. of Greenwich. The

intensities were observed by two horizontal needles, each of

which sustained a small, but uniform loss of magnetism during

the period of its employment. Corrections were very care-

fully investigated, and have been applied on this account, as

well as for changes of temperature. The details, both of the

observations and the corrections, are published in the Memoirs

of the Imperial Academy of Sciences of St. Petersburg, Ser. vi.

vol. iii. The resulting intensities are there expressed in terms

=of the arbitrary scale in which Paris 1 # 3482, being connected

therewith by means of M. Hansteen's determinations in 1829

at Irkutzk and Kiatka, where M. Fuss also observed.

   I have included in the annexed Table the variation and dip

observed by M. Fuss at all his intensity stations. The dip

was taken by an instrument of Gambey's, until an accident

befel it at Nertschinsk, when the subsequent observations

were made with an inferior instrument. The geographical

positions are those given by M. Fuss.

The ground traversed by M. Fuss enabled him to observe

the culminating points of the isodynamic lines of 1*5 and 1*6.

These he states to be between the longitudes of 107° and

vol. vi. 1837.          2K
--498 SEVENTH RErORT 1837-

112° E. of Greenwich ; and this, it will be seen, accords ex-
tremely well with the chart in this volume. In comparing
the values of the intensity observed at particular stations with
the chart, the intensities shown by the chart appear to be
slightly in excess in the vicinity of Pekin, and in defect in the

neighbourhood of the Amour River, at the eastern extremity
of M. Fuss's journey ; at Pekin, in latitude 39° 54' and longi-

tude 116° 26', about 0*015 in excess ; and at Uststretensk, in
latitude 52° 20' and longitude 121° 50', and its neighbouring
station Schegdatschinskoi, about 0*01 in defect.

                   Station.
ON THE MAGNETIC INTENSITY OF THE EARTH. 499

Station.               Lat. N.   Long. E.            Dip.    Intensity.
                                    from Variation.
                                                                 Paris
                                Greenwich.
                                                             = 1-348.

Sendshi                44 45    110 26     30W 60 42N        ·530
Kukuderissu            45 8     109 42                       ·542
Uizsyn                 45 34    109 16                61 12  ·543
Mogoitu                45 50    108 53               61 44   ·545
Chapchaktu             46 2     108 35                       ·538
Bain Chara             46 31    107 56               61 49   ·582
Chapschatu             47 20    107 6                62 23   ·581
                       47 55    106 42               62 59   ·583
Urga                   50 21    106 45               63 21   ·642
Troizkosawsk           52 1     106 18  1 16E. 64 5          ·653
                       51 50    107 46        IE. 66 24      ·657
Possolsk . . . ;       52 5     111 3                68 2    ·665
Werchneudinsk ....     52 30    111 3      24E. 68 6         ·640
Kurbinsk               52 1     113 27                       ·668
Pogromnoi              51 56    116 31                67 59  ·635
Tschitanskoi           51 19    119 37     18W. 68 8         ·617
Nertschinsk-town .     50 23    119 3   1 13W, 67 42         ·626
Nertschinsk-mine .     51 33    119 56                       ·655
Zuruchaitu             52 47    120 4   2 53W. 67 11         ·667
Argunskoi              53 15    121 21  4 6W. 66 33          ·658
Uriupina               53 20    121 51  3 11W. 66 13         ·656
Schegdatschinskoi . .  53 6     119 9   3 44W. 66 54         ·660
Uststretensk           52 15    117 40  4 4W. 67 53          ·649
Fortress of Gorbizkoi  49 35    117 50                       ·583
Stretensk              50 34    115 32               68 11   ·650
Abagaitujewskoi .      50 15    113 25  4 21W. 68 11         ·671
Tschindant             49 28    111 30  2 54W. 68 22         ·619
Akschinska. ,          49 26    108 55  2 52W. 67 38         ·630
Altanskoi              50 29    104 44  2 54W. 64 48         ·643
Mendshinskoi                            2 14W. 66 32
Charazaiska
                                                     66 40
                                           48W. 65 20
                                           12W. 65 31
                                        2 27E. 66 56

   The extension of magnetical observations to countries so

remote, and, in the case of China especially, presenting pecu-

liar difficulties, gives the Imperial Academy of St. Petersburg
an additional claim on the respect and gratitude of all who are

interested in the advance of the science of terrestrial magnetism.
--500 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

                             ERRATA.

Page 32, line 4, omit giving each equation a weight proportioned to the

          number of observations which it represents.
= = -- =,,
8, for S 68° 42'; r                                                                    0-013608, read S 68° 33';

          = --r 0-01405, equivalent to 71 geographical miles for

          one degree of dip.

                             General Table.

Page 44. Frazer's Lake        Intensity                                                for 1-724, read 1 734.
                                                                                       for 1-736, read 1 745.
      ,, Stuart's Lake                                                              ,  for 1-710, read 1 ·714.
       ,, Fort Alexandria                                                              for 1-669, read 1 660.
Page 45. Multnomah River                            ,                                  for 1-683, read 1 ·672.
                                                                                       for 1-679, read 1 ·671.
      ,, Sandiam River       Long tude                                                 for 1-710, read 1 ·701.
      ,, Columbia Rapids                                                               for 1-707, read 1 ·701.
      ,, Thompson's River                                                              for 1-707, read 1 ·699.
      ,, Oakanagan                                                                     for 235 45, read 237 35.
       ,, Wullawullah River                                                            for 235 36, read 237 36.
Page 46. St. Francisco                                                                 for 236 00, read 238 00.
                                                                                       for 236 00, read 238 00.
      ,, San Solano                                                                    for 236 36, read 238 36.
      ,, Monterey                                                                      for 236 42, read 238 42.
       ,, San Jose                                                                     for 237 16, read 239 00.
      ,, La Soledad                                                                    for 237 20, read 239 20.
Page 47. San Antonio                                                                   jor 237 33, read 239 33.

       ,, San Miguel                                                                   for 237 49, read 239 49.
       ,, St. Louis Obispo                                                             for 240 00, read 240 20.
      ,, La Purissima
      ,, Santa Ynez
       ,, Santa Barbara

And in the column of Intensities:

St. Francisco, Solano, for 1-610, read 1-614.

San Jose                     for 1-605, read 1-607.

San Miguel                   for 1-583, read 1-580.

San Obispo                   for 1-583, read 1-580.

Santa Barbara                for 1-604, read 1-587.
GROWTH OF PLANTS IN CLOSED GLASS VESSELS. 501

Report from Mr. James Yates, as one of the Committee for
   making experiments on the Growth of Plants under Glass,
   and without any free communication tvith the outward air,
   on the plan of Mr. N. T. Ward, of London.

Reports on the subject of the Growth of Plants in closed Glass

                                                       Vessels.

Having corresponded with the other members of the Committee,

and ascertained that they agreed with me in wishing for the

preparation of an experiment on a considerable scale, which

might be exhibited at the meeting of the British Association in

Liverpool, I gave instructions for the erection of a greenhouse

in the yard of the Mechanics' Institute, in Mount Street. The

committee of that establishment granted for the purpose the use

of a convenient spot of ground 9 feet by 18 in dimensions, and

with a southern aspect. It was stocked with foreign plants of

all kinds to the amount of about 80 species, and placed under

the care of Mr. Murray, the foreman of the Botanic Garden at

Liverpool. His list of the plants, and his observations upon

their state and progress, accompany this report. The general

result of the experiment is,- that the plants have flourished per-

fectly well, being in a vigorous and healthy state without any

extraordinary growth. Many of them have flowered, and some

of them, especially two species of Canna and some ferns, have

ripened seed.

The greenhouse has no flue, and no provision for any artificial

heat. It was judged best to construct it without a flue, both as

the least expensive plan, and for the purpose of trying by a fair

experiment to what extent plants may on this plan be kept alive

even during the severity of winter, which would certainly die if

fresh air were more freely admitted.

It is also to be observed that nothing has been done to pre-

vent the water from escaping through the porous rock (a yel-

low sandstone) on which the greenhouse is erected, and hence

it has been necessary to give the plants occasionally a fresh sup-

ply of water.

Since I was appointed one of this Committee I have also grown

plants under glass in London, where no plant can be made to

flourish without such a protection. Nearly a year ago I planted

Lycopodium denticulatum in a chemical preparation-glass with

a ground stopper. During that time the bottle has never been

opened. The Lycopodium continues perfectly healthy, and has

grown very much, although for want of space the form of the

plant is distorted. Seeds, which happened to be in the soil,

VOL. vi. 1837  2L
--502 SEVENTH RETORT 1837.

have germinated, and Marchantia has grown of itself within the

glass.

I also obtained a hollow glass globe of 18 inches diameter,

and with an aperture sufficient to admit my hand for planting

Athe specimens.  variety of ferns and lycopodiums were then

set in the soil, which was properly moistened with water. This

having been done, the aperture was covered with sheet India-

rubber, its attachment to the glass being made perfectly air-tight.

No change of air could take place except by percolation through

the India-rubber, which was every day forced either outwards

as the air within the glass was heated and expanded, or inwards

in the reverse circumstances. These ferns grew probably as
well as they would have done in a greenhouse or hothouse.
They were all foreign, and some of them requiring a great heat.

Several have ripened seed.

                 Mr. Ward's Report.

In order to render the account of my experiments on the

growth of plants without open exposure to air intelligible to those

who may not have seen the published statements, I will briefly

mention the way in which these experiments originated. At-

tached to botany from my early youth, I had endeavoured to

grow many plants, and particularly ferns and mosses, in and

about my house, butbeing surrounded by numerous manufactories

and enveloped in their smoke, all my endeavours proved sooner

or later unavailing, owing to the necessity which I imagined to

Amyexist for exposing
                 plants more or less freely to the air.

simple incident at length opened my eyes, and I was led to

reflect a little more deeply upon the subject. About eight or

nine years ago I placed in a wide-mouthed bottle, covered with

a lid, the chrysalis of a sphinx, buried in some loose mould.

A week before the insect assumed its perfect form, I observed

on the surface of the mould a seedling grass and fern. I saw

that they required no water, as the mould continued always

equally moist, from the condensation of the water on the in-

ternal surface of the glass, and it remained to be proved how

far that change of air, which must of necessity result from

every change of temperature, would be sufficient for the pur-

poses of vegetable life. At all events I had gained two points,

a continually humid atmosphere, free from mechanical impurities.

I placed the bottle outside one of my windows, and finding that

the plants grew well, I procured some hymenophyllum from

Tunbridge Wells, planted it in a similar bottle, and had the

pleasure to find that it likewise grew as well as in its native
           GROWTH OF PLANTS IN CLOSED GLASS VESSELS. 503

 situation. I then, through the kindness and liherality of Messrs.
Loddiges,who well deserve the title of 'Hortulanorum principes,
commenced a series of experiments upon plants of all structures,
and belonging to a great variety of natural families, which has
continued uninterruptedly to the present time.

    Before I proceed to state the results of these experiments, it

may be as well to say a word or two respecting the cases in which

they were carried on. These cases are of all sizes and shapes,
from small wide-mouthed bottles to a range of houses about 25
feet in length and 10 feet in height. These houses are filled
with rock work for the purpose of accommodating the various

descriptions of plants I had to deal with. Some of these cases
are quite closed at the bottom, and when once watered, require

no further watering for a long period, while others have several
openings, and the plants are watered occasionally, once in three

or four weeks, or months, as they may require. I believe that

this latter plan is the best, as there is then no danger from ex-
cess of wet, and should worms or slugs make their appearance,
they can readily be destroyed by the free use of lime water. The
glazed roofs and sides of these cases are made as tight as putty
and paint can effect, and the doors fit closely. In no instance
have I ever endeavoured to seal the cases hermetically ; it would,
I conceive, be almost impossible to do it, and if done, would
prevent that continued change of air, from its alternate expansion

and contraction, upon which in my opinion the success of the

plan mainly depends. I have already explained myself fully

upon this point in my letter to Sir W. Hooker, and should not

have thought it necessary to have alluded to it again had I not
seen that Professor Henslow, in his Descriptive and Physiolo-
gical Botany, a work of the highest authority, entertains this
mistaken notion. With respect to the management of the plants
in the cases, I have always endeavoured to imitate their natural
conditions as nearly as possible, being fully sensible of the value

and truth of that remark, (S that Ave can command Nature only

by obeying her laws." It would be impossible in the necessarily
short limits of this report to enter into any lengthened details,
and I shall therefore give as concisely as possible the results.

    1. That the change of air produced by alternate expansion
and contraction is regulated by the heat, and is therefore exactly
proportioned to the increased wants of the plants arising from
their greater excitement. Vascular require a greater change of
air than cellular plants, and this is effected by surrounding them
with a larger volume.

    2. It is of great importance that light be freely admitted to
all parts of the growing plant, assisting it in the development

                                                     2l2
--504 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

of its flowers, and enabling it to bear cold, &c. Hence the im-

portance of protecting plants without obscuring the light.

3. Owing to the perfectly quiet condition of the air in these

cases, plants will bear variations of temperature which under

ordinary circumstances would prove fatal to them. Thus I

have found that many palms, ferns, and numerous Cape and

Australian plants bear the cold of our climate with impunity,

while others, when exposed to heat, become surrounded by a

protecting atmosphere of their own creation, as, for instance,

the Trichomanes brevisetum, which has been growing for the

last three years in a case in my drawing room, fully exposed to

the south, and in Avhich the thermometer frequently rises to

A100°.  more striking illustration of this may be adduced in a

case of plants brought by Captain Mallard, from New Holland.

The plants were inclosed in February, thermometer being 94°

in the shade. In rounding Cape Horn two months subsequently

the thermometer fell to 20° ; a month after this it rose again to

100° in the harbour at Rio ; in crossing the line the thermometer
attained 120°, and fell to 40° on their arrival in the British

Channel in November, eight months after they were inclosed.

These plants were taken out in the most healthy condition.

4. These cases enabling us to surround our plants for an inde-

finite period, with an atmosphere of any required humidity, we

are enabled to grow in any situation, even on our study tables,

a great number of plants, the growth of which has hitherto been

in great measure confined to their native woods and wilds. To

notice one instance ; I had been struck with the published ac-
counts of the very rapid growth of some fungi, and particularly

of Phallus feetidus, which was said to attain its height of four

inches in as many hours. I procured three or four specimens in

an undeveloped state and placed them in a small case. All but

one grew during my temporary absence from home. I was de-

termined however not to lose sight of the last, and observing

one evening that there was a small rent in the volva, indicating

its approaching development, I watched it all night, and at

eight in the morning the orifice of the pileus began to push

through the jelly-like matter with which it was surrounded. In

the course of 25 minutes it grew three inches, and attained its

full elevation of four inches in one hour and a half. It can

hardly be conceived that in this case there was any actual in-

crease of matter, but merely an elongation of the erectile tissue

of the plant.

I think it is quite needless to point out the various important

applications of the above facts to the growth of plants in towns,

their conveyance and growth on ship-board, or the numerous
GROWTH OP PLANTS IN CLOSED GLASS VESSELS. 505

physiological inquiries which may now be made with much

greater facility and certainty than heretofore; but I wish to
direct the attention of the members of the British Association
to the development of animal life upon the same principles. I

am quite certain that a great number of animals would live and

thrive under this treatment, and I can see no reason why, at the
same time that our stoves are ornamented with Raffiesias, they

may not be illuminated with Fulgoras and Candelarias.

Letter from Messrs. Loddlges to Mr. Ward.

jJear glr              Hastings, 8th Sept., 1837.

We have much pleasure in stating, that among the many cases

of plants which we have received during the last three or four

years, wherever your instructions have been strictly attended to,

the success has invariably been complete ; the failures which

have occurred have been where neglect had manifestly taken

place, either by keeping them in the dark, or in some cases by

Webreaking the glass.  remain, dear Sir,

                       Very sincerely yours,

                                C. Lodoiges & Sons.

On the Growth of Plants confined in Glass Vessels. By Dr.

                           Daubeny, of Oxford.

To James Yates, Esq., Secretary to the Council of the British Association for
                                    the Advancement of Science.

y. a.                                     Oxford, July 1st, 1837.

As it will not be in my power to attend the meeting at Liver-
pool, I am desirous of communicating to you the results of a

few experiments which I have undertaken with reference to the
growth of plants confined in glass vessels, as a proof at least
that I have not altogether neglected the researches recommended
by the Association to the attention of the Committee of which
we are joint members, although the preparations for a journey

into a distant land have very much curtailed my opportunities

of prosecuting them.
   During the last week in April I introduced a considerable

number of living plants into glass globes, having only a single
aperture through which air could circulate, and that one covered
over by a sound piece of bladder closely attached to the edges of
the glass, so as to preclude the possibility of any air entering
the vessel except through the membrane itself.
--506 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

The following were the plants introduced into these vessels :

In glass 1 were Sedum rupestre and telephium, Veronica

repens, Gentiana acaulis, Erigeron bellidifolius, Lobelia

fulgens, Saxifraga virginiana and irrigua.

   In glass 2 were Primula vulgaris, Anemone nemorosa,

Puhnonaria angustifolia, Alchemilla vulgaris, Valeriana

dioica, Veronica repens, Lobelia fulgens.
   In glass 3 were Primula veris and auricula, Erigeron belli-

difolius, Dianthus armeria, Sempervivum montanum, and

Lobelia fulgens.

  Now these plants were allowed to remain till May 5th, a

period of almost 10 days, undisturbed, at the end of which time
they appeared healthy and had grown considerably ; some even

had flowered since their introduction.
   The air contained in each jar was then examined during the

day, a portion of it having been drawn off into an exhausted

tube through a stop-cock connected with the jar.

In this manner it was ascertained that the air in jar 1 con-

tained 4 per cent, of oxygen more than the proportion present
in atmospheric air ; in jar 2, 1£ per cent, more ; in jar 3, 2 per

cent. more.

   At night, on the contrary, this excess of oxygen had disap-

peared, the air examined three hours after sunset corresponding

in every case as nearly as possible with that present in the at-

mosphere.

The following day (May 6th) the results were not equally fa-

vourable, yet even then in jar 1 there was an excess of 2 per cent,

of oxygen ; in jar 2 an excess of 1 per cent. ; in jar 3 of 2 per
cent., and this excess was plainly attributable to the action of
light, for it in a great measure disappeared when the jars were

left in the dark for a few hours, No. 1 under this treatment
being found to contain just the quantity present in the atmo-

sphere, and No. 2 only 0*75 more.
   It would seem then that for a certain period plants have the

power of thriving and adding to the amount of oxygen, even

under the circumstances detailed ; but that there is a limit to
this power appeared on a re-examination of the air three weeks

afterwards (viz., on May 25th), when it was found that jar 1

contained only 1 per cent, more oxygen than that in the atmo-
sphere instead of 4, as on the 5th instant, and that jars 2 and 3

even contained a portion less.

   Examined again on June 20th, No. 1 was found to contain

2\ per cent, less of oxygen than that in atmospheric air;
WeNo. 2, 3| less ; No. 3, 4 per cent. less.
                                                  seem therefore
GROWTH OF PLANTS IN CLOSED GLASS VESSELS. 507

to have reached the lowest degree of aerial circulation under

which plants will continue to live and thrive, although even this

slow transmission of air was sufficient to their vitality, render-

ing it only less vigorous and healthy.

To ascertain then what the degree of circulation through the

substance of the membrane in these instances might have been,

I removed from one of the jars the plants and vegetable mould

it had contained, and substituted for them about an equal amount

of dry sand. I then passed through the vessel a current of oxy-

gen until the volume of air within contained no less than 77 per
cent, of that gas. The air was then examined again at 4 p.m.,

after an interval of three hours from the period of the first ex-

periment, and found to have lost 4 per cent, of oxygen. The

jar was then put aside till eight o'clock the next morning, when

it was found to contain only 63 per cent, of oxygen, having di-

minished in 16 hours 10 per cent. After having been exposed

all day to air and light, and examined at eight the same even-

ing, the oxygen was found to amount to only 46 per cent., having

diminished in 12 hours 18 per cent. During the next night it

had diminished in 12 hours only 6j per cent., the amount of oxy-
gen existing in it the next morning being 38^ per cent. During
the next day it had lost 7 per cent., containing at eight in the
evening 31 \ per cent. The next night the diminution was only
2\ per cent., and on the succeeding day 3 per cent. The fol-

lowing night the diminution was 1^ per cent., the amount of
oxygen being 24| per cent. only. During the day a further

diminution of 3| per cent, took place, the air inclosed within
the jar being found to contain exactly the quantity of oxygen

present in atmospheric air.

The following is a tabular view of the results :

June 23rd 1 p.m. amount of oxygen 77' excess 56*

4 p.m.                                  73* 52-

24th 8 a.m.                             63- 42-

8 p.m.                                  45- 24*

25th 8 a.m.                             38-5      17«5

8 p.m.                                  31-5      10-5

26th 8 a.m.                             29'0      8*0

8 p.m.                                  26-0      5-0

27th 8 a.m.                             24'5      3*5

8 p.m.                                  21*0      0*0

Thus five days were required to enable the whole excess of oxy-

gen to pass through the substance of the membrane, the dia-

meter of which was 3 inches, whilst the capacity of the vessel,
when the sand had been introduced, was nearly one gallon, so

that about three quarts of oxygen and one of nitrogen may be
--508 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

calculated as having been present in the jar at the commence-
ment of the experiment, of which about 4^ pints were discharged
through the membrane in the course of the five days during
which the observations were continued.

   The transmission took place more rapidly during the day
because of the exposure of the jar to the sun and wind, which
by the expansion caused within the vessel, and by the more

rapid succession of aerial currents brought into contact with the
external surface of the membrane, doubtless caused in a greater

degree the transmission of the redundant oxygen. The average
quantity that escaped per diem did not much exceed 11 per
cent., or did not quite amount to one pint in the 24 hours, but
of course the transmission was more rapid at first, and dimi-

nished gradually in quantity as the evaporation of the air within

the jar approached more nearly to that of the atmosphere sur-
rounding it.

                      Believe me, dear Sir, yours faithfully,

                                            Chas. Daubeny,

                             Professor of Chemistry and Botany, Oxford.

                             END OF THE REPORTS.
            NOTICES

                                     AND

      ABSTRACTS OF COMMUNICATIONS

                                     TO THE

BRITISH ASSOCIATION

                                     FOR THE

      ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE,

                                      AT THE

     LIVERPOOL MEETING, SEPTEMBER 1837.
                    ADVERTISEMENT.

The Editors of the following Notices consider themselves responsible

   only for the fidelity with which the views of the Authors are ab-

    stracted.
                      CONTENTS.

NOTICES AND ABSTRACTS OF MISCELLANEOUS
     COMMUNICATIONS TO THE SECTIONS.

              MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

                                                                            Page

Professor Sir W. R. Hamilton's Exposition of the xlrgument of Abe],

   respecting Equations of the Fifth Degree                                 1

Professor Sir W. It. Hamilton on New Applications of the Calculus of

    Principal Relations                                                     1

Professor Sir W. R. Hamilton's Exposition of Mr. Turner's Theorem
   respecting the Series of Odd Numbers and the Cubes and other Powers

   of the Natural Numbers                                                     1
Mr. Charles Blackburn on some new Properties of Geometric Series ...
The Rev. Dr. Robinson on the Parallax of at Lyre                              2
The Rev. W. Whewell on Tides                                                 3
Mr. David Mackie on the Tides of Dundee and Glasgow                          4
M. De La Rive on an Optical Phenomenon observed at Mont Blanc. ...            5
Sir D. Brewster on the Cause of the Optical Phenomena which take            10

   place in the Crystalline Lens during the Absorption of Distilled Water.  1
Sir D. Brewster on a new Property of Light
Sir D. Brewster's Notice of a new Structure in the Diamond                  12
Professor Christie's Account of a singular Optical Phenomenon, some-        13

times seen at Sunset                                                        15

Professor Powell on Von Wrede's Explanation of the Absorption of

Light, by the Undulatory Theory                                             16

Professor Powell on the Dispersion of Light                                 18

Professor Powell on Experiments relative to the Influence of Surfaces

on Radiation                                                                20

The Rev. Professor Lloyd's Account of the Magnetical Observatory now

in the course of erection at Dublin                                         20

Professor Henry's Notice of Electrical Researches                           22

The Rev. J. W. M'Gauley on a convenient and efficient form of Electro-

   magnetic Apparatus for the production of Electricity of high Intensity.  24
                                                                            27
M. De La Rive on the Interference of Electro-magnetic Currents
Mr. W. Etxrick on the two Electricities, and on Professor Wheatstone's

   Determination of the Velocity of Electric Light                          2S

Mr. S. Hunter Christie on the occurrence of Aurora Borealis in England
   during Summer; with a recommendation that the phenomenon should,

at all seasons, be more carefully observed than hitherto                    28

                      METEOROLOGY, &c.

Mr. J. W. Lubbock on M. Poisson's Theory of the Constitution of the

Atmosphere                                                                  31
                                                                            32
On the Principle of Mr. Whewell's Anemometer
                                                                            33
Mr. South wood's Account of his Observations with Mr. Whewell's Ane-

mometer               tn                           mil.   ··......
IV CONTENTS.

                                                                       Page

Mr. Follett Osler's Account of a new Registering Anemometer and

Itain-Gauge, now at work at the Philosophical Institution at Birming-

ham, with Diagrams giving a condensed View of the Observations re-

corded during the first eight months of the year 1837                          33

Mr. Birt's Suggestions as to the probable Causes of the Aerial Currents

of the Temperate Zones                                                         34

Mr. W. J. Henwood on the higher Temperature which prevails in the

Slate than in the Granite of Cornwall                                          36

Statement of the Proceedings of the Meteorological Committee, consisting

of Prof. Forbes, Mr. W. S. Harris, Prof. Powell, Lieut.-Col. Sykes,

and Prof. Phillips, during the past year                                       37

Mr. James Cunningham on a Method of constructing Magnets                       38

Colonel C. Gold on the possibility of effecting Telegraphic or Signal

Communications during Foggy Weather, and by Night in all Seasons. 38

Lieutenant Morrison on an Instrument for Measuring the Electricity of

the Atmosphere                                                                 38

                        CHEMISTRY.

Professor Lieeig on the Products of the Decomposition of Uric Acid . ...       38
Extracts from a Letter received by Dr. Dalton from Professor Hare....          41
Mr. T. Thomson on the Specific Heats of Nitric Acid and Alcohol                43
Professor Miller on the Unequal Expansion of Minerals in different di-
                                                                               43
   rections by Heat
Mr. Golding Bird's Observations on the Crystallization of Metals by            45

    Voltaic Action, independent of the proximity of metallic electrodes. ...   47
                                                                               48
Mr. R. Mallet on the formation of Crystallized Metallic Copper in the          49
   shafts of the Cronebane Copper Mine, County Wicklow, Ireland, and           50
   of native Sulphate of Iron and Copper on the same locality
                                                                               50
Dr. Apjoiin on a new Chemical Compound                                         51
Dr. Apjoiin on a new Variety of Alum                                           52
Mr. E. Davy on a new Gaseous Compound of Carbon and Hydrogen. ...              52
Mr. Robert Rigg's Outline of an experimental Inquiry into a peculiar Pro-      52
                                                                               54
   perty of the Earth ; the chemical Changes which occur during the ger-
                                                                               56
    mination of Seeds ; the vegetation of Plants ; the formation of vegetable
   products ; and the renovation of the Atmosphere ; with some Observa-        56
   tions on the ultimate analysis of Organic Compounds ; the whole being       57
    in connexion with a series of investigations into the decomposition of     57

   Vegetable Matter                                                            57
                                                                               5S
Professor Johnston on a Variety of Ozocerite
                                                                               58
--Professor Johnston's New Compound of Nitrate with Oxalate of Lead

Dr. Kane on a Series of Compounds obtained from Pyroacctic Spirit. ...
Mr. G. Crane on the Smelting of Iron with Anthracite Coal
Dr. Arnott on Safety Lights for Mines
Mr. D. Musiiet on the Waste experienced by Hot and Cold Blast Iron

    during the process of Refining

Mr. J. B. Hartley on Preventing the Corrosion of Cast and Wrought
   Iron immersed in Salt Water

Mr. W. Ettrick on Browning Gun Barrels

Dr. Clarke on a Method of Facilitating the Calculations of Gases
Dr. Andrews on some Singular Modifications of the Ordinary Action of

    Nitric Acid on certain Metals
Dr. Traill on an Antimonial Compound applicable as a Pigment
Dr. Dalton on the non-production of Carbonic Acid by Plants growing

   in the Atmosphere
                              CONTENTS.                                     V

                                                                          Page

Mr. T. J. Pearsall on the Action of Water upon Lead                         58

Mr. J. Dick on a New Form of Iron Bottle for obtaining Oxygen from

Peroxide of Manganese                                                       58

Mr. W. Black on the Influence of Electricity on the Process of Brewing. 58

                              GEOLOGY.

Mr. James Yates's Notice of Specimens containing Fossil Vegetables,

   from the New Red Sandstone at Stanford and Ombersley, in Worces-

tershire               ,                                                    59
                                                                            61
Mr. Hugh E. Strickland on the Nature and Origin of the various kinds        64
                                                                            66
of Transported Gravel, occurring in England
                                                                            67
Mr. Robert Mallet on the Mechanism of the Movement of Glaciers. ...         70

Marquis Spineto on the Results of Trials which had been made for Water      74
                                                                            75
   in the Desert between Suez and Cairo                                     75
Mr. Charles Lyell on certain Phenomena connected with the Junc-
                                                                            76
tion of Granitic and Transition Rocks, near Christiania in Norway,          77
                                                                            81
(communicated by L. Horner, F.R.S.)                                         82

Dr. Traill on the Geology of Spain                                          83

Mr.W. J. Henwood on some Intersections of Veins in the Mines of Dolcoath    85
   and Huel Prudence, in Cornwall, and on their bearing on the Theory of    87
                                                                            88
   the Mechanical Origin of their ("heaves ") Dislocations
                                                                            88
Dr. W. H. Crook on the Unity of the Coal Deposits of England and            91
                                                                            91
Wales                                                                       93

Professor Sedgwick's Notice of an Incursion of the Sea into the Collieries

at Workington    ,

Mr. John Ham on the Mud deposited by the Tidal Waters of the Severn,

Usk, and Avon, and other phsenomena connected with the Waters of

    these Rivers

Mr. James Heywood on the Geology of the Coal District of South Lan-

    cashire

Mr. W. C. Williamson on the Coal-Measures of West Lancashire

Mr. William Peace on the Dislocations of the Coal Strata in Wigan and

    the vicinity

Mr. Logan on that part of the South Welsh Coal Basin which lies between

the Vale of Neath and Carmarthen Bay. In explanation of a geolo-
gical map of the district, laid down by the author on the sheets of the

Ordnance Survey               t

Captain Denham, R.N., on the Tidal Capacity of the Mersey Estuary

the Proportion of Silt held in solution during the Flood and Ebb Circula-

--tions the Excess of Deposit upon each Reflux, and the consequent

Effect produced by the Matter thus detected in its transit, and measured

at its lodgement, on the banks in Liverpool Bay; with Diagrams

Mr. J. Smith on the Changes which have taken place in the Levels of

    Scotland

Captain Portlock on an Apparent Analogy between the New Red Sand-

stone of England and Ireland

Mr. R. Griffith on the leading features of the Geology of Ireland, and

more particularly the situation and extent of the great Carboniferous or

Mountain Limestone district, which occupies nearly two-thirds of the

Island

Mr. Murchison on the Fishes of the Ludlow Rocks, or Upper Beds of the

   Silurian System

Mr. W. Hopkins on the Refrigeration of the Earth
Rev. W. D. Clarke on the Phaenomena exhibited by the Plastic Clay For-

mation in the vicinity of Poole, Dorsetshire         ,
vi CONTENTS.

                                                                          Page

Rev. D. Williams on some Fossil Wood and Plants recently discovered

by lu'm low down in the Grauwacke of Devon, being one of the re-

sults of an attempt to determine the relative age and order of the Culm-

field and its Floi-iferous Shales and Sandstones                          91

Mr. Hardman Phillips on the Bituminous Coal-field of Pennsylvania ... 9G

                    ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY.

Rev. W. Hope on Filaria      ,                                            97

Captain Ducane, R.N., on the Metamorphism of a Species of Crustacean,

allied to Paltemon                                                        98

Mr. T. Allis on the Sclerotic Bones forming the Orbit of the Eye in dif-

ferent Birds and Reptiles                                                 98

Dr. Traill's Notice of Argas Persicus, a species of Bug, found in

Miannch, in Persia, and reported lobe poisonous                           98

Professor Owen on the Production of Cataract by a Worm. Communi-

   cated by the Rev. F. W. Hope                                           98
Dr. David Williams on Limax Variegatus in the Human Intestines            98

Sir Thomas Phillips on a Simple Method of destroying Insects which

attack Books and MSS. Communicated by the Rev. F. W. Hope                 99

Mr. James Smith's Notice of Undcscribed Shells                            100

Mr. J. E. Gray on Victoria Regina                                         100

Dr. Lindley on the Structure and Affinities of Orobanchaccce              101

Mr. G. Gardner on the Internal Structure of the Palm Tribe. Commu-

nicated by E. Bowman, F.L.S                                               102

Mr. R. Mallet on the power possessed by Aged Trees to reproduce them-

selves from the Trunk                                                     102

Mr. Bickersteth on the Milk of Galactodendron Utile                       102

Mr. E. Forbes on New and Rare Forms of British Plants and Animals... 102

Mr. Niven on Vegetable Physiology                                         102

Mr. Charles C. Babinoton on a Notice, with the Results, of a Botanical

Expedition to Guernsey and Jersey, in the months of July and August,

1837                                                                      ion

Rev. J. B. Reade's Inquiry into the Origin of the Solid Materials found

in the Ashes of Plants, their structure and office during the period of

life, and the effect of their subsequent addition to the crust of the earth 103

Rev. J. B. Reade on the Chemical Composition of Vegetable Membrane

and Fibre                                                                 101

                         MEDICAL SCIENCE.

Mr. G. Calvert Holland on the Influence of the Respiratory Organs on

the Circulation of Blood in the Chest                                     10 1

Mr. G. C. Holland on (he cause of Death from a Blow on the Stomach,

with remarks on the means best calculated to restore animation sus-

pended by such accident                                                   101

Mr. William Harris Madden's Experiments on the Connexion between

the Nerves and Muscles                                                    106

Sir James Mprray on Disordered Conditions of the Human Body caused

by the presence of Urinary Salts, although not amounting to Gravel or

Stone                                                ..] 100

Dr. Mackintosh on Cholera                                                 107

Dr. Mackintosh on Morbid Preparations relating to Dysmenorrhea            107

Dr. John Mackintosh on Diseased Lungs from Sand respired                  108

Mr. J. G. Simpson on the Contagiousness of Cholera                        108
                                CONTENTS.                                                Vii

                                                                                         Page

Dr. Warren on some Crania found in the Ancient Mounds in North

America                                                                                  108

Dr. Evanson's Critical Analysis of the different Methods that have

heen adopted for determining the Functions of the Brain                                  108

Dr. John Reid's Experimental Investigation into the Glosso-pharyngcal,

Pneumogastric, and Spinal Accessory Nerve                                                109

Mr. Hugh Carlile's Observations on the Structure of the Sacrum in Man

and some of the Lower Animals                                                            112

Mr. S. Hare's Practical Observations on the Causes and Treatment of the

Curvature of the Spine, with an Etching and Description of an Appa-

ratus for the use of Persons afflicted by the Disease                                    114

Mr. O'Buyan Bellinguam on the Order of Succession of the Motions of

the Heart                                                                                114

Dr. Black's Descriptive and Statistical Report of the Epidemic Influenza,

as it occurred at Bolton-le-Moors, in the Months of January, February,

and March, 1S37                                                                          115

Dr. Carson's Remarks on the Motion of the Blood in the Head, and on

the Uses of the Ventricles and Convolutions of the Brain                                 123

Sir David J. H. Dickson's Abstract of Cases of Laceration of the Rectus

Abdominis Muscle, &c                                                                     124

Mr. R. H. Brett's Abstract of a Paper read before the Medical Section of

the British Association at Liverpool, on the Physical and Chemical Cha-

racters of Expectoration in different Diseases of the Lungs, with some

Preliminary Remarks on the Albuminous Principles existing in the

Blood                                      , 125

Mr. John Hancock's Observations on the Disease called Cocobse by the

Africans, or the Arabian Leprosy ; the Arapatta of the Caribes of

Guiana; the Radesyge of Northern Europe; all of which appear to be

identical; and on the Method found most effectual in the Treatment of

this Disease                                                                             128

                                MECHANICAL SCIENCE.

Mr. George Remington on a Railway Balance Lock, designed for the

purpose of Raising or Lowering a Train of Carriages by Horizontal

   Motion                                                                                129
                                                                                         129
Mr. John Williams on the Treffos Pump

Mr. W. J. Henwood on the Expansive Action of Steam in some of the

Cornish Pumping Engines                                                                  129

Mr. John Scott Russell on the Mechanism of Waves, in relation to the

Improvement of Steam Navigation                                                          130

Mr. John Scott Russell on Improvements in Tidal Rivers                                   131

Mr. W. Leitheed on a new Safety Lamp                                                     131

Dr. Clanny on a new Telegraph              ,.                                            131

Mr. Bat.nard L. Watson on Telegraphic Communications ofl Railroads 131

Dr. Lardner on the Resistance to Railway Trains                                    ,.... 132
Mr. W. J. Curtis on a Flexible Suspension Bridge                                           132

Mr. John Isaac Hawkins on an Instrument for ascertaining the Focal

Length of Spectacles                                                                     132

Mr. John Scott Russell on the Construction of Sea Walls and Em-

bankments                                                                                133

Mr. John Taylor on the Duty of the Cornish Engines                                       133

Mi-                Williams on  Preventing the Dangers from Collision,  and  from  Fire
                .

in Vessels                                                                               133
Vlll CONTENTS.

                                                                          Page

Professor Mosf.ley's Experiments on the Equilibrium of the Arch              133

Mr. D. Mushet on the Quality of Iron for Railways                            134

Mr. Robert Willis on the Teeth of Wheels                                     135

Mr. Lang on the construction of Vessels with Safety Keels                    135

Mr. Kingsley on a new Perspective Drawing Board for Mechanical

Drawings                                                                     135

Professor Henry on Canals and Railways in America                            135

Mr. John Isaac Hawkins on Mechanical Sculpture, with Specimens               136

Mr. W. Ettrick on a New Method of obtaining an Artificial Horizon at

Sea 136

Dr. Lardner on the Application of Steam to long Voyages                      136

Mr. William Wsst on the Ventilation of Tunnels                               136

                     STATISTICS.

Mr. G. R. Porter's Brief Memoir of the Growth, Progress, and Extent

of the Trade between the United Kingdom and the United States of

America, from the beginning of the Eighteenth Century to the present

time                                                                         136

Mr. Slaney on the Wages of Labourers in Manufacturing Districts              138

Mr. Ashworth on the State of Education in the Borough of Bolton in

1837                                                             -. 138

Mr. Merritt's Remarks on the Report of the State of Education in Li-

verpool, presented to the British Association in 1S36                        138

Mr. Walmsley on the State of Crime in the Borough of Liverpool               139

Dr. W. C. Taylor's Abstract of the Report made by the Regents of the

University of the State of New York                                          139

Mr. G. W. Hall on Improvements in Agriculture                                139

Dr. Yelloly on Spade Husbandry                                               139

Mr. Urquhart on the Localities of the Plague in Constantinople               139

Mr. Bermingiiam on the Reclaiming of the Bog of Critt, in the County of

Galway                                                                       139
--Mr. C. B. Fripp on the Condition of the Poor of Bristol an Inquiry now

carrying on by the Statistical Society of Bristol                            139

The Rev. F. De Soyres on the Educational Statistics of the Parish of Si-

dlesham, in Kent. Communicated by Mr. C. B. Fripp                            140

Mr. Ashworth's Inquiry into the Origin, Procedure, and Results of the

Strike of the Operative Cotton-Spinners of Preston, from October 1S36

to February 1837                                                             140

Report of a Committee of the Manchester Statistical Society, on the con-

dition of the Working Classes in an extensive Manufacturing District,

in 1834, 1S35, 1836  .,                                                      141

Account of the Inhabited Courts and Cellars in Liverpool, &c                 143

Manchester Statistical Society's Inquiry into the State of Education in the

City of York                                                                 144

Mr. William Felkin's Abstract of a paper entitled " Remarks upon the

Importance of an Inquiry into the Amount and Appropriation of

Wages by the Working Classes."                                               148
        NOTICES AND ABSTRACTS

                                                    OF

MISCELLANEOUS COMMUNICATIONS

                  TO THE SECTIONS.

               MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

Exposition of the Argument of Abel, respecting Equations of the Fifth

  Degree. By Professor Sir W. R. Hamilton, Pres. R. I. Aca-

    demy.

This Exposition will be published in the Second Part of the XVIIIth
Volume of the Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy ; and a
Sketch of it has been already printed in the 5th Number of the
Monthly Proceedings of that Academy, for the year 1836-7.

  ByOn Neiu Applications of the Calculus of Principal Relations.
        Professor Sir W. R. Hamilton, Pres. R. I. Academy.

   After the reading of this paper the author was requested by the
General Committee to report to the next Meeting on the applicability of
his Calculus of principal relations to the theory of the Moon's motions.

An Exposition of Mr. Turner s Theorem respecting the Series of Odd

   Numbers and the Cubes and other powers of the Natural Numbers.

  By Professor Sir W. R. Hamilton.

    vol. vi. 1837.
      --2 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

                     On some New Properties of Geometric Series.
                           By Charles Blackburn, A.B.

          This paper consisted of a series of geometric theorems, of a some-
      what novel character ; but from its length and abstract nature did not

      admit of being read to the Section. The author explained one of the
      theorems, and in a brief statement enumerated some of the purposes to
      which they are applicable.

          It appeared that the paper contains formulae,
          1. For finding the products of a variety of factors of particular
      forms.
         2. For reducing expressions hitherto considered fractional to integers.
         3. For reducing fractional expressions to equivalent ones, of which

      mthe terms shall be, of and n less dimensions ; or to other equivalent

      fractions of more convenient forms.
         4. For the resolution of geometric series into any proposed number

      of factors.

         Of the first kind of theorems, the 2 following are given as examples.

                                            0)
        mLet and n be whole numbers; x and y any quantities ; then

= { *w»- 1 +a«»-2y+a?B-3y9+                      xtym-Z+xyrn-2+ym-l
X [ xm(m-l) + xm(m-2) y m +                                                          j

                                                 ^+        rn(m-2)  +ym{m  -\
                                                          y
                                                                                  }

{TM -X
      ++n 1 (m-l) m"- 1 (m-2 m"- 1            jn -y»-' (,,,-2) « 1 («-l)
                         y;r                > +y j

   =Let m np, &c. N, then                   (2)

    ,*-l +,N-2^N-3                          ^/"3 +;ryN- 2+yN-l

                                       y9+          m  ~  z  +xym ~ 2  +ym - 1

= {*''l - 1 +*TM- 2 y + *--V+                    x*y                              }

X { xm{n-}) + xm{n-2)m +                         +^ «(«-«)   +y«(»-l)
                                                         y

X     xmn{P  -\)  +xmn(P  -2) mn  +                    + aJ»ny»n(o_2 +ym»(p-l)|
                              y                  &c. &c
   {

                          &C. &C.

      Other theorems will probably appear in some other scientific publi-

   cation.
      TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.

On the Parallax of a Lyra. By the Rev. Dr. Robinson.

   The observations of the late Dr. Brinkley, he observed, with an
eight-feet circle, indicated a parallax of about 1" for a Lyrae ; but

Mr. Pond, with the Greenwich mural, appeared to obtain contradict-
                                                                                                                                                                                              a

ory results. His observations seemed so satisfactory, that the Royal
Society considered the question as completely decided, and rewarded
him with their medal. It is true that the Society afterwards seemed
to retract this opinion, by awarding the same honour to Brinkley
himself; but the impression remained on the public mind. Dr. Ro-
binson should not have noticed this, but that he observed, in some
late addresses, that this opinion was sanctioned by the illustrious names

of Airy and Peacock. In reducing the Greenwich observations for
the nutation, he had many of a Lyrae, and, selecting those which were
near the maxima and minima of parallax, he obtained the following

values of the constant of parallax :

Parallaxes of a Lyrce resulting from Mr. Pond's Observations.

Summer  1812-5                                Parallax.  No. of Observations.
        1817
Winter  1819*0                                -0-07                 29
Winter  1819*5                                -0*70                 33
                                              -0-77                 33
Summer                                        --1-08                22

Winter  1820*0                                +1-73      18
Winter  1822-0                                -3'65      16
Winter  1827*0                                -1*01      21

Summer                      1827*5            +0*17      70
                            1828*0            -0*18      30
Winter                                        -0*23      52
                                      *5      +2-82      26
Summer                                        +0-99      22
                            1829-0            -1-84
Winter                                        +0*90        9
                                      -5                 22
Summer
                            1830-0
Winter
                                      *5
Summer

Winter                      1831*0            +0*07      23

Summer                      *5 +1*30                     29

Combining and dexpressing by 2n the error of nutation, and by dm

the error of prop, motion.

18121

1818 } ... par=- 1*28 -0*8 ^« + 0*3dm                    78 obs.

1822 J  =-0*95                                -0*3       55
1819

1827    =-0*42                                -0*2 . . ..... 91
1828
1829    =-0-20                                --0*25     82

        = + 1*91                              -0*3       70

1830    =-0*47                                -0*25      31

1831    = +0-68+0-05d2n-0-3                              52
n= --in which it is supposed that d2
                                              0*31; dm.= -J-0*07, assuming

Bessel's proper motion to be true.

These results obviously may give any parallax, and, therefore, as far

                                          b2
4 SEVENTH REPORT 1837»

--as they go, the question must be considered as perfectly open, or,

rather, they indicate that the Dublin circle has, to the present time,

given consistent results, which have not been disproved.

Dr. Robinson pointed out the necessity, in such inquiries, of guard-

ing against the errors proceeding from changes of temperature, which

may occasion a diurnal change, capable, in some cases, of masking
the parallax, supposing it given by the instrument. He stated that he
had examined the index correction of his own circle by observing the

Pole star and <S Ursse minoris  at  both culminations on the same days
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

and that, though the German astronomers were always attentive to

detect such changes, it was not, as far as he knew, generally practised

in Britain.

         On Tides. By the Rev. W. Whewell, F.R.S., %e.

   Mr. Whewell observed that his own researches agreed with those of
Mr. Lubbock, both in giving a very close and remarkable coincidence
of the laws of observation and theory on most points, and also in dis-
closing some curious discrepancies of some of the features of the
observed tides from the theoretical*. In particular, he stated that he
had satisfied himself, as Mr. Lubbock had done, but by independent
investigations, founded on quite different facts, that the diurnal in-
equality was very different at different points of the same coast ; and
that at places not very distant from each other, he had found cases
where this inequality was absolutely inverted, making that the lower of
two successive tides, which, at a period of their progress a little

anterior, had been the higher. He stated that this circumstance,

having attracted his attention, he had, in a postscript to his seventh

series of Tide Researches, printed in the Philosophical Transactions,

--offered a certain hypothesis as a mode of accounting for it namely,

that the tides might be conceived as transmitted by transverse undula-
tions ; and, he added, that subsequent researches, about to be pub-
lished in his eighth series, had shown him that he must entirely re-

tract this hypothesis. He added also, that he was able to say the

--same of another hypothesis, at first sight very plausible namely, that

the diurnal tide travels at a different rate from the common semi-
diurnal tide. He stated, that having taken sixty of the best-con-

ditioned places on the coasts of Great Britain and Ireland, for the
purpose of tracing the progress of this diurnal inequality, he had had
the requisite calculations made by calculators (Mr. Dessiou and Mr.

Ross) placed at his disposal by the Admiralty. He had separated the

diurnal ivave from the semi-diurnal tide, by examining the compara-
tive influence of the diurnal inequality upon high and upon low

waters. He had pursued this diurnal w&vejirst along the west coast

of Ireland, round the north of Scotland, and down the east coast of
Scotland and England ; and he had found that the diurnal wave never
gained or lost much in its rate of progress compared with the semi-
diurnal. This was generally two or three hours behind, sometimes

                                                       * See p. 103.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                           5

 more than five, sometimes less than two, but with no progressive dif-

 ference. He had next followed another diurnal wave up the Channel,
 and had found the same general approximation from the Land's End
 and Brest to the Isle of Wight ; but in the Southampton waters, and

 so on to Portsmouth, the diurnal wave was thrown out of its course so
 much as to affect the tides in a reverse order to that which took place
 in the previous part of its course ; so that if two successive tides, a, b,
progressed from Bridport to Southampton, a was higher than b at the

first place, and b higher than a at the second. He referred also to the

 double tides (four in twenty-four hours) which occur in the Solent Sea,

and invited the attention of persons residing in the neighbourhood of
those coasts to the investigation of this subject, since such persons can
best determine over what extent of coast this double tide prevails

how, at the extremities of its range, the double tide grows out of the

-- --single at what intervals the two tides occur which is the greater,
--and how these relations vary at different places, and whether these

changes can be connected in a definite manner with the tidal currents.

He added that, in some places, instead of four or two tides in the

twenty-four hours, there appears to be only one, especially on the

coasts of Australia. He observed, that he conceived he had already

evidence to show that these supposed single day tides were, in fact,
only extreme cases of great diurnal inequality ; and he stated that the
Admiralty, in pursuance of suggestions made by him, through Captain
Beaufort, the hydrographer, had directed observations to be made at se-
veral points on the coasts of Australia, which he hoped would enable him
to decide this question, and to draw from them the laws of such cases.

 On the Tides of Dundee mid Glasgow. By David Mackie, Lec-

        turer on Natural Philosophy, Glasgow Mechanics' Institute.

    The author of this paper having been solicited about three years
ago to furnish tide-tables for Dundee and Glasgow, was led to compare

the results of his calculations with the actual times of high water at

these ports. From the great discrepancies frequently observable, the
data made use of necessarily became extremely dubious. With the
view of obtaining correct data, and of co-operating, as far as in his
power, with the eminent individuals who have recently given a new
impulse to such inquiries, he was fortunate in inducing Lieutenant
Smart, harbour-master, Dundee, to undertake a series of observations
on the tides at that port, while at Glasgow he undertook a similar
series of observations himself. The observations of Lieutenant Smart
were continued from January 1 st till September 3rd, 1 837- They in-
clude the time and height of the tide morning and evening, the state
of the barometer and thermometer, and the character and direction
of the wind. At Dundee, the interval of time at which the tide
follows the meridian passage of the moon, on the days of full and

change, is subject to considerable variation, sometimes being only
2 hours, and at other times 3 hours ; but by taking the average
of all the intervals which occurred between the time of high water

and the moon's northing or southing, from new till full, during the
                         SEVENTH REPORT 1837«

period over which the observations extend, it was found to amount to
2 hours 48 minutes, being 33 minutes greater than the time of high
water at full and change, as given for Dundee in the Nautical Al-
manac. The "vulgar establishment" of that port is therefore 2
hours 48 minutes. As at London, Bristol, Liverpool, and other
places where good observations have been made, so at Dundee, the
interval of time between the meridian passage of the moon and the
occurrence of high water is greatest about new and full moon, and
decreases till about the seventh and eighth days after these periods.
This inequality in the intervals alluded to has been appropriately
termed, by Mr. Whewell, the "semi-menstrual, or half-monthly in-
equality ;" and if we draw a line, and erect upon it fifteen equidistant
ordinates or perpendiculars, to represent, by their comparative lengths,
the fifteen different intervals which occur between the time of high
water and the moon's northing and southing, from full to change, the
line joining the extremities of the ordinates generally forms a pretty
regular curve. According to Mr. Lubbock and Mr. Whewell, if we
perform' such an operation with the intervals between the time of high
water and the moon's meridian passage at London, from full to change,
we obtain the curve represented by the boldest line in the following
diagram.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  7

    Upon taking, singly, any of the fifteen intervals which occurred at
Dundee, and laying them down as ordinates, the line joining their
extremities was not found to form a perfectly regular curve. The
tides being influenced by the particular direction and velocity of the
wind, are sometimes retarded and sometimes accelerated, so that or-
dinates representing the intervals must occasionally be longer and
shorter than they would be in the absence of such a source of dis-
turbance. The author, however, found, to his great satisfaction, that
upon taking the averages of all the intervals corresponding to the
same parallaxes and declinations, a perfectly regular curve resulted,
very similar in form to that for London, only running much higher.
This semi-menstrual curve for Dundee is represented by the fainter

line crossing the diagram. In the following table, the fifteen intervals

for London occupy the second column, and those for Dundee the third

column.
8 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

vations sufficiently numerous to warrant him to draw any general in-
ference, but simply remarked, that in January there were twenty-six
of the evening tides higher than those of the morning, in February

nineteen, in March twenty-four, in April twenty-four, and in May

nineteen. In June the morning tides began to take precedence in
point of height, there being in that month eighteen morning tides
higher than those of the evening, in July twenty-one, and in August
twenty-four. So far as the observations went, there did not appear to
be any connection between the height of the tides and the pressure
of the atmosphere, as indicated by the barometer.

    The observations on the tides at Glasgow were continued by Mr.
Mackie for five months, though these months were not continuous.
From these observations he deduces the " vulgar establishment " at
that place to be 1 hour 43 minutes, and the " corrected establishment"
1 hour 9 minutes. With regard to the intervals between the meridian
passage of the moon and the time of high water, although they are
greatest about new and full moon, and decrease till about the seventh
and eighth days after these periods, they are subject to very great irregu-
larities ; to such an extent is this case, that he had not been able to
extract from the five months' observations a regular curve for the
semi-menstrual inequality. In the former diagram the light dotted
line represents the genuine curve obtained from the five months'
observations : it is probable that, when fully determined, it will run
 a little below that for London for the four or five first intervals after
 new moon, gradually, however, approaching, till it coincides nearly
 for the sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth intervals, when it will again
 gradually diverge and terminate somewhat below that for London.

    The river Clyde has undergone very great alterations in its channel,
 even within the last fifty years ; and as it is of the utmost importance
 to have a record of the influence produced on the progress of the tide,
 by alterations in the breadth, depth, and form of the channel of a

 river, the following brief detail of the modifications in the channel of

 the Clyde, and the effects which have ensued, may serve as a precedent
 in directing, so far, those who are entrusted with the improvement of
 the navigation in other rivers. About the commencement of the
 sixteenth century the river was entirely in a state of nature. Its
 banks were in general flat and low. The channel abounded with
 shoals and fords, at some of which the tide, at high water, was not
 above 3 feet, and at low water about 11 feet. The lowness of the

 banks permitted the tide to spread over a great extent of surface,

 forming pools and islands, among which the most experienced skippers

  could not always distinguish the real channel. In this state the cele-

 brated engineer Smeaton found the river, when solicited by the
 magistracy to report upon the best method of improving it, in 1755.
 At this period the breadth varied greatly from Glasgow to Bowling
 Bay, a distance of about ten miles. The breadth at Glasgow, imme-
 diately below the Broomielaw, was about 500 feet ; and although, fur-
 ther down, it was in some places less, it upon the whole increased,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  9

till at Bowling Bay the breadth was at least one half mile. The river
is now contracted by a sloping ruble embankment on each side, and
decreases from .163 feet wide at the Broomielaw, to 530 at Bowling.
Great alterations have also been made upon the depths. The contrac-
tion of the channel has been one means of accelerating the current,
and thereby scouring and deepening the river ; but, in addition to this
natural agent, numerous dredging machines, worked by steam, have
been employed ; and, within the last eighty years, the general depth
has been increased from 4 to 16 feet. In Mr. Smeaton's Report, al-
ready alluded to, the utmost contemplated by his improvements was
to enable a vessel of 100 tons burthen to get up to the Broomielaw,
and that partly by the use of locks. In 1806 it was thought worthy of
recording in Mr. Telford's report, that Captain Wilkie, of the Har-
mony of Liverpool, sailed up to Glasgow, the vessel being 120 tons
burthen, and drawing 8 feet 6 inches water; and it is mentioned,
in Dr. Clelland's Annals of Glasgow, that in the same year a heavy-
loaded schooner, 150 tons burthen, came direct from Liverpool, and
discharged her cargo at the Broomielaw. At present, very large steam-
boats and vessels, of 300 tons burthen, may freely venture up the

river at high water.

    Alterations which have produced such important effects in facilita-
ting the navigation of the Clyde must also have tended materially to
give free access to the tidal wave, render its progress more rapid, and
enable it to ascend further up the channel. It is, however, deeply
to be regretted, that on account of no register of the tides having
been kept at Glasgow, or at any other place on the river, it is impos-
sible to discover what have been the precise effects of such important

alterations. From 1755 till 1834, the practical knowledge and genius
of Smeaton, Golbourne, Watt, Telford, Rennie, and others, have been

called into exercise, in devising schemes for improving the navigation
of the river ; but on examining their reports, amounting to seventeen
in number, although they sounded the river repeatedly at high and low
water, and state the day, it will be found that the time of high water,
at two different places on the river, is only once mentioned ; this is
in Mr. Golbourne's Report, dated November 30th 1768, where it

is stated that the tide at new and full moon occurred eighteen miles
below Glasgow, or at Port Glasgow at noon, and at the Broom-
ielaw at two, making the tide two hours later at Glasgow than at
Port Glasgow. Assuming this as the difference which existed at that
period between the times of high water at these two places, the author
can pretty confidently assert, that in calm weather the difference now

is generally only about 1 hour 16 minutes; but it increases from this
amount, upwards, to nearly 2 hours, according to circumstances.
Previous to the improvements in the channel neap tides were hardly

perceptible at Glasgow bridge, and they are now sensible about three
miles further up the river. These statements are derived from nu-
merous observations made by the author and several of his scientific
friends. The chief object in view was to obtain correct data for tide
10 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

calculation ; but it is hoped that the results will enable the eminent
individuals who take the lead in such inquiries, to connect Glasgow
and Dundee with the other ports around Britain, at which good obser-
vations have been made.

    It is a singular circumstance, that the time of high water at Port
Glasgow and Greenock generally precedes the meridian passage of the

moon instead of following it. This was evident from observations
made before the meeting of the Association ; but since that period the
author lias been furnished with observations made at Greenock with great
care, under the superintendence of Mr. James Thomson, civil engineer
and in the former diagram the zig-zag line on the left represents the
intervals between the meridian passage of the moon and high water,
from new moon September 29th, till full moon October 13th, 1837.

When the curve is on the right of the vertical line a b, the times of

high water are after the moon's southing ; but when on the left, they
precede the moon's southing, and to an extent sometimes of nearly 2

hours.

         On an Optical Phenomenon observed at Mont Blanc.
                          By M. De la Rive.

   When the sun has set at Geneva, it is observed that Mont Blanc
remains illuminated by its direct rays for a much longer time than the

surrounding mountains. This phenomenon is owing to the great
height of Mont Blanc. But, after it has ceased to be illuminated, the
summit of Mont Blanc sometimes reappears at the end of ten or fifteen

minutes, less intensely enlightened than at first, but nevertheless in a

manner very decided, and often very brilliant. This phenomenon

--takes place especially when the atmosphere is very pure highly
--charged with aqueous vapour in an invisible state and consequently

very transparent. The author has satisfied himself (by the exact ob-
servation of the time which elapses between the two successive illumi-
nations of the mountain, combined with the calculation of the sun's
progress) that the phsenomenon is due to the rays of the sun which
traverse the atmosphere at a distance from the earth less than the
height of Mont Blanc, but greater than half that height, and which
arrive at rarer regions of the atmosphere, under an incidence so great

that they are reflected instead of refracted. This interior reflection is
facilitated by the humidity of that part of the atmosphere which the

rays traverse until they reach the point of incidence. The reflected
rays falling on the snowy summit of Mont Blanc, produce this second
illumination ; and the humidity (by augmenting the transparency of
the air) renders the illumination more brilliant.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  11

On the cause of the Optical Phenomena which take place in the
  ByCrystalline Lens during the absorption of Distilled Water.

   Sir D. Brewster, K.H., &c.

   Sir David Brewster commenced by drawing the attention of the
Section to a representation of the eye of the sheep found among the
MSS. of Sir Isaac Newton, in the possession of Lord Portsmouth. The
several parts of the drawing under consideration were most care-
fully laid down on one scale, and the exact measurements given, re-
specting the cornea in particular. It appeared that it was a portion of
an ellipsoid, somewhat longer, but not so deep as the ball of the eye,
the cornea being a portion of its most convex part at the major axis. Sir
David then went on to introduce the subject of the present communi-
cation, by briefly running through the leading points to which he had
adverted at the last meeting of the Association, regarding a series of
experiments on the crystalline lenses of quadrupeds. From these it

appeared that the capsule of the lens absorbs water with great avidity ;
and during this process exhibits (when exposed to the analysis of
polarized light) remarkable changes both in the nature and in the
number of the positive and negative doubly refracting structures of
which it is composed. These singular, and, in the case of the lens of
the horse, very beautiful phsenomena, Sir David stated that he was

not able to explain when he first made the communication ; but he had
since returned to the subject, and had succeeded in discovering the cause
of the various phsenomena which he had observed. While the capsule

of the lens is absorbing distilled water, the bulk of the lens is gradually
increasing, and consequently the capsule, which he found to be highly
elastic, became more and more stretched in the direction of the radii of

its circular margin. This extension produces, as may be shown by di-

rect experiment, a negative doubly refracting structure, like the central
portion of a positive system of polarized rings, with a rectangular black

cross. The tint of this membrane rises to a white of the first order
and, as the membrane is double, the two tints will produce, when
combined, a, purple of the first order, which will be the maximum tint

developed by the extended capsule just before it bursts. Now it is

obvious that the optical figure thus given by the capsule alone will,
when combined with the fixed optical figure of the lens itself, produce
all the variable phsenomena previously observed. If the fixed optical
figure consist of two structures, both positive, then one part of the
 capsule will produce, in the neutral black ring, a negative doubly re-
 fracting luminous ring, which separates the two positive luminous
 rings ; while the outer and inner portions of the capsule will act in op-
position to the positive structures of the lens, and tend to diminish or
obliterate the tints produced at these parts. The result of this com-
 bination of actions will be the production of a certain optical figure, in
 which a negative series of luminous sectors is placed between two
 positive series of luminous sectors. In the process by which these
 changes are produced, a new series of luminous sectors, having ne-
 gative double refraction, has been made to appear in the centre of the
 --12 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

 neutral black ring. The inner portion of this black ring has been
 made to advance inwards, and diminish the size as well as the in-

  tensity of the inner or central series of sectors, while the outer portion

 of the same black ring has encroached in a similar manner upon the
  outer series of positive sectors, and reduced it both in its size and in

  the intensity of its illumination. If the original optical figure of the
 lens consist of one positive structure, or of three structures, the middle
 one of which is negative, and the two others positive, the changes which
 they undergo by the absorption of water, and the consequent exten-

 sion of the membranous capsule are explicable in the same manner
 and not only the character but the numerical value of all the tints
 which are successively generated can be calculated with the greatest
 accuracy by assuming a value of the tint produced by each surface of
 the capsule. In order to remove all ambiguity on the subject, Sir
 David Brewster extended the capsule of the lens of a sheep over a
 plate of glass, and by a slight force he readily produced a white of the
 first order, and of the same numerical value as that which is necessary
 to produce the phenomena in question. In order to obtain a direct
 experimental confirmation of these views we have only to take a cir-
 cular plate of glass which produces, either by rapid cooling, or by the
 transit of heat, a series of luminous sectors of the same value as that
 which is produced by the capsule ; and, by combining it with the
 optical figure of the lens, we shall represent all the phenomena exhibited
 by the lens, when its capsule is expanded by the absorption of water.
 From the property of the capsule of the lens by which it absorbs
water, it is obvious that in certain states of eye it may become so dis-
tended with that fluid that it may at length burst, thus giving rise to
the disease which has been termed soft cataract ; in this case the ob-
vious remedy is to puncture the outer coating of the eye, and thus
permit the vicious fluid to escape, and afford a chance to the vessels of

resuming their healthy functions. On the other hand, when the defect

of the more watery secretions of the eye cuts off the supply, which it
would seem that the capsule is intended to furnish to the lens, an op-
posite course may be requisite, and a supply of water may be injected
into the eye ; this has actually been done, although when Sir David
mentioned the matter in the Medical Section at the last meeting of the
Association, Dr. Macartney stated very strongly his doubts of the pos-
sibility of such an operation. Thus, it is probable that optical science
may have led to an examination of the nature of the membranes of
this valuable organ, and most probably that examination will issue in
the proper treatment of a most distressing disease, in each of the di-
stinct forms which it is found to assume.

        On a new Properly of Light. By Sir D. Brewster.

   The author observed, that his attention had been lately drawn to a
very curious, and new property of light. While examining the solar
   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.      13

spectrum formed in the focus of an achromatic telescope, after the

manner of Fraunhofer, he placed a thin plate of glass before his eye,

in such a manner as to intercept and retard one half of the pencil,

which was entering his eye, by placing it before one half of the pupil.

He was then surprised to find, that when the edge of the retarding

glass plate was turned towards the red end of the spectrum, intensely

   black lines made their appearance, as might be expected, at such re-

   gular intervals, as to represent the most exact micrometrical arrange-

   ment of wires ; but upon turning the plate of glass half round, (still

   keeping its plane perpendicular to the axis of the eye,) so as to pre-

   sent the edge, past which the rays entered the eye, to the violet end

   of the spectrum, every one of those dark bands entirely disappeared.

   In the intermediate positions of that edge they appeared more or less

   distinct, according as the edge was more presented to the red, or to

   Athe violet, end of the spectrum.  glass plate, one-thirtieth of an

   inch thick, gave these lines ; but the thinner the glass, the more in-

tense was the blackness, and the more distinct the lines. They were

   formed in any part of the spectrum ; but they were best seen when

   the rays were intercepted which lay between the two fixed lines a and
   d of Fraunhofer. An examination of these lines afforded the very

   best means of determining the dispersive powers of substances ; for

   their distance from one another increases or diminishes, exactly as the

   entire length of the spectrum is increased or diminished ; and the
   number of them in the same part of two spectra of different lengths is

   Notice of a new Structure in the Diamond. By Sir D. Brewster.

I  Sir David said, that having communicated to the Geological Society

   aan account of certain peculiarities in the structure of the diamond,

   which confirm the theory of its vegetable origin, he was desirous of

   submitting to the consideration of this section a new structure, which

   he had recently detected in that gem, and which indirectly supported

   the same views. In consequence of the diamond having been used as

   the fittest substance for forming single microscopes of high power and

   small spherical aberration, the attention of opticians has been drawn

   to the imperfections of its structure. Mr. Pritchard, who first suc-

   ceeded in executing lenses of diamond, put into the hands of Sir David

   for examination, a plano-convex lens, about the 30th of an inch in

   diameter, which he had found unfit for the purposes of a microscope,

   in consequence of its giving double or triple images of minute objects.

   As Sir David had previously shown that almost all diamonds possessed

   an imperfect doubly refracting structure, as if they had been aggregated

   by irregular forces, or compressed or kneaded together like a piece of

   soft gum or an indurated jelly, he had no doubt that the multiple images

   were owing to this structure, as there appeared, on an ordinary ex-

   amination of the lens, to be no other cause to which it could be
--14 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

reasonably ascribed. This was also Mr. Pritchard's opinion, and the

existence of such images prevented opticians from rashly cutting up

diamonds which might turn out useless for optical purposes. As

lenses of sapphire and ruby, which Sir David had long had occasion to

use in very delicate microscopical observations, produced no duplica-

tion of the image, although the rays passed in directions in which the

double refraction was much greater than in any specimen of diamond

which he had examined, it occurred to him that the double images

might arise from some other cause. He therefore proceeded to ex-

amine the light transmitted through the diamond, by combining it with

a concave lens of the same focal length, in order to make the rays pass

in parallel directions through its substance. This experiment indicated

no peculiarity of structure at all capable of producing a separation of

the images, and he was therefore led to examine the plane surface of

the lens, by reflecting from it a narrow line of light admitted into a

dark room, and examining the surface with a half-inch lens. While

turning round the plane surface of the diamond, he was surprised to

observe the whole of its surface covered with parallel lines or veins,

some of which reflected the light more powerfully than others, so as to

have the appearance of a striped riband, somewhat resembling the rude

sketch here given, which shows that the plane surface of the diamond,

                                   in a space of less than one-thirtieth of an inch,

                                   contains many hundred veins or strata of dif-

                                   ferent reflective and refractive powers, as if they

                                   had been subjected to variable pressures, or de-

                                   posited under the influence of forces of aggrega-

                                   tion of variable intensity. If, Sir David observed,

                                   the planes of these different strata had been per-

                                   pendicular to the axis of the diamond lens, their

                                   difference of refractive power would produce no

                                   sensible effect injurious to the perfection of the

image                              but if these strata are parallel  to  that axis,  as  they are in the
                                ;

lens under consideration, each stratum must have a different focus, and

consequently produce a series of partially overlapping images.
   The results of this experiment in restoring the diamond to its value

as an optical material, in so far as it enables us to cut it in a proper
direction, and select proper specimens, and its connexion with some

delicate researches of Professors Airy and Maccullagh on the super-
ficial action of diamond upon polarized light, possess considerable in-

terest ; but the fact of a mineral body consisting of layers of different

refractive powers, and consequently different degrees of hardness and

specific gravity, is remarkable. There were several minerals, such as

Apophyllite, Chabasie, and others, in which Sir David had found differ-

ent degrees of extraordinary refraction in different parts of the crystal

but this variation of property depends upon a secondary law of struc-

ture ; and he believed that there was no crystal, either natural or
artificial, in which the properties of ordinary refraction, hardness, and

specific gravity, varied throughout its mass. This peculiarity of struc-

ture, therefore, might be regarded as an indication of a peculiarity of
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  15

origin ; and as there are various strong arguments in favour of the
opinion that the diamond is a vegetable substance, the new structure

which he had described might be considered as an additional argument

in favour of that opinion. He had, in a former paper, placed it beyond

a doubt, that the diamond must have been in a soft state, like amber
or gum, and capable of having its structure modified by the expansive

force of air, or gaseous bodies imprisoned in its cavities ; and therefore
the fact of its being sometimes composed of strata of different degrees
of induration and refractive power, was more likely to have been pro-

duced by pressures varying during the formation of the crystal, than by
any change in the intensity of the forces of aggregation of its molecules.
Such a change might have been supposed probable in the diamond

had it been previously found in any other crystal. He had already

referred to the action which diamond exerts superficially upon light.
Professors Airy and Maccullagh have found that this action is of a
very peculiar kind, having some analogy with that of metallic surfaces

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

but it was obvious, from the preceding facts, that a surface of various
refractive powers must disturb, in a very considerable degree, the
phenomena produced by its superficial action. In studying, indeed,
this class of phenomena, it would be necessary not only to obtain a
surface of uniform structure, but to make the experiments before that
surface had experienced any change from the action of the atmo-
sphere. In surfaces of glass such changes often take place in a few
days ; and the thin films of oxide which are thus created are so thin
that they can only be rendered visible by examining the light re-
flected from the surface, when it is placed in contact with an oil or
liquid of the same refractive power.

Account of a singular optical Phenomenon, sometimes seen at sunset.

      By Professor Christie, Secretary of the Royal Society.

   Mr. Christie drew the attention of the section to an optical pheno-

menon which he had observed at sunset, when looking from the Down

below the Needles Lighthouse, in the isle of Wight, across the Solent,
towards the Hampshire coast, and which he had described in a letter to

Professor Forbes, referred to in the published Reports of the Associa-

tion. He stated, that he had observed the same phenomenon on sub-

sequent occasions. The appearance was that of a very distinct vertical
ray of yellow light, having the sun for its base, of the same diameter

throughout, gradually diminishing in brilliancy, but very distinctly to
be traced to the height of more than 30°. This appearance continued

for half-'an-hour after the sun had set. On two other occasions he had

observed what he considered to be the same phenomenon. In one
case he happened to be on Westminster Bridge, and on the other on a

hill about a mile to the north of the town of Bedford. On both these

occasions the sun was considerably above the horizon, perhaps 6° or
7°, the strata of cloud in its vicinity were much denser than on the
former ones, and the phenomenon did not present the same marked
--16 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

character. In these cases, instead of a brilliant ray rising 30° or 40°,
the luminous appearance was rather that which would present itself, if
a series of images of the sun were superposed, in the line of its vertical
diameter, and extending over not more than 4° or 5° ; the edges were
ill-defined. In his letter to Professor Forbes, Mr. Christie had sug-

gested, whether the phenomenon could be due to a series of reflec-
tions of the sun's image by strata of thin cloud ; but he now suggested,
whether such a phenomenon would not be presented by successive
reflections on the undulating surface of a stratum of liquid air, such as
M. Poisson, in his new Theory of the constitution of the Atmosphere,

has supposed to exist.

On Von Wrede s Explanation of the Absorption * of Light, by the i/ndu-

                latory Theory. By Professor Powell.

Von Wrede supposes the particles of a transparent medium to be

placed regularly, at equal distances, (b) so that the aether being dif-

fused among them, the series of waves constituting a ray of light, can

be propagated directly through  the  substance                                       yet a portion of  each
                                                                                  ;

wave will encounter some of the particles, and be reflected backwards,

and then forwards again, and at length emerge along with the di-

rectly transmitted ray, and interfere with it, the conditions of which

will depend on the amount of retardation, or differences of the

phases ; which, if amounting to odd multiples of the half wave-

length (X), will give points of darkness ; and if to even multiples,

points of brightness. These may be confounded in compound light,

but will appear when the rays are separated by the prism, and give dark

bands in the spectrum.

  He then investigates a formula for the intensity of a system of

waves compounded under the conditions supposed. This is deduced

from the ordinary formula for the velocity of the wave, and is ulti-

mately brought into a form including certain terms dependent on the

medium, and constant for the same medium, together with the factor

--cos 2 7r

                X

which is so involved that the intensity is a maximum when the cosine

                26
= + --becomes
1, or when 2tt                  is an even multiple of a semi-circum-

                X

                                                                                                          2b.
                                                                                     1, or when 2 n - is an
= -- --ference, and a minimum when the cosine
                                                                                     X

odd multiple of a semi-circumference.

--~Hence if the medium be such that 2 b  for any primary ray, that

ray will be at a minimum, or will appear absorbed. If 2 b be less than

   * See " An Attempt to explain the Absorption of Light according to the Undulatory

Theory ; by Baron Fabian von Wrede," in Taylor's Foreign Scientific Memoirs, vol. i.

p. 477.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                         17

--the least value of , that is, its value for the violet ray, there will be no

absorption ; if greater, some one ray or more will be at minima. Let

=us suppose the medium such that 2 b n X, for any ray. Then, in

passing from one end of the spectrum to the other, the changes of

intensity and maxima and minima which may occur, will depend on
the number of changes which the cosine will go through in passing

from its value in the violet ray to that in the red ; or, supposing \v \r

the wave lengths for these rays, from cos 2 x » to cos 2 tt n r~

through all the intermediate values. The intensity will have as many
= + = --maxima and minima as the cosine has values
                                  1> and                      1. And

this number may be increased as much as we please, by supposing (it),

or, what is the same thing, (b) taken sufficiently great.

   The formula was, in the first instance, deduced for the simpler sup-
position of a single medium. It is then shown, that if we suppose a

compound of several media which have separately different values of

b, the resulting formula will still preserve the same condition of de-
pending on the changes of the cosine, and each medium will retain its

own set of maxima and minima.

The investigation is conducted in the first instance on the supposition

of the internal successive reflexions taking place only between two par-

ticles, or sets of particles, or reflecting surfaces. The author next pro-

ceeds to the case where more such are taken into account, and de-

duces a formula more complex, but which results in such a form that

the maxima and minima are seen to depend on exactly the same condi-

tions as in the simpler case. In certain cases of the absorption of

gases, &c. appearances of a regular and systematical character are pre-

sented, and Von Wrede shows that at least a general explanation of all

these is afforded by the principles here developed ; that is, merely by

assigning particular values to b, and supposing those values different in

the different simple media of which the compounds are made up.

  He also points out one method by which a rough approximation

even to a numerical comparison may be effected : it applies very satis-

factorily (as far as it goes) to the case of the iodic gas spectrum.

Besides this, the author describes an experiment in which the effect

of one or two internal reflexions is imitated by means of plates of

mica, and dark bands in consequence produced in the spectrum.

The principles adopted by Von Wrede appear to be quite conform-

able to what may most reasonably be supposed to take place in the

passage of a ray through a transparent body. But so little have the

phsenomena been reduced to any laws, that we are not yet in a condi-

tion to make any satisfactory comparison of observation and theory.

The grand object of inquiry must be to obtain, if possible, some nu-

merical laws, expressing the disposition and arrangement of the bands

in the spectrum ; and in cases where they are apparently destitute of

all symmetry, to examine carefully whether any hypothesis of several

sets superposed will reduce the apparent confusion to order.

vol. vi. 1837-                 c
--18 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

    Meanwhile, as to the theory, that part of it which refers to the
mode of aggregation of the particles of bodies, is necessarily, as yet,
hypothetical ; and we may therefore still consider as worthy of atten-
tion any other principles which may be suggested.

   The point on which it is probable any theory must essentially turn
is that of a retardation of some part of the light within the medium,
and its emerging along with the direct ray in a state of interference.

   A ray which enters a medium perpendicularly, though not refracted

as to direction, is yet retarded in proportion to the refractive index for
that ray and that medium. Another ray coinciding with it, and
having a refractive index slightly different, will be unequally retarded

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

and however small the difference may be, yet in a considerable thick-
ness it may amount to a discordance between the two rays when the)r
emerge ; and if their wave lengths differ only by a very small quan-
tity, they may so interfere as to produce a sensible destruction.

   If two media are compounded together which have the same re-
fractive index for one ray, and different indices for a ray whose wave
length differs very little from the first, that which retards it most will
prevail, and the two rays may interfere and produce darkness from

this cause.

   But the recent theoretical researches of Professor Lloyd, communi-
cated to the Royal Irish Academy, seem to promise an explanation of
the absorption, and with views somewhat different, connected with his
profound investigations on the propagation of light, and dependent
on the mathematical form which the expressions assume under certain
conditions. This was also, to a certain extent, a consequence from
some of the analytical investigations of Mr. Tovey on the dispersion.

        On the Dispersion of Light. By Professor Powell.

   The object of this communication is to state the progress of the
inquiry into the subject of dispersion since the last meeting of the
Association. On that occasion the author laid before the physical

section the results of his observations for determining the refractive
indices of the standard rays for twenty-eight media. These have been
since published, with some preliminary remarks, as one of the series

of Memoirs of the Oxford Ashmolean Society. They are to be con-
sidered only as first approximations, and it would be very desirable to
have many of them carefully repeated, as well as to extend the inquiry
to other bodies. The author regrets that he has been unable, from
particular circumstances, to carry on these researches during the past
summer, but intends to take the first opportunity of resuming them.
In particular, he was kindly favoured by Mr. Brooke with a specimen
of some crystals of chromate of lead for examination, and accordingly
put them into the hands of Mr. Dollond, who warmly entered into his
views, and after many vain endeavours to give them a prismatic form,
has at length succeeded in forming a very minute prism which is under

trial.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  19

   It is only by such cooperation of those engaged in different depart-
ments of science that inquiries like the present can be successfully
carried on, and the author is anxious to obtain specimens of any trans-
parent media which are capable of prismatic examination, and espe-

cially such as are of high dispersive power.
   Meanwhile he has been engaged in the comparison of observation

and theory ; especially among the more highly dispersive of those

media which he has examined. He has performed the calculations by
the method of Sir W. R. Hamilton, and has found that for those media

whose dispersion is not very great, the coincidences are sufficiently
close ; but on proceeding to the more highly dispersive bodies, espe-
cially oil of cassia, the discrepancies increase ; and, moreover, preserve
a certain regularity of character which shows that they are not mere
errors of observation. This would seem to warrant the expectation,
that a further development of the formula might still give successful
results. These investigations have been communicated to the Royal
Society, and have now appeared in the Transactions.

    Since the period of this communication, however, the able and
profound Memoir of Mr. Kelland appeared in the Cambridge Trans-
actions. This gentleman's theory is, in some measure, a simplification
of Cauchy's ; the resulting formula for the dispersion, though sub-
stantially the same, is developed in a different form, and readily capable
of being applied to numerical computation. In some correspondence
with Mr. Kelland, that gentleman favoured the author with a compu-
tation for the case of oil of cassia, in which the greatest discrepancies

existed. By this method those discrepancies have been made entirely
to disappear ; and thus the most extreme case at present known is

brought under the dominion of the formula of dispersion. It is also
to be observed that Mr. Kelland's series is not rapidly converging ; the
neglected terms therefore may, if taken into account, give a still more
accurate result. These results Mill appear in the Philosophical Trans-

 actions.

    It will now, therefore, become of yet more extreme interest to find
some means of obtaining data for the more highly dispersive sub-
 stances, such as chromate of lead, realgar, sulphur, &c.

    With regard to the theoretical computation, it must be owned, after
 all, that it is not altogether satisfactory in its nature, as it assumes three
 indices from observation, and thence determines the others, which is
 in fact a process of interpolation, and does not explain the character
 of the dispersion as referring to those three indices. Whether the
 theory can be improved in this respect becomes an important topic of

 inquiry.

    But the whole subject has now been most ably examined by
 Professor Lloyd, whose papers have been communicated to the Royal
 Irish Academy, and include several highly curious and important

 theoretical conclusions relating to the whole subject of the propaga-

 tion of light in uncrystallized media.

c2
--20 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

On Experiments relative to the influence of Surfaces on Radiation.
                      By Professor Powell.

The object of this communication was to call the attention of the

Section to the researches of Professor Bache, of Pennsylvania, which

seem not to have been so fully appreciated in this country as they

deserve ; that gentleman, at the outset of his inquiries, refers to a

paper of Professor Powell, in which the difficulties unavoidably attend-

ing any comparison of radiating effects of surfaces are pointed out,

from the impossibility of determining j)recisely in how many other

respects, besides those of colour and polish of surface, the coatings

applied may not differ. In contending for the necessity of equalizing

the coatings compared in other respects, before we can estimate the

effects really due to the surface, he must of course be understood to

speak under the qualification acutely referred to by Professor Bache

dependent on the fact first noticed by Leslie, that radiation takes

place not only from the surface, but from a certain minute though

sensible depth, which differs in different substances. Taking this

into account, the general meaning as well as importance of the caution

will be manifest. In the sequel Mr. Bache gives some very exact

experimental proofs of the truth of the law just noticed, and shows, by

successively adding fresh coats of the pigment, the precise limit beyond

which such addition ceases to increase the radiating power ; which, in
fact, there comes to a maximum, and with greater thicknesses de-

creases. When this point had been carefully ascertained in each

pigment, their effects were observed with great accuracy, and compared

with a standard surface under similar circumstances. The observa-

tions include a considerable range of substances, differing both in

colour and other properties. The results exhibit no correspondence

of the greatness of effect with the colour. The source of heat was hot
water. The author allows fully the distinction between properties of

heat of this kind, and that connected with light ; in the latter case it

Ais evident that colour is an essential element.  wide field is yet open

for tracing on what the effect does depend ; and, again, since Melloni
has pointed out the existence of many kinds of heating rays, to trace

their several relations to surfaces.

An Account of the Magnetical Observatory noioin course of erection at
                 Dublin. By Rev. Professor Lloyd.

    In bringing this subject under the notice of the Section in its pre-
sent stage, Mr. Lloyd said that he trusted little apology was required.
The establishment of permanent magnetical stations had been urged by
the powerful recommendation of the British Association ; and he was
sure that that body would view with interest the progress of an under-

taking, which was sanctioned by its own authority.
   The magnetical observatory now in progress at Dublin is situated

in an open space in the gardens of Trinity College, sufficiently re-
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  21

mote from all disturbing influences. The building is forty feet in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         m

length by thirty in depth. It is constructed of the dark-coloured
argillaceous limestone, which abounds in the valley of Dublin, and
which has been ascertained to be perfectly devoid of any influence on
the needle. This is faced with Portland stone ; and within, the walls

are to be studded, to protect from cold and damp. No iron whatever

will be used throughout the building. With reference to the materials,
Professor Lloyd mentioned, that in the course of the arrangements
now making for the erection of a Magnetical Observatory at Green-
wich, Mr. Airy had rejected bricks in the construction of the building,
finding that they were in all cases magnetic, and sometimes even polar.
Mr. Lloyd has since confirmed this observation, by the examination of
specimens of bricks from various localities ; and though there appeared
to be great diversity in the amount of their action on the needle, he
met with none entirely free from such influence.

   The building consists of one principal room, and two smaller rooms,
one of which serves as a vestibule. The principal room is thirty-six
feet in length by sixteen in breadth, and has projections in its longer
sides, which increase the breadth of the central part to twenty feet.
This room will contain four principal instruments, suitably supported
on stone pillars ; viz. a transit instrument, a theodolite, a variation in-
strument, and a dip apparatus. The transit instrument (four feet in
focal length,) will be stationed close to the southern window of the
room. In this position it will serve for the determination of the time ;
and a small trap-door in the roof will enable the observer to adjust
it to the meridian. The theodolite will be situated towards the other
end of the room, and its centre will be on the meridian line of the
transit. The limb of the theodolite is twelve inches in diameter, and
is read off by three verniers to ten seconds. Its telescope has a focal
length of eighteen inches, and is furnished with a micrometer for the
purpose of observing the diurnal variation.

    The variation instrument will be placed in the magnetic meridian,
with respect to the theodolite, the distance between these instruments
being about five feet. The needle is a rectangular bar, twelve inches
long, suspended by parallel silk fibres, and inclosed in a box to protect
 it from the agitation of the air. The magnetic bar is furnished with
 an achromatic lens at one end, and a cross of wires at the other, after
 the principle of the collimator. This will be observed with the tele-
 scope of the theodolite, in the usual manner ; and the deviation of the
 line of collimation of the collimator from the magnetic axis will be
 ascertained by reversal. The direction of the magnetic meridian being
 thus found, that of the true meridian will be given by the transit. It

 is only necessary to turn over the transit telescope, and, using it also

 as a collimator, to make a similar reading of its central wire, by the
 telescope of the theodolite. The angle read off on the limb of the

 theodolite is obviously the supplement of the variation. This use of
 the transit has been suggested by Dr. Robinson ; and it is anticipated

 that much advantage will result from the circumstance, that the two
 extremities of the arc are observed by precisely the same instrumental
--22 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

means. With this apparatus it is intended to make observations of
the absolute variation twice each day, as is done in the observatory of

--Professor Gauss, of Gb'ttingen, the course of the diurnal variation,

and the hours of maxima and minima, having been ascertained by a

Aseries of preliminary observations with the same instrument.

similar instrument, in a form somewhat modified, will serve for the
observation of the diurnal changes of the horizontal force.

   An apparatus, constructed by M. Gambey, and similar to the one

made by that artist for M. Kupffer, will be used in observing the

diurnal variations of the dip. Gauss's large apparatus will also be
set up in the same room, and will be used occasionally, especially in
observations of the absolute intensity, made according to the method
proposed by that distinguished philosopher. The bars are too large
to be employed in conjunction with other magnetical apparatus.

    It is intended to combine a regular series of meteorological obser-
vations, with those on the direction and intensity of the terrestrial mag-
netic force just spoken of ; and every care and precaution has been

adopted in the construction of the instruments.
   In conclusion, Mr. Lloyd said, that he felt it a duty to allude to the

liberality and zeal in the cause of science which had been evinced by
the Board of Trinity College on this occasion. The probable expense
of the building and instruments is estimated at 1000/. ; and that sum
was immediately allocated to the purpose, when it appeared that the
interests of science were likely to be benefited by the outlay.

           Notice of Electrical Researches by Professor Henry,
                                          of Princeton, U.S.

    The primary object of these investigations was to detect, if possible,
an inductive action in common electricity, analogous to that discovered
in a current of galvanism. For this purpose an analysis was instituted
of the phenomena known in. ordinary electricity by the name of the
lateral discharge. Professor Henry was induced to commence with
this from some remarks by Dr. Roget on the subject. The method of
studying the lateral spark consisted in catching it on the knob of a
small Leyden phial, and presenting this to an electrometer. The

--result of the analysis was in accordance with an opinion ofBiot, that

the lateral discharge is due only to the escape of the small quantity
of redundant electricity which always exists on one or the other side of
a jar, and not to the whole discharge. The Professor then stated
several consequences which would flow from this ; namely, that we
could increase or diminish the lateral action, by the several means

which would affect the quantity of redundant, or, as it may be called,
 free electricity, such as an increase of the thickness of the glass, or by
substituting for the small knob of the jar a large ball. But the ar-
rangement which produces the greatest effect, is that of a long fine

 copper wire insulated, parallel to the horizon, and terminated at each

end by a small ball. When sparks are thrown on this from a globe

 of about a foot in diameter, the wire, at each discharge, becomes
   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                 23

beautifully luminous from one end to the other, even if it be a

hundred feet long : rays are given off on all sides perpendicular to the

axis of the wire. In this arrangement the electricity of the globe may

be considered nearly all as free electricity ; and as the insulated wire
contains its natural quantity, the whole spark is thrown off in the form

of a lateral discharge. But to explain these phsenomena more fully,

Professor Henry remarked, that it appeared necessary to add an

additional postulate to our theory of the principle of electricity,

namely, a kind of momentum, or inertia, without weight ; by this he

would only be understood to express the classification or generaliza-

tion of a number of facts, which would otherwise be insulated. To

illustrate this, he stated that the same quantity of electricity could be

made to remain on the wire if gradually communicated ; but when

thrown on in the form of a spark, it is dissipated as before described.

Other facts of the same kind were mentioned ; and, also, that we could

take advantage of the principle to procure a greater effect in the

decomposition of water by ordinary electricity. The fact of a wire

becoming luminous by a spark was noticed by the celebrated Van

Marum more than fifty years ago ; but he ascribed it to the immense
power of the great Haarlem machine. The effect, however, can be

produced, as before described, by a cylinder of Nairn's construction,

of seven inches in diameter, a globe of a foot in diameter being placed

in connexion with the prime conductor to increase its capacity.

Some experiments were next described, in reference to the induction

   .of the lateral action of different discharges on each

    other. When the long wire is arranged in two parallel,

    but continuous lines, by bending the wire, the outer side

   ,

    of each wire only becomes luminous ; when formed into

   three parallel lines by a double bend, the middle portion

c        of the wire does not become luminous, the outer sides

        only of the outer lines of wire exhibit the rays. When

   "TM\ the wire is formed into a flat spiral, the outer spiral

. J alone exhibits the lateral discharge, but the light in this

   case is very brilliant ; the inner spirals appear to in-

crease the effect by induction.

Professor Henry stated, that a metallic conductor, intimately

connected with the earth at one end, does not silently conduct the

electricity thrown in sparks on the other end. In one experiment

described, a copper-wire, one-eighth of an inch in diameter, was

plunged at its lower end into the water of a deep well, so as to form

as perfect a connexion with the earth as possible ; a small ball being
attached to the upper end, and sparks passed on to this from the

globe before mentioned, a lateral spark could be drawn from any part

of the wire, and a pistol of Volta fired, even near the surface of the

water. This effect was rendered still more striking, by attaching a

ball to the middle of the perpendicular part of a lightning rod, put up

according to the directions given by Gay-Lussac ; when sparks of

about an inch and a half in length were thrown on the ball, corre-

sponding lateral sparks could be drawn not only from the parts of the
--24 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

rod between the ground and the ball, but from the part above, even
to the top of the rod. Some remarks were then made on the theory of
thunder-storms, as given by the French writers, in which the cloud
is considered as analogous in action to one coating of a charged glass,
the earth the other coating, and the air between as the non-conducting

--glass. One very material circumstance has been overlooked in this

theory, namely, the great thickness of the intervening stratum, and
the consequent great quantity of free or redundant electricity in the
cloud. This must modify the nature of the discharge from the
thunder-cloud, and lead to doubt if it be perfectly analogous to the
discharge from an ordinary Leyden jar, since the great quantity of
redundant electricity must produce a comparatively greater lateral
action ; and hence, possibly, the ramifications of the flash and other
similar phenomena may be but cases of the lateral discharge.

   Some facts were then mentioned, on the phenomena of the spark
from a long wire charged with common or atmospheric electricity.
It is well known that the spark in this case is very pungent, resem-
bling a shock from a Leyden jar. The effect does not appear to be
produced, as is generally supposed, by the high intensity of the elec-
tricity at the ends of the wire by mere distribution, since this is in-

compatible with the shortness of the spark. In one experiment, fifteen

--persons, joining hands, received a severe shock, while standing on the

grass, from a long wii'e, one of the number only touched the con-
ductor ; the spark in this case was not more than a quarter of an inch
long. Several other analogous facts were mentioned, and the sugges-
tion made, that the whole were probably the result of an inductive

action in the long wire, similar to that observed in a long galvanic

current : the subject now required further investigation.

   Professor Hemy concluded by observing, that the facts he had

given in this communication were such as must have been noticed
by every person who is in the habit of experimenting on ordinary
electricity ; but he believed these had never been studied in this con-

nexion. He was anxious to direct the attention of the Section to the

subject, as one which appeared to afford an interesting field of re-
search, particularly in connexion with the recent discoveries of the

surprising inductive actions of galvanic currents.

On a convenient and efficient form of Electro-magnetic Apparatus for

Bythe production of Electricity of high Intensity.  Rev. J. W.

M'Gauley, Professor of Natural Philosophy to the National Board

of Education in Ireland.

   He remarked that, although he had not altered his opinions on

the applicability of Electro-magnetism as a moving power, he con-
ceived we ought not to be satisfied with almost any portion of our
present electro-magnetic apparatus ; but that all that an individual
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.           25

could, miassisted, hope to achieve, would be to simplify and improve

singly its various portions.

   Any one, he observed, who had experimented on a large scale, must

have found that the galvanic apparatus becomes considerable in size,
and troublesome in operation ; he had determined, therefore, to devote
some time to the construction of a machine, from which we might
obtain electricity of very high intensity, to be applied, if possible, to

the magnetization of bars of soft iron. He Avas aware that a consider-

able effect was said to have been produced by a battery consisting
merely of a wire of zinc, and another of platina, and a small quantity
of acid ; but as there is no standard for the measure of physiological
effects but the variable susceptibility of individuals, he could not but
think, from a variety of experiments he had made, that the shock was
magnified by the surprise of the experimentalist, as we know it to have
been at the discovery of the principle of the Leyden jar : of the power
of the apparatus before it the Section could judge for itself. Its con-
struction was simple and permanent ; and, from the ease with which it
could be applied, and the power we possess of diminishing, at pleasure,
the number and intensity of the shocks, it appeared well calculated
for the purposes of medical electricity. It is self-acting ; and as it
requires no aid from the operator for the production of continued
electrical effects, when once excited, it leaves his attention undivided
for experiment. Besides the arrangement of its parts, which he be-
lieved to be the best of any he had tried, and which he would detail
to the Section, he was inclined to attribute its efficiency to a number of
circumstances he had not yet sufficient time to develope, and whose
consideration, therefore, he would leave to another opportunity.

                                    OP

WW is a bar of soft iron 2 feet long, 3-4ths of an inch in diameter.

A and B two helices, each about 580 feet long, No. 13 copper wire,

one dextrorsum, the other sinistrorsum ; the coils of each are super-
Himposed alternately on the other.
                                    and P are mercury cups, con-

nected with cylinders of copper S and T, for giving the shock, and

Kwith the extremities of helix B.  and O mercury cups, connected

with helix A. N, and the same cup O, connected with the poles

Dof a small calorimeter ;  a copper wire, carrying a soft iron knob
Wto be attracted by the bar W, and, when attracted, to draw down

the lever Z E, turning on the centre C, and having fixed on its longer

arm the curved wire E, which, being elevated or depressed, makes
--26 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

or breaks battery connexion with the extremities of helix A. The

helices, bar, and wires, are enclosed, permanently, in a strong deal

case, upon which are screwed the copper cylinders S and T, the

fulcrum C upon which Z E moves, and the cups of mercury H, K, N,

O, P. By sliding a small wedge under the extremity of the lever E,

D Wthe knob more nearly approaches the bar W, and being more

easily, is, therefore, with greater frequency attracted by it, as the time

necessary for intense magnetization is not then required ; a spring

Walso sliding under E lightens the latter, and without bringing the
knob nearer to  W, renders its attraction more easy : both wedge

and spring will be found useful.

    Since battery connexion is broken by the apparatus itself, and at
the moment the magnetism and excitement of the helix have reached

their highest intensity, the circumstances are, in consequence, most

favourable for the production of the desired effect ; hence, to break

connexion more rapidly, either by a separate mechanism, or by regula-

ting the wedge and spring of the apparatus itself, though it increase the

number, cannot augment the violence of the shocks. This was shown

by experiment ; and it was said to be in accordance with the belief

of Dr. Faraday, who says, (Phil. Trans. 1832,) "that a magnet, even

of soft iron, does not arrive at its fullest intensity in an instant." The

mercury cups are arranged so that the experimenter may connect the

extremities of the helices, the cylinders, and the batten-, as he pleases.

That contact, when broken, may be broken with great rapidity, the
wire E is attached to the longer ann of the lever.

It is said, Mr. M'Gauley continued, that mere metallic contact,

without mercury cups, is sufficient, and he hoped it was so ; but he
had reason, from experiment, to fear, that a pressure of the metals,

incompatible with the delicate action of the machine, would be re-

quired. Besides many, and he was induced to hope important dif-

ferences between this and other contrivances, he thought it right to

remark, in anticipation of what perhaps might be said, that the coils

used by Dr. Faraday and Professor Jacobi were not the same as the

present ; and the importance even of the manner of coiling the wire,

may be inferred from the fact, that out of four arrangements, the

same in every respect except the coiling of the wire, none was at all

comparable in effect with the one exhibited. Dr. Faraday's coils, as
they were nearly of the same length, (paper read before the Royal

-- --Society, Jan. 29, 1835 : Athenaum, No. 391) must have been placed

beside each other in the same stratum on the bar ; and Jacobi (Scien-

tific Memoirs, part 4) coiled the wires together in one helix.

That the action of the apparatus was very great, was, he observed,

manifest to all present ; and he had not known any person, when it

was in order, as it then was, able to retain the hands, wetted with

water, on the cylinders for an instant ; nor, very frequently, the hands

even unwetted. With this apparatus we have a very convenient means

of trying the beautiful experiment of Dr. Faraday, repeated by Jacobi.

They found that when two wires were coiled in a parallel direction,

and the extremities of one of them united, the spark and shock were
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.           27

diminished or destroyed ; in addition, we find the magnetizing power
W Wof the battery lessened, or altogether interrupted, for the bar
                                                                    is

Eno longer able to attract as before. Dr. Faraday had ascribed the

disappearance of the secondary current to the production of a current

in the parallel wire, which current, had that wire not been present, or

had its extremities not been united, would have been found in the

conducting wire itself; and he supposes the parallelism of the wires to

be necessary in the arrangement, yet, in the present case, the wires

are not parallel, though the effects remain unchanged. It is possible

Bto unite the extremities of helix with the helix of an electro-magnet
in such a manner as to excite the latter. When the apparatus is

made to act so weakly as that the hands may be retained on the

cylinders for a number of rapidly succeeding shocks, it is sometimes

very difficult to disengage them. He was induced to believe that

increasing the number of galvanic circles, without diminishing the

size of plates, would increase the effect. He found it more useful

to increase the energy of the battery by strengthening the acid mix-

ture, than by enlarging the plates. When too powerful a battery is

used, rendering the contact between some of the connecting wires less

perfect, made the machine uniform in its action. Jacobi says that,

in his experiment, increasing the battery did not increase the effect

but Mr. M'Gauley showed the contrary, by experiment, in this case.

Still, whatever was the reason, he observed, he did not, even in an

arrangement similar to that of Professor Jacobi, find that a very small

battery produced an effect equal to that of a larger one : so much do

circumstances, unnoticed or unappreciated, sometimes alter, not only

the extent, but the nature of results.

            On the Interference of Electro-magnetic Currents.
                            By M. De la Rive.

   After a brief resume of the known properties of electro-magnetic
currents, M. De la Rive adverted to some new results at which he had

arrived in studying them. He remarked, that in chemical decompo-

sition effected by these currents, the individual force of each was
greater the more rapidly they succeeded each other ; so that, to de-
compose a given quantity of water, it becomes necessary to have a
number of these currents, so much the greater as the succession is less
rapid. There is, however, a limit beyond which the force of the
currents is not augmented by any further augmentation of the rapidity

of the succession. When plates of platina are employed, instead of

wires, in the decomposition of water, the decomposition ceases to take

place when the surface of contact of the metal with the liquid sur-
passes a certain limit. Nevertheless, the current, far from diminish-

--ing in intensity, becomes, on the contrary, more intense as is shown
--by the indications of a metallic thermometer the helix of which,

placed in the current, furnishes a measure of its calorific energy. As
--28 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

soon as the surfaces of contact are of such magnitude that decompo-
sition is no longer effected, the thermometer reaches a maximum,
which it does not pass, even when the surfaces of contact are aug-
mented. This fact seems to prove, that chemical decomposition pro-
duced by electrical currents takes place only when these currents
undergo a certain resistance in their passage from the metal into the
liquid ; and that, when this resistance does not exist, decomposition

ceases. When we employ wires of platina to transmit the magneto-

electric currents into a solution of any kind, whether acid, saline,
or alkaline, we, at first, observe an abundant evolution of gas ; then
this disengagement diminishes, and at the end of fifteen or twenty

minutes it altogether disappears. When we examine these metallic

wires, Ave find them covered with a very fine powder, composed of
platina in the metallic state, but extremely divided. The same phas-
nomenon takes place with gold, palladium, silver, &c. All these
metals are covered, in the same manner, with a very fine coating of
the metal itself, in a state of extreme subdivision. The author has
assured himself that this powder is composed of the metal itself, and

not an oxide or a suboxide. He inquired whether this effect is the

result of the mechanical shocks that the molecules of the metal undergo
by the action of these currents, which are discontinuous, and alter-
nately in opposite directions ; and whether it would not be augmented
by the succession of oxidations and deoxidations, which would occur

on the surface of the wires. He concluded by stating, that he had

observed that the armatures of soft iron, (about which the metallic
wires are coiled, in which the currents are developed by induction,)
cease to be attracted by the poles of the magnets, before which they
pass when the two ends of the wire in which the current is developed
are united by one good metallic conductor ; a fact which would seem
to prove that Magnetism and Dynamical Electricity are, in these
cases, but two different forms of the same force, one of which dis-
appears when the other becomes apparent; and he insisted on the
advantage that we might derive from this property in the production
of motion by electro-magnets.

On the two Electricities, and on Professor Wheatstones Determination

          of the Velocity of Electric Light. By W. Ettrick.

On the occurrence of the Aurora Borealis in England during summer;
   icith a recommendation that the phenomenon should, at all seasons, be

  more carefully observed than hitherto. By S. Hunter Christie,

    3I.A., Sec. B.S., fyc.

   The occurrence of an Aurora borealis in the very middle of summer
is a phaenomenon hitherto unrecorded, and as no account, that I am
aware of, has appeared of a very brilliant Aurora which was exhibited
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                            29

and which I observed on the 24th of June of the present year, I con-
sider that a notice of such an occurrence cannot but be interesting to

the Section.

   The phenomenon, on this occasion, presented the usual appear-
ances, although the coruscations were not of that vivid and brilliant
character which they have frequently presented during the darker
nights of the winter and spring of the present year. The streamers
were bright, but more steady than are sometimes observed, and
occasionally rose to the height of 50° above the northern ho-
rizon. No arch was observed, but the usual darkness, which I should
hesitate to designate as cloud, was early observed in the northern
horizon, though this was at no time so well defined as I have on many
occasions seen it. The aurora was first observed at ll h 46 m p.m.,
and continued until 12h 20m, the streamers extended over a space of

20°, the magnetic north being its middle point.

   This is not by any means a solitary instance of the occurrence of

Aurora during the last summer.

   On the 19th May I observed a very fine Aurora. On this occasion,

two very beautiful bands of arches, radiating from magnetic west,
extended nearly to the opposite horizon. One, when first observed,

extended directly over head, was very thin and not very perceptible
in the east ; the other, a much narrower band, consisting of three or
four arches, not defined with the same distinctness throughout, rose to
the height of 40°, and extended to the opposite horizon. The arches
had a slow motion from north to south (magnetic), and in their course
passed over several stars, and also the planet Jupiter, and the bril-
liancy of these was but slightly dimmed by the interposition of the

arch. No streamers were seen on this occasion, nor did I note the
appearance of the usual darkness in the northern horizon. The arches
were observed from 9h 40m till 10h 15m. The moon was near the full,

which rendered the phsenomenon less striking than it otherwise would

have been.

   On the 1st July, at 12h 30m, I observed indications of an Aurora

about the magnetic north. I noticed a faint coloured light above two,
                                                    10m
not very well defined, bands of darkness.  At    h       I  was  called  up

                                               l

to witness a vivid and brilliant display of coruscations. These rose,

to the height of 30° or 40°, over an extent of more than 20°, from the

dark cloud usually attending the Aurora. Although they were most

brilliant when first observed, beams of light were visible for a quarter

of an hour ; but after this, if any coruscations occurred, they were

invisible, in consequence of the increasing light from the sun. No

arches were, on this occasion, observed. On the 2nd July there were

decided appearances of Aurora, accompanied by streamers ; but these

were much fainter than on the preceding night ; and, again, on the

7th there were indications of Aurora, though of a less decided cha-

racter.

   On the 25th August there was a very splendid display of Aurora,
which continued from 10h 25 m until 10h 51 m. The streams of light

were extremely brilliant, and rose to a considerable height, passing,
--30 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

in some instances, over stars of the first magnitude, whose lustre was

but little diminished by their light.

   On this occasion I noticed a phsenomenon which I had some years

before observed in a most striking form : namely, the dark Aurora

cloud breaking through the light above it. Having, on the former

occasion to which I have just alluded, omitted to note the month and

year, at the time I noted the successive appearances of the Aurora, I

cannot now refer to the date.  I  first  observed  the  Aurora  at  7h  30m
                                                                                        ,

in the form of a faint arch, about 25° in height, its middle point bear-

ing nearly magnetic north. This arch continued for nearly two

hours, becoming gradually brighter. It was succeeded by three

arches, formed one within another, and having, 10° below them, a dark

arch. These again were, in about an hour from their first appearance,

succeeded by a single well-defined arch, in the same position, and

having below it a remarkably well-defined dark arch. This shortly

afterwards appeared to break through the luminous band, dark streams

rushing upwards, and breaking up the arch in every part : these dark

streams were almost immediately succeeded by brilliant coruscations.

Subsequently, both the dark arch and luminous band were re-formed.

Captain Back has since observed a similar phsenomenon, in a still

more striking form, while in his winter quarters at Fort Reliance.

I have on other occasions, during the present summer, observed

clear indications of Aurora, though not of a decided character ; but

these are sufficient to show that this phsenomenon occurs at all seasons

of the year, and to render it probable that it is principally the shorter

duration of the nights from the vernal to the autumnal equinox which

renders it less frequently visible during this period than in the winter

half of the year. I have here only noticed the occurrence of the

Aurora during the summer ; but all must be aware how frequently,

and with what brilliancy, it has presented itself in the south of Eng-

land during the last twelve months ; indeed, I consider, that in no

case has a period of a month elapsed without a striking exhibition of

it. In the month of February there occurred one, the most extraor-

dinary that, I believe, is on record in these latitudes.

   To what are we to attribute this frequent occurrence, during the

present and a few previous years, of a phsenomenon which had for a

considerable time before been comj^aratively rare?* This is an im-

portant question in meteorology, to which, in the present state of

science, only conjecture can be offered in- reply ; and this must con-

tinue to be the case, until the phsenomenon itself, with all its attendant

circumstances, shall have been more carefully observed than hitherto.

My own avocations are of a nature to preclude me from making such

observations ; but I entertain a confident hope, that there will not be
wanting members of the British Association both willing and able to

devote their time and attention to this highly interesting inquiry.

   * May 30, 1838. 1 may now remark that, as far as my own observation and any

information I have obtained go, the Aurora Borealis lias been of very rare occurrence,
in the south of England, during the last winter and the present spring, particularly as
compared with the preceding year. This is the more remarkable when taken in con-

--junction with the severity and long continuance of the cold weather. S. H. C.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  31

   It may be superfluous to point out, to persons disposed carefully to

--observe this phenomenon, the necessity of watching for every indica-

tion of its appearance the low dark arch in the north, for example,

--one of the most infallible or the importance of noting, as accurately

as possible, the time, bearing, and altitude of each particular appear-
ance ; but I would especially call their attention to every circumstance
connected with the dark arch ; the first indications of its formation
the manner in which it occasionally breaks up ; whether irregularities
in its form are always attended with coruscations ; whether, as it has
appeared to me, the matter of which it is composed does commonly
rush through the luminous bands ; whether, in short, all the phseno-
mena will warrant the conclusion, that the matter which, during an
Aurora, appears in the form of a dark low arch, is different from that
forming the luminous bands, and that the different phenomena are
due to the action of the same cause, on two aeriform masses, which
have distinctive characters with reference to such action.

                       METEOROLOGY, &c.

 On M. Poissoris Theory of the Constitution of the Atmosphere. By
                         J. W. Lubbock, F.R.S., $e.

   He commenced by observing, that at a late meeting of the Section,*
M. De la Rive described a very curious phaenomenon presented by
Mont Blanc after sunset, which consisted in the re-appearance of the red

colour of the snow, produced by the rays of the setting sun. Mr. Lub-
bock said that he should now venture, with great diffidence, to submit

the possibility of the following explanation.

   M. Poisson considers it a necessary consequence of the laws of equi-

librium of elastic fluids, that the atmosphere of the earth, at a certain

--height, becomes liquefied by cold. (Traite de Mecanique, vol. ii. p.
--612 ;f Theorie Mathematique de la Chaleur, p. 460, et Supplement,

note D.) In this way the atmosphere receives an abrupt termination,
without which, indeed, it would be difficult to imagine that the planets
and comets move in space devoid of considerable resistance. If the
atmosphere be constituted as M. Poisson infers from analysis, it seems
to me, Mr. Lubbock observed, that we might expect that the pheno-

menon described by M. De la Rive would take place, and that the

image of the sun, reflected from the interior surface of the liquid air,
Mould be reflected again to the observer, after sunset, by the moun-

tain. On the other hand, it may be stated, that an observer sta-
tioned, at sunrise or sunset, upon Mont Blanc, or in a balloon, or in

any position sufficiently elevated, ought to see in the sky the re-
flected image of the sun ; and that there is no observation of this

    * See p. 10 of these Transactions.
    f " Ainsi, pour fixer les idees, on peut se representer une colonne atuiospherique

qui s'appuie sur la mer, par exemple, comme un flnide elastique termine par deux

liquides, dont l'un a une densite et une temperature ordinaire, et l'autre une tempe-
rature et une densite excessivement faibles."
--32 SEVENTH REPORT 1837«

kind upon record. If, however, this phenomenon were to take place,

Ait might not be referred by the observer to the proper cause.  ter-

restrial object seen by reflection in this manner would be reversed

but it is, perhaps, not impossible, that although the internal surface of

the liquid air might not reflect mountains in this manner, it might re-

flect so bright an object as the sun. Halos might, perhaps, always be

produced by transmitted light. It might also be remarked, that the

liquid heterogeneous thickness of air opposes a difficulty to the calcu-

lation of astronomical horizontal refractions by the method of mecha-

nical quadratures, devised by the late Mr. Atkinson, and employed by

him in the Transactions of the Astronomical Society, and by M. Biot

in the Conn, des Temps, unless somewhat modified.

            On the Principle of Mr. Whewell's Anemometer.

   The author rapidly sketched the principle on which his instrument

registered the quantity of aerial current passing any place. He had

exhibited the instrument in an unfinished state at the Dublin meet-
ing, and in a more matured state of its existence at Bristol ; it had
since received some valuable improvements, which were suggested
by the practical working of the machine. That he might not oc-
cupy the time of the Section too long, it would suffice at present to
say, that in it a small set of windmill vanes, something like the ven-
tilators placed in our windows, were presented to the wind by a

common vane, let the direction of the wind blow how it might : the

aerial current as it passed set these vanes into rapid motion, and a train
of wheels and pinions reduced the motion, which was thence com-
municated to a pencil traversing vertically, and pressing against an
upright cylinder, which formed the support of the instrument, and that
10,000 revolutions of the fly only caused the pencil to descend the one-
twentieth of an inch. The surface of the cylinder was japanned white,
and the pencil' as the vane -wavered kept tracing a thick irregular line,

like the shadings on the coast of a map : the middle of a line was
readily ascertained, and it gave the mean direction of the wind actually
exhibited before the eye by a diagram, while the length of the line was

proportional to the velocity of the wind, and the length of time during
which it blew in each direction ; which therefore gave what he called
the integral effects of the wind, or the total amount of the aerial
current which had passed the place of observation in the direction
of each point of the compass, during the interval which had elapsed
since the time of last recording the instrument. This, it was well

known, was a subject of much importance in meteorological specula-
tions, but had not been hitherto accomplished. It was indeed deemed
of much consequence to obtain even the mean direction of the wind

at a given place, and the celebrated Kaintz, in his Meteorologie, has
made a collection of several results of this kind ; but, in the ordinary
way of registering even the direction of the wind, which is by stating
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  33

the length of time it blows from a certain point of the compass, it
is obvious that the velocity of the wind is altogether left out of ac-
count, and the high wind or storm of one day is placed on a par with
the gentle breeze of the next, and therefore not an attempt can be
made to infer the total quantity, or what he had ventured to term
the integral effect of the wind. Mr. Whewell then proceeded to ex-
hibit large diagrams, giving the results of the observations recorded
at the Cambridge observatory, under the care of Professor Challis, and
at the house of the Cambridge Philosophical Society. The similarity

of the curves showed a general coincidence, but some discrepancies
were accounted for by the circumstance, that the dome of the Equa-
torial sheltered the anemometers placed at the observatory on the north
side, while that placed upon the house of the Philosophical Society was
well situated for receiving the wind from every quarter. Anemome-
ters on this principle had been also erected by Professor Forbes and
Mr. Rankin, at Edinburgh, and by Mr. Snow Harris and Mr. South-

wood at Plymouth ; but he was not at present prepared to state the re-
sults of these observations, though he had little doubt they would be

interesting and useful.

An Account of his Observations tvith Mr. Whewell's Anemometer.
                           By Mr. Southwood.

   Mr. Southwood noticed some imperfections in the original construc-
tion of the instrument, which only forced themselves upon his atten-

tion as the evils which arose from them became obvious in the practi-

cal working of the machine. He pointed out the remedies which he

had adopted. The most important were, the use of the successive
letters of the alphabet, a, b, c, &c. to mark the successive points to

--which the wind shifted in the register ; a ready means of unclamp-

ing the nut carrying the pencil, (which descends l-20th of an inch

--for ten thousand revolutions of the fly,) as soon as it has reached the

bottom, and replacing it at the top ; also ready means of placing a new

--fly on the axle when any accident occurred to the one which had been

there ; a means of protecting the parts most liable to injury from wet

--and various other points, which his attention to the performance of

the machine had made him perceive the importance of.

An Account of a New Registering Anemometer and Rain- Gauge, noio

   at work at the Philosophical Institution at Birmingham, with dia-
   grams giving a condensed View of the Observations recorded during

  thefirst eight months of the year 1837. By Follett Osler, of Bir-

   mingham.

Having about eighteen months ago constructed an instrument to re-

gister the variations in the direction and force of the wind, as well as

the quantity of rain that falls, which instrument has been in constant

operation since November last, the author was induced, at the request

of several scientific members of the Association, to lay before the Meet-

vol. vi. 1837.  »
--34 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

ing an account of these instruments, together with some tables, founded

on the records they have furnished. He also presented drawings of

the Registering Anemometer and Rain-Gauge alluded to.
   The direction of the wind is obtained by means of the vane attached

to the rod, or rather tube, that carries it, and consequently causes the

latter to move with itself. At the lower extremity of this tube is a
small pinion working in a rack, which slides backwards and forwards
as the wind moves the vane, and to this rack a pencil is attached, which
marks the direction of the wind on a paper ruled with the cardinal
points, and so adjusted as to progress at the rate of one inch per hour
by means of a clock ; the force is at the same time ascertained by a
plate one foot square, placed at right angles to the vane, supported by
two light bars running on friction rollers, and communicating with a
spiral spring in such a way that the plate cannot be affected by the
wind's pressure without instantly acting on this spring, and communi-
cating the quantum of its action by a light wire passing down the centre
of the tube to another pencil below, which thus registers its degree of
force. The rain is registered at the same time by its weight acting on
a balance which moves in proportion to the quantity falling, and has
also a pencil attached to it recording the results. The receiver is so
arranged as to discharge every quarter of an inch that falls, when the

pencil again starts at zero.

Suggestions as to the probable Causes of the Aerial Currents of the

                    Temperate Zones. By Mr. Birt.

   Mr. H. W. Dove has lately proposed, Phil. Mag. Sept. 1837, a Theory

to account for the variations in the direction of the winds, on the prin-
ciple that the earth's rotatory motion produces a change in the direc-
tion of a stream of air passing over any given place in the temperate,
zones, occasioning a northerly current to become easterly, and a
southerly one westerly.

   The author presented a diagram of the directions of aerial currents
observed, and offered suggestions as to the probable causes of the varia-
tions in these directions. The general tendency of the wind being un-
derstood to vary in the order of S.E., S., W., N., N.E. during the direct
periods, and N.E., N., W., S., S.E., during the retrograde, the author

proposes the following explanation.

    The heated air from the intertropical regions flows over towards the

poles, giving rise to currents in every possible direction on either side
of the torrid zone, and as the sun is vertical to a spot which traverses
a parallel of the torrid zone during twenty-fours, it is evident that the
currents thus generated are extremely numerous, and situated in every
possible direction with respect to any given place within the temperate
zunes, London for example ; this will be readily apparent upon inspect-

ing a terrestrial globe, when it will be seen that the spaces some of
these currents have to traverse previous to their arriving at London are
of much greater extent than others, and they will consequently arrive

at the place of observation much later. Now supposing these currents
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  35

to be formed about the 30th parallel of north latitude for the northern
temperate zone, those which originate between two hours east and two
hours west longitude as the sun traverses this portion of the torrid zone,
and are directed towards England, will reach London between the S.E.
and S.W. points, the S.E. and S. currents arriving first ; these will be
succeeded by the S.W., and as the sun passes on in his progress the
currents arrive at London with a more westerly direction, and those
originating between four and five hours west, which are nearly S.W. at

the 30th parallel, become W. at London. In this manner the currents

vary, following the course of the sun, until he arrives at the 10th meri-
dian west of Greenwich ; the current produced here reaches London as

a N.W. wind, while that moving towards the north in longitude 180°
arrives at London as a N. wind. As the currents produced at places si-
tuated more and more westerly of 180° arrive, they acquire a more
easterly character, until the sun reaches between five and four hours
east, when the direction of the wind becomes east, the N.E. originating
at ten hours east, as the N.W. originated at ten hours west; the wind
then progresses to S.E., and the same order recommences.

   The above account of the formation of currents on the equatorial

boundaries of the temperate zones the author supposes will sufficiently
explain the progression of the wind round the compass in a direct order
and in consequence of the large space which the currents (that are
formed near the opposite meridian) have to traverse, compared with that
which the southern currents pass over, the greater prevalence of S.W.
winds is readily accounted for. England, however, from its position

in the north temperate zone, is subjected to the influence of those cur-

rents that proceed from the pole towards the equator to supply the place
of the air which ascends by the heating power of the sun ; these currents

arrive at London from all points between W. and E. towards N. in the
order W., N., E. and may concur in their arrival with the N.W.,N. and

N.E. equatorial currents, or the S.E., S., and S.W., producing a diversity

of phenomena according as they are situated W. or E. of them. If for
instance a N.W. polar current arrives with a N. equatorial, the resultant

wind is N.N.W. ; and if the equatorials have steadily proceeded from
S.E. to N., in consequence of the position of the two kinds of currents,
a regression will take place, which will be greater the further the winds
are from each other : this state of things will considerably influence the
remaining winds which, combined with the meeting of differently posited
equatorial currents, may induce a permanent regression of a greater or
less magnitude, and which gives place to a direct order, upon the polar
currents preceding the equatorial in their arrival. These views, the

author conceives, will sufficiently explain the variations exhibited in his
diagram, which suggests the idea, that the revolutions of the equatorial
and polar currents are extremely regular, and that the antecedence and
consequence of the polar relative to the equatorial currents are subject
to laws capable of being ascertained by careful observation. During
the first half of the period tabulated, there were two alternations of
the equatorial and polar, and during the latter half the same alterna-

tions occurred in a reverse order.

                                    d2
--36 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

On the higher Temperature which prevails in the Slate than in the

   Granite of Cornwall. By W. J. Henwood, F.G.S., Member of the

    Geological Society of France, H.M. Assay-Master of Tin in the
   Duchy of Cornwall.

    It is not very easy to devise an unexceptionable mode of ascertain-

ing the temperature natural to any given spot under-ground.
    In the experiments (about the earliest) of Trebra*, and in the later

 and most valuable ones of Cordier, the thermometer was inserted in a

hole in the rock ; to which it may be objected, that if it be exposed to

 the action of a stream of water, it will indicate the temperature of the
 liquid ; and if but a little ooze out of the rock, its evaporation will re-
 duce the heat ; whilst at all times the influence of the air with which
 the gallery (level) is filled will affect it to some depth, and this is some-
 times perfectly still, and at other times in rapid motion, often coming

 from parts of the mine where workmen are numerous, and frequently
 from the surface, depending on the direction of the wind, which very

 often in its changes reverses the direction of the subterranean cur-

  rents.

     The same reasons have long induced observers to abandon the tem-
 peratures of air and of stagnant pools of water in mines.

     Streams of water issuing from the unbroken rock are less liable to
 be affected by several of these influences, as they are not likely to be

 much disturbed by the few last beds of rock through which they per-

  colate ; but whether they indicate the temperature of the level where
 they appear, or of some higher or lower spot, is not so readily ascer-
  tained, and can after all be but suspected from their coincidence with
  the prevailing tenor of other observations. This last is, however, Mr.

  Henwood thinks, less objectionable than the other modes, and is that

  which he has himself pursued in the observations, of which an abstract
  is a nnexed.

                             SLATE.
                                     TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                    3?

   Thus the Slate at all depths appears to be about 30,9 warmer than
the Granite at the same level.

   The progressive increase of temperature in descending is on a mean

of

                                     95 Observations in the Slate 1° for 6\5 fathoms

                                     39 ,,          ,, Granite 1° ,, 6'9 ,,

Statement of the Proceedings of the Meteorological Committee, consisting

  of Prof. Forbes, Mr. W. S. Harris, Prof. Powell, Lieut.-Col.

   Sykes, and Prof. Phillips, during the past year.

Prof. Phillips then presented a statement of the Proceedings of the

Meteorological Committee during the past year. The objects proposed

by the Association in the appointment of the Committee were two-fold :

first, the institution of uniform experiments, for the acquisition of accu-

rate data concerning the distribution of temperature, from the surface

of the earth downward to the greatest depths attainable by human en-

terprise                             secondly, the  establishment of  well-arranged observations on
                                  ;

the varying phaenomena of the atmosphere, which can be elucidated

by combined exertions on one plan, and for the same object. The

Committee had thought it best to employ the sum placed at their dis-

posal on one of these objects only, so as to effect with regard to it a

real advance, reserving to themselves the hope that, by a further grant,

--they might be enabled effectually to turn their attention to the second

branch of investigation viz. atmospheric phaenomena. One hundred

pounds had been granted, and seventy-two thermometers, and proper

tables for being filled up, had been distributed by the Committee.

Confining himself to the principal points disclosed by the results yet

received from the several observers, it appeared that the general truth

of the regular augmentation of temperature in proceeding downwards

from the surface of the earth, was confirmed ; but that, in addition,

the different distribution of water, the nature of the rocks, and other

causes, produced local discordances. The last of these causes ap-

peared to the Committee of such importance, not only for the expla-

nation of these differences, but for purposes of general reasoning

in physics, that Professor Forbes was requested to institute a complete

series of continuous experiments, which he had devised, similar in ge-

neral principle, and at corresponding depths below the surface of the
ground, to those established by M. Quetelet, at Brussels, so as to de-

termine the rate of communication of heat, in one uniform mass, from

the surface downwards to the depth of 26 feet ; and further, to ascer-

tain the differences of this rate hi materials of different kinds, by a

triplicate course of observations in trap-rock, sandstone, and a uniform

mass of sand.

The observations established by Professor Forbes have been regu-

larly registered at the Botanic Garden, in Cragleith Quarry, and on the

Calton Hill, from February to September 1837, and the register was

laid before the meeting. Particular precautions were taken not only
38 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

to provide for the safety of the instruments, but also to allow of the ap-

plication of a correction for any variation which they may undergo.
Moreover, the method of experimenting on local temperature, proposed
by M. Peltier, by using a thermo-multiplier, was applied by Mr.
Forbes, and as far as a few observations could be relied on, the agree-
ment of the two methods was remarkable ; but it was not thought pro-

per to state the results of the experiments till they could be supported
by one or more complete circles of observations.

On a Method of constructing Magnets. By James Cunningham.

Having turned his attention to the construction of powerful magnets

for electro-magnetic machines, the author tried steel of various quali-

Heties, but without satisfactory results.  finally tried cast iron, run

into moulds of the required horse-shoe form, and found these highly

carbonaceous masses remarkably retentive of magnetic power.

On the possibility of effecting Telegraphic, or Signal Communications

  during Foggy Weather, and by Night in all Seasons. By Colonel

   C. Gold.

On an Instrumentfor Measuring the Electricity of the Atmosphere. By

                             Lieutenant Morrison, R.N.

CHEMISTRY.

On the Products of the Decomposition of Uric Acid. By Professor

                                                  Liebig.

" The important part which uric acid performs in the animal economy

has for a long time attracted the attention of the most distinguished

physicians and chemists. Uric acid forms in one class of animals the

whole of the excrement, and in another class it is its principal con-

stituent, and it is accompanied by urea, a never-failing constituent of

the human urine. Its extraordinary production in that morbid state

of the body, which we call a predisposition of gout, is well known to

give origin to one of the most painful diseases to which mankind is

liable. It may be affirmed, with the utmost certainty, that urea and

Weuric acids are products of the organization.  cannot discover their

existence in any part of our food, nor do they constitute a part of any

organ, as fibrin does of the blood, but they are chemical combinations
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                       39

of a peculiar nature, on which account they come more within the

range of chemical investigation than any other bodies of animal

origin. Prout's masterly analysis has long since removed every doubt

respecting the composition of urea, and the extraordinary, and, to some

extent inexplicable, production of this substance without the assistance

of the vital functions, for which we are indebted to Wohler, must be

considered one of the discoveries with which a new era in science has

commenced. Wohler observed, that when cyanic acid is made to

combine with ammonia, the product is urea ; and he and I have, in

a set of experiments which we made together, proved that these

two bodies, when first combined, form cyanate of ammonia, a salt

analogous to every other ammonia-salt ; that is to say, the base can be

replaced by other bases, and the acid by other acids ; but that a few

minutes after the combination has taken place, all these properties

Wedisappear.  can no longer detect either ammonia or cyanic acid

a new substance has been formed, entirely different from every other

chemical compound. To follow out the characters of urea would here

be quite out of place ; it was however necessary to allude to it from

its intimate relation to uric acid.

" The elementary composition of uric acid has also been established

Webeyond a doubt.  are certain that it may be expressed by the

N H O WeCformula 10 4 4 6 .  know, also, that this acid combines with

the different bases, and forms salts. Inorganic chemistry is satisfied

with the determination of these properties; but it must be evident

that the formula can give us no idea of the manner in which the
elements are united together to form the substance. If we admit the

principle that no ternary or quaternary compound can be formed

except by the union of a binary compound with an element, or of two

binary compounds with one another, it is clear that any further in-

vestigation of uric acid must be carried on with the intention of dis-
covering the compound elements into which it may be resolved.

" This investigation, which promised to yield the most important

results both for medicine and chemistry, Professor Wohler and I

determined to undertake together. In medicine, it was evident that
we might have some new method of destroying calculi in the human

bladder without the application of external force. In chemistry, the

most interesting discoveries were also to be expected, as we had not

the slightest doubt that urea, xanthic acid, cystic oxide, oxalic acid

(which last substance is well known to constitute frequently an ingre-

dient in urinary calculi), that all these bodies are produced by the

decomposition of one single substance, and that substance uric acid.

   " Our analytical investigations of these various bodies have not yet

Mymade sufficient progress to enable me to communicate them here.

intention at present is, to point out the plan which we followed in our

attempts to decompose uric acid into its proximate elements, and the

singular results which we obtained. But, before proceeding to do so, I

wish to notice a very remarkable compound, which will, I think, serve

greatly to illustrate the subject we are at present occupied with.
--40 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

" Winkler found that when the distilled water of bitter almonds was

mixed with muriatic acid, a new acid was obtained. The distilled water

of bitter almonds, in a pure state, contains nothing but prussic acid

and oil of bitter almonds (hydret of Benzoyl). When treated with

muriatic acid, we obtain sal ammoniac and the new acid, and nothing

else. It is evident from this, and the conclusion is corroborated by

the ultimate analysis of the new acid, that the hydrocyanic acid of the

liquid is decomposed by the action of the muriatic acid into ammonia

and formic acid, that the ammonia combines with the muriatic acid,

and that the formic acid, in the nascent state, unites with the oil of

bitter almonds to form a compound acid in which the power of sa-

turation of the formic acid is not changed. This acid performs in

every respect the part of a simple acid ; and its existence has rendered

probable the supposition, that the same views respecting other acids

are not without foundation. Another interesting fact respecting this

acid is that when heated with hyperoxides it is decomposed in a par-

ticular manner, only one of its proximate constituents being oxidized,

while the other suffers no change. The products obtained are carbonic

acid and oil of bitter almonds.

" Now, I think it must be evident to every one that uric acid must

possess a composition similar to that of the acid just mentioned, and

therefore that its oxidation in the same manner would in all proba-

Webility lead to interesting results.  obtained, in fact, results which

corresponded to our expectations. Uric acid may be considered as a

compound of urea with a peculiar acid ; that is, we may view it as

analogous to nitrate of urea. This acid contains the radical of oxalic

acid combined with cyanogen. I have attempted to show, in some

former researches, that carbonic oxide, and not carbon, constitutes the

radical of carbonic acid and of oxalic acid, and that phosgene gas

might be considered as containing the same radical in combination

with chlorine. If we indicate carbonic oxide by R, these compounds

will be as follows :

R+1. Phosgene gas     CI. 2. Carbonic acid R+O. 3. Oxalic Acid 2 R+O.

" Now the acid which combines with urea to form uric acid may be

R +expressed by the formula      Cy. Viewed in this manner, the com-

+ +position of uric acid will be 4 (R Cy) Ur.

" Uric acid, Avhen heated with brown hyperoxide of lead, was decom-

posed into three different products, oxalic acid, urea, and a peculiar

substance which we may vieAv as a compound of cyanogen and water,

and which is identical with a body long known, called allantoic acid,

from having been first found in the allantoic fluid, but which it would

be better to call allantoin, as it is capable of acting equally as an acid

and a base.

" One atom of uric acid decomposed by the action of two atoms of

hyperoxide of lead, is converted (supposing 3 atoms of water to be

present,) into 2 atoms oxalate of lead, 1 atom of allantoin, and 1 atom

of urea.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                            41

1 atom Uric Acid +2 atoms Hyperoxide of Lead,

N H O + Pb O(C10 4 4 6)
                     3 4,

              gives

+0 +(R4 2) Oxalic Acid 2 PbO Oxalate of Lead two atoms,

(4Cy+3Aq) Allantoin,

1 atom Urea.

" Allantoin is the second body belonging to the animal organization

which we can form artificially in the laboratory. This substance can

also be directly produced by the decomposition of cyanogen and water.

It yields, when decomposed by other bodies, all the products which,

from its formula, might be expected. Thus, with alkalis it yields

oxalic acid and ammonia ; with strong sulphuric acid, carbonic acid,

and carbonic oxide.
   " There are many bodies similar to urea and allantoin, all of which

will probably, at a future period, be produced by artificial means ; but

in order to arrive at this, the final object of investigation in organic

chemistry, a great deal of labour, and that labour of a combined nature,

will be required. I am certain that this object will be obtained. Or-

ganic chemistry has made its first step, and already its field has been

Weextended to a very surprising degree.     meet every day with new

and unexpected discoveries. It is, however, remarkable, that in the

country in which I now am, whose hospitality I shall never cease to

Weremember, organic chemistry is only commencing to take root.

live in a time when the slightest exertion leads to valuable results, and,

if we consider the immense influence which organic chemistry exercises
over medicine, manufactures, and over common life, we must be sen-

sible that there is at present no problem more important to mankind

than the prosecution of the objects which organic chemistry contem-

plates. I trust that English men of science will participate in the

general movement, and unite their efforts to those of the chemists of
the Continent, to further the advance of a science which, when taken

in connection with the researches in physiology, both animal and

vegetable, which have been so successfully prosecuted in this country,

may be expected to afford us the most important and novel conclusions

respecting the functions of organization."

  Extracts from a Letter received by Dr. Dalton from Professor
                                           Hare.

                                                               Philadelphia, August 14th, 1837.

 --Dear Sir, I beg leave through you to communicate to the British

Association for the Advancement of Science the fact that, by an im-
provement in the method of constructing and supplying the hydro-

oxygen blowpipe, originally contrived by me in the year 1801, I have

succeeded in fusing into a malleable mass, more than three-fourths of a
pound of platina. In all I fused more than two pounds fourteen
ounces into four masses, averaging, of course, nearly the weight above
mentioned. I see no difficulty in succeeding with much larger

weights.
  42 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

      The benefit resulting from this process, is in the facility which it
  affords of fusing scraps, or old platina wire into lumps, from which it
  may be remodelled for new apparatus.

     The largest masses were fused agreeably to my original plan of

  keeping the gases in different receptacles, and allowing them to meet
  during efflux.

     I have, however, operated in the large way upon the plan contrived
  and employed by Newman, Brooke, Clarke, and others, having em-
  ployed as much as thirty gallons in one operation of the mixture of the
  gaseous elements of water. This I was enabled to do with safety, by
  an improvement in Hemming's safety tube. In this improved form
  I have allowed the gas to explode as far into the tubes of efflux as
  the point where the contrivance in question was interposed, at least
 a hundred times, without its extending beyond it.

     Still, however, the other mode in which the gases are kept separate,
  until they meet in passing out of their respective receptacles, is less
 pregnant with anxiety, if not with risk. As these elements are known
 to explode by the presence of several metals, other mysterious modes
 may be discovered.

     Having made a self-regulating reservoir of chlorine, by suspending
 lump peroxide of manganese in concentrated chlorohydric acid, I was
 surprised by a violent explosion on presenting leaf metal to the jet tube.
 I had made similar apparatus before and have repeated the process
 with the same materials since, without a repetition of the explosive re-
 action. It might be inferred, that the protoxide of chlorine was
 generated, but the colour of the gas was so inferior in intensity to
 that of chlorine, as to lead me to suppose that there was some irregu-
larity, before testing it with Dutch gold leaf. It has occurred to me
that there may be a dichloride of hydrogen, which may explode with
 chlorine, and that of these the mixture consisted which produced the
phenomenon in question.

    In freezing water, by the vaporization of ether, the labour of pump-
ing is lessened, and the pump protected from a disadvantageous intro-
duction of the vapour, by interposing sulphuric acid. If the stem of a
funnel, with a cock, be luted into the tubulure of a retort, and the beak

--of the latter into the neck of a receiver, of Avhich the tubulure com-

municates with an air-pump, on placing water in the funnel, ether in the
retort, and sulphuric acid in the receiver, and exhausting, then allowing
the water to descend into the ether, the congelation of the water is

rapidly effected. Of course the acid absorbs the etherial vapour with

great force, and the resulting mixture or rather combination requires
a temperature of at least 280° for its ebullition. This is less con-
sistent with the doctrine of Mitschcrlich than that of Hennell.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  43

On the Specific Heats ofNitric Acid and Alcohol. By T. Thomson, M.D.

                                             NITRIC ACID.

Composition.
44 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

at the ordinary temperature of the air forms one continuous plane,
becomes distinctly two planes, making a very obtuse angle with each
other, and meeting in the line of junction of the two crystals.

   The alteration of the angle between the

two edges that meet at C, amounts to          Ar'if- Sec.

7' 26" for a change of temperature of 100°

centigrade, the angle being more obtuse

when the crystal is hot than when it is

cold.

The fact of the unequal exjDansion of

crystallized bodies in different directions,

Mas first established by Mitscherlich, in

the case of calcareous spar, by actually

measuring the angle between the planes at
low temperature, and when the crystal

was heated. The change due to 100°

centigrade was 8' 34-", the angle be-

tween the cleavage planes, which at ordi-

nary temperatures is 105°, 5', becoming

smaller when the crystal is heated. Prof.

Miller's way of showing it is as follows :

Two rhombohedrons are clamped together,

--with their obtuse edges in contact the two

crystals are then held so that the flame of

a candle may be seen, after two reflexions,

one at each of the two surfaces of the cry-

stals, which form a re-entering angle. By

a well-known optical property, the angle

between the candle and its reflected image,

as seen by an eye close to the crystal, will

be twice the angle between normals to

the reflecting planes. Hence, if, when heated, the angle of each

crystal undergoes a change e, the angle between the normal Baiters b2 c,

and the angle between the candle and its image, as seen from the cry-

stals, by 4 e.

In his observations, the image of the candle is viewed through the te-

lescope of a theodolite. The angle through which the telescope revolves,

in order to keep the image of the candle always bisected by the cross

Awires, of course measures 4 e.  good method of heating the crystals

is by a small crucible, cpiite full of mercury, heated by a lamp, into

which the lower part of the crystals is immersed, as also the bulb of a
thermometer. The clamp must not be strong, but a kind of weak

spring, in order that the crystals may experience no mechanical obstruc-

tion to their change of form.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.        ' 45

Observations on the Crystallization of Metals by voltaic action, inde-

  pendent of the proximity of metallic electrodes. By Golding Bird,

   M.D., F.L.S., F.G.S., Lecturer on Experimental Philosophy at

   Guy's Hospital, §c.

It is well known that one of the latest discoveries on the conditions

of electrolytic action has been to observe, that the presence of metallic

or solid electrodes was not necessary to the production and perfection

of true polar decomposition ; this fact among a host of others with
which that philosopher has enriched science, was announced by our

illustrious countryman Dr. Faraday.

Results depending on the same principle occurred to the author

whilst engaged in a series of experiments on the electrolytic energy of

electric currents of feeble tension, some of which have been described

in a paper read before the Royal Society of London, in February 1837,
and since inserted in the " Philosophical Transactions," and appeared

to partake of perhaps more than ordinary interest, from the very feeble

intensity of the voltaic current required for their success, as well as

from their analogy to what, perhaps, is going on in the great laboratory

of nature, in effecting the reduction and crystallization of metals. The

--voltaic apparatus used consists of an exceedingly simple arrangement:

cylinder of glass, about 8 inches in height and two inches in diameter,

forms the exterior vessel or cell of the battery ; immersed in this, is a

second cylinder, 4 inches in height, and about 1*5 inch in diameter,

open at both ends ; a plug of plaster of Paris, about 2 inches thick, is
made to fit its lower half accurately, by being poured in whilst as thin

as cream, forming, on its becoming solid, a firm but porous base to the
cylinder. The external cylinder is then filled with a weak solution of

common salt (chloride of sodium), whilst the internal cylinder is filled

with a solution of a metallic salt, (as sulphate of copper,) which be-

coming rapidly imbibed by the porous plug of plaster of Paris, comes

in contact with the brine in the exterior vessel, without, however, causing

Atheir intermingling rapidly.  plate of polished copper soldered to a

thick wire or ribbon of the same metal is then plunged into the solution

of the sulphate of copper, whilst a plate of zinc connected to the other

end of the copper wire is immersed in the solution of common salt. Under

these circumstances it is obvious that an electric current becomes de-

veloped, the positive fluid escaping from the copper to the zinc along

the connecting wire, back through some inches of brine to the plaster

of Paris plug, thence to the copper solution, which it has to penetrate

before it can gain the copper plate which serves for the negative elec-
trode. The zinc plate becoming electro-positive determines the decom-

position of the water, uniting with its oxygen to form oxide of zinc,

which uniting with the hydrochloric acid of the common salt sets the

positive elements, hydrogen and soda, at liberty, determining their

evolution at the negative electrode ; they, however, in their passage

effect the decomposition of the sulphate of copper and cause the pre-
cipitation of metallic crystals on the copper plate ; or we may suppose

that in the first instance the zinc plate effects the decomposition of the
4G SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

common salt, as chloride of sodium, chloride of zinc being formed, and

sodium evolved, which, in its passage through the copper solution,
effects its decomposition and reduction on the surface of the negative

electrode. On either hypothesis the ultimate electrolytic action

produced must be regarded as the secondary, and not as the primary
and immediate effect of the voltaic current. The copper reduced on
the surface of the negative electrode, is (as is well known) not brown
and spongy, as when more intense currents are employed, but hard and
crystalline as in native specimens, the crystals being frequently inter-
mingled with those of the ruby-coloured protoxide, in which case their
resemblance to the native mineral is most remarkable.

    After leaving an apparatus of this kind just described to itself for
some months, the fluid in the interior cylinder had lost nearly all its
blue colour, scarcely a trace of copper being present, it having become
a tolerably pure solution of sulphate of soda ; but on examining the
surface of the copper-plate immersed in it, the quantity of reduced
copper was found considerably less than one quarter of the quantity
previously present in the sulphate. Dr. Bird, being unable satisfac-
torily to account for this loss, was led to examine the contents of the
cylinders with the greatest care ; and on removing the plaster of Paris

plug, which had now become quite soft, and lixiviating it with water,

he had the pleasure of meeting with numerous, very hard, and beauti-
fully defined crystals of metallic copper, imbedded in the thick-
ness of the mass of sulphate of lime, not merely in scattered and
isolated crystals, but in distinct and continuous veins. Some of
these veins were distinctly visible without breaking up the mass of
plaster, being spread in a curiously ramified manner, like the branches
of a tree, on that part of the plaster in contact with the glass. These
metallic crystals must have been reduced from that portion of the
copper solution absorbed by the plug of sulphate of lime, simply by
the passage of the current of electricity from one electrode to the
other, notwithstanding no metallic, or even solid connection of any
kind existed between the reduced crystals of copper and the negative
electrode. The result of this experiment is therefore interesting, if it
only serves to confirm the observation of Dr. Faraday, that the pre-
sence of a solid electrode is by no means necessary for the perfection
of electrolytic action, for we here see crystals of metallic copper pro-
duced at a distance midway between the electrodes of metal, and at
some inches from either. But this experiment is interesting in another
and perhaps more important point of view, as it tends to throw some
light on the mysterious and interesting process of the reduction of
metals, and formation of metallic veins in the bowels of our earth.

   The author then showed the bearing of these results on the ques-

tion of the influence of electrical currents in arranging the materials
of mineral veins.

    If, in the apparatus above-described, a plate of clear lead is substi-
tuted for one of copper, for the negative electrode, and a solution of
acetate or nitrate of lead, for sulphate of copper, an electric current
will of course be set in motion, and spangles of reduced lead will
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  47

appear upon the negative plate ; and, after some weeks of continued
action, small veins of crystalline lead will be found permeating the
mass of plaster of Paris in an exceedingly elegant and arborescent
form. Similar results are obtained when plates and solutions of zinc,
tin, antimony, silver, and many other metals, are substituted for those
of copper and lead. These experiments, moreover, are by no means
liable to failure from slight causes, the results being always constant.

   Having thus proved that well-defined crystals of metals are ob-
tained, if sufficient time is allowed, by allowing a current of the
feeblest intensity to permeate a porous substance, imbued in a metallic
solution, without the presence of poles or supposed attracting points,
Dr. Bird was anxious to ascertain how far this process might be
applied to the artificial fossilization of wood, by injecting (as it were)
by voltaic action, every part of its permeable tissue with crystalline
metals. Some few experiments on this head, which he has performed,
seem to promise the most perfect success ; and the author hopes to
present an account of the results to the next meeting of the Asso-

ciation.

A. The exterior cylinder containing brine.
B. The inner cylinder containing the metallic solution.
C. The copper electrode on which metallic crystals are formed.
Z. Zinc or positive electrode.
P. The thick plaster plug, (closing the cylinder B,) in which

   veins of the crystalline metals become formed by the pas-
   sage of the current from Z. to C.

On the formation of Crystallized Metallic Copper in the shafts of the

   Cronebane Copper Mine, County Wicklow, Ireland, and of native

  Sulphate of Iron and Copper on the same locality. By R. Mallet,

  M.RJ.A.

   Metallic copper has been frequently obtained, as is well known, by
various methods in the laboratory, and in large masses in Daniell's
Constant Batteries; but the present is the first occasion on which
native copper has been found, actually detected, as it were, in the very
act of formation in the mine shaft.

   The Cronebane mine has been wrought for a very lengthened period,
and has an additional interest as connected with the present subject,
from the electro-magnetic condition of the next mine to it, the Con-
noree, which is part of the same vein, having been determined by Mr.

--Petherick. (Philosoph. Mag. 3rd Series, vol. iii.) He found it de-

flected the galvanometer needle 18° that the ore was negative, and
the ground positive. The lode is situated in clay slate, dipping to the
48 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

S.W. The mine water is strongly cupreous, and deposits a slimy
sediment of iron, and organic matter, probably " Glairine." In this

slime, and adherent to the timbering of the mine, the crystals of pure
malleable copper were found in considerable quantity. The mine

water from whence these masses were formed, has a specific gravity

of 1 '032, at 58° Fahr. When evaporated to dryness, it leaves a horny

residue, smelling of animal matter. It contains the mixed sulphates

of copper and iron.

   Amongst the many forces in operation to produce this metallic

aggregation, the author suggests the possibility of galvanic action,

between the lode and the timbering of the mine ; having found the
galvanometer much affected by a small series of plates of grey copper

--ore, and of fir timber, saturated with solution of sulphate of copper

under the air pump the exciting fluid being the water of this mine.
The slime appears to act the part of Becquerel's clay plugs, or Wach's

diaphragms.

The author also presented a specimen of native sulphate of copper

and iron, from the same mine ; from the ochrey slime at the bottom of
a shaft of fifty fathoms deep, which had been full of water for above
a century. It is found in small, brilliant, blueish green, rhomboidal

crystals, and consists, according to the author's analysis, of

Sulphate of Iron         34*2

Sulphate of Copper       65*7

                                                                                                    99-9

    This analysis does not present any exact atomic proportion between
the two salts, taking the atom of sulphate of copper to weigh 15*62
as determined by Dr. Thompson, and containing five atoms of water
but it is remarkable, that if the sulphate of copper be supposed to be
the green sulphate, which contains but one atom, and has an atomic
weight of 11*12, the above analysis will correspond to three atoms of
green sulphate of copper, and one atom of sulphate of iron. In favour
of this view is the circumstance, that these crystals were formed at a
considerable depth, and consequent high temperature ; and that it
is by similar means that the green sulphate of copper is artificially

formed. On the other hand, while the common sulphate of copper is

isomorphous with the sulphate of iron, that which has but one atom

of water is not so ; it crystallizes in right prisms, while the common

sulphate of copper assumes the form of the double oblique prism. It
is possible, however, that the crystalline form of the green sulphate

may be modified by the presence of the sulphate of iron.

          On a new Chemical Compound. By Dr. Apjohk.

   This new and very complicated compound, including iodide of
potassium, iodine, and what Dr. Apjohn denominated Cinnamile, from

its analogy to benzoyle, the hypothetic base of the essential oil of

almonds, was exhibited to the Section. The compound was formed
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                         49

accidentally during the prevalence of cold weather, in a mixture pre-
scribed by a physician, and which contained iodide of potassium, and
iodine dissolved in cinnamon water, prepared by the ordinary pharma-
ceutical process. It was first particularly noticed by Mr. Moore, of

Anne Street, Dublin, in whose establishment the prescription was made
up. He made several experiments upon it ; and, having furnished Dr.
Apjohn with a specimen of it, they undertook conjointly the further
determination of its properties, and the investigation of its composition.

It occurs in long capillary four-sided prisms, of a beautiful bronze
aspect, melts at about 82°, dissolves in alcohol and ether, but is
decomposed by water. This latter menstruum, however, has no action
upon it when it holds iodide of potassium dissolved, or probably other
kinds of saline matter. Mercury effects its decomposition, an iodide of
mercury being formed, and iodide of potassium, with (probably) cinna-

mile, being liberated. By an elevated heat it is decomposed, iodide of

potassium being left, with a considerable quantity of charcoal, while
iodine, and an organic vapour smelling of the oil of cinnamon, pass
off. Dr. Apjohn stated, that according to his experiments, which
however were not completed, it would appear to be composed of one
atom of iodide of potassium, associated with two of the subsesqui-
iodide of cinnamile, as represented by the following formula :

                                   IK+2(ICin.)

                                                                                      23

    This he stated to be the formula which most nearly expresses his

analytic results : but he added, that he did not place much confidence
in them ; and that, not having as yet been able to effect the combus-
tion of the compound with oxide of copper, he should not be surprised
at finding this formula materially corrected by the results of the
further researches with which he stated himself and Mr. Moore to be

at present occupied *.

On a neiv Variety of Alum. By Dr. Apjohn.

   The mineral in question was received from Mr. Atherton, an African

gentleman, and was found on the eastern coast of the African con-

tinent, about midway between Graham's Town and Algoa Bay. It

occurs in fibrous masses, very similar to asbestos, having a beautiful

satiny lustre, and splitting into threads which would appear to be
quadrilateral prisms. In taste, solubility in water, and relation to

several reagents, it closely resembles ordinary alum, but is distin-
guished from it by containing protoxide of manganese, instead of an
alkali, and by not assuming the octahedral form. In symbols it is

represented by

               (SSO + A10) + (SO + MnO)+25HO,

                3 23  3

   * Dr. Apjohn has since found that this compound includes not Cinnamile but the
oil of Cinnamon itself, and that its true formula is (IK+3 (I+Cin). (See Proceed-

                                                                                                                                                                             2

ings of the Royal Irish Academy for 1838, page 162.)

vol. vi. 1837-        E
--50 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

a formula identical with that which belongs to the entire genus of alum
salts. Dr. Apjohn briefly alluded to the other varieties of alum, both
those in which the alkalies replace each other, and those in which the
alumina is replaced by the deutoxide of iron, chrome, or manganese ;
and pointed out the theoretical possibility of an alum containing no
metal but manganese.

      On a neiv Gaseous Compound of Carbon and Hydrogen.
             By E. Davy, Professor of Chemistry, Dublin.

   The gas (a new bicarburet of hydrogen), which was described by
Professor Davy at the last meeting of the Association in Bristol,
having been inclosed in a tube furnished with platinum wires, and
subjected to a series of electric sparks, carbon was deposited, but there
was no alteration of volume. This residual gas the author conceives
to be new. It is insoluble in water; not ignited by chlorine ; ex-
ploded with one and a half volume of oxygen, it gives one volume of
carbonic acid and some water. This gas would therefore appear to

be a binary compound, and to be represented by the formula C+H.

Professor Davy stated, that his investigations were not concluded, but
that he hoped to be able to give a fuller paper on the subject at the

next meeting of the Association.

 Outline of an experimental Inquiry into a peculiar Property of the
   Earth ; the chemical Changes which occur during the germination
    of Seeds ; the vegetation of Plants ; the formation of vegetable
    Products ; and the renovation of the Atmosphere ; with some Obser-
   vations on the ultimate analysis of Organic Compounds ; the ivhole
   being in connexion with a series of investigations into the decomposi-

  tion of Vegetable Matter. By Robert Rigg.

   The extensive class of subjects included in the title of Mr. Rigg's
communication had been investigated by the author through the
medium of many thousand experiments, the results of which appeared
to him to establish an harmonious connection between them all, of
which the following is an abbreviated sketch. The earth retaining
water, and combining with carbonic acid gas the food of plants ; the
seeds, decomposing the water, forming carbonic acid gas, and a com-
pound of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and earthy matter ; the germ
which favoured this peculiar decomposition, uniting the latter com-
pound with the oxygen of the atmosphere ; the roots, promoting the
further decomposition of the water, forming carbonic acid gas, and
the other compound, (the earth taking up the former if it be not im-

mediately wanted, the latter entering into the plant as saj>) ; the leaves,
serving the office of reservoirs for atmospheric air and moisture, and for
performing certain offices respecting the changes effected upon car-
bonic acid gas ; the whole plant, combining the different elements, so
as to form the oils, resins, gums, &c. to an unlimited extent.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                      51

   Again, we have the whole plant renovating the atmosphere, both as
regards oxygen and nitrogen, and preserving an equilibrium throughout
the different seasons ; each plant decomposing water, and assimilating
other portions of it, by methods peculiar to itself ; in the vinous fer-
mentation, the carbon (of sugar for instance), when nitrogen and earthy
matter are present, decomposing water, forming carbonic acid gas,
defiant gas, and a minute quantity of azotic gas ; in the acetous fer-
mentation, the oxygen of the atmosphere, uniting with this defiant gas,
forms acetic acid and water, a portion of vegetable and earthy matter
being necessary ; and, in the decomposition of vinousfluids, the oxygen

of the atmosphere combines with the carbon of the olefiant gas, to
form carbonic acid, and with the hydrogen to form water, vegetable
and earthy matter being essential.

   The author, referring to the difficulties which, in his opinion, par-
ticularly embarrass experiments on the mixed results of fermentation,
gives a brief notice of his mode of analysis in these cases.

   The apparatus which he employs in ultimate analysis is included in
two glass tubes, connected by caoutchouc, as under :

   A. The part containing the mixture of black oxide of copper and
the compound under analysis.

   B. Amianthus in the same tube, which condenses the steam, and
dries the gases. It is kept cool by moistening blotting paper with

spirit.

   C. Caoutchouc connecter, about an inch in length.
   D. Bent thermometer tube, for conveying the gaseous products to
the receivers standing over mercury.

   The analysing tube A B rests upon a frame, made of two pieces of

strong wire, bent at each end at right angles, and kept together by
smaller wires. These, together with tubes, for detecting minute
quantities of nitrogen, and lamps, which will give off flames from one
to six inches in length, constitute the whole apparatus.

On a Variety of Ozocerite. By Professor Johnston.

This substance was found in a coal-mine near Newcastle. It con-

sists of three distinct principles ; the one being soluble in cold, the

other soluble in hot ether, and the other nearly insoluble in both.

The first is the most abundant of the three, and upon analysis is found

to be a binary compound of carbon and hydrogen, and therefore to

be an addition to the already extended list of isomeric combinations

of these elements. The whole mass submitted to ultimate analysis

gave exactly the same result.

                               e2
--52 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

New Compound of Nitrate with Oxalate of Lead.

   Mr. Johnson also exhibited a new compound of nitrate with oxalate
of lead in beautiful pearly scales and flat six-sided plates longitudi-
nally striated. It is formed when a solution of subacetate of lead is
poured into one of oxalic acid in which much nitric acid is present. It

N +contains two atoms of water, and its formula is Pb  Pb C7+2H.

On a Series of Compounds obtained from Pyroacetic Spirit. By

                                          Dr. Kane.

   (See on this subject Dr. Kane's paper, printed in Lond. and Edinb.
Philosophical Magazine, vol. xii. p. 100.)

   On the Smelting of Iron with Anthracite Coal. By G. Crane.

   The great extent of the deposit of anthracite (or stone coal) in
the mineral basin of South Wales, accompanied as it is with iron mine
in great abundance, and of good quality, has long made it an object of
great interest to parties connected with that district to discover some
method of applying that description of coal to smelting purposes.

   One of the earliest patents enrolled in this country for this object
was that of Mr. Martin, in 1804. From the mode detailed in his

specification, there does not appear to have been any peculiarity in his
process; he evidently expected to have succeeded in using this fuel
by the only mode of blowing a furnace then known, that by cold
blast. Another patent was taken out about twenty years afterwards,

for a mode of forming a conglomerate coke, composed of the commi-
nuted substance of the anthracite veins, locally called culm, mixed

 with a sufficient portion of the small coal of the ordinary bituminous

or binding quality, to cement the whole, when coked, in an oven to-
gether. Had this latter plan been attended with success, its applica-
tion would, of course, have been limited to those localities where the
 two descriptions of coal were to be found near each other.

    The Ynyscedwin iron works, which are in Mr. Crane's possession,
 are placed upon the anthracite formation. Until he discovered the
 method of applying this particular description of fuel to the smelting
 of iron ore, he was obliged to employ the coal of the bituminous
 veins, obtained from the adjoining parish of Kilybebyll, for the supply

 of the blast furnaces at Ynyscedwin.
     During the fourteen years in which Mr. Crane has been engaged

 in the iron trade of South Wales, he has had his attention anxiously
 directed to the application of anthracite coal to smelting purposes, and
 had at different periods, at a large outlay, tried a variety of plans, but
 without success, until the idea occurred to him, that a hot or heated
 blast, upon the principle of Mr. Neilson's patent, might, by its greater
 power, enable him to complete the combustion of this very peculiar

  coal.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS,  53

   By this means he has completely succeeded in the application of

--anthracite coal to the smelting of ironstone and ore ; having used

no other fuel in a cupola blast furnace since the 7th February, 1837 ;
and the success of the experiment in the combination of hot or heated

air with the coal in question, has been, in every respect, of so satisfac-

tory a description, whether with regard to the quantity of the iron
produced, the quality of such iron, or the economy of the process,
that he is now actively engaged in making the necessary preparations
for the introduction of anthracite coal, instead of the coke of the

bituminous veins, upon the whole of the blast furnaces (three in
number) at the Ynyscedwin iron works ; he has renewed all his mine-

ral takings in the anthracite part of the basin for ninety-nine years,

and contemplates arrangements for a large extension of the works.

Mr. Crane observes
   " One of the three furnaces at present on the establishment is a

small cupola furnace, which we call No. 2, built from the top of the

hearth with firebricks only. This cupola is of the following dimen-

--sions : 41 feet in its whole height, 10-Jr feet across the boshes, and the

walls of the thickness of two 9-inch bricks ; the earth 3 feet 6 inches
square, and 5 feet deep. The two other furnaces, which we call No.
1 and No. 3, are thick stone-walled furnaces. Some years since I found
that the cupola furnace, No. 2, had, on the average of a long period,
(I concluded from the smallness of its dimensions, and the thinness of

its walls,) taken so large an excess of minerals to the ton of iron pro-

duced, when compared with the quantity taken on the average of the

 same period by the stone-walled furnace, No. 1, standing within fifty
 feet of it, that I determined to erect a second furnace similar to the
 latter one, in lieu of it. This cupola furnace, No. 2, not being at
 work when I arrived at the determination to try the experiment of the
 combination of hot blast and anthracite coal upon the large scale, it
 was more convenient to put this furnace into blast for the purpose,

 rather than to interfere with the usual progress of my business by

 experimentalizing in either of the two other furnaces.
    " The cupola furnace, No. 2, from the causes which I have before

 explained, had, on the average of a long period, taken cokes the
 produce of 5 tons 3 cwt. of coal to the ton of pig iron, when the stone-
 walled furnaces had not required cokes to the ton of metal produced
 quite equal to four tons of coal. The consumption of ironstone and
 limestone had been greater in the former than in the latter description

 of furnace, but not in so large a proportion.

    " I will make one other explanatory remark on this part of the sub-
 ject. The two descriptions of furnaces have worked in so different a

 manner with the minerals of my neighbourhood, that, whilst the

 barrow of cokes, weighing about §\ cwt., would take, when consumed
 in either of the stone-walled furnaces, a charge or burden of 5 to

 5i- cwt. of calcined iron mine of the descriptions obtained in my

 neighbourhood, according to the kind of iron which I was desirous
 of producing, the same barrow of cokes in the No. 2 cupola, or thin-
 walled furnace, would only carry from 3 to 3^ cwt. of calcined mine
 54 , SEVENTH REPORT 1837«

  of the same kinds. Under these disadvantageous circumstances, I
  have actually produced from the No. 2 cupola furnace the ton of iron
  in the smelting process, on the average of three months, with less than
  27 cwt. of anthracite coal. The heating of the blast and the calcina-

 tion of the mine require, of course, upon my plan, the same quantity

  of fuel which is necessary for the like processes in other establish-
  ments.

     " With regard to the quantity of iron produced, the result which I
  have to report is equally satisfactory. I must not, however, omit to
  mention, that, for the greater convenience of filling this cupola fur-
 nace, No. 2, from an adjacent gallery, previous to the commencement

 of my anthracite experiment, I raised it in height from 36 feet 6 inches

 to 41 feet. This might have had some effect upon reducing the excess
 of the consumption of fuel when compared with that which had taken
 place in the No. 1, and might have increased its power of smelting

 with my blast of a l^lb. upon the square inch pressure only, from its

 former average of 22 tons to 24. Since I have adopted the use of
 anthracite coal, combined with hot air, the produce of No. 2 cupola
 furnace, with the same pressure of blast only, has ranged from 30 to
 34 and 36 tons, and one week we actually tapped within 3 cwt. of 39
 tons of grey iron from this furnace. Its present weekly average may
 be expected to range from 35 to 36 tons.

    " With respect to the quality of the iron produced by the com-
 bination of hot blast and anthracite coal, the result is very satisfactory.

It is well known in my neighbourhood, that my cold blast iron, for all

 purposes Avhere great strength was required, was never deemed inferior
 to any smelted in South Wales. That which I have hitherto produced
 with hot blast and anthracite coal is, however, decidedly stronger than
 any other before smelted at the Ynyscedwin iron-works."

    The anthracite formation probably occupies about one-third of the
mineral basin of South Wales. It commences near the upper part of
the Vale of Neath, in the county of Glamorgan, and proceeds in a

westwardly direction through the remainder of that county; thence
through Carmarthenshire, and crops out in the sea in St. Bride's Bay,
after passing through a considerable portion of the county of Pem-
broke. It is likewise to be found in Ireland, Scotland, France, Austria,
Bohemia, and Sardinia, and very large deposits of it have been already
discovered on the continent of America, particularly in the state of
Pennsylvania.

            On Safety Lights for Mines. By Dr. Arxott.

   The writer of this having had his attention called to the objects
sought to be accomplished by the Davy Lamp, as related to the general
subject of ventilating and warming, which he has treated elsewhere,
conceived that perfect security against explosions in mines was ob-

tainable in a very simple way, but on a principle differing entirely
from what has directed previous attempts. This is to have the lamps
              TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  55

or candles in the mine supplied with air for combustion, not from the

mine itself, as heretofore, but through pipes from the atmosphere

above, as coal-gas is supplied through pipes to our street lamps.
   At the mouth of mines generally, there is a steam-engine at work,

part of the duty of which is, whenever required, to pump atmospheric

air into the mine for ventilation ; and a small portion of this air, sent
unmixed to the lamps through a pipe of the cheapest material and con-

struction, (of plank, for instance, with the seams pitched,) nailed along

the galleries or cuttings of the mine, would effect the desired purpose.

At the top or beginning of the air-pipe there would be a small gas-

holder, of the usual construction, to receive air from the pump, and

which would be nicely balanced, so that the propelling pressure might

be accurately determined. That pressure would then be transmitted

along the tube, so that at any opening there would be a steady out-

ward rush of pure atmospheric air, as there is a rush of coal-gas from

Aany opening in common gas apparatus.       common lantern, there-

fore, with glass front and sides, well secured, if screwed on or other-

wise attached at such opening, would be always supplied with atmo-

spheric air ; and if there were no further opening in the lantern excejjt

the small chimney opening defended by a length of tube, with a valve

at the extremity if desired, there could be no communication between
the flame and the air of the mine. If further security were desired,

both openings might have the wire-gauze of Davy's Lamp stretched

across them.

For fixed lights with such apparatus, it would be necessary only to

screw fit lanterns to the air-pipe in required situations, and lamps

affording very strong light might be used.

For lights moveable within a certain distance, there would be

lanterns connected with the air-pipe by flexible tubes of covered spiral

wire.

For lights moveable or portable to all distances, there would be

either large lanterns, which, once filled with pure air, would feed the

light for half an hour or more before it became too dim, or there
would be lanterns of ordinary size, having attached to them bags of

thin cloth rendered air-tight by caoutchouc or otherwise, which bags

would be filled from time to time with atmospheric air from openings

in the main air-pipe.

All along the main-pipe there would be means of fixing lanterns,

and of taking pure air for any purpose.

There might be, at convenient stations in the mine, boxes or small

chambers communicating with the air-pipe, and, therefore, always full

of pure air, in which the operations of striking a light, lighting lamps,

and others, (as cooking even,) might be performed.
   Lamps might be lighted by a lucifer-match suitably introduced and

inflamed, or there might be a small lighting lantern, between which

and any other a communication might be opened for a lighted taper

to pass to the wick to be lighted.

The expense of such an apparatus as here contemplated would be
56 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

trifling compared with the importance of the object sought, and, with
a certain expense, the security might be rendered very complete.

On the Waste experienced by Hot and Cold Blast Iron during the
           process of Refining. Communicated by D. Mushet.

On Preventing the Corrosion of Cast and Wrought Iron immersed in
                    Salt Water. By J. B. Hartley.

    The author observes, " The well-known powerful and mischievous
 effects of salt water upon iron having been very strongly felt in the
various fastenings of the. gates and other machinery of the Liverpool
Docks subjected to its action ; and as a counteraction of this evil has
long been a desirable object, many experiments having been made with
this view, but in a great measure without success ; and since the same
 destructive tendency is more or less experienced in all similar cases,
 the following very brief account of the method at present employed to
obviate it by my father (the Engineer to the Docks), together with the
 circumstances which gave rise to his adoption of it, may not be deemed

 uninteresting.

     " In order to afford a greater extent of dock space to the fast increa-
 sing trade of this port, the Liverpool Dock Trustees, in 1829, purchased
 a quantity of land at the south end of the town, a part of which was
 occupied by an old tide mill and basins, called 'Jackson's Mill and
 Dams;' in taking away these dams for the purpose of forming the
 present Brunswick Dock, in the beginning of the year 1830, an old
 cast-iron sluice or clow was met with, the mouth of which was fitted
 with a lid or valve, also of cast iron, and of considerable dimensions :
 these had been immersed in the salt water for rather more than 25 years,

 having been put down, as found from good authority, in 1804. When

 taken up, they were incrusted with a coat of small barnacle shells, and,
 when broken, some parts of the cast ironweve found to be in excellent
 preservation, and some thoroughly decomposed. The cast iron lid or
  valve was fastened to the body of the sluice by means of brass pins, 2\
  inches in diameter, forming hinges on which it turned, when lifted up
  or lowered, as occasion required ; and immediately in connection with

  these pins it was that the iron was in & perfectly sound state. By some
  inadvertency all the iron-work was broken up, and sent with other old

  metal to the furnace.

     "In July of the same year (1830), another sluice, with a similar
  valve, was taken up, which had been immersed in salt ivater for the
  same length of time ; this was also of cast iron, but the lid or valve had,
  in addition, a loop cast on to its lower edge, with which it was opened
  and shut by means of a connecting rod. The top joint or hinge of the
  valve was similar to the one previously found, that is, turning on brass
 pins, which worked in iron collars cast on to the body of the sluice
                 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.          57

the lower joint or loop was bushed with brass, through which a large
ivrought-iron pin passed, forming the joint between the connecting rod

and the valve.

" All the parts of the iron immediately around the brass were in this,

as in the former case, in excellent preservation ; the wrought-iron pin
was corroded a little, but not materially ; yet, had it been suspended in
a similar manner by itself, or in connection with iron stone, there can

be little doubt but that it would have been, in a great measure, if not
wholly, destroyed. The cast iron near to the brass retains its original

soundness, but became gradually decomposed in proportion to its di-

stance from the protecting influence.
   " The action of the salt water upon iron at this port is exceedingly

great, causing a very rapid corrosion ; work similar to what has been
described, but in which no brass has been used, having been taken up
as useless after a service of only eight years ; the cast-iron becoming

so decomposed as to yield easily, like plumbago, to the penknife, and
the wrought iron wasting away to a mere thread ; much, however, in

both cases depending upon the quality of the iron.
   " The hint thus fortunately received has, therefore, since been taken

advantage of, and acted upon as much as possible by my father in all
our recent works. The dock-gates, which, heretofore, have been

greatly affected, are now in a great measure protected by using brass

with iron whenever it can properly be done. Copper fastenings are
no longer used, iron bolts with brass nuts and washers having been

substituted : the sills, which are made of cast iron, have numerous
small holes bored through them, which are again filled up with melted

brass ; the chain-hole rollers, also of cast iron, are keyed on to metallic
shafts, turning in cast-iron steps, and in all cases where strength and

durability are most required, the iron in these parts is thus protected.

So far as five years' experience can testify, perfect success has been the

result. The wrought-iron bolts are now as perfect as when first put

Aand the cast iron shows no symptoms of decay.  proof of this

may be seen at the outer gates of the Brunswick Basin, which were

fastened and finished as described, and have been now in use upwards

of five years."

On Browning Gun Barrels. By W. Ettrick.

On a Method of Facilitating the Calculations of Gases.
                     By Dr. Clarke.

On some Singular Modifications of the Ordinary Action of Nitric Acid
                 on certain Metals. By Dr. Andrews.
58 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

         On an Antimonial Compound applicable as a Pigment.
                              By Dr. Traill.

   It is made by adding a solution of ferrocyanide of potassium to the
muriate of antimony. The precipitate, which is of an ultramarine
colour, Dr. Traill considers to be composed of prussic acid, iron, and

oxide of antimony.

On tJie non-production of Carbonic Acid by Plants growing in the
                  Atmosphere. By Dr. Dalton.

Dr. Dalton calculates, that in 5000 years, animals supposed to live

--upon the earth, would produce by their breathing in the atmosphere
but  part by weight of carbonic acid, therefore the assistance of

plants to purify the air is not necessary. By experiment he found,
that a hot-house does not contain more or less carbonic acid, by night
or by day, than the external air, and the results were the same in a
number of repetitions of the experiments. This paper was said to have

been penned during the convalescence of its illustrious author from a

late attack of illness.

     On the Action of Water upon Lead. By T. J. Pearsall.

 On a New Form of Iron Bottle for obtaining Oxygen from Peroxide
            of Manganese. By Mr. J. Dick, of Cambridge.

   Mr. Griffin exhibited chemical apparatus adapted for experiments on

a small scale.

   Mr. J. Murray presented to the Section a phial of the milk of the
Cow-tree, with an account of its chemical and other properties j also,
specimens of two sorts of paper manufactured from the phormium tenax
and the musa textilis.

       On the Influence of Electricity on the Process of Brewing.
                               By W. Black.

    According to the authors statements, a thunder-storm not only
checks the fermentation of worts, but even raises the gravity of the
saccharine fluid> and developes in it an acid. This effect is principally

witnessed when the fermenting tun is sunk in moist earth, and may be
obviated by placing it upon baked wooden bearers, resting upon dry
bricks or wooden piers, so as to effect its insulation. Mr. Black also

stated, that during the prevalence of highly-electrified clouds, the fa-
brication of cast iron does not succeed so well as in other states of the
atmosphere.
                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                 59

                GEOLOGY.

Mr. Whewell reported from the Committee appointed to determine

the best means of ascertaining the degree of permanency of the relative

levels of land and sea. He stated that Mr. Bunt of Bristol had been

engaged to effect the first operations towards this object; that he

levelled a preparatory line from Bristol to Portishead (a distance of

10 miles), which proving satisfactory to the Committee, he was sub-

sequently directed to procure the necessary instruments, and to level

a line from Bridgewater to Axmouth. The course followed was as
follows : From Bridgewater, near the north bank of the river Parrott,

to Langport ; then crossing the Parrott by the Vale of the Isle, and
proceeding 1 1 miles, the town of Ilminster was left one mile on the

left, and the levelling carried to the top of the Hill of Chard, which is

300 feet high, and the only hill encountered ; descending to the south,

the Vale of the Axe was followed to the sea, the whole distance being

40 miles. The levellings were twice repeated (once forwards, once

3^backwards), and the difference of the two results was only  inches  ;

but as, in the greatest part of the distance, the difference increased

almost uniformly in going southward, the error was probably due to

some steady cause, and, consequently, the mean of the two results may

be considered as very near the truth. The precise cause of the error

has not yet been ascertained, but as the instruments are the property

of the Association, they can be examined at any future time. Good

referring-marks have been left to afford means of repeating and ex-
tending the levels, so as to make any future comparison of the state of
the levels with those now ascertained, that being the object of the

investigation.

The results of this survey for level cannot be stated until it has been

continued to the Bristol Channel.

A Notice of Specimens containing Fossil Vegetables, from the New Red

   Sandstone at Stanford and Ombersley, in Worcestershire. By

   James Yates, F.L. § G.S.

   Mr. Yates stated, that his object in bringing forward this notice was
principally to induce others to work out the hint he was giving. In
the N.W. angle of Worcestershire, the new red sandstone is in imme-
diate contiguity with rocks of the Silurian System, and appears to
assume some of the characters of the German keuper. The sandstone
of Stoneyedge Quarry, in the parish of Stanford, is greenish, finely
granular, and schistose, resembling the fine flagstones of the coal
formation. It contains vegetable impressions resembling those of the
coal. It has been used for building, and is remarkably durable, when
laid with its strata horizontal. To determine the geological position

--of this sandstone, Mr. Yates traced it for ten miles, by Martley, Ham-
60 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

bridge, Hood Martin, and Clifton on Teme, to Stanford. At Martley,

it exhibited the usual appearance of the new red sandstone of Wor-

cestershire and the adjacent counties. Then, on proceeding, it was

frequently micaceous and slaty, and exhibited numerous variations of

colour, until, without any other important change, it was traced to the

beautiful building-stone of Stanford, where, in descending order, it is

succeeded by strata of limestone belonging to the Ludlow Rocks of

Mr. Murchison. In the quarries of Ombersley, the sandstone is white,

inclining to green or grey, and much resembles the sandstones of a

coal formation, though all the surrounding strata have the usual colour

and appearance of the new red sandstone. In these quarries, vegetable

remains are very abundant, amongst which may be distinguished cala-

mites, the fossils generally resembling coal plants. Stems or boughs,

apparently of coniferse, are cut across in working the quarry. The

wood is in part converted into coal, and in part preserves indistinctly

its vascular structure. The stems contain a considerable quantity of

--oxide of iron, and around them the stone is rendered ferruginous.

Mr. Yates left the decision of the question whether these sandstones

belonged or not to the keuper, to those geologists who had studied that

formation on the Continent : he was himself inclined to decide in the

affirmative. Mr. Yates then stated his opinion, that the whole of the

new red sandstone of England must either have been part of the bed

and estuary of a river, or, if a marine deposit, have been formed so

near the dry land as to be under the influence of currents sweeping

along the shore. The portions he had described must have been, he

considered, the margin of such river or sea, the Silurian Rocks having

formed its banks. Mr. Yates concluded by exhibiting a specimen from

ABrockhill Quarry, in the parish of Shelsley Beauchamp.  trap-dyke

passes there vertically through the slates and fine sandstones of the

Silurian System, and converts them into a substance not distinguishable

from the trap, except by stratification ; a phenomenon which Mr.

--Yates had also observed in the Duchy of Nassau. The specimen,

part of these altered stratified rocks, was further remarkable, as

exhibiting in the coatings of its sides brilliant crystals of chabasie.

   The Rev. Mr. Clarke requested permission to read two letters

which he had received from Professor Hitchcock of Amherst, Massa-

chusetts, on the subject of foot impressions, supposed to be those of
birds, on a rock which the Professor refers to the new red sandstone.
The first, dated March 1, 1837, states, that in the examination of some
new localities, the author had extended the number of species, recog-
nizable by the footmarks, from seven to twenty-one, some of which are

very remarkable, and approximate to a sauroid type. One of these foot-
marks is fourteen inches long, has a heel larger than that of a man, and
a fourth toe coming out at right angles near its extremity. The length

of the step is four feet. Professor Hitchcock adds, that he has found
on the greywacke of Hudson River what he thinks the footmarks of a
marsupial quadruped, or of a quadruped that moved forward by leaps.
They are not, however, so distinct as the marks on the new red sand-
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                   61

stone. Professor Hitchcock then proposes for such  footmarks  the

following classification. Class, Ichnites :

              --1 st Family Tetrapodichnites.
              --2nd Family Sauroidichnites.
              --3rd Family Ornithichnites.

   In the second letter, dated May 9, 1837, Professor Hitchcock an-

nounces his having forwarded to Mr. Clarke between thirty-five
and forty specimens (some of the rock itself, and others casts) of the

footmarks. He states the number of species found since his first pub-

lication to be fifteen, making the total number 22. Mr. Clarke then

exhibited to the Section several of the specimens.

On the Nature and Origin of the various hinds of Transported Gravel,
   occurring in England. By Hugh E. Strickland, F.G.S.

On examining the masses of drifted materials, which, in patches of

gravel, sand, or clay, cover a considerable portion of the surface of the

island, Mr. Strickland perceived remarkable distinctions of character.

Taking the varieties of rocks present as a clew to the direction of the

forces which have moved them along, it appeared that in some cases

the  pebbles  and  boulders were  derived from the immediate vicinity
                                                                                                                                                                                  ;

in others, that they had probably travelled many hundreds of miles.

The beds were sometimes wholly unstratified, and at other times

finely laminated, indicating a violent or tranquil state of the transport-

ing medium. Some varieties of drift occupy the summits of hills, and

are independent of the present configuration of the surface ; whilst

others occur on the sides or bottoms of valleys, having a constant

relation to the present lin^es of drainage. And again, some gravel

--beds contain remains of mammalia and lacustrine mollusca, others

contain only marine remains ; and a large portion appears to be

destitute of organic remains. Such varied results seem to indicate a

variety of causes, distinct in kind, and operating at separate epochs

but as all these varieties of detritus are unconformable to the rocks

on which they rest, and from lying in detached portions are seldom

brought in contact with each other, it is very difficult to determine

their respective ages, or to establish the precise number of distinct

epochs at which they may have been formed. Evidence, however, of

two periods may be clearly obtained ; and Mr. Strickland proposes to

call the matter deposited in the first period a marine drift, being the
result of submarine currents at a time when the central portions of

England were under the ocean ; and that deposited in the second,
fluviatile drift, having apparently been deposited by ancient rivers
(or river-lakes) at a time when the whole or a great part of England

had become dry land. The gravel which covers the midland counties,

from Cheshire to Gloucestershire, has resulted (as proved by Mr.

Murchison from the evidence of marine shells) from a marine current

flowing from the North, between the oolitic hills of England, and the
62 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

older rocks of Herefordshire and Wales ; and hence, at that period,

--the whole island must have been many hundred feet lower than it is

at present, nay, it may have been totally submerged, as the absence
of erratic gravel on the oolite hills, and on the mountains of Wales

and Herefordshire, does not necessarily imply that those districts were
dry land when the gravel was drifted into the midland counties,
since the erratic pebbles would necessarily be directed towards the
lowest levels, and districts out of the exact line of the current might
even be in course of local degradation whilst the extraneous matter
was hurried past them. The probability that the chalk and oolite
hills of England were principally, if not entirely, submerged, is
strengthened by the fact that ramifications from the general mass of
gravel in Warwickshire extend through the transverse valleys of the
oolitic range, follow the course of the Thames, and cross considerable
hills near Oxford and Henley, as shown by Dr. Buckland. As the
marine shells found in this gravel are chiefly of existing species, a
very recent ej)och must be assigned to its deposition ; and as no traces
have been left of regular tertiary strata, even in small valleys and
basins sheltered from the action of the northern current, it seems
probable that the causes which led to the transport of the gravel were
comparatively transient. The most reasonable supposition appears to
be that this transport was connected with the elevation of the land,
the new red sandstone of central England having been covered up by
younger deposits, when a process of elevation and of accompanying
denudation commenced, whereby the upper secondary strata were
removed, and the new red sandstone exposed to the action of the

marine currents. And when, by a further rise, England was elevated

above the sea level, the midland counties would present an undulating
surface of new red sandstone and other rocks, with scattered patches
of erratic gravel, the relics of the action of denuding currents. But
whether the northerly current which has effected such devastation
was the direct result of elevation of the land, and consequently trans-
ient and violent, or whether it was similar to ordinary marine currents,
such as that now flowing through the Pentland Firth, it would be pre-
mature to speculate.

    These mai'ine detritic deposits consist of gravel, sand, or clay, in va-
rying proportions. The gravel contains numerous pebbles of white
or brown quartz, mixed more or less with other substances. It is
in general very imperfectly, or not at all stratified, there being some
local exceptions to the rule. It is believed that no mammiferous re-
mains occur in this drift, the only genuine fossils being marine shells,
which have been found in some few localities in Cheshire, Shropshire,

Staffordshire, and Worcestershire. And it is remarkable that it occurs

independently of the minor variations of the surface, covering ex-
tensive tracts, and capping hills of 400 or 500 feet in height.

    There are three principal varieties of marine drift; 1st. erratic
gravel without chalk flints; 2nd. erratic gravel with chalk flints;
and 3rd. local or non-erratic gravel. The gravel without chalk flints
covers the country to the North and West of the Warwickshire Avon.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  63

The gravel with flints occurs chiefly between that river and the foot of
the oolite hills. The chalk flints indicate an easterly current. The
gravel without flints came from the North ; but as no section has yet
shown a superposition of one of these beds of gravel on the other, so
as to prove a different epoch of formation, they must at present be
ascribed to one, and the difference of direction in the currents attri-

buted to the obstacles they encountered in their passage ; for instance,
a current flowing to the S. or S.E. through the counties of Notting-
ham, Leicester, and Northampton, would, on encountering the chalk
hills of Huntingdonshire, be turned to the westward, and carry chalk
flints into Warwickshire, mixing them with the quartz and other
northern pebbles, whilst the western part of the same current would
flow uninterruptedly through Staffordshire and North Warwickshire,

depositing pebbles of northern origin in its way, and finally make
its exit into the Bristol Channel. The third variety, called local drift,
as being derived from rocks of its immediate vicinity, occurs in patches

along the base of the oolite escarpment in Warwickshire, Worcester-

shire, and Gloucestershire. And as the evidence of superposition is

here also wanting, the local and erratic drift cannot be ascribed to
different epochs, but must be assumed as modifications in the effects
of the same great cause ; for it is very possible to conceive that whilst
pebbles from a great distance were moving along the central and
lower parts, local shingle beaches might have been forming (composed
entirely of the rocks there suffering degradation) at points more out of
the line and influence of the current, just as is the case in rivers, the
margins of which are often skirted by the detritus of its banks, whilst
their beds are occupied by pebbles washed from a distance. The
local drift of Siluria has been shown by Mr. Murchison to be overlaid
by the northern or erratic drift near Shewsbury, and is therefore re-
ferred by him to an antecedent epoch.

   The marine drift seems to have been deposited when a large portion
of England was under water; the next class, or fluviatile, when
much of it had become dry land. In materials the ma.ine and fluvia-
tile are the same, and are hence easily confounded together ; but they
occupy different positions, and contain different organic remains. The
fluviatile drifts bear a constant relation to the present form of the
surface, and are commonly found flanking the sides, or covering the
bottoms of valleys, often at a definite elevation above the present
drainage : in general they are in a finer state of lamination, which
proves a more tranquil deposition. They contain mammalian re-
mains, and freshwater shells of existing species are sometimes found

with bones of extinct land animals ; indeed it is probable that such

shells will be found to be generally diffused through them. On the

Warwickshire Avon, platforms of gravel, containing bones and fresh-

water shells, may be traced at intervals down the valley, from Rugby
to Tewkesbury, at heights from 10 to 50 feet above the present

stream ; and these platforms are strongly contrasted with the marine
drift which caps the hills flanking the river, both as respects the

mineral character of the gravel, and the absence of stratification and
--64 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

mammalian remains in the marine drift. No absolute junction of

these gravels has yet been noticed, though they occur within a quarter
of a mile of each other, at, as already stated, very different eleva-

--tions the marine drift being highest, as a portion of the great deposit

formed prior to the elevation which gave rise to the river or chain of
lakes which formed the fluviatile drift.

 --Mr. Strickland then stated the following as his own conclusions

from the data he had collected or studied namely,
   1st. That the great mass of erratic gravel which exists in England

has been brought by a northerly current, at a time when all, or the
chief part of England, was under the sea, and contains no terrestrial

fossil remains.

   2nd. That bones of terrestrial mammalia are only found in the
deposits of ancient rivers or lakes, formed after England had been
raised above the sea, and had nearly assumed its present form.

   Mr. Strickland concluded by suggesting to Geologists the necessity
and importance of collecting data for solving the intricate question
of the origin of gravef deposits, such as the varieties of rocks found
in each deposit, the mode of its arrangement, the presence and kind
of fossils contained in each, the elevation at which they are respect-
ively found, and the relations they seem to have to the existing sur-

face.

          On the Mechanism of the Movement of Glaciers. By

                            Robert Mallet, M.R.I.A.

    After briefly alluding to the peculiar appearances of glaciers, and
their vast extent, equal in some cases to the area of a small English
county, Mr. Mallet observed that, notwithstanding the labours of
Merian, Hottinger, Simler, Scheuchzer, Griinen and Saussure, the
forces which give rise to their motions, modify their forms, and lead to

their increase or decrease, have been overlooked. To supply this
defect fully would be beyond the limits of a single paper, and Mr. Mallet

therefore confined himself to the consideration of those forces which
 caused the descending or precessional motion of glaciers, of the
causes of the vast rifts or crevices which traverse them, and of the
peculiar arrangement of the moraine or stony debris which covers large
tracts of their icy surface. Hitherto writers (Saussure, Playfair, etc.) had
 ascribed their descent to the action partly of the weight of the glacier
itself and partly of that of the vast masses of snow resting upon it, which
together, had driven the glacier gradually forward, on the inclined
 plane upon which it rested ; and this explanation had been adopted and
 repeated by later writers, including Dr. Prout in his Bridgewater
 Treatise. This view Mr. Mallet considers inadequate to explain the
progressive movement, sometimes as much as 25 feet in a year, since the
 supporting surfaces of rock are always deeply rugged and hence afford
 a great resistance in friction ; and further that the inclination of the
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  65

beds of the glaciers does not exceed 25°, or of the supereminent plane

of the snow above 35° to 40°; so that the portion of the weight resolved

on mechanical principles in a direction parallel to the inclined plane, or

in the direction of motion, would be extremely small. Weight alone,

therefore, or pressure from it being inadequate, Mr. Mallet ascribes

the movement to the hydrostatic pressure of water accumulating between

the masses of ice and the rocky bed on which they rest, whereby the

ice is as it were floated or transferred (at intervals) upon liquid rollers

from a higher to a lower level. From the nature of the isogeothermal

curves, the bed on which the glacier rests is warmer than the glacier itself,

hence a continued melting of the lower surface, and a constant produc-

tion of torrents which rush out at the lower extremity of every glacier.

This melting is independent of season, whilst the melting of the superfi-

cial snow and of the external surface of ice depends solely upon it ; hence

in summer there is no obstruction to the flowing of the torrents, whilst

in winter their embouchures are closed by ice, and an accumulation of

water below is the result, by the pressure of which the glacier is raised

until a sufficient vent has been formed for the escape of the waters, on

the sinking of which the glacier descends for a certain distance into the

valley. An example of a striking kind occurred in 1814-1815, in the

Glacier de Bois, or the " Mer de Glace ". Its torrent, the Avey ron, being

dammed up by the falling masses of ice, and partly frozen, could no

longer discharge itself at its usual icy opening, but accumulated under

the ice until it forced itself a new passage, 700 feet above the former one

the pressure being so great that for some months mountains of ice

were continually falling. In short, the ice is by this hydrostatic pressure

raised up perpendicularly to the iuclined plane on which it rests ; but,

on the removal of the pressure, sinks perpendicularly to the horizon,

and hence advances forwards. Next, with respect to the rifts or

crevices which intersect the glaciers, they have, allowing for slight

perturbations depending on the steepness of the slope of the beds, a

general direction transverse to the line of motion, or across the valley

in which the glacier lies, and the form of a curve or vast wave-like line

crossing the ice from side to side, and having its convex side down-
wards. The glacier itself may be considered as a bed of indurated

snow, deposited at the bottom of a sloping valley, and surcharged

with infiltrated water, either the result of rain or its own slow

liquefaction, and must be presumed therefore to have originally

formed one unbroken mass, beneath which flowed a current of ice-

water. But whenever this stream became obstructed either by frost or

debris, the water would begin to rise beneath, until the hydrostatic

pressure at the lower end becoming sufficient to overcome the cohe-

sion of the ice, the huge mass would be broken in two or more parts,

somewhere above the upper line of the subglacial waters, just as a

stranded vessel, supported at stern and stern, becomes, in technical

language, hogged. And according as this process is modified by the

accidental staggering of one mass against another, &c, so is the aspect

of the whole strangely and capriciously varied. Sometimes an isolated

rock resting on the surface, melts, from its superior conducting power,

vol. vi. 1837.  f
--66 SEVENTH REPORT 183J.

the ice on which it rests, and sinks down, forming in the substance of
the ice a tube of an enormous depth ; one found by Mr. Mallet in
1831 having a depth of 70 feet and a diameter of 3 feet. This tube
gradually enlarges and becomes filled with water, until the pressure of
the column of water overcomes the lateral cohesion and splits the mass

--into two or more pieces. The curvilinear form of the crevice is next

explained. As the waters proceeding from the melting of the under
surface of the ice will coalesce towards the centre of the bed of the

glacier, or the lowest point of its sloping surface, so will the centre be
raised more and descend more than the sides ; and, in consequence, the
central part of the whole crevice descending most, it becomes convex
downwards.

   Mr. Mallet then entered on a discussion of those accumulations of
stony debris called "Moraine," which are to be found on all the glaciers,
and most remarkably on the glacier of Rosboden on the Simplon. These
are ridges of loose materials arranged parallel to the motion of the gla-
cier, or across the ice crevices. The detritus proceeding from the pre-
cipices which flank the glacier valley is continually falling and mixing
the snow with gravel and rocks ; and, as the summer heat melts the
winter snow, all this suspended matter sinks down to the surface of the
ice, and by the force of torrents sweeping over the ice is formed into
those ridges which lie nearly parallel to the line of motion of the whole
glacier. In these ridges, the centre is many feet deep ; and as this
thickness protects the ice below from the heat of summer, an elevated
wall of ice is formed, the uncovered snow on each side being melted
down, so that these ridges of stones stand upon hills of ice sometimes
25 feet above the general surface ; and as the centre of the glacier sinks
more than the sides, these hills have a natural tendency to topple over
and discharge their load of stony matter towards the centre : hence the
greatest deposits of moraine are nearest the axis of the whole glacier,
and these act as checks to its too rapid melting, without which it is
probable some of the greater glaciers woidd have been entirely melted

through, and the mechanism of their motion destroyed. On the prin-

ciples here laid down, the motion of the glaciers is most rapid after a
severe winter, and vice versa. The constant descent of a glacier over
its bed must abrade and smooth the surface of the rock, just as if it

had been the bed of a torrent; and it may therefore be possible to trace
in such marks the former existence of glaciers now totally melted

away.

On the Remits of Trials which had been wade for Water in the Desert
            between Suez and Cairo. By Marquis Spineto.

   This Bearch had been conducted by M. Albert Gingbery, an en-

gineer and mineralogist, and had proved successful, five wells having

now been established on that route. In these trials the water Mas

found at the depth of 14 feet, filtering through a calcareous rock, and
in a stratum of clay or marl. The results of several other borings
          TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  67

for water were also detailed : in these the depths at which water was

--found are very variable namely, 237 feet, 299 feet, 86 feet, 60 feet,

58 feet, and the alternations of sand, clay, siliceous rock (called by the

author Jasper), exhibit at short distances considerable irregularity.

On certain Phenomena connected with the Junction of Granitic and

  Transition Rocks, near Christiania in Norway. By Charles

   Lyell, F.R.S. (communicated by L. Horner, F.R.S.)

   It has been long known by geologists that granite occurs in the
neighbourhood of Christiania in Norway more modern than the schist

and limestone, containing trilobites, orthocerata, and other fossils of

the transition period. It is also, I believe, the prevailing opinion that

this granite offers an exception to the general rule, and that it covers

the fossiliferous formations in large overlying masses, in the same

manner as is commonly the case with basalt, and other members of the

trap family. I found, however, on visiting this summer with Pro-

fessor Keilhau several points where the junction of the granite and
transition strata is well seen, that the phenomena agree precisely

with those usually exhibited where granite comes in contact with other
rocks, and sends veins into them. M. Keilhau had already come to

this conclusion, after examining the whole line of contact of the

granite and fossiliferous beds, and in this respect my observations

went no further than to verify and confirm his statements. It is true
that in some places near Christiania the granite may lean somewhat over

the edges of the transition beds, and be for several yards incumbent

jjo       a  on them (as at a.
       j     No. 1); but not
             by any means so

             as to resemble the

             overflowing trap

             rocks. Nor was it

             from such appear-

             ances that the over-

lying position of the Christiania granite was first inferred, but rather
from the manner in which the strata of schist and limestone frequently

dip towards the granite up to the point of contact, appearing as if they
would pass under it. (See No. 1.) When, however, these strata are
traced up to the granite, they are seen to terminate abruptly ; and no
instance is known to Professor Keilhau, in this country, of a large mass

of granite regularly overlying strata containing organic remains.

   The different varieties of granite in this part of Norway have been
described by Hausmann, Von Buch, and others. They are chiefly

syenitic, but must all be classed by the geologist as granite, presenting

the usual characters of that family of rocks both in small specimens
and mountain masses. This syenitic granite seems to pass in some

regions into trap porphyry, but it is only where the rocks have assumed

                                     f2
--68 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

all the usual characters and aspect of trap that tabular masses are seen
distinctly overlying the fossiliferous strata.

   The important fact of the comparatively modern origin of this gra-

nite, or of its posteriority in date to the strata containing orthocerata

and trilobites, was announced by Von Buch about 25 years ago. The
proofs consist in the protrusion of granite veins into the schist and

limestone, and the alteration of the fossiliferous strata to a considerable
distance from the line of contact with the granite, the limestone being
turned into white marble, and the schist into Lydian stone, riband
jasper, and sometimes into mica-schist, of which I saw one striking
example at Grorud, N.E. of Christiania. Traces of fossils are not
unfrequently discoverable in some of the crystalline and altered rocks
of the transition formation, so that the actual conversion of the latter
into metamorphic strata is unequivocal.

    Large mountain masses of the granite come into contact with dif-
ferent members of the transition series, both calcareous and argilla-
ceous, and the granite sends veins into all of them, and variously
modifies their mineralogical texture. The fossiliferous strata are also
seen intersected by the granite, sometimes in the direction of their
strike, and sometimes at right angles to it ; the stratified rocks being
in all cases more or less changed at the point of junction. The same
modern granite comes frequently into contact with gneiss, the most
ancient formation of this district, and sends veins into the gneiss, or,
in some cases, passes gradually into it, precisely in the same manner as
in Scotland and other countries.

    There is, indeed, no feature in the geology of this part of Norway
which appears to me so full of interest, as the relations of the granite
and gneiss at their junction, when the wide difference of epoch which
must have separated the origin of the two rocks is considered. I shall
 therefore add a few words on this subject

    The gneiss is the oldest rock in the country. Next in age are the

transition strata, corresponding to part of the Silurian formations of
England ; but as these fossiliferous strata rest unconformably upon
the gneiss, the last-mentioned rock had evidently undergone great
disturbances before the sedimentary deposits were gradually thrown

down upon it. The edges, moreover, of the inclined strata of gneiss
had undergone aqueous denudation, and had been polished and scored
by attrition before the unconformable transition beds were superim-
posed. This scored and polished surface is seen occasionally on the
removal of the newer or fossiliferous beds. As the granite, therefore,
was introduced last of all in the order of time, there had intervened
between the origin of the gneiss and granite, 1st, the period when the
stratification of the gneiss was disturbed, 2dly, the period of its denuda-
tion, and, 3dly, the time during which the transition beds were gradually
formed in a sea inhabited by a great variety of organic beings. Yet

the granite produced after this long interval is often so intimately
blended with the ancient gneiss at the point of junction, that it is
impossible to draw any other than an arbitrary line of separation between
them ; and where this is not the case, tortuous veins of granite pass
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.      69

freely through gneiss, ending sometimes in threads, as if the older rock

had offered no resistance to their passage. Had I seen such junctions
alone, and known nothing of the relative age of the gneiss and granite,

I should have been inclined to suppose that the gneiss had not yet
been fully consolidated, and had not, perhaps, assumed its complete
metamorphic character at the time when it was invaded by the granite ;
but this hypothesis is quite inadmissible, fragments of the gneiss having

been imbedded in the transition strata long before the granite ap-
peared. The only hypothesis, therefore, that seems to remain to those
who adopt the Huttonian theory of granite is, to conceive the gneiss to
have been softened, and more or less melted when the granite was

introduced. I have before mentioned that the fossiliferous strata
occasionally dip towards the granite up to the line of contact ; and it
deserves mention, as a singular phenomenon, and a general one near

Christiania, that neither the strike nor prevailing dip of the transition

beds is affected, or seen to vary at the points of union with the granite.
They are altered in mineral character, as before described, and often
become quite metamorphic ; but they are not more disturbed there
than elsewhere, and their inclination and bearing remain the same.

What is still more extraordinary, there are places which I visited with
Professor Keilhau, where portions of the transition beds, some of them

only a few hundred yards square, occur completely isolated and sur-
rounded by granite, and yet continue to preserve their normal dip and
strike. This phenomenon has been adduced by Professor Keilhau as
offering, together with many others in the same district, strong grounds
of objection to the Huttonian theory ; for it appears to him impossible

that the granite can have been injected in a fluid state, or forced into
the fossiliferous strata without causing more local derangement in their

dip and strike.
    Without denying the consideration due to this argument, I confess

that its weight was much lessened in my mind after seeing other ap-

pearances exhibited in certain large dikes of syenite which pierce
through the fossiliferous strata near Christiania. Some of these dikes
scarcely differ from granite in texture, and are occasionally branched
yet the strata at the junction, or even when included between two
ramifications of syenite, preserve their accustomed dip and strike.
The analogy of such dikes to trappean and volcanic dikes, both in
form and in their relations to the intersected strata, together with the

occasional passage of the syenite into common greenstone, leave me

in no doubt that they are masses and walls of fused matter which
have filled up fissures opened in the previously consolidated transition

 strata.

         Fossilif. Transit. Strata.  />^?V  r^yv 6TM'

Gneiss.
70 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

              On the Geology of Spain. By Dr. Traill.

    In the sketch of the geology of the Spanish peninsula laid before
the British Association in Dublin, the author gave a general view of
its principal mountain chains, and a more particular account of the

structure of Andalusia and New Castile. The basis of the mountains

on the S.W. and N. of the latter is granite ; which in the southern
and western boundaries is directly covered by clay slate, and in the
Guadarrama chain by gneiss and mica slate. In the Sierra Morena,
the clay slate, reposing on the granite, strongly resembles the slate of
Cumberland ; and at Santa Elena, in the pass of the Sierra Morena,
contains crystals of chiastolite. The primitive rocks of the central
ridges of Spain are, on all sides, quickly succeeded by the old sand-
stone formations ; on which we often find a very compact, greyish
white limestone, with an imperfectly conchoidal fracture, which the
author, from its geological relations, considers to belong to the Jurassic
formation. This limestone is very widely distributed in the eastern
provinces, from the mountains of Jaen and Granada to Gibraltar, and
covers the flanks and peaks of the Sierra Nevada to the height of
9000 feet, the highest point he was able to reach in the end of May,
on account of the state of the perennial snow which invests it for 2000
feet higher. This limestone is seen in the Sierra Carbonera, near
Gibraltar, to rest upon old sandstone. Another limestone formation,
of a more friable and gritty aspect, abounds on the flanks of the
mountains, which he considers as the representative of the oolite of
England. True chalk forms considerable tracks in Western Anda-
lusia, especially near Lebrija; and considerable tertiary deposits
occur in the plains and valleys south of the Sierra Morena.

    In that portion of his paper read before the Geological Section in

Liverpool, Dr. Traill described the northern part of New Castile, part

of Aragon, and Cataluna, including the celebrated salt mine of Car-
dona.

   The plains between Madrid, the Somosierra, and the mountains
dividing Castile from Aragon, chiefly consist of vast beds of marl,
gypsum, and sandstone, over which, in some places, lies a limestone,

which he considers as oolitic. He traced these formations through
Grajanejos and Maranchon to Uset, the first village in Aragon. At

Uset they disappear, and their place is supplied by a quartzose
sandstone, splitting into thin layers, which may be used as roofing
flags, and contain many crinoidal remains. This sandstone appears to
rest on a well-characterized greywacke slate, devoid of organic re-
mains. This last rock is well seen at the pass named Puerto dc
Daroca, where it contains thin beds of a very pure quartzose sand-

stone flag ; and these strata are seen dipping below the more common

sandstone that occurs near Uset. In descending from this pass, the

sandstone may be traced to the banks of the Rio Xiloca, where it is
covered by a thick bed of coarse argillaceous conglomerate, forming
stupendous cliff's, overhanging the city of Daroca and its narrow
valley. Red marl and gypsum reappear in the wider parts of the
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  fl

valley, and extend over the elevated plain to the north of that city.
From the northern verge of this plain there is a gradual descent into
the wide and fertile valley of the Ebro, where luxuriant vineyards and
olive plantations cover a marly soil full of small gravel. The boun-
daries of this portion of the valley appear to be oolitic limestone, which
forms flat hills, of a sterile aspect. Near Zaragoza, the rock below
the soil, whenever it appears, is a yellowish grey limestone, which Dr.
 Traill refers to the same formation.

    After crossing the Ebro at Zaragoza, the route to Fraga lies chiefly
over a desolate plain, named Liana de Santa Lucia, once under cul-
tivation, but now abandoned to rosemary, thyme, and other aromatic
plants on its higher portion, and only appearing green where water
lodges in the hollows during the rainy season, and produces salsola,
salicornia, and similar plants, which the peasantry cut and burn into
barilla, in the months of September and October. The whole soil
is gypseous and saline ; the pools are brackish or absolutely salt
and potable water over this region is so scarce, that at Bujaralos it
was sold at sixpence per gallon. At Penalba the author found hori-
zontal beds of a limestone containing fresh water shells ; but the
relative position of these beds become very apparent at the abrupt
termination of the Liana, in the valley of the Rio Cinca. There he

observed an upper stratum of a greyish limestone, containing nu-
merous fragments of limnese and planorbes ; then a second with fewer
of these organic remains ; both rested on beds of clay marl, contain-
ing thin strata of snow-white fibrous gypsum, and thick beds of the

same substance in an earthy state. He did not detect any chalk in

this place ; but he found here nodules of pure flint. The whole of
these strata covered a reddish sandstone, which is exposed in the bed
of the Cinca. These limestone beds he considers as tertiary ; and he
traced similar formations to the other bank of the river, beyond the
city of Fraga. The whole of this district he compared to the forma-

tions of the Parisian Basin.
    Just beyond Fraga the traveller enters Cataluna; and near Lerida

he meets with a gritty limestone, which at Bellock gives place to a
calcareous farcilite ; near Cervera this is succeeded by a limestone

splitting into thin layers ; all which the author thinks may be referred

to the tertiary period, as the soil is full of shells belonging to the
genera limnea and cyclostoma, though in his hurried examination he
did not detect them in the rocks. Cervera is at the extremity of this
formation, and is built on a rock of secondary limestone, which forms

the fundamental rock visible between that city and Igualada. The
country is now finely broken into wooded hills and cultivated valleys ;
but the limestone between Igualada and Esparaguerra gives place to a
conglomerate, with a basis resembling ordinary sandstone which

slightly effervesces with acids. This conglomerate is a considerable
formation, not only occurring in the plains, but forming hills, and
covering the flanks, and constituting the lofty spiry ridge of Mont-
serrat. This rock forms thick beds, which in the defile of Martorel
 are seen, in the channel of the Lobregat, to rest directly on a glossy
72 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

clay slate, the laminae of which are slightly contorted. In one place
the slate was traversed by a wide vein of greenstone porphyry, in which
the crystals of felspar were large. The abrupt southern termination
of Montserrat, in this defile, shows the slate immediately covered by
a reddish sandstone, containing rounded nodules of quartz, and some-
times fragments of the clay slate. The upper portions assume more
and more the appearance of the conglomerate already described. The
enormous mass of Montserrat is composed of these rocks, which pro-
bably belong to the greywacke formation. In proceeding to Barce-
lona, the sandstone continues to be visible as far as St. Andreu and
Papiol, where it forms low cliffs ; but in the fine plain of Barcelona,
the rocks are covered by a rich clay marl, only broken near the sea by
a sandstone, containing turritellae and turbines, and forming the hill of
Monjuic, which is crowned by the strong fortress of that name.

    In the author's excursion to Cardona, he passed the northern ridge
of Montserrat ; which, instead of forming, as usually represented, an
isolated mountain, should rather be considered as the termination of a

chain, the general direction of which is from N.N.E. to S.S.W. The
shattered spires of the Caval de Bermat are formed of the same far-
cilite, which extends as far as the dangerous defile at Eremita de San
Jayme. Here it is succeeded by strata of sandstone flag, which the
author traced beyond the city of Manresa, to the eastern side of the
 Rio Cardonero ; but the western bank of that river exhibited strata of
a dull grey limestone. As the traveller approaches Cardona, these rocks
are concealed by a vast bed of reddish, marly clay ; and, in ascending

 to the city of Cardona from the Cardonero, he is surprised to find,
instead of rocks projecting from the soil, grey masses of salt of great

 purity.

    Referring to his more detailed description of the salt-mine of Car-

 dona in the Geological Transactions, the author illustrated his short
account by a drawing of this celebrated mine. The salt presents a
 nearly mural precipice of about 400 feet high, of a greyish white
colour, having its surface channeled by the rains into numberless
smooth hollows with sharp edges. The body of the salt is so pure,
 that to convert it into the whitest culinary salt, it is merely ground in
mills. This remarkable deposit has been described as a mountain of
 salt ; but this the author considers as incorrect ; it rather seems to be
 a valley filled up with that mineral. The nearest visible rocks, on
 both hands, incline towards the salt valley ; the hills on both sides of
 it are higher than the bed of salt ; and the whole is covered by a
 stratum of plastic clay, which defends the salt from wasting by the
 elements. This mine is a royal appanage, rigidly guarded by sentinels

stationed on the adjacent heights, who have orders to fire on all who

 enter the mine without authority ; a circumstance which renders

 caution necessary in those who examine it. There were only one

 hundred miners employed in 1814, the period of the author's visit to
 Cardona, who were under the direction of ten subordinate officers,
 and a general superintendent. The miners earned two pecetas (about
 two shillings) a day ; they work from six a.m. to seven p.m., with the
          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                73

intervals of from eight to nine for breakfast, and from twelve to two

for dinner and the siesta. The salt is sold for seven and a half pecetas

for 5 arrobas, or about 130lbs. avoirdupois. The only mode of con-

veyance from the mine is on the backs of mules or asses, over rugged

mountain  passes  and  dangerous  defiles                          yet a canal  might  easily be
                                                                ;

constructed to bring this valuable product down by the Cardonero

and the Lobregat to the sea, and thus all Spain might be for ages

supplied from this immense deposit of the purest salt, at a moderate price.
   The surface of the salt in that fine climate appears perfectly dry

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;

and it is little liable to deliquesce, owing to its remarkable purity,

and especially the absence of earthy muriates.

In proceeding from Barcelona northwards, the author found the

fertile marly soil to rest on sandstone, until he reached Caldetas, on
the sea coast, where a crumbling granite is exposed, in a spur pro-
ceeding from the mountains on the left. The neighbourhood of this
place has thermal springs, which seem to arise in the granite ; but
the greatest peculiarity he observed was the occurrence of numerous

veins of hornblende and porphyritic greenstone traversing the granite,
which are lost soon after passing Arefis. The road thence leaves the
coast, and winds among the mountains, in which strata of variegated

marble abound, especially near Pineda ; but the only rock visible on

the route was disintegrated granite, which however disappears as we

descend into the valley of Gerona, which is filled with marl ; but that

city stands on a hill of crinoidal limestone. From Gerona to Figueras

the marl rests on this limestone. At Bascara a calcareous farcilite is

found ; but the mountains on the left appear to consist of primitive

rocks, as indicated by the fragments rolled down by the streams.

Between Figueras and Junquera the soil is a deep loam, containing

numerous rounded nodules of limestone ; but after passing Pont des

Moulins, large blocks of grey granite make their appearance ; and in one

place the author observed limestone strata in direct contact with the

granite. The rocks round Junquera are granitic, consisting either of a

small grained grey granite, or a reddish brown syenite. This granite

continues up the pass of Junquera, almost to the confines of France,

where a shining unctuous mica slate conceals the granite, and is the

Aonly visible rock as far as the French fortress of Bellegrade.                        little

beyond this last point, the mica slate is concealed by strata of clay

slate rapidly dipping to N.E. The eastern Pyrenees are more steep

on the French than on the Spanish side. The chain is not there very

lofty ; but from Bellegrade a most magnificent conical peak appears

far to the West towering to the clouds.
74 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

 On some Intersections of Veins in the Mines of Dolcoath and Huel
    Prudence, in Cornwall, and on their bearing on the Theory of the
   Mechanical Origin of their {"heaves"*) Dislocations. By W. J.
    Henwood, F.G.S., Secretary and Curator of the Royal Geological
    Society of Cornwall, H. M. Assay Master of Tin in the Duchy of

     Cornwall.

    The object of this paper was to show, that the theory of mechanical
disturbance, by which it was contended that mineral veins were heaved
or dislocated in consequence of the upheaving or movement of the

strata, or of the forcible intrusion of igneous rocks, in a state of fusion,

--intersecting and shifting pre-existing veins, would not explain the

phenomena as disj:>layed in the mines of Cornwall, and is opposed
to the experience of practical miners. To support this objection, Mr.
Henwood adduced two examples, one from the Dolcoath Mine in the
parish of Camborne, in which three lodes, the first being E. and W.,
and dipping 65° North ; the second bearing 30° N. of W., and dip-
ping 80° North ; the third bearing 15° N. of W., and dipping 70°
North ; and, further, an Elvan course, bearing 20° S. of W., and dip-
ping 34° N., are all traversed by a cross course bearing N. and S., and

dipping 87° W., the result of the intersection being a very unequal

heaving of the lodes. The first of these (or Entral lode) has shifted
the cross course 9 feet to the left, and is itself undisturbed. The
second lode is heaved by the cross course 12 feet to the right. The
third lode is heaved 30 feet to the right ; and although the west portion
of that lode is actually in the Elvan course, that course is neither
heaved by the cross course, nor by either of the lodes. In the
second case, or that of Huel Prudence, parish of St. Agnes, an Elvan
course bearing E. and W., and dipping 45° N., a lode bearing 5°S. of W.,
and dipping 70° S., and another lode bearing 10° S. of W., and dipping
68° N., are intersected by a cross course bearing 12° W. of S., and dipping
80° E., the result being, that the Elvan course is heaved 42 feet to the
right, the first lode is heaved 30 feet to the right, the second lode is
heaved 9 feet to the right. Mr. Henwood asks, how can such varied
effects be attributed to any one simple vertical movement or disturb-
ance ? and, more particularly, how can the heaving of two lodes both

to the right, although they dip in opposite directions, be thus accounted
for ; since, on such a theory, it would appear that one ought to have
been heaved to the right, and the other to the left?

   Mr. Henwood, having thus stated his objections to the received
theory of mechanical disturbance, further observed, that he believed
no one doubted that the tin veins at Carclaize, and the copper veins
at Huel Music, were the result of segregation, and contemporaneous
with the contiguous rocks ; but as these little lodes exhibited, on a small
scale, all the characters displayed by the large lodes on a great scale,
he did not see that any unexceptionable distinction could be drawn
between them.

  * When a lode is not continuous on opposite sides of a cross course, it is (in Corn-

wall) said to be heaved.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  75

       On the Unity of the Coal Deposits of England and Wales.

                          By Dr. W. H. Crook.

   The object of this communication was to show, that the coal fields
of England and Wales were not distinct basins, but that the supposed
basins were merely detached portions, which had been elevated by the
agency of syenitic and trap rocks, of a much larger deposit, that was
spread over the greater part of the districts now covered by the new
red sandstone rocks. Dr. C. conceived that this view may be extended
to the coal of Belgium, and that of the north of France, and the north-
west of Germany ; the carboniferous beds of these countries, as well
as those of our own, having originated, in his opinion, in a drift of
vegetable matter from countries lying to the East and E.S.E. of them :
and he also stated, that the extent and richness of our coal deposits,
especially in the midland counties, arose, in a considerable degree,
from the impediments raised to the transit of the drifted matter by the
slate and other ancient formations of Wales and Cumberland.

   Mr. Young, of Nova Scotia, brought under the notice of the Section
a work on the geology of that country, accompanied by a geological
map by Dr. Gesner.

  Notice of an Incursion of the Sea into the Collieries at Workington.

                         By Professor Sedgwick.

   The author commenced by pointing out, in a descending order,
the succession of strata from the new red sandstone to the coal beds
which are intersected by numerous cracks or breaks filled with dirt or

other substances, and called faults or dikes. He then enumerated

some of the more remarkable faults, one of which, an upcast fault, is
to the amount of 600 feet, and a down fault to the amount of 1 00 ; in
the one case the more valuable beds having been brought high up,
and entirely removed by denuding causes, and in others thrown down
in a corresponding manner; a sinking of 135 fathoms being required
at the Isabella Pit to get at the main coal. Prof. Sedgwick next drew
attention to the difference of position between the coal beds worked by
Lord Lonsdale and Mr. Curwen ; in Lord Lonsdale's collieries the beds
dip under the sea, and therefore with the extension of the workings
increase the distance between them and the water; whilst, in Mr.
Curwen's, the beds cropped out under the sea: and, further, the

--danger arising out of this position was increased by the shattered con-

dition of the strata, the consequence of faults. The result of these
combined evils was, that the working having been carried within 14'
fathoms of the sea amongst the troubles, or faults, of the strata, the
strata suddenly subsided, and the sea burst into the works. The tor-
rent was, however, occasionally checked by accumulations of rubbish,
until the pressure had forced it through them ; hence its action was by
fits, and each renewed rush was accompanied by a roaring wind, the air
76 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

iii the passages being displaced by the water. Breeze followed breeze,
as torrent succeeded to torrent, and soon the whole 20 miles of passages
and railways were completely filled. Twenty-seven men were below,
and, when the noise reached them, were totally unable to conjecture
its cause, though danger of some kind was manifest. Four escaped
under the guidance of Brennagh, an Irishman, by following the air-
courses ; Brennagh, himself, in the midst of all this fearful noise, per-
plexity, and confusion, stopping in his progress, and going back 100
yards to save an old man. These men passed over a distance of 3000
yards in making their escape, and when they reached the spiral stair-
case, all the other routes having there become stopped, the wind roared
through it with such violence, that it was heard a quarter of a mile off.
At this time Bland, the last man coming up, was buoyed up by the wind,
and, just as he expected deliverance, a trap-door, caught by the cur-
rent of air, closed upon him. He, however, was not dismayed, but at
once punched a hole, when the valve opened, and he was actually
blown out of the pit mouth*.

On the Mud deposited by the Tided Waters of the Severn, Usk, and

   Avon, and other phcenomena connected tvith the Waters of these

  Rivers. By John Ham, of Bristol.

The author, having described the peculiarities attending the vio-

lent influx of the tide along the gradually contracting estuary of

Wye--the Severn, till it finally produces the bore in that river, and rises
to an extraordinary height in the  observes, " This incessant

agitation and conflict of waters naturally render them very turbid

that they do not readily mix when the fresh water is sent back by a

high wave, or what may be called a icall of sea water, may be con-

ceived ; but where the Channel is wider, and its bottom full of in-

equalities, it might be supposed that the mixture was more readily

accomplished ; and so it is, for the regularity in its specific gravity
at the same season of the year is great, as I have found it the same
in the month of August in the present year, and in 1822, viz. 1020.
This indicates that it is rather less than the specific gravity of the open
sea or ocean, remote from rivers, which is found to vary from 1020 to

1028.

   " The bed of the Bristol Channel, on the Welsh coast, is much more
shallow than on the opposite coast ; therefore, a much greater space

of the bottom is exposed to the rays of the sun on that side at low
water. This will partly account for the superior temperature of the
water on the Welsh coast, which I found to be 67° Fahrenheit in the
month of August, and 65° only on the south-east side of the Channel,
near the mouth of the river Avon.

   " To the shallowness of the water on the Welsh side must also be

   * Professor Sedgwick, having made some reflections on the lesson of caution
afforded by this melancholy catastrophe, appealed to the Section in behalf of the
gallant Brennagh, when 34;. were immediately subscribed.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                                                      77

attributed the increased quantity of mud that it holds in suspension. Of

five samples taken from the surface, the following are the results

                                                                                                                per Imperial Gal.

At the mouth of the Avon the water contains 26*3 grs.

In the deep part of the Channel              28*5

Advancing farther, where the water begins J  ,,. ,,

   to shallow                    J

On the opposite coast                      72*0

Mouth of the Usk                             39*5

                                                                                   5 201-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

                                                          Average . . 40*3

    " If that part of the area of the Channel to which these data apply
be taken at 225 square miles, and the above as an average at the

depth of one fathom, the quantity of mud in suspension will be about
700,000 tons. The mud in suspension gradually increases from the

surface downwards."

   Dr. Jeffreys of Liverpool exhibited to the Section two boxes of
teeth and bones from the Caves of Cefn, in Denbighshire.

On the Geology of the Coal District of South Lancashire. By James

   Heywood, F.G.S., Senior Optime of Trinity College, Cambridge.

   The great coal district of Lancashire occupies an area of more than
400 square miles, of which the largest and the most important portion,
including an area of at least 250 sqviare miles, is contained in the

southern division of the county.

    Extensive beds of gravel, sand, marl, and moss, generally conceal
the rugged outline of the Lancashire coal measures from the eye of the
geologist ; but the industry excited by commercial enterprise has found
a way to obtain access to the mineral treasures of the district through
the deepest superincumbent strata, and the rich produce of the coal
mines has aided, at the same time, in the centralization of manufac-
turing and commercial power in Lancashire.

   The eastern boundary of the great Lancashire coal district is formed
by the lofty range of gritstone hills which separates the county of
Lancaster from the West Riding of Yorkshire.

    This gritstone range of hills is continued from the heights of Pendle
Hill, Padiham, and Boulsworth, in North Lancashire, by Cliviger,
Todmorden, Blackstone Edge, Stanedge, and Longdendale, to the
north of Derbyshire. From the steep acclivities above Todmorden, a
transverse ridge of gritstone hills breaks into the central portion of the
Lancashire coal district, and elevates, in detached masses, many isolated
78 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

fields of coal. Some of these isolated coal fields are found on the

summits, others in the valleys, of the subjacent gritstone series, and at

the western extremity of the transverse ridge of gritstone, the grit-

stone hills are surrounded with beds of coal.

At the northern extremity of the Lancashire coal district, the car-

boniferous strata are found in the form of a large natural basin, Avhose

outer edges rest upon the gritstone rocks of Boulsworth Hill, Pendle

Hill, and Padiham Heights. Tn the centre of this basin, at the Fox-

clough Colliery, near Colne, the inclination of the coal beds is very

gentle, being only 1 foot in 12, and rising on all sides.

Three miles to the south-west of Colne, at the Marsden Colliery, the

level of the coal mines crosses the valley of the river Calder, and the

carboniferous strata rise on each side of the valley towards the grit-

stone hills, which form its boundaries.
   Very steeply inclined coal mines, called " rearing mines," have been

noticed on the northern boundary of the Lancashire coal district, over-

lying the gritstone strata to the north-east of Blackburn. Imme-

diately north of Blackburn, at Shire Brow, the fine quartzose sand-

stone, of which that hill is composed, dips to the S.S.E. at an angle of

about 50°, and the shales and sandstones of the coal measures appear

at the base of an adjoining hill, dipping in the same direction, at an

angle of 33°.

Three miles south-west of Blackburn, red sandstone rock is visible at

Feniscowles Bridge :  it occurs there, in thinly stratified beds, with mica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;

and at Withnell, south of Feniscowles, the shales and sandstones of the

coal formation make their appearance nearly in a horizontal position,

or slightly inclined to the west.

   Associated with the red sandstone strata, many beds of marl are

found overlying the coal measures on the west and south of the Lan-

cashire coal field, and concealing the boundary of the carboniferous

district, so that the western and southern limits are still very imper-

fectly known, except by the operation of mining.
   From the termination of the gritstone strata, near Blackburn, the

line of coal mines on the western side of the coal district may be traced
by Mawdesley and Newburgh to Blague Gate, Stanley Gate, and

Bickerstaffe. South of Bickerstaffe, coal is found under Rainford

Moss ; in the same neighbourhood, coals were formerly worked south

of Knowsley Park, and west of Prescot; and coal shales have been

found under the sandstone strata at the Hazles, near Prescot.

The south-western extremity of the Lancashire coal district is si-

tuated in the neighbourhood of Tarbock. At Winston, north-east of

Tarbock, the carboniferous strata are visible on the line of the Liver-

pool and Manchester Railway. North of Whiston, and beyond Prescot,

the beds of coal are cut off* by the intervention of a large mass of red

sandstone rock, nearly a mile in width ; coals are worked again to the

north of this sandstone rock at Gillar's Gi'een ; and the coal measures

appear to be again interrupted, on the north-east of Prescot, by another

portion of the red sandstone formation, which extends, in a northerly

direction, beyond Eccleston.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  79

   Coals are worked very near to the red sandstone of Eccleston, and
from the Thattow Heath Colliery, in that neighbourhood, a line of

coal mines may be traced passing by Sutton, Parr's Moss, Ashton in
Makerfield, Edge Green, Leigh, Bedford, and Worsley, to Pendleton,

near Manchester. For seven miles to the north-west of Pendleton,
a remarkable promontory of red sandstone stretches out as far as
Ringley Bridge, on the river Irwell, and gives the very appropriate
name of the " Red-rock Fault " to an enormous displacement of the coal
measures, by means of which the beds of coal are abruptly cut off, and
their level is changed to an average extent of 1000 yards.

   Below Ringley Bridge, the precise boundary of the red sandstone
rock, on the eastern side of the Red-rock Fault, has not hitherto been
accurately determined. Red sandstone strata may, however, be traced
on both sides of the River Irwell, from Ringley to Agecroft Bridge
and below Agecroft Bridge, the red sandstone rock is found in con-
siderable masses in the neighbourhood of Kersall Moor, Castle Irwell,
and at the dye-works near Salford Bridge. Red sandstone rock forms
the foundation of the Collegiate Church of Manchester, and of nume-
rous other buildings which rise on the opposite banks of the Irwell,
both in Manchester and Salford. Beyond Manchester, the red sand-
stone formation may be easily seen along the course of the rivers
Mersey and Irwell, as far as Warrington, Stockport, and Liverpool.

   On the north-eastern side of Manchester, coal is found at Collyhurst

and Bradford; the coal measures are afterwards interrupted by the
intervention of the sandstone rock on the eastern side of the Bradford
coal field : coals are again found above Bank Bridge on the river
Medlock, in the same neighbourhood.

    Beyond Denton, to the south-east of Manchester, the levels of the
coal mines are carried on, in a southerly direction, towards Poynton
and Macclesfield. Very minute investigation is required to determine
with accuracy the line of faults, which probably forms the southern
boundary of the Lancashire coal district.

    Limestone is occasionally found near to the southern limits of the
Lancashire coal district. At Ardwick, adjoining Manchester, the car-
boniferous shales are interstratified with beds of limestone, and the
south-western inclination of the calcareous strata at Ardwick corre-
 sponds with the inclination of the carboniferous beds associated with

 them.
    Nine miles to the west of Manchester, at Bedford, near Leigh,

 several strata of magnesian limestone are found dipping to the south-
 east, and very nearly conformable in their inclination with the red
 sandstone strata in that neighbourhood. The relative position of these
 rocks, as well as their relation to the carboniferous strata in the same
 neighbourhood, was carefully examined by the late Dr. Phillips of
 Manchester; and the result of his observations demonstrates, that
 the red sandstone strata of Bedford are inclined at an angle of 10°
 or 20° towards the south-east, corresponding very nearly with the in-
 clination of the magnesian limestone ; while the carboniferous strata

  dip to the south-west, and, consequently, the carboniferous strata are
80 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

unconformable both with the magnesian limestone and with the red
sandstone strata at Bedford, in South Lancashire.

   The beds of coal on the east, the north, and the north-west of Man-
chester, are inclined towards the west, the south-west, and the south,
being probably elevated from a horizontal position by the force with
which the gritstone hills behind them were raised to their present

position.

  A grand series of parallel faults traverses the eastern portion of the

South Lancashire coal district in a north-westerly direction, and of these
the principal fault, which has been already mentioned, as the Red-rock

Fault of the valley of the Irwell, is visible between Clifton and Ringley
on the bed of the river Irwell, about six miles to the north-west of Man-
chester. In this locality, the precise direction of the Red-rock Fault

has been ascertained to be N.W. by W. ; and in the line of the fault,

a considerable number of rectangular prisms of sandstone belonging to

the coal formation are distinctly visible, symmetrically arranged in a

vertical position, or steeply inclined, as if suddenly elevated. On the

western side of the fault, at Clifton, the sandstones of the coal measures

dip 10° to the S.S.W., and on the eastern side the red sandstone strata

are nearly horizontal, or clip slightly to the S.S.W., thus showing nearly

the same inclination of the strata on each side of the Red-rock Fault of

the Irwell.

   The occurrence of the Red-rock Fault has occasioned a very remark-

able displacement of the beds of coal in the valley of the Irwell, near

Manchester. On the western side of the fault, the highest beds of coal

in the carboniferous series of South Lancashire are worked, and the
lower mines successively crop out between Manchester and Bolton,
while the higher mines of the coal series are worked on the eastern

side of the fault. If the level of the four-foot coal mine, one of the

highest mines in the series, be traced from Worsley to the Red-rock

Fault, it will be found that at Worsley the four-foot mine encouuters

a considerable fault of 400 yards, which changes its level to a more

Anortherly position.  second fault, of 600 yards, again removes the

level of the four-foot mine further north, and the level of the mine

ranges towards the south-east as far as Pendleton. On the eastern side

of the Red-rock Fault the level of the four-foot mine is found at Ring-

ley, and the continuation of this level meets the Red-rock Fault near

the junction of the Irwell and the Tong rivers.

At Ratcliffe Bridge another fault, parallel to the great Red-rock Fault,

crosses under the course of the river Irwell, and at Blackford Bridge,

on the same river, another parallel fault occurs, accompanied with red

sandstone rock, which is again succeeded by the ordinary coal measures.

North of Bury, at Brandlesholme, on the river Irwell, two pa-

rallel faults have been observed ranging near to each other, and

parallel in their north-westerly direction to the great Red-rock Fault of

the district. Above the first fault, at Brandlesholme, the inclination

of the dark ferruginous shales is 14° or 15° N.E. by E., and, below the

fault, sandstone strata succeed, with an inclination of 50° south.

Beyond the dark ferruginous shales, sandstone strata occur, inclined,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  81

similarly to the inclination of the shales, at an angle of 15° or 20° N.E.
by E., and in these sandstone strata the second fault is visible. Above
the second fault, the dip of the sandstone strata is from 5° to 10° east.
In the line of the second fault, the sandstone strata are projected ver-
tically upwards, and are accompanied with ferruginous septaria. . The
interval of about 6 feet, occasioned by the second fault, is filled up

with ferruginous clay.

   On the opposite side of the Irwell, the sandstone strata are raised

vertically in the lines of these two faults, and are thus contrasted
with the ordinary inclination of the sandstone strata, which is very

gentle.

   The same faults are again visible on the river Roch, between Bury
and Hey wood, accompanied with similar phenomena to those observed
at Brandlesholme. The sandstone rocks and black shales of the coal
measures are found in a -vertical position in the lines of the faults,
while the general inclination of the carboniferous strata on each side
of the fault is very gentle near Heywood, and does not exceed 10°

towards the south-east.

   Many of the preceding details on the exact position of the strata

in different localities have been taken from observations in several por-
tions of South Lancashire, recently conducted by zealous and assidu-
ous friends, at the request, and under the superintendence, of the
author of this report. The author has here endeavoured to arrange
 and classify the materials of geological information which were afforded
to him by the kind assistance of several proprietors of coal mines, and
by other individuals well acquainted with the structure of the coal

 district.

    At Pendlebury, near Manchester, there are 21 beds of coal, whose
 total approximate thickness amounts to 25 yards, while the approximate
 thickness of the strata associated with the coal amounts to 1136 yards.
 Hence, the proportion of the beds of coal to the strata associated with

 the coal, is as 1 to 45 nearly.
     At Haigh, near Wigan, there are 27 beds of coal, whose total ap-

 proximate thickness amounts to 26 yards, Avhile the total approximate
 thickness of the strata, associated with the coal, amounts to 1036
 yards, and the consequent proportion of the beds of coal to the

 associated strata, is as 1 to 40 nearly.

On the Coal-Measures of West Lancashire. By W. C. Williamson.

Mr. Williamson exhibited and explained several sections, combining

the result of his own investigations with the practical observations of

Aminers. general section was exhibited, drawn up from observation's at

different points, of the saliferous and carboniferous strata, extending

downwards nearly to the millstone grit. At Manchester the magnesian

limestone almost disappears, merging with the clays of the lower new red

sandstone, but contains the characteristic axinus obscurus and other fos-

sils. The lower new red sandstone is unconformable to the coal-strata in

vol. vi. 1837.  g
82 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

the neighbourhood, the former dipping at the rate of about 16° and
the latter 23°, no gradation consequently existing. At the top
of the carboniferous strata is a series of limestones, (resembling
those observed by Mr. Murchison at Lebotwood near Shrewsbury),
described by Mr. Williamson in the Phil. Mag. of Sept. 1836. In-
cluding the space occupied by these is an extent of 1400 feet
of clays, sandstones, &c. forming the top of the series, before reach-
ing any tvorkable coal, when those of the small isolated coal field of
Bradford* commence. Mr. Williamson supposes the portion of the car-
boniferous group represented to be at least 6000 feet thick, whilst about
400 feet more are wanting to complete the series down to the millstone
grit of Phillips's Geol. of Yorkshire. The number of workable seams of
coal averages about 21, having an aggregate thickness of about eighty
feet. Towards the upper and middle portions of the series, the strata
chiefly consist of shales, clays and sandstones, the latter often from thirty
to seventy feet thick, and forming good building-stones, especially the
* Peel delph' rock. At the depth of about 5000 feet flagstones prevail,
corresponding with the upper flag measures of Yorkshire, and with
them are two coarse grits, each about eighty feet thick. These re-
pose upon a series of flags,-]- and the whole with their shales are based
on the millstone grit. The remains of plants seem to be irregularly
distributed : Neuropteris cordata has only been found at the top. In
some instances seams of coal appear characterized by an unusual pre-
valence of plants, but are liable to much variation. Mr. Williamson has
found remains of fish in connection with most of the coals from the upper-
most limestone to the lowest coal in the ' mountain mine.' They chiefly
consist of teeth of Diplodus gibbosus ; scales and teeth of Megalichthys
Holopticus, two or three species ; Palceo7iiscus and allied genera, three
or four species ; Coprolites, teeth and scales of singular forms and uncer-
tain affinities. Unionidce are generally diffused; but above the flag-series
is a seam, three inches thick, entirely composed of individuals of a large
species ; and immediately above the mountain mine, is found Goniatites
Listeri and Looneyi in large nodules, together with Pecten papyraceus.
Mr. Williamson also exhibited several smaller sections, showing the varia-
tions of the strata at similar heights above the same coal, and the im-
possibility therefore of judging from mere isolated sections. The gene-
ral resemblance, however, seems to show, that the various coal deposits
are parts of one series, pushed up by the protrusion of the millstone

grits.

On the Dislocations of the Coal Strata in Wigan and the Vicinity.
                          By William Peace.

   The district surrounding Wigan is intersected by a great number
of faults or dislocations running nearly in straight lines, as shown on
a map produced by the author. These faults, which run nearly pa-
rallel to the magnetic meridian, and varying only about 10 degrees
from it to the westward, dislocate the strata to a much greater ex-

* Near Manchester.  t The Haslingden flags.
                   TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  83

tent than the cross faults which run respectively S.E. and S.W. ; and
they also form, in many instances, the terminations of the cross faults,
being rarely, if ever, crossed by them. The average ' throw ' of the

principal or northerly faults is about 340 yards, whilst that of the

cross faults is only about 44 yards. Beginning at the easterly side

of the map, which comprises about 50 square miles of the district,

and proceeding to the westward, the

1st principal fault throws down the strata to westward . 171 yards

2nd  do.           do.               do. about 500 do.

3rd do.            throws up         do. do. 340 do.

4th do.            throws down       do. do. 440 do.

5th do.            throws up         do. do. 540 do.

and the sixth throws the strata up to the westward about 220 yards,
the average distance between them being about 1200 yards. The

level and dip of the coal vary in each belt of strata respectively in-
cluded between the main faults. Between the two most easterly of
them the dip is nearly south, whilst between the second and third it is
west, or at right angles to the former. The plan shows the variations

of the dip and level in each belt of strata, the directions of which are
indicated by blue lines. The lines of the subsidiary or cross faults

generally form angles of from 30 to 60 degrees with the main fault,
and scarcely ever form right angles. The fault, or plane of dislocation,

is rarely, if ever, found to be vertical, but deviates generally from that

position from 20 to 40 degrees. It is also invariably found that the

inclination of the plane of dislocation indicates the direction in which

the strata are displaced. If, for instance, the vein of the fault slopes,

forming an inclined plane, the foot of which is nearer the observer

than the summit, the strata are in that case removed upwards ; if, on
the contrary, the plane of dislocation slopes from the observer, the

strata are removed downwards, as shown by the Section. In all the
seams of coal subjacent to the district comprised in Mr. Peace's map,

the direction of the cleavage of the coal strata in every seam is inva-
riably N.W., and varies but a very few degrees ; and in this important
characteristic they correspond with many observations the author has

made in the coal districts of Yorkshire, South Wales, and elsewhere,

which induce him to believe that it is an effect of one and the same

cause acting simultaneously on the whole of our coal strata during

their deposition.

On that part of the South Welsh Coal Basin which lies betioeen the Vale
   of Neath and Carmarthen Bay. In explanation of a geological map
   of the district, laid down by the author on the sheets of the Ordnance
  Survey. By Mr. Logan.

   The map exhibited the outcrops of the various seams of coal in the

district in question, and the dislocations they suffer from faults.

   All the principal faults run in a north and south direction, and pre-

sent an extraordinary degree of parallelism.
   They coincide with the joints of the rocks, and it is very usual

                                     g2
--84 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

before coming to a master fault, to meet with one, two, or more parallel
smaller ones, throwing the measures up or down in the same direc-

tion.

    The master faults appear in general to run across the whole basin,
and to extend into the old red sandstone.

    Minor faults occasionally branch from the larger ones, and perhaps
in some instances two very considerable faults merge into one. But
it appears when such is the case both the faults throw the measures the
same way.

    The dip of the measures is often different on the opposite sides of a
fault ; hence it happens that running along the course of the fault the

down-throw or up-throw necessarily increases or diminishes.

    There are instances of faults which, while they are considerable in
the middle of their course, diminish to nothing at both extremes.

   The author observes, " I have been informed that there are faults
which, while extensive at the outcrop of the measures where the beds

dip with the greatest rapidity, diminish towards the centre of the basin,
the beds on the opposite sides then crossing one another and reversing

their relative positions ; but I am not able to point out any instance.

Faults of this description might arise from horizontal movements, and
there are symptoms of such movements in the limestone between

Pwll Du Bay and the Mumbles Point."

   The faults are seldom quite perpendicular, and it appears that in
general their dip or underlie is towards the down-throw. Hence it
would happen that when a block of strata lies between two up-throw
faults, it would have the form of a wedge with the point downwards,

and the two faults would vertically merge into one. No working in

the Welsh coal basin has yet been deep enough to gel to the bottom of

any of these wedges. To this general direction of the underlie there
are, however, many exceptions, particularly in the east and west faults
occurring between the Turch and Tawe rivers, in the neighbourhood
of the limestone irregularly thrown up in Cribbarth Mountain, and
producing what are technically called leaves by the Welsh miner, a
leaf being nothing more than the duplication or over-lapping of a bed,

occasioned by a fault dipping at a very acute angle in respect to the
horizontal plane towards the up-throw side.

   The faults are of various breadths, and it would be natural to sup-
pose that those which produce the greatest step in the measures
should be the widest. But there are instances where master faults
are not more than a few inches wide ; and others, where faults that
occasion a step of only a few feet, are said to be a hundred yards or
upwards in breadth. But the author thinks the dimensions of these
very wide faults are often exaggerated, as coal miners are accustomed
to state the width of a fault to be the distance from good, solid, profit-
able ground on the one side to the same on the other, while probably
the disturbed part may include several small faults.

    Another circumstance connected with these faults is very import-
ant. The coal on one side of a fault is frequently very different in
quality, as respects the quantity of bitumen it may contain, from that
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  85

 on the opposite side ; and it is remarkable that the coal on the up-
 throw side of the fault contains the less quantity.

     In respect to the diversity that exists in the bituminous qualities of
 the coal from different parts of the South Welsh coal basin, it is well

 known that the non-bituminous, or stone coal, is found on the north
 side and at the west end ; the bituminous coal on the south side and
 east end ; and there is an intermediate region occupied by an interme-

 diate quality.

    Mr. Logan has lately ascertained that, in two or more of the prin-
cipal collieries on the south side of the basin, near Swansea and
Llansamlet, though the lower seams of coal carry their bitumen to

points deeper in the earth than the higher ones, they begin to part

with it at points further to the south. And it appears to him that

these facts taken together, unless contradicted by further evidence,
indicate the possibility of a rule in the change of quality ; namely,
that it occurs in parallel planes, cutting the seams of coal without
regard to their strike or inclination, and dipping to the south or east of

south.

   There are two anticlinal lines, one running from Pont ar Dawe by
Mynydd golli wartad and Llangafillach to Rhyd y mardi ; the other

from Loughor along the road towards Swansea, and then through the
colliery of Sir John Morris at Pentre.

    In the mountain limestone, on the south side of the basin, and to
the east of Cefn bryn, there are two geological waves or edges run-
ning east and west.

   The millstone grit appears above the mountain limestone, along the
northern line of the basin ; and it is also seen, but not so distinctly,
on the southern side in Gower, and in the fractures of the rock which
there represents it in Cel ifor Hill, near Llawhedian, and a few miles
eastward wavellite is found in abundance.

--On the Tidal Capacity of the Mersey Estuary the Proportion of Silt
  --held in solution during the Flood and Ebb circulations the Excess

   of Deposit upon each Reflux, and the consequent Effect produced by
   the Matter thus detected in its transit, and measured at its lodgement,

  on the banks in Liverpool Bay ; with Diagrams. By Captain

   Denham, R.N,

   Captain Denham states the area of the Mersey, from Rock to War-

rington, to be 113,171,200 square yards, and its average channel ca-
pacity 535,914,040 cubic yards, that mass of water circulating to and
fro four times every 24 hours. The flood occupies 5 h 20'. The ve-
locity on the Narrows (from Seacombe to Prince's Terrace) is from
1 to 6f miles per hour, amounting to a transit of 23^ on flood ; the
ebb is for 6'1 30', velocity f to 7 miles per hour, and the amount of
transit 29^- miles. The greatest velocity on the flow is at the third
hour ; on the ebb, at the second : the impetus on the flow greater after

the third hour than before ; on the ebb, greatest on the first half ebb.
--86 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

The insoluble matter held in suspension by the columns of flood and

--ebb amounts to 29 cubic inches for each cubic yard of water on the

flood, and 33 cubic inches on the ebb, the matter on the ebb ex-
ceeding that on the flood ; so that 48,065 cubic yards of silt are de-
tained by the banks outside the Rock Narrows each tide, except that
part which the succeeding ebb disturbs.

   The excess of silt thus accumulated from the 730 refluxes of a year's
tides, amounts to 35,087,450 cubic yai-ds, equivalent to a layer of
mud, if equally disseminated, 21 inches thick over the first tidal area
one-third, however, of this is disturbed and carried over the second
tide area ; and, further, the deposit is lessened by the natural shrink-
ing as it is consolidated (namely, into half its original bulk). The

annual tangible deposit is therefore 11,695,817 cubic yards, which,
equally disseminated, would produce a uniform increase of the banks,

and decrease of water, in the Channel, of 7 inches. The subsidence,

however, is not in equal proportions, but is directed towards certain
knolls, margins of banks, and elongated spits, which protrusions cause

scouring and choakings of particular channel-beds. Captain Denham

further pointed out instances of the rapid filling up of certain channels,
as well as the changes due to sudden change of circumstances, and the
importance of preserving the present conditions of the harbour, inas-

much as regards the continuance of the present back-water in its full
amount. The cross-set of the Irish Channel limits the extension

outwards of the shoals ; but notwithstanding this fortunate natural
safety-valve, any neglect of those regulations which tend to check
encroachments on the Channel, would so far facilitate the natural
tendency to fill up, that in a very short period the part might, be

closed. Captain Denham pointed out the advantages of the new

channel as compared with the old. That channel was discovered by
himself, and is in itself an illustration of the resulting effects of the
modification of the contour of the general tidal channel, and of the
benefit to be derived from closely watching the operations, whether
natural or artificial, by which it may in any way be altered.

    In 1836, the new channel admitted 8208 vessels, 4077 of which
could not without it have got in or out under four hours' delay upon
each tide. In April 1837, 1571 vessels passed, 760 of which could
not have passed any other way. The post-office packets have passed
directly to and fro, with thirty-five exceptions, which exceptions, in
1832, amounted to 261, involving the necessity of transferring the
mail and passengers by tender or boat. And, further, out of 29000
vessels that entered the port in the last two years, only nineteen had

experienced serious difficulties.

   Having thus shown the surplus quantity of mud which is at each

--tide deposited and added to the banks, the natural tendency result-
--ing from this accumulation to fill up the channel, the fortunate ex-

istence, under the influence of the present conditions of the tidal or
water-way, of a good and available channel, and the paramount neces-
sity of securing the existence of that channel by allowing no such
alteration in the boundaries of the water-way as should, by lessening
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  87

 the back-water, diminish the scouring of the reflux tide, or, by alter-
 ing the form of the river-shores, tend to throw the current into new
 directions, and to stop up the existing channels ; Captain Denham
 strongly urged the propriety of a power, vested in local guardians,
 to interfere whenever attempts should be made to encroach by em-
 bankments, or in any other way, on the present high-water-marks, as,
in the present state of the law, a vital injury might be done to the port
 before an injunction could be obtained to restrain such dangerous
operations. Captain Denham then explained and exhibited the simple
gauge by which he had drawn up the water from various depths, to
test the quantity of earthy matter suspended in it, and thus to mea-
sure at once simply and effectually, the aggregate cpjantity silently and
almost imperceptibly circulating with the waters of this great estuary,
and to deduce, with certainty, the practical as well as geological re-
sults of a continuance of the action of such natural causes under their
present circumstances, and of the probable effect of any artificial
modification of them. This instrument is a cylinder, seventeen inches
long, and four in diameter, having a valve at each end, the lower
opening inwards, the upper outwards ; so that on descending, both
valves would be opened by the pressure of the water, which would
flow freely through the cylinder, and, on ascending, both valves would
be closed, and the water which had entered at the lowest point of its
descent, retained within it. The samples of water were taken up at half-
hour intervals during the whole of the flood and ebb, and at depths in
each series from six feet to thirty. The waters were more turbid at
two hours' flood, and at two, three, four hours' ebb, and the water at
thivty feet depth contained jL more of silt than at other depths.
Thirty feet being the height of the spring-tide column, that was the
maximum depth gauged.

  On the Changes which have taken place in the Levels of Scotland.
                             By Mr. J. Smith.

    Mr. Smith stated that there was abundance of evidence that changes
had taken place in the relative levels of land and sea in Great Britain,
as well as elsewhere. The phenomena, however, proving this fact had
been involved in confusion under the title of diluvium ; but he had full
reason, from a careful examination of the fossils, to decide that much of
these deposits belonged to the tertiary series, and not to the more recent

deposits called diluvium. He had traced them in the county of Ayr,

and indeed all round Scotland, the general height being 40 feet, though
Mr. Gilbertson had stated an instance in which such a deposit had
been found at 300 feet ; from its generality, however, he considered
40 feet to have been the height of a distinct ridge or deposit. Finely
laminated clay is a principal member of this deposit, and from the pro-
portion of extinct and recent species, in the whole 113 species of shells,
which he had discovered, he considered the deposit to agree with the
Newer Pleiocene of Messrs. Lyell and Deshayes.
--88 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

On an Apparent Analogy betiveen the Neio Red Sandstone of England
                 and Ireland. By Captain Portlock.

   Capt. Portlock pointed out that he had first brought under the no-
tice of geologists, at the Dublin Meeting of the Association, the occur-
rence of fossil fishes in the new red sandstone of Tyrone. These he
submitted to Professor Agassiz, who considered them a new species of
the genus Palseoniscus, Avhich he named Palceoniscus catopterus. As
the genus Palseoniscus extends into the coal strata, Capt. Portlock
wished to obtain some further evidence as to the true position of the

sandstone containing these fossils. On excavating for this purpose all

round the limited space in which the fishes had been found, he failed
in meeting any more fishes, but he arrived on the same level in the
quarry at thin red clay partings, exhibiting numerous impressions of a
small bivalve shell, which both Mr. Strickland and Mr. Murchison on
examination considered identical with the bivalve they had found in a
portion of the new red sandstone of England, considered by them to
belong to the keuper division of that great formation. This shell is
the Posidonia minuta of Goldfuss, and is given by that author as a
keuper fossil. According to Bronn, however, it is not confined to the
keuper ; and Capt. Portlock considers therefore the discovery of this
shell in the Irish new red sandstone as valuable, inasmuch as it esta-
blishes a general analogy between it and that of England, but he does
not consider it sufficient alone to decide that the sandstone containing
it belongs to the keuper.

 On the leading features of the Geology of Ireland, and more particu-

    larly the situation a?id extent of the great Carboniferous or Mountain
     Limestone district, ivhich occupies nearly tico-thirds of the Island.

   By P. Griffith, F.G.S., 3fc.

     In illustration of the succession of rocks which compose this extend-
 ed formation he brought forward a great section of the country, com-
 mencing on the sea coast below Benbulben, in the county of Sligo, and
 extending from thence nearly in an eastern direction to Butler's Bridge,
 in the county of Cavan, a distance of 50 miles. This section, which
 exhibited in a very striking manner the profile of one of the most re-
 markable secondary districts in Ireland, and which crossed the sum-
 mits of Lacka, Lugnaquilla, Cuilceagh and Slieve Rushin Mountains,
 was laid down to a scale of 6 inches to a mile in length and 200 feet
 to an inch in height; the data for its construction, both for the heights
  and distances, having been taken from the Ordnance Survey.

     In describing this section, Mr. Griffith stated that the grauwacke
 slate of the county of Cavan was succeeded to the west of Butler's
 Bridge by a series of strata, consisting of alternations of carboniferous
 limestone, yellowish grey sandstone and dark grey shale, amounting to
 a thickness of about 200 feet. These strata, to which Mr. Griffith gave
 the name of the yellow sandstone, rest unconformably on the grau-
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  89

wacke slate, and are considered to form the first or lowest member of

the carboniferous limestone series of Ireland.
    In other localities, particularly in the county of Donegal, north of

Ballyshannon, the strata belonging to this, the lowest members were
stated to be of much greater thickness, and to contain with the lime-

stone beds alternations of coarse-grained conglomerate, having a yel-
low or brownish-yellow base.

   At Belturbet, in the line of section, the yellow sandstone series is
succeeded by the lower limestone, which consists of a succession of beds
of carboniferous limestone, more or less pure, and varying in colour
from light smoke grey to dark blueish grey ; these strata amount to a
thickness of 350 feet in the line of section.

   In other localities in Ireland the lower limestone contains abundance
of black and occasionally grey and reddish mottled marbles of various
tints, and the whole series abounds with marine fossils similar to those
which occur in the mountain limestone of Derbyshire, north of York-
shire, Northumberland, &c.

   Above the lower limestone we have a series of beds, consisting of

alternations of black or dark grey shale, dark blueish grey impure lime-
stone, and yellowish and occasionally reddish grey sandstone, altogether
400 feet in thickness.

    These peculiar strata, which occur also in the limestone formation in
the neighbourhood of Dublin, have received the name of Calp from
Mr. Kirwan, and Mr. Griffith adopted that name to distinguish this

particular division of the carboniferous limestone.
    In the line of section, the calp series which succeeds the lower lime-

stone to the west of Belturbet occupies the country as far as Ballycon-
nell, situated at the base of Slieve Rushin Mountain, where it is suc-
ceeded by the upper or splintery limestone, which in this mountain is
420 feet in thickness ; while in Cuilceagh Mountain, situated to the west
of Swanlinbar, it is 600 feet in thickness.

    The upper or splintery limestone is distinguished from the lower by
its numerous crags and mural precipices, which often present the cha-
racter of rude columnar facades ; it is usually cavernous, and the
streams falling from higher elevations are frequently lost in fissures,
and flow through subterranean channels, till at length they burst forth
from the lower strata of the series, and flow down the more gentle de-

 clivities of the calp shale beneath them.

    The Great River Shannon has its source in a cavern of the upper
limestone, which is situated at the western base of Cuilceagh Mountain,
at an elevation of 342 feet above the level of the sea.

    This limestone is equally abundant in fossils with the lower, and
nearly the whole of the species and varieties which occur in one have
equally been discovered in the other.

    The splintery limestone forms the upper member of the carbonife-
rous limestone series, which, in the line of section exhibited, amounts
to a total thickness of 1750 feet.

   On the summit of Slieve Rushin, and at the Cave of Pulgulm, situ-

ated on the eastern declivity of Cuilceagh Mountain, and several other
--90 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

localities in the line of section, the carboniferous limestone series is
succeeded by the mill-stone grit formation. In Cuilceagh Mountain,

where the series is best developed, the lowest member consists of three

great beds, or successions of beds, of yellowish white quartzy sandstone,
having beds of black shale interposed between each ; these beds amount

                                                             v

altogether to a thickness of 500 feet : they are succeeded by a series
of beds composed of black shale, which in the lower region of the
mountain alternate with dull grey earthy limestone, containing varieties
of Productae, Spiriferae, Orthoceras, &c.

    As we ascend, the limestone beds gradually disappear, and in lieu of
them we find the shale to alternate with thick beds of argillaceous iron-
stone, and occasionally with septaria of ironstone ; the shale beds con-
tain a profusion of fossils, the most abundant of which is a variety of
Posidonia, but several species of Goniatites, and a remarkably small

species of Orthoceras also occur.
    Still continuing to ascend, the ironstone beds become thin and at

length disappear, and the upper portion, amounting to a thickness of
about 250 feet, consists altogether of fine-grained black shale, contain-
ing organic remains, but particularly Posidonia, but not so abundantly
as in the lower beds, which alternate either with the impure limestone

or the ironstone.
    This great shale, which is altogether 700 feet in thickness, is suc-

ceeded by an accumulation of beds of yellowish white sandstone, about
250 feet thick ; in the lower portion, next the shale, the sandstone beds
are thin, and alternate with sandstone, slate, and shale ; the upper con-
sists of thick beds of yellowish white quartzy sandstone, some of which
are rather coarse grained, and assume the true character of mill-stone

grit.

   This rock, which forms the summit of Cuilceagh Mountain, and is
elevated 2188 feet above the level of the sea*, occasionally contains
vegetable organic remains, particularly some varieties of Stigmaria.

    In the line of section to the west of the Valley of the Shannon, the
mill-stone grit beds are succeeded by a series of beds, consisting of
shale and sandstone, with bituminous coal, amounting altogether to 200

feet in thickness.
    In shale beds throughout contain casts of Posidonia?, Productae, Or-

thoceras, and occasionally a very minute variety of Trilobite ; and it is
remarkable that the whole of the fossil organic remains which occur in
the upper members of the series above the coal, are unusually minute
in their dimensions, so much so as to give rise to the idea that they be-
long to a dwindled species which existed possibly in brackish water,
which, being uncongenial to their nature, prevented their full develop-

ment.
    (In illustration of this paper the author exhibited his large geolo-

gical map of Ireland.)

                                                   * Ordnance Survey.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  91

   Mr. Elias Hall brought forward and explained a mineral map of

Derbyshire.

    The principal object of Mr. Hall's remarks was to prove that there
were three distinct beds of toadstone, dividing the limestone into four
beds ; and that, taking the regular continuity of the strata into consi-
deration, it was improbable that the beds of toadstone could be of vol-

canic origin.

   The direction of the lead veins Mr. Hall stated to be 25° west of
the magnetic meridian, varying, however, on the south to a direction
nearly at right angles to the former. He noticed the occurrence of

-- --lead actually in the toadstone a vein passing through it and ob-

served that Mr. Mawe, who had contradicted this fact, had visited the
wrong pit, and therefore missed seeing the phenomenon.

 On the Fishes of the Ludloiv Rocks, or Upper Beds of the Silurian
                      System. By Mr. Murchison.

    Mr. Murchison briefly explained, that the various remains of fishes
which he had collected in the uppermost beds of the Silurian System,
and immediately below their junction with the old red sandstone, having
been referred to M. Agassiz, had been formed by him into the follow-
ing genera : Onchus, Pterygotus, Plectrodus, Sclerodus, Thelodus, and
Sphagodus. Of these genera (drawings of which were exhibited), the
two first mentioned only have been found in the overlying old red
sandstone, but the species in the Silurian rocks are distinct*. These
new forms are very remarkable as being the most ancient beings of
their class which geological researches have brought to light ; Mr.
Murchison never having discovered any trace of fishes in the underly-
ing formations of the Silurian System. They are associated with
shells, crinoidea, and numerous small coprolites, all of which will be
figured in Mr. Murchison's forthcoming work " The Geology of the

Silurian Region." Dr. Lloyd, the Rev. T. T. Lewis, and Mr. R. W.

Evans, were alluded to as having greatly aided the author in collecting
these remains.

    On the Refrigeration of the Earth. By W. Hopkins, F.G.S.

   Mr, Hopkins stated that, though it might be difficult to reconcile to
the mind the idea that the earth we see and stand on was once a fluid
mass of igneous matter, and is, in fact, now a great cinder, yet that
the evidence in favour of such a theory had convinced some of the
greatest philosophers. The fact, indeed, of the original fluidity of the
earth is established by its form, since, if fluid, it must, as a body re-
volving on an axis, have deviated from a globular form, and such is

   * The Pterygotus of the Ludlow Rocks is supposed by M. Agassiz to belong to the
same genus of fishes as the remarkable form which occurs in the lower beds of the
old red sandstone of Scotland, and is there called by the workmen " Seraphim."
92 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

proved to be the case by geodetic observations and calculations ; and
that this fluidity has been at least partially preserved, may be inferred
from the phsenomena of Basaltic Dykes evidently protruded since the
deposition of the strata they traverse. The inquiry, therefore, into the
temperature of the earth, at various epochs, is closely connected with
that into the mode of its cooling. In entering on this it must be
remembered, that though natural causes are permanent, the conditions

under which they act may not be so, and hence also the effects may
vary. The processes, for instance, will be different, according as the

cooling is effected, in a fluid or in a solid body. If in a fluid, the re-
frigeration Avill be by circulation, and there will be a period at which
that circulation must stop ; but whether beginning by the surface or

centre, may admit of doubt ; for if the temperature of the surface be

the least, the pressure is there also the least ; and if the temperature
of the centre be the greatest, the pressure is there also the greatest
and hence, as the expansive force of heat, and the pressure of gravita-
tion are two opposing forces, the one resisting, and the other promo-
ting solidification, that solidification will commence at the surface or at
the centre, according as the one or the other shall preponderate ; but
at present evidence is insufficient to decide for one or the other ; whilst
the process of refrigeration was effected by circulation, the upper, or
heavier (being cooled) particles would descend, and the lower, or hotter,
ascend ; but at the instant when the process of circulation ceased,
the further cooling would be effected by conduction. According,
therefore, to the different processes assumed as having operated the
change of temperature of the earth, the earth may be viewed as,

    1st. Entirely solid, and cooling by conduction.
   2nd. As having solidified first at the centre, the pressure there over-
coming the expansive force ; and next, at the surface, the depression of
temperature there more than compensating for the low pressure, and
thus placing a fluid annulus between a solid nucleus and a solid crust

and,

   3rd. As having solidified first at the surface ; a solid crust surround-
ing a fluid centre. But as the laws by which consolidation and refrige-

ration are regulated are as yet very imperfectly understood, the ques-
tion is still one of doubt.

   Mr. Hopkins further remarked, that the increase of temperature on
descending into the earth was apparently established as a fact ; the
question was, whether that increase was due to central heat, and the
evidence is yet insufficient to solve it. M. Poisson, indeed, considers
that it is almost impossible that heat should so increase to the centre,
for at the temperature, which would be the result, the expansive force
would be so great that no crust could resist it : and he has, therefore,
advanced the hypothesis, that such temperature is not due to central
heat, but that the vvhole solar system is now passing from a hotter to a
colder portion of space, and is consequently losing the heat it had
acquired in its passage ; an hypothesis which has, however, met with
powerful opponents.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  93

 On the Phcenomena exhibited by the Plastic Clay Formation in the
     vicinity of Poole, Dorsetshire. By the Rev. W. D. Clarke.

    Mr. Clarke stated that it was his object to show that the plastic
 clay had partaken of the movements and dislocations which had rup-
tured the chalk and subjacent strata ; and further, that the denuda-
tions which the plastic clay had experienced were also dependent on the
process by which the bearings and fracture of the beds had been
affected ; or, in other words, that aqueous denudations had here been
the result of subterraneous movements, and not of any independent rush
of water, such as a diluvial current. The plastic clay series, near
Poole, consists of beds of sand and clay, the pipe clay containing much
alum, iron, and manganese ; and having, at an ancient date, been exten-
sively worked. Many of the sands rival in intensity of colour those of
Alum Bay, and some, as at the red rock of Studland, are highly inclined.
Between Purbeck and the Wiltshire Avon the whole country consists of
hills of sand and clay, interspersed with valleys and deep furrows, there
being apparently not a particle of calcareous matter. The district is
completely barren, and curiously wild ; vegetable remains are extremely
abundant, chiefly in the marls or clays, sometimes in a hard siliceous
sand, which has been cemented into a sandstone by ferruginous matter.
Some of the beds of sand have been so firmly cemented as to afford
very good building stones, and Mr. Clarke thinks that the greywea-
thers of Wiltshire, of which Stonehenge is composed, were portions
of beds belonging to the plastic clay. Mr. Clarke remarked that
specimens of sand from a depth of 148 feet (or 138 feet below the
harbour level) contained flint, quartz, slate, and wood ; and that it
was consequently a drift sand, brought, as he believed, by currents
from the West. The probable thickness of the plastic clay is 600
feet, and there can be little doubt that it originally filled up the basin

--in which it now lies, having occupied the bed of some lake or gulph,
    the sea, the boundary of the ancient beach, being apparently mar-
gined by a bed of pebbles. Since its deposition the plastic clay has
been scooped out by the action of water, so that the whole country is
cut up into a great number of hills and hollows. The harbour of
Poole occupies one of these valleys, the sea having occupied a great
depression in the line of the Purbeck range, which appears to have
been the result of two faults, the space between them having dipped

outwards. Many deep, dry furrows are met with along the edge of this
descent. The furrows on the surface are neither ascribed by Mr. Clarke

to diluvial action nor to the action of springs ; but are considered as
primarily cracks, or fissui-es, the consequence of elevatory disturbances,

or of faults. From a comparison of the phenomena exhibited by the
cracks, faults, and joints of the chalk and plastic clay beds, Mr. Clarke
comes to the conclusion, that the plastic clay was elevated with the
chalk, either at once, or by successive impulses of the subterranean

forces ; and consequently that the strata below the chalk have in the
south of England been elevated since the tertiary period.

   The gravel which caps the hills and islands consists principally of
--94 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

chert, and appears to have a western origin ; but there are also in it
fragments of tertiary pudding stone, and water-worn masses of grey
weathers belonging to the plastic clay, the result of local degradation.
This gravel has itself been subjected to erosion, the hollows having
been filled up with transported matter of similar, though altered cha-
racter. So that there is evidence here of two periods of drifts, and per-
haps three currents, which were probably connected with three impulses
of elevation. Mr. Clarke mentioned several facts relating to Poole
harbour. The land is there gaining on the sea, the town now occupy-
ing ground where fifty years ago there was deep water ; and in a well
bored a year ago, about a furlong from the sea, in one of the streets,
Mr. Clarke found at six feet below the surface, sea-weed, and a stake
and post, evidently part of an old embankment. The. Bar also, which
lies off the entrance to the harbour, has advanced between 1785 and
1829, (that is in forty-four years,) half a nautical mile, or about
forty-six yards per annum ; and as it still continues to advance, and
is now not a nautical mile from the cliffs of Old Harry, it is probable
that unless a new channel can be made the harbour may in process
of time be closed. The Dunes or Sand hills are on the increase, a
new series having grown up in five years on the south side of the
entrance, which rivals those of the north ; and it is remarkable that
the valleys in these dunes correspond with the prevailing winds ; which

points to the probability that the same cause may have operated in the

ancient strata before their consolidation. That elevations and depres-
sions have taken place within recent times on the shores of Poole Har-

bour, may be proved by the occurrence of beds of peat at the very
edge of, and in the water itself. The whole valley of the Bourne,

for three miles from the sea, contains beds of peat from ten to twenty
feet thick, with huge trees of oak, beech, hazel, &c, none of which now

grow in the valley; and a Roman Via now terminates at about half a
mile from the northern head of Hole's Bay in what is now a marsh

and extensive peat bog, although it can scarcely be supposed that this
road could have had originally such a termination, the probability
being that it led, at its formation, to a landing-place.

On some Fossil Wood and Plants recently discovered by the Author of
   this Memoir low down in the Grauwacke of Devon, being one of the
   residts of an attempt to determine the relative age and order of the
   Culmfield and its Floriferous Shales and Sandstones. By the Rev.
   D. Williams, F.G.S.

   The author stated that he produced the specimens of fossil wood
and plants in compliance with a recommendation of the committee of
of the Geological Section of the Bristol Meeting. From his examina-
tion of the strata in North Devon and the Quantock Hills, he had con-

structed the following
    TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  95

Proportionate View and Tabular Order of Superposition of the
   respective Members of the Grauwacke System of North Devon and

    Somerset.

                        Floriferous and culmiferous sandstones and shales a. An-

                                     thracite.

                         Wavellite schistus and limestones, the former cleaving into
                                  parallelograms.

§}; - Trilobite slates ; abundantly fossiliferous.

            --Wollacombe sandstones, and purple slates containing fossil

                         wood and plants.

                *^II Morthoe quartz and roofing slates, with subordinate lime-

                                   stones.

-g      §\ Hard, red, siliceous slate-rock of Trentishoe.

    UdL Linton slates and limestones.

    ,_3f ^-Arenaceous slate, andconglomerate bed of limestone pebbles.
             Foreland and Dunkerry sandstones, thick bedded, coarse
                grained, and confluent.

             Doddington and Over-Stowey limestones.
             Foreland and Dunkerry sandstones.

       « Cannington Park limestone.

   Respecting this Section, and the distribution of the remains of
plants in the several parts of it, the author enters into detail, and

presents arguments in favour of his opinion, that the culmiferous series
of Devon cannot be separated from the subjacent rocks of the Grau-
wacke series, either by mineral characters, relation of strata, or
organic reliquiae. His final conclusion, after a rapid comparison of the

--Devon series of rocks and fossils with those of other districts, is thus

expressed : " These several considerations, added to the strong colla-
teral and positive testimony of the wood and plants from the Sherwell
sandstones, throw such accumulated weight in the scale of the hypo-
thesis, that the culm and fossil flora of Devon belong at least to the
upper Grauwacke (below the old red sandstone and mountain lime-
stone), that he apprehends that geologists cannot hesitate to accept
them provisionally "as such, till far stronger facts and evidences than
they are at present possessed of shall justify admitting them as a true
contemporaneous equivalent for the carboniferous limestone proper,

and its upper great coal field."
--96 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

  On the Bituminous Coal Field of Pennsylvania. By Hardman

                                                Phillips.

    This coal field is situated on the western slope of the Alleghany
mountains. It commences in Tioga county and thence extends in a
south-westerly direction to, and even beyond, the Ohio river, embracing
a space of about 200 miles in length, and 30 in breadth. The coal is
usually found above the level of the waters, running through every
secondary hill in two, three, or four strata, according to the height of
the hill, the veins being usually 4ft. 2 in., 6ft., or 9ft. thick. There is
great variety in the quality of the coal, that found near the centre of

the field being decidedly the best. The lowest vein in that district is
of very superior quality, much resembling the Newcastle coal, but
still more friable, and contains more bitumen. Its specific gravity is
1'279. An analysis of this coal made by Walter R. Johnson, Professor
of Geology, Mineralogy and Chemistry in the Franklin Institute of
Philadelphia, afforded 22^- per cent, of volatile matter. Other veins
are harder and heavier. The coal of this field is used in Pittsburg
and Cewhe county for rolling iron, but not for smelting ores. On
that subject, Professor Johnson, in a letter which Mr. H. Phillips has
received from him since he has been in England, says,

    " The manufacturers along the Little Imiata are looking with much
interest to the completion of their railroad, so that they may receive

the coal for their various works, smelting furnaces as well as forges,

some of which (the Union works for example) are now hauling char-
 coal 10 and 12 miles, accompanied with great expense and vexation.
 They are determined to try coke as soon as it can be obtained. In
that part of Huntingdon county, where charcoal is becoming so scarce,
there is the greatest abundance I have any where encountered of rich
iron ore (the brown hydrate). In some places I saw them raising it
 in open quarries, blasting it with gunpowder, from beds varying from
 5 to 30 feet in thickness, of nearly pure ore ; and though all which I

 visited were not so rich as that to which I have just referred, yet I no
 where in this part of Huntingdon county heard any intimation of a
 lack of that material."

    The mode of digging the coal is very simple. As the lowest stra-
 tum lies above the surface of the valley, it is only necessary to open
 the vein, run level drifts into the hills and take the coal out on tempo-
 rary railways. The general dip is very slight, only about one inch in
 a yard ; but at the north-eastern extremity in Tioga county, and gene-
 rally near the summit of the Alleghany mountains, the measures sud-
 denly crop out an angle of about 30° from a horizontal line. The
 coal is accompanied by the usual deposits of fire clay and grey lime-
 stone in nodules, the former in veins of 18 inches, and the latter 6

 inches in thickness.

     In addition to the papers read, Dr. Jeffreys submitted to the Section
 a collection of bones and teeth, including those of rats, cats, sheep,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                        97

dogs, horses or cows, bears, hyaenas, rhinoceros, and also the tooth of
a tiger, found in a bed of diluvium which fills a cave of the carbon-
iferous limestone at the Cefre Rocks in Denbighshire, in the estate of

Mr. Lloyd of Cefre, about three miles from St. Asaph.
   Mr. Gilbertson placed on the table many very interesting, and pro-

bably new fossils from the mountain limestone, and Mr. Dawson a

collection of fossils from New South Wales.

                   ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY.

   Mr. Gould exhibited drawings of new Birds from Australia and
other parts of the world. He proceeded to make some remarks on the

mfamily Trogonidce. This family, he stated, ight be regarded as strictly

tropical, and by far the greater number of species inhabited South
America ; none of those inhabiting Asia and Africa having any specific
relation to those of America. It is a remarkably isolated group, no
direct affinity with other forms having been discovered. In organiza-
tion and economy they are perhaps nearest the Caprimulgidas. They
inhabit the most retired and gloomy forests, remaining secluded during
the day, and appearing at night ; evening and morning being the only
time in which they take their prey. They usually feed on insects,
capturing them during flight, but sometimes they feed on berries.
They incubate in the holes of trees, and, like the majority of Fissiros-
tral birds, produce white eggs. The tribe present among themselves
but little difference of structure. There are, however, well-marked
divisions according to their geographical range. Mr. Swainson divides
them into five minor groups, Trogon, Harpactes, Apaloderma, Tem-
nnrus, and Calurus. The species of bird that Mr. Gould presented be-
fore the Section belonged to the latter group, and he proposed to call
it Calurus Peruvianus. This sub-genus comprises the most beautiful
birds of the whole family, and perhaps in the creation ; it contains five
species, only one of which until lately had been characterized. The
present species, although it has not the lengthened upper tail-feathers
of the C. resplendens, (which was exhibited), yet its relations to that
species were sufficiently obvious. For this species he had been in-
debted to the researches of the indefatigable and scientific French tra-
veller, M. D'Orbigny, who had recently returned from Peru.

                   On Filaria. By the Rev. W. Hope.

   In this communication more than forty genera of insects were
mentioned in which these parasitic worms had been found, and tables

were exhibited containing the names of all the authenticated species,

and authorities given for all the recorded instances, as well as could

be ascertained.    h
   vol. vi. 1837.
--98 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

 On ilie Metamorphism of a Species of Crustacean, allied to Palamon.
                        By Captain Ducane, R.N.

   The remarks and observations of Captain Ducane tended to confirm
Mr. V. Thompson's discovery, published some years since, of the ex-
istence of metamorphosis in this class of animals. (Captain Ducane
was re quested by the Committee to continue and extend his observa-

tions.)

 On the Sclerotic Bones forming the Orbit of the Eye in different Birds
                        and Reptiles. By T. Allis.

    This paper, which requires illustrations by drawings, will be printed
 entire in the Transactions of the Yorkshire Philosophical Society, in

whose Museum Mr. Allis's collection is preserved.

Notice ofArgas Persicus, a species of Bug, found in Mianneh, in Per-

Bysia, and reported to be poisonous.  Dr. Traill.

 On the Production of Cataract by a Worm. By Professor Owen,
                   Communicated by the Rev. F. W. Hope.

  On Limax Variegatus in the Human Intestines. By Dr. David

                                         Williams.

   The author gave a statement of a young woman who had voided a
large slug, after having suffered great pain. The slug, which was ex-
hibited, appeared to be Limax variegatus. It was dead when voided,

but quite unaltered.
    Dr. Billingham gave a corrected description of Trichocephalus dispar,

noticed the discrepancy of opinion between English and continental
observers as to the frequency of its occurrence in the intestines of man,
and recorded the result of his own examination of twenty-eight indivi-
duals who died during the last twelve months, in St. Vincent's Hospital,

Dublin ; eleven of whom were males, and seventeen females, of various

ages, from 8 years to 70. The worms were found in the large intes-
tines of twenty-five of these subjects, in a greater or less number, from
2 or 3 to 119. The three individuals whose intestines contained no
worms were females, and had been taking certain metallic medicines,
which may be supposed to be capable of destroying intestinal worms.
Nothing felt by the individuals during life indicated the presence of
worms in the intestines.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  99

A Simple Method of destroying Insects which attach Boohs and MSS.

    By Sir Thomas Phillips, Bart. Communicated by the Rev.
                                   F. W. Hope.

  My" library being much infested with insects, particularly Anobia,

I have for some time turned my attention to the modes of destroying

them, in the course of which I observed that the larva of these beetles

does not seek the paper for food, nor the leather, but the paste. To
prevent their attacks, therefore, in future bound books, the paste used

should be mixed up with a solution of corrosive sublimate, or, indeed,
with any other poisonous ingredient. But to catch the perfect insects
themselves I adopt the following plan : Anobium striatum commonly
deposits its ova in beech wood, and is more partial, apparently, to that
than any other wood. I have beech planks cut, and smear them
over, in summer, with pure fresh paste (t. e. not containing anything
poisonous) ; I then place them in diffei'ent parts of the library, where
they are not likely to be disturbed ; the beetles flying about the room
in summer time readily discover these pieces of wood, and soon deposit
their eggs in them. In winter (chiefly) the larva is produced, and
about January, February, and March, I discover what pieces of wood
contain any larvae, by the saw-dust lying under the planks, or where it
is thrown up in hillocks on the top of them. All the wood which is
attacked is then burnt for fire-wood ; by this simple method I have

nearly extirpated Anobia from my library. I am of opinion that a

single specimen in a book of an impregnated female will soon destroy
any volume should it remain undisturbed. There are also two other

kinds of beetle in my library ; one is a small brown beetle, and is pro-

bably a Tomicus, or some closely allied species. The second species
was imported from Darmstadt, or Frankfort on the Maine. It is six

times larger than the former, of a black colour, with white spots or
stripes, and belongs to one of the modern genera of Curcidionida. It
appears to be partial to books bound in oak boards ; it is not abundant,

but very destructive."

   Mr. Sandbach exhibited specimens of a new Prionites from Mexico,
which he proposed to call P. superciliosus, from its having a broad blue
band above the eye. He also exhibited a new species of Titmouse,
supposed to be from Mexico, and which he proposed naming Parus

melanolus.

   Mr. J. E. Gray exhibited and described some rare and interesting

Mammalia, which he had noticed in the Museum of the Royal Institu-
tion of Liverpool. They consisted of a young specimen of Thylacinus

cynocephalus, old and young individuals of the Antilope Philantomba
of Smith, specimens of Phoca Leonina, 12 feet long, of Felis gracilis, and
of Felis Javensis. To these were added a specimen from Demerara

allied to the Otter, which Mr. Gray considered as forming an entirely

                                    h2
--100 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

new genus, of a very remarkable form, serving to connect the already
established genera of Lutra and Anhydra, which he called Pteronura

Sambachii.

   Mr. J. E. Gray exhibited some new land shells observed by him in
the Collection of the Royal Institution of Liverpool. One was stated
to be a new genus, intermediate between Helix and Anostoma. The
others were new species, which he proposed to designate by the names
of Achatina turrita, Carocolla Jtlomarginata (from India), and Palu-
dina Yatesii, this last being the largest and one of the most beautiful of
the genus. Mr. Gray also exhibited a specimen of Unio Roisii, Mitch.,

which had been recently discovered by Mr. Wm. Gilbertson, near

Boughton, in Craven.

   Specimens of wood, from the New Pier of Southampton, penetrated
by Limnoria terebrans, were exhibited by Mr. W. S. MacLeay, F.R.S.

The pier was constructed only four years ago, and was reported to be

already in a state of decay.

  A specimen of Goliathus giganteus, and the jaws of a large shark,

(3 feet in length), caught by Captain Nash, were exhibited by Mr. F.

Taylor.

    Some rare Coleopterous insects, from the collection of Mr. Melli,
of Liverpool, were described by the Rev. F. W. Hope and Mr. MacLeay.

ByNotice of Undescribed Shells.  James Smith, of Jordan/till,

F.R.S.

   Mr. Smith produced two new shells which he had dredged in Roth-
say Bay, and had been named Fnsus Boothi and Fusus umbilicatus.
He also produced 14 species of shells found amongst recent shells at
a higher level than the present high water, and which are not known

as existing in a recent state.

                 On Victoria Regina. By J. E. Gray.

   Mr. J. E. Gray exhibited the drawing of Victoria Regina, Schomb.,
sent by Mr. Robert Schomburgk from Demerara to the Botanical So-
ciety of London, and read his account of the discovery and the de-

scription of this interesting plant.

The same plant was also noticed in a communication by Dr. Lindley.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  101

 On he Structure and Affinities of Orobanchacece. By Dr. Lindley.

   Professor Lindley made some remarks " On the structure and affini-
ties of Orobanchacece." He stated that this order had been usually

placed near Scrophulariacece, and in his " Natural System" he had in-
 cluded it in the Scrophulal alliance. In their didynamous stamens,
superior ovary, and monopetalous flowers, they resembled Scrophulari-
acece. Schultz had placed this order near Gentianacece, on account of
their fruit and placentation resembling those of this order. Other
botanists had placed Orobanchacece near Monotropacece, on account
of their membranaceous foliage and parasitical habits. There was one
important point, in which they differed from Scrophulariacece, which
was the position of their carpels, with respect to the axis of inflores-
cence. In Orobanchacece, the carpels were right and left, or perpen-
dicular to the axis, whilst in Scrophulariacece they were fore and aft,

or parallel to the axis. This pointed out another affinity-^with Genti-
anacece, which had its carpels in the same position. With regard to

its affinity to Monotropa, there was a point which had been much over-
looked by botanists, the presence and absence, or large and small
quantities, of albumen in the seed of plants ; he had found this a very
constant character, and one of the best for indicating the affinities of
plants. Both Monotropacece and Orobanchacece were distinguished

for a minute embryo, lying in a large quantity of albumen. Monotro-
pacece was a polypetalous order, but its structure generally compelled
botanists to place it amongst monopetalous plants, near Pyrolacece and

Ericaceae. He remarked by the way, that the division of plants, ac-

cording to the presence or absence, cohesion or non-cohesion, of the
petals, was very artificial, and hoped that it would soon be abandoned.

He thought that the affinities of Orobanchacece were stronger with

Monotropacece, Pyrolacece, and Gentianacece, than with any other

orders. The Professor then made some remarks " On the Placentation

of Orobanche," which he said had made him doubt the correctness of
the present theory of the situation of the placenta. It was generally
supposed that the seat of the placenta in the carpellary leaf was its
margin, so that it would be necessarily placed alternating with the

dorsal suture of the carpel. Exceptions, however, frequently occur, as in
Parnasia, Papaver, &c. ; and the placenta is spread over the whole
surface of the carpellary leaf, or on various parts of it. In the carpels

of Orobanche there are evidently two placentae, but having no commu-

cation with the margin of the carpellary leaf. He therefore inferred,

that any part of the surface of the carpellary leaf might become oval-

ized. He was borne out in this opinion by the fact, that leaves which

occasionally produce buds, produce them from all parts of their sur-
face, as seen in Ornithogalum, &c. ; the production of buds on leaves

and ovules in carpels being analogous processes.
--102 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

   On the Internal Structure of the Palm Tribe. By G. Gardner.

                     Communicated by E. Bowman, F.L.S.

    Mr. Gardner had examined the species called Coquiero by the Bra-

zilians. He said that the fibre of woody matter descended from the

leaves at an angle of 18 degrees, towards the centre, and then out-
wards in a more oblique angle towards the bark, near which it rami-
fies and descends parallel to the bark. In this plant the chord of the
arc formed by their fibres is 1\ feet.

   The author thinks that MohTs views on the structure of the palm

tribe are correct.

On the Potoer possessed by Aged Trees to reproduce themselves from the
                         Trunk. By R. Mallet.

   The author exhibited a number of drawings of aged trees to illustrate
his paper, and mentioned that the natural inarching of trees was caused
by the decay of the central part of the trunk, and the formation of new
wood and bark was to enclose the detached part. He said that after
this had taken place, a but was formed on the inner surface, from
which a stem ascended and roots descended, so as to form a new tree

in the centre of the old one.

    On the Milk of Galactodendron Utile. By Mr. Bickersteth.

   On New and Rare Forms of British Plants and Animals. By

                                              E. Forbes.

   Two new Mollusca (one allied to Doris pinalifida, the other to
Montagua of Fleming), from the shores of the Isle of Man ; a specimen

of Asterias rubens, to show its distinctness from Asterias speciosus of
Link, and specimens of supposed new species of Polygala and Euphrasia
from the Isle of Man, were presented and explained by Mr. Forbes.

               On Vegetable Physiology. By Mr. Niven.

   The author stated that he had made a series of experiments upon
elm-trees ( Ulmus campestris) of about 42 years old, by the removal
of the bark, cambium or alburnum, and that, from the results, he was
disposed to maintain that two distinct principles exist in the bark of
plants, viz. one descending and forming roots, and the other ascending
and forming branches. This he illustrated by showing a branch of
elm ringed through the bark and cambium, and having roots descend-
ing from the upper edge of the ring, and branches ascending from the

lower one.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                     103

A Notice, with the Results, of a Botanical Expedition to Guernsey and

   Jersey, in the months of July and August, 1837. By Charles C.

   Babington, M.A., F.L.S., fyc.

    This paper gives a short account of the Flora of those islands, and
also of the island of Herm. The author finds 725 species of flowering
plants and Ferns to be natives of them, and adds to the recorded spe-
cies the following 6, viz. Hypericum linearifolium, Neottia cestivalis,
Sinapis incana, and Mercurialis ambigua, in Jersey, and Arthrolobium
ebracteatum and Atriplex rosea, in Guernsey.

An Inquiry into the Origin of the Solid Materials found in the Ashes

of Plants, their structure and office during the period of life, and the

Byeffect of their subsequent addition to the crust of the earth.  the

Rev. J. B. Reade, M.A., F.R.S.

  A recent microscopic examination of the ashes of plants having led

the author to the conclusion " that the earthy saline and metallic in-
gredients which they contain are indebted exclusively to the operation
of vegetable life, both for their origin and their arrangement ;" he shows

the contrast of this view with that adopted by many physiologists, who

rank as accidental ingredients in the substance of plants, all that cannot
be referred to hydrogen, oxygen, carbon, or azote.

    Assuming, as a basis of argument, that " the presence of organiza-
tion is direct evidence of the agency of life," and that every organized

--portion of a plant is " a proper product of the power of vegetation,"
    the author proves, by a detail of experiments, that siliceous skeletons
of plants, exhibiting most distinct and beautiful organization, remain
in their ashes after exposure to the intense heat of a blowpipe flame
that in the white ashes of common coal may be recognized cellular
tissue, spiral fibre, and annular ducts with transverse bars. The vege-
table origin of coal is not only thus proved, but by a comparison of the
ashes of coal with those of recent plants, some further insight may be
gained into the nature of the plants from which beds of coal of differ-
ent quality have been produced. The siliceous organizations which
are respectively yielded by the Blyth, Newcastle, and Barnsley coal
appear to be different.

    " Silica is not the only material which forms the frame-work of plants.
Lime and potash also occur as their skeletons ; the ashes of the calyx
and pollen of the mallow, consist of organized lime ; and the ashes of
the petals of the rose, as well as the pollen of the geranium, consist of
organized potash." The author gives the details of his experiments,
by which he endeavoured to prove the small cups which lie in the sili-
ceous vessels of gramineae, to be of metallic nature, and ventures to
conclude, generally, that " earthy saline and metallic ingredients enter

as organizable products into the structure of plants."

   As much of what is above stated in regard to plants may. with suit"

able modifications, be applied to animals, as certain infusorial animalcules
--104 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

secrete siliceous or calcareous coverings, the author finding these pro-

ducts to be capable of resisting the most intense heat, speculates on

the importance of the facts he has established in explaining the forma-

tion of the most characteristic rocks in the crust of the earth, and gives

his reasons for believing that even in granite, as -well as in flint (accord-

Aing to Ehrenberg), organization can be traced.  series of more than

thh'ty microscopical illustrations accompanied the paper.

On the Chemical Composition of Vegetable Membrane and Fibre. By

                       the Rev. J. B. Reade, 3I.A., F.R.S.

   Specimens of Erica Machaiana of Babington were exhibited by Mr.
John Ball.

                        MEDICAL SCIENCE.

On the Influence of the Respiratory Organs on the Circulation of Blood

  in the Chest. By G. Calvert Holland, M.D.

   There is little agreement, Dr. Holland observed, in the opinions of
physiologists respecting the influence of respiration on the circulatory
system. Some regard it as exceedingly limited, and the least efficient
of the causes co-operating in the return of venous blood ; others con-
tend that it is not only the principal but sole agent in the production of
this effect. The author, from experiments on himself, stated that this
influence is not great in the ordinary or unexcited conditions of the
animal system, but peculiarly marked when the function of inspiration
or expiration is unusually active or disturbed. Strong mental emo-
tions, whether exciting or depressing, greatly disturb the respiratory
functions, and, as a necessary consequence, the circulatory system.

   The author, in the continuation of his paper, examines respiration in
its two acts, of inspiration and expiration, under various conditions
and endeavours to prove that the phsenomena of syncope and palpita-
tion of the heart, referred by physiologists to the direct influence of the
brain, arise from modification of the respiratory organs.

 On the Cause of Deathfrom a Blow on the Stomach, with Remarks on

    the means best calculated to restore animation suspended by such ac-

   cident. By G. C. Holland, M.D.

    The occurrence of death from a blow on the stomach has not in mo-
dern times received any full or satisfactory consideration. The cause
 of this phsenomenon is usually referred to a shock communicated to
              TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                 105

the nervous system, by which the action of the heart is arrested. The
primary impression is considered by some to be made upon the semi-

lunar ganglion, but the evidence adduced, Dr. Holland thinks, is wholly
inconclusive. In the absence of satisfactory proof there is great reason
to institute a more rigid and cautious examination ; and for this purpose
the author first attempts to determine the sources of nervous energy to
which the heart is indebted, as well as the various degrees of depend-
ence on each. After applying these data to the various forms in which
the notion of the influence of the blow on the semilunar ganglion is

developed by different writers, the author proposes his own views on

the subject.

" In entering upon the inquiry, the first step was to determine the

important organs peculiarly liable, from their situation and functions, to

be deranged by a blow on the stomach. These were the aorta and

the vena cava ascendens, which, from their situation, and the ample

space they occupy immediately where the spine becomes prominent

after quitting the chest, solicit a careful examination. The pit of the

stomach is unquestionably the situation where these large and important

vessels are alone liable to severe functional derangement from a blow :

above this point they are securely protected by the parietes of the

Achest, and below it by the mass of the abdominal viscera.  know-

ledge of the mode in which one of these vessels is liable to be influ-

Aenced, will explain the cause of death.  blow in this situation has

necessarily a tendency, whether it strike the artery or vein, to urge the

circulating fluid towards the heart. Nature, by means of the semilu-

nar valves, has prevented the frequent occurrence of such an accident,

but the violence of the blow is quite sufficient to overcome the obstacle

or barrier to the retrograde motion of the blood. The fatal result, is

perhaps to be referred to the sudden propulsion of arterial blood into

the left ventricle, and not to the greater force with which the venous

blood may possibly be returned to its destination. Death would not

be likely to occur from the latter circumstance, as the blood would

be transmitted in its ordinary direction. The arterial blood, on the

contrary, is driven in a retrograde course with considerable violence

into the left ventricle."

   The correctness of this explanation of the cause of death is discussed
at length by the author, and compared with phenomena accompanying
a blow in the region of the carotid artery. The plan of treatment, he

observes, is obviously pointed out, viz. " to rouse the action of the heart,

and this is perhaps best accomplished by artificial inflation, which by
improving the qualities of the blood, gives it the power of stimidating

the cavities of the left side of the heart. Galvanism, or electricity also,

applied to the region of this organ, is well calculated to excite its con-

tractions, and if only fully called into play, the obstacles previously
existing would probably be removed, and the heart might gradually

but slowly resume its important functions. Friction with stimulating
embrocations along the spine and over the whole of the anterior part
of the chest must not be neglected if recovery appear doubtful. The

application of warmth to the feet, or their immersion in hot water, may
--106 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

be useful in diminishing congestion, and thereby may co-operate pow-
erfully with other remedies. Internal stimulants may be employed
with advantage on the revival of the vital powers ; and when these are
somewhat invigorated, general or local bleeding may be an invaluable

adjunct."

Experiments on the Connexion between One Nerves and Muscles. By

                      William Harris Madden, M.D.

   The author wishing to contribute to the satisfactory settlement of
the questions relating to the connexion of nerves and muscles, first pro-

poses to show, in opposition to several preceding writers, that narcotics
do not in all cases produce any appreciable effect upon the contractile
organs ; that sedatives applied to nerves exclusively are absolutely
inert ; and that muscles exhibit distinct signs of irritability long after

the nerves have lost their power of exciting them. The experiments
which are adduced in proof of these points were made upon frogs,
which were killed by injecting tincture of opium into the stomach and
intestines, by introducing essential oil of bitter almonds into the mouth,
or by destroying the brain and spinal cord. The experiments were
made upon the heart, voluntary muscles generally, and amputated legs,
whose nerves, properly dissected, were immersed in a solution of opium,
or for comparison in pure water. Galvanic stimuli were applied to the
muscles or to the nerves alone ; and, as a result of the whole investiga-

tion, the author observes, " When we see that narcotics have by no

means generally a destructive influence over irritability ; when we see
that, applied to nervous trunks alone, they produce no change upon
the muscular fibre ; when we observe that nerves cease to have any
power of exciting contractions long before the muscles themselves have
lost their irritability (as all the experiments most distinctly show)
when we remember that the number and size of the nerves distributed
to any organ bear no proportion whatever to its irritability ; that many
muscles are utterly insensible to any irritation of their nerves ; and
that a muscle whose nerve has been divided can recover its exhausted

--irritability in as short a time and as perfectly as one whose nerves have

been uninjured; we shall, I conceive, feel the want of far more ex-
tended and conclusive evidence, before we can assent to the doctrine
which believes muscular contractility to be in all cases dependent
upon nervous influence."

Of Disordered Conditiotis of the Human Body caused by the presence of
   ByUrinary Salts, although not amounting to Gravel or Stojie.
   Sir James Murray, M.D.

   The object of this paper was to show that " the same acid, alkaline,
or neutral products, which in some instances constitute sand or cal-

culi, do in others prevail to excess in the constitution, in a liquid or
diffused state; and that they thus give rise to a series of nervous and
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  107

other diseases of irritation, caused by acrimony and elementary de-
rangement set up by the presence of urinary or other untoward im-
pregnations in the blood and lymph."

   In proof of this proposition it is stated, that certain minute crystals

lately observed in various tissues of the human body, have probably
resulted from the dejiosition of urinary salts, when their elements have
been evolved in excess at some previous period, and that in some cases
these crystalline particles have irritated the nerves of sensation and mo-
tion. Crystals were found by the author in the tissues investing the
principal nerves of the testes, in a case of neuralgia ; by Professors
Harrison and Apjohn in the membranes of the alimentary canal ; and
since, by other observers, in the heart, brain, stomach, and other organs
and tissues. The author adds the case of crystals found in a thumb
afflicted by tic-douloureux. The crystals examined by Dr. Apjohn
were composed of earthy phosphates, but those found in Sir J. Murray's

dissections afford traces of uric or lethic salts. In cases of impetigines,

tinea capitis, lepra, &c, the scales were found to contain urinary salts,
and the ichor of ill-conditioned ulcers contained several saline quali-
ties of the urine. The author attributes these and other phsenomena
to the reabsorption of urine from the bladder into the circulation ; the
lymph thus becoming saturated with foreign ingredients, it will be easy
to account for the generation of crystalline scales in the tissues.

   The author considers the opinions expressed by physiologists as to
the origin of the saline ingredients found in the solids and fluids ; no-
tices the explanation which his researches appear to afford concerning
violent local pains unaccompanied by inflammation or heat; particular-
izes some of the excretions which, when in excess, cause acrimony of the
fluids, irritability of the solids, and perverted combinations of various
elementary atoms in the animal economy ; and suggests the employ-
ment of acid or alkaline remedies by the stomach or by baths, accord-

ing to the indications observed in each case. (See, for a preliminary
paper, the Dublin Medical Journal, 7th July, 1836).

   Sir James Murray exhibited apparatus for varying the atmospheric
pressure on the whole or a part of the body. (See Reports of the

Association, vol. iv. p. 96.)

                  On Cholera. By Dr. Mackintosh.

   The facts which Dr. Mackintosh stated regarding the condition of
the organs of the body under the influence of cholera, were supported
by a great number of preparations and drawings, the fruit of 300 dis-
sections in cases of cholera in the first year of its appearance in a ma-

lignant form.

On Morbid Preparations relating to Dysmenorrhea. By Dr.

                                  Mackintosh.
108 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

On Diseased Lungs from Sand respired. By Dr. John Mackintosh.

   In this communication, the injurious effects arising from the deposi-
tion of particles of stone in the lungs were illustrated by the case of a
mason employed in the Cragheith Quarry.

        On the Contagiousness of Cholera. By J. G. Simpson.

On some Crania found in the Ancient Mounds in North America. By

                         Dr. Warren, of Boston, U.S.

   From an examination of the crania found in some of the numerous

earthworks forming lines, pyramids, and platforms, which are scattered
over the country, from the lakes of Canada to the Gulf of Mexico,
Dr. Warren infers that this whole region was once occupied by a race

of men differing from the North American Indians as well as from any
known people of the old world, but apparently identical with the an-
cient Peruvians, and having much resemblance to the Hindoos.

   Ornaments and utensils have been discovered in the mounds which
bear a great resemblance to articles of the same description seen in

Hindostan. On these facts the author founds his opinion that the an-
cient Peruvian people were the remains of a great race of men dis-

possessed of their original seats by the North American Indians ; and
notices as a probable hypothesis, that America was peopled from more
than one point of Asia, the ancient Americans having passed from the
southern parts of Asia, but the existing Indian races from the north of

that continent.

A Critical Analysis of the different Methods that have been adopted for

     determining the Functions of the Brain. By Dr. Evanson.

    In this communication the author endeavoured to place before the
Section a correct general view of the progress hitherto made toward

a solution of the question, " What are the functions of the brain ?" Dis-

section of the brain, he observed, has failed to give us a knowledge of
its functions ; the removal of parts of the brain in living animals has
led to remarkable but not perfectly consistent results ; the study of the
brain in a diseased state had revealed but few and determinate relations
between its parts and affections of definite portions of the body ; nor

has the comparison of the central mass of man with that of animals,

in respect of absolute magnitude, proportion to the body, to the spinal
marrow, or the bones of the face, (Camper's facial angle,) furnished any
perfectly general law, by which the degree of intelligence manifested

by the animal may be connected with a particular property of the entire
brain. Dr. Evanson then explained the method of induction adopted
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  109

by Dr. Gall; who, viewing the brain as a complex organ, and contem-
plating it both in health and disease, proposed to discover the use or
function of each part of the brain, by comparing the relative develop-
ment of these parts in the same brain, and in the brains of different
persons, with the intellectual and moral powers and animal propensities

manifested in the individuals.

An Experimental Investigation into the Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumo-
     gastric, and Spinal Accessory Nerve. By Dr. John Reid.

   This communication, which was but a short epitome of some length-
ened observations which Dr. It. had drawn up on this subject, embraced
the principal results which he had deduced from an extensive series of
experiments, performed by himself, upon those complicated and im-
portant nerves generally included under the eighth pair.

  --Glosso-pharyngeal.- The experiments on this nerve were all per-

formed on dogs, and were twenty-seven in number. Seventeen of
these were for the purpose of ascertaining if it were to be considered a
nerve both of sensation and motion, and what are the effects of its sec-
tion upon the associated movements of deglutition and on the sense of
taste. The other ten were performed on animals immediately after
they had been deprived of sensation, with the view of satisfying him-
self more thoroughly how far it is to be considered a motor nerve.
The most remarkable effect witnessed in these experiments was an ex-
tensive convulsive movement of the muscles of the throat and lower
part of the face, on irritating this nerve in the living animal, provided
the irritation was applied to the trunk of the nerve before it had given
off its pharyngeal branches, or to one of the pharyngeal branches sepa-
rately. These movements were equally well marked when the nerve
was cut across at its exit from the cranium and its cranial end irritated,
as when the trunk of the nerve and all its branches were entire. The

--conclusions drawn from a review of the whole experiments were these
   That this is a nerve of common sensation. That mechanical or

chemical irritation of this nerve before it has given off its pharyngeal
branches, or of any of these branches individually, is followed by ex-
tensive muscular movements of the throat and lower part of the face.
That the muscular movements thus excited, depend not upon any in-
fluence extending downwards, along the branches of this nerve to the
muscles moved, but upon a reflex action transmitted through the central
organs of the nervous system. That these pharyngeal branches of the
glosso-pharyngeal nerve possess endowments connected with the pecu-

liar sensations of the mucous membrane upon which they are distri-
buted, though we cannot pretend to speak positively in what these
consist. That this cannot be the sole nerve upon which all these sen-
sations depend, since the perfect division of the trunk on both sides, if
care be taken to exclude the pharyngeal branch of the par vagum,
which lies in close contact with it, does not interfere with the perfect
performance of the function of deglutition. That mechanical or chemi-
--110 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

cal irritation of the nerve immediately after an animal has been killed,
is not followed by any muscular movements, provided that care be

taken to insulate it from the pharyngeal branch of the par vagum ; and
here, again, an important difference between the movements excited by
irritation of the glosso-pharyngeal and those of the motor nerve is ob-
served ; for, while movements produced by the irritation of a motor
nerve, such as the pharyngeal branch of the par vagum, continue for
some time after the functions of the central organs of the nervous sy-
stem have ceased, those from irritation of the glosso-pharyngeal are
arrested as soon as all decided marks of sensation disappear. That the

sense of taste is sufficiently acute after the perfect section of the nerve
on both sides, to enable the animal readily to recognize bitter sub-

stances. That it may probable participate with other nerves in the

performance of the function of the sense of taste, but it certainly is not
the special nerve of that sense. That the sense of thirst does not de-

--pend entirely upon this nerve.
   Pneumogastric or Par Vagum Nerve. From the results of thirty

experiments upon the par vagum, he is convinced that severe indica-
tions of suffering are induced by pinching, cutting, or even stretching
this nerve, in almost all those animals operated on. In several experi-
ments, in which the trunk of the par vagum was compressed by the
forceps for a few moments, it was observed that in some of these cases
powerful respiratory movements were thus produced, and were followed
by struggles, yet no tendency to cough, and no act of deglutition which

--could be fairly attributed to this cause.
   Pharyngeal Branches of Par Vagum. From seventeen experiments
performed on dogs, either when alive or immediately after being de-

prived of sensation, he concludes that these are the motor nerves of
the constructors of the pharynx, the stylo-pharyngeus, and palatine
muscles ; and that the sensitive filaments of these nerves must be com-
paratively few, if, under ordinary circumstances, they exist at all.
Section of the pharyngeal branch of the par vagum on both sides, was
followed by very considerable difficulty of deglutition, in which the
food appears to be forced through the passage bag of the pharynx by
the powerful movements of the tongue, and of the muscles which move

--the hyoid bone and larynx.
   Laryngeal Branch of the Par Vagum. On irritating the superior
laryngeal nerve by galvanism, or by pinching it with the forceps, when

the glottis was exposed to view, no movement of the muscles which di-
late or contract the aperture of the glottis is observed. Upon looking
at the interior part of the larynx, upon which the external laryngeal
 branch of this nerve is chiefly distributed, vigorous contractions of the
 cricothyroid muscle, by which the cricoid cartilage is approximated to

the thyroid, were always seen. On irritating the inferior laryngeal,

 obvious movements of the muscles which dilate and enlarge the aper-
ture of the glottis followed. In some cases these movements were very
vigorous, and it was observed that these did not produce an enlarge-
 ment of the glottis, but, on the other hand, the arytenoid cartilages
 were approximated, so as in some cases to shut completely the aperture
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  Ill

of the glottis. It was also distinctly observed, that the only outward
movements of the arytenoid cartilages were merely produced by their

return to their former position after they had been carried inwards.
   From these experiments it was concluded, that all the muscles which

move the arytenoid cartilages receive their motor filaments from the

inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerves ; and as the force of the muscles
which shut the glottis preponderates over that of those which dilate
it, so the arytenoid cartilages are carried inwards when all the fila-

ments of one or both of these nerves are irritated.
   These experiments also show us, that one only of the intrinsic mus-

cles of the larynx receives its motor filaments from the superior laryn-
geal, viz. the cricothyroid muscle, and that, consequently, the only
change which the nerve can produce on the larynx as a motor nerve,

is that of approximating the cricoid cartilage to the thyroid ; in other

Wewords, of shortening the larynx.  shall see how far this view is

supported by the subsequent experiments upon the living animal.
   The superior laryngeal nerve was cut on both sides in two dogs and

one rabbit, and these animals readily swallowed both solids and fluids,
without exciting cough or the least difficulty of breathing. The lungs

of these animals were carefully examined after death, and none of the

food taken could be detected in the air-tubes. In several animals the
superior laryngeals were first cut, and the inferior laryngeals imme-

diately afterwards ; and it was ascertained that the previous division
of the superior laryngeal did not prevent the difficult breathing, and

symptoms of suffocation, which not unfrequently follow the division of

the inferior laryngeal nerves, especially in young animals.
   To procure still more positive assurance of the effect of section of

the different laryngeal nerves upon the movements of the glottis, these
four nerves were exposed in a full-grown cat, and the larynx was then

dissected out, and brought forward, without disturbing the nerves.
After watching for a little the vigorous movements of the muscles of

the glottis, seen during the struggles, crying, and increased respiratory

movements of the animal, the inferior laryngeals were then cut across,

and instantly all the movements of the muscles of the glottis ceased,

and the arytenoid cartilages assumed the position in which they are
found after death. The superior laryngeals were then cut, without ef-

fecting the slightest enlargement, or any other change, upon the glottis.
As the arytenoid cartilages were now mechanically carried slightly in-

wards during the rushing of the air through the diminished aperture of

the glottis in inspiration, by which this aperture was still farther con-

tracted, its edges were kept apart with the forceps until an opening

was made into the trachea to prevent the immediate suffocation of the

animal.

The glottis was brought into view upon another cat, as in the pre-

ceding experiment, and the motions of the muscles of the glottis were
again watched for a short time. The superior laryngeals were then

cut, without diminishing in the least any of the movements of the ary-
tenoid cartilages. The sides of the glottis were approximated, as in

crying, so as to form but a narrow fissure ; and in struggling the aper-
--112 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

ture became completely closed, in the same manner as when the su-
perior laryngeal nerves were uninjured. It must be at once obvious,

that these experiments are completely subversive of the statement that
the inferior laryngeal supplies those muscles only which open the glottis,
while the superior laryngeal nerves furnish the motor filaments to those
muscles which shut the glottis ; they also illustrate, in a very satisfac-
tory manner, the cause of the dyspnoea in some cases where the inferior
laryngeal nerves are cut or compressed.

   Dr. Reid has also satisfied himself, that when any irritation is ap-
plied to the mucous membrane of the larynx in the natural state, that
this does not excite the contraction of these muscles by acting directly
upon them through the mucous membrane, but that this contraction
takes place by a reflex action, in the performance of which the supe-
rior laryngeal nerve is the sensitive, and the inferior laryngeal is the

motor nerve. He has also satisfied himself that the muscular contrac-

tions of the oesophagus are not called into action by the ingesta acting
directly as an excitant upon the muscular fibre through the mucous
membrane, but by a reflex action, part of the oesophageal filaments

--acting as sensitive, and others as motor nerves.
    Spinal Accessory. In seven dogs this nerve was cut on one side,
without affecting the ordinary voluntary movements of that side of the
neck. In several animals a weak dose of prussic acid was given after
the nerve had been cut on one side. In several cases this was followed
by prolonged, forcible, and regular respiratory movements, after the
animal had been deprived of all consciousness and voluntary motion.
In three of these cases distinct movements of contraction and relaxa-
tion were observed in the exposed sterno-mastoid muscles, synchronous
with the other muscles of respiration. The contractions were perhaps
weaker on the side on which the spinal accessory had been cut.

Observations on the Structure of the Sacrum in Man and some of the
          Lower Animals. By Hugh Cahlile, M.B.T.C.D.

    Mr. Carlile exhibited to the Section several anatomical prepara-
tions of the human sacrum in different states of growth, in which the
separate formation of the lateral parts, consisting both of ribs and of
transverse processes, was distinctly shown. The analogous structures
in certain of the Saurian and Chelonian reptiles were exhibited by
means of preparations and drawings ; andthe errors of descriptive ana-
tomists on these subjects were pointed out. Mr. Carlile showed that
some of the Saurian reptiles afford the best examples of distinct and
well-developed sacral ribs, although this peculiarity in their structure
has wholly escaped the observation of previous anatomists. In these
animals the sacral ribs are two in number on each side ; the anterior
being articulated to the bodies of the last dorsal and the first sacral

--vertebra?, and connected to their inter-vertebral substance the poste-

rior to the last sacral and first caudal vertebra?. In the human sub-
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  113

ject the sacral ribs are four on each side ; and they remain in a
separate and distinguishable state until the age of from three till seven

years, after which period they are all, except in rare instances, consoli-
dated, along with the bodies and transverse processes of the corre-
sponding sacral vertebrae, into a single mass. The os ilium in the

foetal state, and for some years after birth in the human subject,
is connected to only two of the sacral ribs, a fact which is consistent

with the imperfect development at this period of the lower extremities,
and with the disposition at an early age to walk on all fours ; and
which affords an additional example to those already known, of the
resemblance which prevails between the temporary forms of certain

parts of the human body, and the permanent dispositions of correspond-
ing parts in animals of the lower classes. In many of the quadru-
mana of quadrupeds and reptiles, two is the number of sacral ribs
constantly in opposition with the os ilium. In the human subject, at a
jnore advanced period of life, the os ilium at each side is connected by a

 cartilaginous intermedium to the extremities of three sacral ribs : in one
instance, in the skeleton of a negro, Mr. Carlile observed it conjoined to
four. This communication was terminated by some observations on the
skeleton in some of the Chelonian reptiles. Mr. Carlile considers
 that in the Testudo Grceca there are two sacral bones, one for the
 anterior, and one for the posterior extremities ; while in the Testudo

 Mydas, whose anterior extremities are moved with much freedom, and
 through considerable extent of space, the anterior sacrum is wanting,
and the scapula is connected to the rest of the skeleton, much in the

 same manner as in birds and some quadrupeds.

   Mr. Carlile exhibited two examples of remarkable malformations of
the cerebellum in the human subject. In one the size of the cerebel-
lum was not more than one sixth of the usual magnitude, and pos-
sessed internally an extremely deficient structure. The person, a
female, was idiotic ; the genital organs were very fully developed ; and

there was evidence that sexual intercourse had taken place.

   The second example was one in a male adult in whom more than

the half of the cerebellum was wanting, the left hemisphere and the
vermiform processes being deficient by a congenital malformation.

The person was deaf and dumb, but possessed moderate intellectual
capacities. His muscular system Avas well developed, and he enjoyed
the complete use of his limbs and other muscular organs. The organs

of generation were also well formed.

vol. vi. 1837.
114 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

Practical Observations on the Causes and Treatment of the Curvature
   of the Spine, tvith an Etching and Description of an Apparatus for

  the Use of Persons afflicted by the Disease. By S. Hare, Surgeon,

    Leeds.

   Confining his remarks on the origin of curvature of the spine to
one of three causes which he assigns, viz. impropriety of dress, want
of free exercise, as being chiefly instrumental in producing lateral cur-
vature, which is of most general occurrence ; the author demonstrated
the manner in which the right shoulder is elevated, and the left
shoulder depressed in females of the higher and middle classes, by the
injurious tightening of the stays.

    For correcting curvature of the spine the author employs an
inclined board, 6 feet 6 inches long, furnished with pullies at each
end, over which weighted cords pass, so as to pull in opposite direc-
tions, a head strap, and two shoulder straps, two ankle straps, and an
(occasional) iliac strap. There is an apparatus for compression on
the sternum appended to the inclined plane. The author particularly
notices that the weights used must on no account be such as to incon-
venience the patient, unless the medical adviser have some particular
reason for so increasing them.

On the Order of Succession of the 3Iotions of the Heart.
     By O'Bryan Bellingham, M.D. of Dublin.

If we lay bare the pericardium in a frog (there being no necessity

to open it) without causing the loss of much blood, the following se-
ries of motions will be observed. The contraction of the auricles

then the dilatation of the ventricle ; and if we place our finger on it at

the instant we feel the impulse ; immediately and quickly following the

dilatation  comes  the  contraction  of the  ventricle,  without  any  impulse
                                                                                                          ;

then follows the interval of repose during which the auricular contrac-

tion again commences.

The time occupied by the diastole of the ventricle is longer than that

of its systole, and the interval of repose is about equal to the systole,

The apex of the heart did not strike the finger either during the dia-

stole or systole of the ventricle, but the anterior surface of the ventri-

cle during its diastole communicated an impulse to the finger. In

some instances, indeed, when the pericardium was partially opened,

and the animal struggled much, the apex of the heart was carried for-

ward daring the second motion, or its systole ; but when the animal

remained quiet, nothing of the kind occurred, the ventricle in its sy-

stole contracting from the angles (Avbich its base makes with the au-

ricles) toward its centre, and becoming smaller.

The author compares these results with the motions of the heart of

man, as given by Dr. Hope, from which they differ, both as regards

the order of succession and the duration of the motions.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  115

 A Descriptive and Statistical Report of the Epidemic Influenza, as it

     occurred at Bolton-le-Moors, in the Months of January, February,

    and March, 1837. By Dr. Black.

     In this Report the author gives, first, a resume of the general
 symptoms, with a notice of those more peculiar pathognomical charac-
 ters which distinguished some of the more intense cases ; and secondly,
 and principally, directs attention to that view of the epidemic which
 relates to meteorology, medico-vital statistics, and mortality.

    The following extract is from the second portion of this elaborate

 paper :

    To the medical philosopher the extent and intensity with which this
 late epidemic bore upon the population of the country, along with the
 ratio of mortality which marked its progress, as well as the meteorologic
 state of the weather which preceded and accompanied its march
 over the kingdom, are subjects of great and historical interest, espe-
 cially when they are compared with the nature and progress of
 former epidemics of a similar character. For the purpose of
 elucidating these important and relative matters, as far as the disease
 appeared and prevailed at Bolton, I have obtained a correct register
of the weather in its principal meteorologic conditions, for the months
of January, February, and March, during which period the epidemic
appeared, prevailed, and finally decayed in that town and its vicinity.
To this register, for which I am indebted to Mr. H. Watson, an intel-
ligent chemist of Bolton, I have added a column exhibiting a nosometric
scale of the epidemic's rise, maximum intensity, and decay in the
place. This column has been constructed from the several lists of
fresh cases of the influenza that were daily entered and kept by three
of the principal practitioners of the town and myself; which separate
entries for each day, being added together, gave a ratio corresponding
to 100 as the maximum intensity on the 3rd of February. To this
table I have also subjoined a register of 420 burials at the parish
church, Bolton, at which place about nine-tenths of all dying in the
borough are interred. I have therein, moreover, stated the several
ages, in quinquennial periods, at which the individuals died after the
fifth year, with the several amounts and ratios during the late epidemic
season, as well as the averages during the same months of the five

previous years. (Vide the Tables.)

   From the Meteorological Register it is seen that, during the first
two weeks of January, the temperature was very irregular, varying in
the mean of morning, noon, and night, from 47° 3 to 27° 3, while the
barometer was gradually falling from 30*27 to 29' 17, and snow, hail,
rain, and fine weather in turns prevailed. The epidemic during this
period had scarcely made its appearance, and except it had more
manifestly done so, the few cases of suffocative catarrh and atonic
bronchitis that occurred would have been attributed to an endemic or
sporadic origin. With the 14th day of the month commenced a week
of fair weather, with a steadier and milder temperature ; but after a

very sudden rise, there took place a declining state of the mercurial
                                                      I2
--116 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

column, which reached its lowest depression of 28-88 on the evening
of the 21 st, while the dew point nearly approximated the mean tem-
perature. Contemporarily with this lowest state of the atmospheric
pressure on the 21st commenced the full and rapid invasion of the

--epidemic, similar to some mighty morbific wave that was sweeping

over the country sudden in its attack, but more lingering in its de-
parture. As the disease increased the temperature fell, for seven
days, with continued rain or snow till the end of the month, but the
barometer on the whole gradually rose until it attained 30*10 on the

morning of the 4th of February. On the day previous to this the
disease had reached its maximum intensity, having, in the course of a

fortnight, laid the whole population, with very trifling exceptions, under
its morbiferous influence, which extended from the merest malaise, or
slight catarrh, to the most deadly impression on the functions and
organs of life. After this culminating point of the epidemic, it gradually

lessened in the number of its cases, though not in the severity of many
individual instances. About the 9th of February a slight resumption of
intensity appears on the scale, and this was occasioned by the disease
becoming a little more rife in the country after it began to subside in
the town ; but the whole cases of fresh attack were reduced to a very
small comparative number on the 21st, when the epidemic may be said

to have passed over the place, after having left, and yet then leav-

ing, many a fatal footstep behind. Cases assuming not all the well-
marked traits of the early epidemic, but the more varied, obscure, and

modified characters of rheumatism, neuralgia, febricula with head-
ache, and bowel attacks with lumbar pains, continued to appear during
the remainder of the month and the first part of March, but all these

cases may be fairly charged to that constitutional taint or diathesis
which the epidemic had produced. In addition to what the register

denotes of the weather during the three months mentioned as being
inclement, cold, and unsettled, with several falls of snow ; it may be
noticed, the invasion of the epidemic was preceded and attended by
easterly and southerly winds, while the atmosphere was much loaded

with moisture. This high point of saturation may be frequently

observed to have taken place during the prevalence of the epidemic,

for the clew point will be seen for several days to be as high, if not
higher, than the mean temperature for the day. This anomaly in part
arises from the dew point being only taken once in the day at noon,
while the temperature was not only taken at that hour, which at
all times would be higher than the dew point, but this higher tempera-
ture would be brought down in the scale by the lower averages
of morning and night.

   From Dr. Heberden's Analysis of the Bills of Mortality in London,

as published in the Medical Gazette, 8th April, 1837, it appears that
the epidemic commenced about the 10th of January, had attained its
height of mortality on the 24th, and ceased after six to seven weeks
from its appearance. Dr. Clendinning, in his Report of the Maryle-
bone Infirmary, makes the epidemic to appear on the 1st of January,

to be at its maximum prevalence about the 20th, and to have ceased
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  117

. in five or six weeks. The apparent difference of these two reports
 from the same place arises from the one recording the deaths in con-

--sequence of the disease, and the other stating the number of ad-

 missions into the infirmary thus showing that the date of the greatest
 number of deaths will consequently follow, at a more or less distance
 of time, the date of the highest prevalence of the disease as to general

 seizure.

     In adverting to the more interesting register of the burials during
 the prevalence of the epidemic, it is seen how much the mortality of
 the place was increased, in comparison with the average mortality
 during the same months of the five previous years. The increase on
 the whole three months is equal to 45 per cent. ; and for the month of
 February alone it amounted to 160 per cent. Of the 420 deaths, 205
 were males and 215 females, while the sexual proportion of our annual
 deaths is as 109 males to 100 females. Nearly the half, 208, of the
 whole 420 deaths were under twenty years of age, while the half of the
 annual deaths during the five previous years were under three years
 and ten months. The augmentation of this mortality must entirely be
 attributed to the influenza, and I even think a good deal more is owing
 to the epidemic, as very few serious diseases took place and were fatal
 but what the prevailing epidemic was connected with ; and it was often

 the sole destroyer of patients lingering under chronic ailments or diseases,
 necessarily, yet otherwise not so speedily fatal. The mortality during
 this period bore more upon the aged and infirm than upon the young

 and infants, who generally form the great amount of our deaths, and
 decide, according to the rise and fall of their mortality, the annually
 ranging rate of our total deaths to the population. Under one year
 21 "9 per cent, of the whole 420 died during the epidemic, while
 the average this age for the same months of the five previous years
 was 26'6 per cent. The same diminished proportion is observed

 during the second year of life. These ratios in favour of early
 life, during the prevalence of the epidemic, continue until we reach

 the thirtieth year, after which, it is seen, that the ratio for adult life
 augments very much, contrary to what is observed in the average
 course of our mortality. For instance, between the years 45-49, the
 ratio of deaths to the whole during the epidemic was 6 -2 per cent.,
 while, at the corresponding ages in the five previous years, it was only
 2*7 per cent. Nearly the same disparity obtains at the quinquennial
 period of sixty-five to sixty-nine ; and through all the advanced years
 of life, mortality is seen to have borne with double and treble force,
 compared with the ordinary rate at those periods during the former

 years.

    The few reports which I have seen from other parts of the united
 kingdom coincide in this high rate of mortality affecting the advanced
 years of life during the prevalence of the epidemic, and the comparative
 immunity which those of younger years enjoyed, at least, from its fatal
 consequences. From a Report, by Dr. Clendinning, on the admissions
 at the Marylebone Infirmary during the six weeks that the epidemic
 prevailed, it appears, that though the admissions were seventy from
--118 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

birth upwards to ten years of age, and which included twenty-one cases
of influenza, the deaths were only 57 per cent. ; between ten and twenty
the admissions were seventy-three, including thirty-five cases of influ-
enza, and the deaths were only about 7 per cent. ; between the ages of
twenty and thirty the deaths to the whole admissions were 1 3 per cent.
between thirty and forty the proportion was 25 per cent. ; between
forty and fifty it was 31*5 per cent. ; between fifty and sixty it was 36
per cent. ; and between sixty and seventy the ratio was still 31 per cent.
the whole admissions being in the above period 465, more than half of
which were influenza cases ; and the deaths were 98, or 22 per cent.

    From a report made by Dr. Graves, in a late number of the Medical
Gazette, of the numbers interred at Prospect Cemetery, Glasnevin,
during the months of December, 1835, and January, February and
 March, 1836, compared with the same months in 1836 and 1837, it
appears that the burials were augmented from 1501 to 2248, or 33*2

per cent, of an increase during the influenza.

    From the limited observations and register which I have had the in-
 dulgence of laying before the Section, it is seen what an extensive and
 destructive pestilence has swept over the kingdom, which has about
 doubled the ordinary rate of mortality, where it in any characteristic
 force prevailed, and thus anticipated for some months the forthcoming

 victims of death, while it threw a subsequent pause over the regular
 march of disease and mortality. This retardation has been very
 generally observed in the low rate of disease and mortality whicli
 occurred during the four months succeeding the epidemic.

    If a collection of reports, contemporaneous and similar to the one I
 have submitted, could have been obtained from the several districts and
 towns throughout the kingdom, the date of the rise, progress, and cul-
 mination of the epidemic might have been traced and ascertained in its
 march throughout the country, and most probably some meteorological
 conditions would have been found so general and constant as might
 have led to some fair deductions of the co-eflicients of its appearance
 and intensity, or of its utter irrespectiveness to all such physical con-
 ditions ; but in default of such strict elementary documents, we are
 left to speculate about many causes in the earth and atmosphere, as
 productive of the epidemic, according as a theoretical ingenuity from

 limited observation may indulge in, but which may be far from the

 legitimate and satisfactory deductions of medical philosophy.
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  119

A Meteorological Register for January, February, and March,

   1837, with a Nosometrical View of the Epidemic Influenza during
   the same months, as observed at Bolton-le-Moors.

1837.
Jan.
--120 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

                                                 FEBRUARY.

           Mean of                               Evapo-   Fall of                                 Nosometri-
                                                 ration.   Rain.                                    cal Scale
      Morning, Noon,                                                                                   of the
                                                                                                   Epidemic
          and Night.                                                                               Influenza.
                                 Dew-
                                         point.                                                   Maxm. In-

      Therm. Barom.                                                                               tensity=100.

l 41-3 29-79 40                                                    Rain at night                  95-

2 43-3 29-99 41                                                    Fair all day                   9S-

3 41-3 30-03 40                                                    Rain all day                   100-

4 41- 3007 40                                                      Fair all day                   90-

5 377 30-01 36                                                     Rainy a.m. and p.M             82-

6 41- 29-98 37                                                     Fair all day                   71-

7 41- 29-88 39                                                     Fair all day                   60-

8 43- 29-80 41                                                     Rain a.m. and p.m              72-

9 47- 29-83 44                                                     Some rain at night             91-

10 49- 29-34 50                                                    Rain all day, stormy p.m.      69-

11 43-3 28-72 50                                                   Rain and very stormy all day   62-

12 39-3 2902 37 in 14 in 14 Rain morning and night ... 60-

13 44- 28-82 44 days, days, Rain a.m                                                              55-

14 41- 29-21 40 0-27 in. 2-15 in Fair all day                                                     50-

15 43-3 29-62 41                                                   Rainy p.m                      44-

16 52- 29-65 50                                                    Fair all day, stormy at night  37-

17 44-3 29-90 44                                                   Fair all day                   36-

18 41-3 29-44 44                                                   J Rain p.m., rain and hail at  30-
                                                                   \ night

19 38-3 28-95 38                                                   J Rain and a little snow all   23-
                                                                   \ day, boisterous p.m.

20 42- 2919 42                                                     Rain at night                  21-

21 41-3 29-19 41                                                   Rain at night and p.m. .       14-

22 41- 29-51 39                                                    Rain a.m., rain and snow p.m.  91

23 39- 29-02 43                                                    f Rain, hail and snow ; very

                                                                   \ stormy p.m. and night.

24 39- 29-64 40                                                    Fair all day, but boisterous   7-

25 35-3 29-95 35                                                   Fair all day                   6-

26    33-7 29-SO 30                              Ain 14 in 14      little snow p.m                7-

27 39-3 29-74 40 days, days, Rain at night                                                                  4-6

A28 38- 29-95 40 0-54 in. 2-25 in little rain p.m                                                ,

                                                                                                              4-

Max.  56-   30-10             Total. Total.
Min.  30-   28-60           0-81 in, 4-40 in.
Mean  41-4  29-57
                   40-9
        TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  121

                       MARCH.

March.
122 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

Register of 420 Burials at the Parish Church, Bolton, in January,
   February, and March, 1837, with the average amount of Burials
   during the same months of the five previous years, and the ratio
   per cent, buried at the several ages, to the total deaths in the two

    periods.

           Age.
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                   123

Some Remarks on the Motion of the Blood in the Head, and on the

ByUses of the Ventricles and Convolutions of the Brain.  Dr.

Carson.

    This paper relates to three points ; 1st, the circulation of the blood
through the head ; 2nd, to the evolution and regulation of the heat of

the head. On the first point little was added to what had been already

published by the author. The 2nd head also only contains an exten-
sion of that power of generating and reducing heat, possessed by every
part of the body to the encephalon.

   This subject, the third point, on which the originality of the commu-
nication chiefly consisted, explained the contrivances which nature had
used to retain all parts of the brain itself, and of its connection within
the head in their natural position, both with respect to the parts of one
hemisphere of the brain in relation to each other, and to the cranium.
As it was contended to be fully proved that the substance of the brain
is liable to decrease and enlargement, like every muscular or soft part
of the body, in cases of great emaciation or obesity ; and as the brain
must always occupy the same space, that is, it must always fill the
cranium ; it was necessary, in these changes of dimensions, to have con-
trivances for allowing the brain to occupy this space without laceration
or undue stretching of the substances and appendages of the brain to
their appropriate parts of the skull. These contrivances consisted of

--two kinds the ventricles placed in the interior of the brain, and the con-

volutions on its exterior superficies. The internal ventricles or cham-
bers were receptacles irregularly formed, all connected with each other
and with the spinal canal. By these receptacles containing more or

less of water, according to the extent of actual brain, the existing quan-
tity of brain was allowed to assume the condition that was fitted to re-
tain its relations. In this office the ventricles were greatly aided by

the convolutions of the brain. Had the surface of the brain been

smooth and continuous, the superficial parts of the brain would in a
 case, let it be supposed, of great emaciation, be unduly stretched.
 This stretching would be unequal, being required to be greater
the farther any part of the surface of the brain was distant from the
 middle. In consequence of this, parts of the brain of a person in full
 health, and of the same person in a state of emaciation, would be op-
 posed to different parts of the skull. Protuberances of the brain in
 one case received into depressions of the skull, would, in the other, be
 opposed to protuberances of the skull, and the nerves and blood-ves-
 sels would, in the different cases, have a changed direction, and one
 altogether incompatible with their functions. To prevent these effects,
 nature has nicked the external surface of the brain. The convolutions
 formed by this nicking, in cases of emaciation, have wider interstices
 between them, and become themselves narrower as the furrows are
 enlarged, while the ridges are smaller. These enlargements of the

 furrows cooperate with the ventricles, in cases of greater emaciation,

 in securing to the changed amount of brain its natural position. The
 size of the furrows is formed or filled by an increased vascularity and
--124 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*

cellularity in the vessels of the pia mater and arachnoid coat. Protu-
berances of the brain received into depressions of the skull and the
nerves and blood-vessels find their road to their place of exit out of
the skull unchanged.

    This appears to be one of the most important and indispensable uses
of the ventricles and convolutions of the brain.

Abstract of Cases of Laceration of the Rectus Abdominis Muscle, fyc.

  By Sir David J. H. Dickson, M.D., F.R.S.E., F.L.S., Physician

   of the Royal Hospital, Plymouth.

William Cooper, set. 37, Royal Marine, was admitted into Plymouth

Hospital as a case of pneumonia, or of aggravated influenza, then pre-

valent, on the 14th January, and after being considered convalescent,

was attacked with excessive diarrhoea, and died on the 26th January,

1837. There was no external indication, nor had any suspicion been

previously entertained, of his having sustained any injury: but on open-

ing the abdomen, the unusual thickness of its walls attracted atten-

tion ; and on raising the fascial and tendinous coverings, the left rectus
abdominis was found to be torn across, midway between the pelvis and

umbilicus, leaving a cavity between the retracted ends of the softened

muscle, containing about four ounces of a bloody serous fluid. The

superficial cellular tissue was infilated with a gelatinous-looking mat-

Ater, and the peritoneum beneath had an ecchymosed appearance.

corresponding portion of the right rectus abdominis was also so much

softened, as almost to resemble clotted blood. Neither the thoracic

Anor abdominal viscera exhibited any traces of disease.  man, who

had been a shipmate with the patient, stated he had heard of his ha-

ving met with some accident, though he did not remember of what

nature : but neither at the barracks, nor from the surgeon of the ship

to which he had belonged in the Mediterranean, who was written to on

the subject, could any information be obtained. The latter merely

stated, that the man in question had not been in the sick-list for any

accident during the time he had been in the vessel-

In another case, the existence of abdominal injury was equally un-

suspected. John Brown, seaman, aet. 27, was admitted in a moribund

state, from pulmonary apoplexy, and died within twenty-four hours af-

terwards. Besides pleural adhesions, the lungs, on dissection, were

found much diseased ; the left lung especially was tuberculated and

hepatised, with some calcareous deposits ; while the lower lobe con-

tained a very large coagulum of effused blood, from which the fibrine

had separated. On opening the abdomen, the knife sunk into a cavity

on the left side, containing extravasated blood ; and the greater part of

the rectus abdominis muscle was discovered to be lacerated, and which

was supposed to have been caused by over-exertion in furling sails

but from the absence of the vessel, no further particulars of the case

could be obtained.

The writer likewise adverts to other instances, including two or three
          TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                                    125

subjects who had been hanged, in whom several of the extensor mus-

cles had been torn across, leaving an interspace containing extravasated

blood ; especially one stout, muscular man, in whom the right triceps,

extensor cubiti, and both vasti interni, were completely ruptured;
while, in tetanus, cholera, &c, the muscular fibres have been found

completely or partially lacerated. And from these and various other
instances on record, he is led to infer that such injuries are of more

frequent occurrence than is generally imagined.
   Sir David Dickson also notices a case of transposition of the caecum,

which was found in the left instead of the right inguinal region ; the
colon ascending and descending on the same side ; and a more recent
dissection, where, instead of the ninth nerve on the right side giving
off a descending branch, the eighth nerve supplied a compensating
branch, having a similar termination and communications as the de-
scendens noni on the left side, the origin and distribution of which
were normal.

   The paper concludes with the history and post mortem appearances
of three unusually interesting cases of dropsy. In one of them, a com-
bination of ascites and hydrothorax, the patient was saved from im-
pending dissolution, and his life prolonged twenty-five days, by the abs-
traction of thirteen pints of fluid from the left cavity of the pleura.
In another, the patient lived upwards of six months, during which the
operation of paracentesis abdominis was performed fourteen times.

   P.S. The officer who recovered after having been twelve times
tapped in 1833, (as noticed in the Medical and Chirurgical Journal

for January, 1834,) continues in perfect health.

Abstract of a Paper read before the Medical Section of the British As-
   sociation at Liverpool, on the Physical and Chemical Characters of
    Expectoration in different Diseases of the Lungs, ivith some Prelimi-

   nary Remarks on the Albuminous Princinles existing in the Blood.

  By R. H. Brett, F.L.S., M.R.C. S., fyc.

The object of the present paper is an attempt to show that the phy-

sical and more especially the chemical characters of expectorated mat-

ter in different pectoral diseases may assist in diagnosis. The prelimi-

nary remarks are on albuminous principles existing in the blood. The

serum of blood is looked upon as containing in aqueous solution two if

not three modifications of albumen. The globular part, on the other

hand, is regarded as made up of solid albumen or fibrine and colour-

ing matter. The albumen in the serum appears to be, 1st, in an un-

combined  state ;  2ndly,  in  combination  with  an  alkaline  base                       and
                                                                                        ;

3rdly, in a state capable of undergoing spontaneous coagulation. The

results obtained from a physical examination of sputa in different dis-

eases of the lungs leads to the conclusion, that although, at certain

stages in different pulmonary affections, the physical character of the

sputa varies, still that in consequence of the complication produced by
--126 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

the occasional passage of one form of lung affection into another on
the coexistence of disease in different and distinct parts of the pulmonary
structure, the expectoration met with in one form of uncomplicated

lung disease, may be found in any other mixed with that peculiar to
the part of the pulmonary tissue principally and originally diseased.
The appearance of globular bodies in sputa, under the microscope,

cannot be regarded as decidedly characteristic of any one form of ex-
pectoration, belonging to all and even to healthy saliva, but differing in
regard to the extent of globularity in certain affections. From the che-
mical examination of sputa, it is deduced that they differ from each other,
in the proportion of soluble albumen capable of coagulation by heat
which they contain, as also in the amount of fixed or non-volatile saline
matters. That form of expectoration met with in pituitous catarrh does
not contain any free albumen capable of coagulation by heat, and, for
equal weight, less saline matter than any other form of sputum ; the
solid matter also amounts to a very little more than that met with in
ordinary saliva, and sometimes even less, and although, for equal
weight it contains less solid and saline matter than any other form of
sputum, yet for equal weight of dried extract, it contains more than
other forms of expectorated matter. The sputa in chronic bron-
chitis differ from the last noticed principally in containing a small
quantity of free albumen, which heat coagulates, in the larger quan-
tity of solid matter contained in it, being double that found in the
sputum of pituitous catarrh, in the quantity of saline matter being less
in proportion to the solid contents, although, for equal weights of the
two forms of expectoration, the difference is not considerable. In
acute bronchitis the albuminous matter found in the expectoration pro-
bably arises from the presence of a muco-purulent secretion poured out
by the inflamed bronchial membrane. Sputum, precisely like the
chronic bronchitic variety, occurs also in the different but more espe-
cially in the early or middle stages of phthisis, with or without an ad-
mixture of softened tuberculous matter; in no disease, however, is
free albumen, capable of coagulation by heat, met with in such abun-
dance as in the latter stages of phthisis : the absence of such consider-
able albuminous impregnation cannot however be taken as clear evi-

dence of the non-existence of phthisical disease, for the latter may exist
and the expectoration still be of precisely the same character as that
met with in chronic or even acute bronchitis ; when on the other hand a
large quantity of coagulable albumen is present, the existence of phthisis
may be strongly suspected, a small quantity of the albuminous prin-
ciple only being common to phthisis as well as simple bronchial affec-
tions unassociated with tuberculous disease. Genuine pneumonic ex-

pectoration always contains coagulable albumen, which appears to be
derived from the blood to which this form of sputum owes its peculiar
colour. The quantity of solid matter is considerably greater than
in any of the preceding forms of expectoration, amounting to more
than double that met with in the chronic bronchitic variety. The ex-
tremely tenacious character of genuine pneumonic sputum is probably
depending upon the existence of a very tough form of mucus resulting
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                                                                                           127

from a very active inflammatory condition of the smaller bronchial

tubes. In phthisis the expectoration varies much according to the stage
of the disease, and it is only, for the most part, in the latter stages, that
it is generally found to differ in a marked manner both as to its phy-

sical appearance and chemical habitudes from all other forms of sputa.

In the earlier stages of the disease it may be precisely the same as that
met with in pituitous catarrh, or other decided bronchitic affections
in the latter stages, however, it will almost always be found at some

time or other, to contain large quantities of coagulable albumen, as
well as the same principle in the solid form ; so that in some instances
it scarcely differs in appearance from ordinary pus, of which in fact it

mainly consists. The origin of the puriform matter in phthisis is probably
from different sources ; 1st, from the perfect softening down or fluidi-
fication of tubercular deposit ; 2ndly, a secretion from the bronchial
membrane ; and 3rdly, from the secreting lining membrane of tuber-
cular cavities. One thousand grains of phthisical expectoration of a
well-marked purulent character, being so diffluent that it might be

poured guttatim from one vessel to another, possessing a distinct

greenish tinge, were analyzed with the following results :

Water                                                                                                                                                                          967*300
                                                                                                                                                                                 17*387
Albuminous matter with a little mucus                                                                                                                                             c-)7"
                                                                                                                                                                                  5*840
Animal matter soluble in alcohol, consisting of fatty "I
                                                                                                                                                                                   i.eio
matter, and a little extractive                    /
                                                                                                                                                                                   1-483
Animal extract soluble in water

Salines, consisting of alkaline chlorides, sulphates,

                                                                                                                                                                           "j

   and phosphates, earthy phosphatic salts, and oxide 1

   of iron. The base of the alkaline salts was chiefly f

   soda, a little potass was nevertheless present  J
Loss

                                                                                                                                                                               1000*000

    The above exhibits a striking similarity between the puriform
variety of phthisical expectoration and actual pus. In both is an
abundance of coagulable albumen, in both solid albumen, in both are
extractive matters, both contain fatty matter, the same or nearly
the same alkaline and earthy salts ; and lastly, in both fluids a no-

table quantity of oxide of iron is found. Phthisical sputa, late in the
disease especially, contain a considerable quantity of fatty matter so-
luble in alcohol and aether, and requiring a higher temperature for its
fusion than ordinary fatty matters ; other forms of expectoration, par-
ticularly that of the chronic bronchitic kind, contain the same sub-
stance, but never in such quantity as in genuine phthisical sputa.

   That crude tubercular deposit is capable of being converted by the
process of softening or fluidification into pus, is rendered highly pro-
bable from the chemical nature of hard tubercles as well as that of the
same deposit in the most complete state of softening. From a compa-
128 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

rative chemical examination of crude tubercle and ordinary fibrine, as
well as from the action of re-agents on softened tubercular matter, the

--following is deduced: 1st, that crude tubercles, as met with in inci-

pient phthisis, do not differ chemically from fibrine or solid albumen ;
2dly, that softened tuberculous matter differs not in its chemical ha-
bitudes from ordinary purulent matter.

Observations on the Disease called Cocob^e by the Africans, or the

Arabian  Leprosy                                            the Arapatta  of the  Caribes of Guiana ;  the
                                                         ;

Radesyge of Northern Europe ; all of which appear to be identical

and on the Method found most effectual in the Treatment of this Dis-

ease. By John Hancock, M.D.

   The author having long since paid much attention to the leprosy
observed in Guiana and the West India islands, among blacks, whites,

and aborigines, was surprised to find, by the description given in the
Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xviii., that the radesyge

of Scandinavia exhibited exactly the same train of symptoms. He

therefore arrived at the conclusion, that these diseases, supposed by the
learned writer in the Edinburgh Journal to be distinct, were really
identical ; and after detailing the characters of the cocoba;, or Ara-
bian leprosy, he states the result of his own observation to be totally
opposed to the notion of the cocoba? being in the smallest degree con-
tagious, unless, possibly, under predisposition, and other concurring

causes, aud in the ulcerative stage.

    Unfortunately, in the colonies the disease is considered to be incu-

rable. If attended to early, however, the symptoms may be easily ar-
rested by the use of saline lenitives, with antimonial anodyne diapho-
retics, vapour -baths and frictions, bleeding, spare and abstemious diet,
and the several means for promoting lymphatic absorption, and all the
secretions. The difficulty of the medical treatment in more advanced
stages of the disease, is augmented by the aversion entertained for it,
and the consecment want of accommodation and assistance.

   The author describes the result of his pi'actice in some cases where
cures were effected ; notices the value of opium, in combination with
mercury and antimony, bleeding, saline purgatives, and regulated diet.
Among other remedies, he found the Coonu-paru useful ; and describes
bathing as of great and paramount advantage, especially the alternate
use of warm vapour and cold effusion.

   " The aborigines of Guiana, on noticing the first appearance of the
disorder, in general resort to fomentations, tepid and vapour baths;
and form a drink of the bark of a tree (Mouca), together with the root
of a vine termed Paramaroora, a species of Cissus, and the bark of the
Waiacano ( Guiacum). This infusion stands to ferment with a portion
of honey, and is taken several times a-day: it produces a copious flow
of urine and perspiration, and evacuates the bowels withal. They
make use also of the bark of the tree Tamootu (a nondescript), both
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  129

internally and in fomentations. During this course, they enjoin a
strictly abstemious diet, and prohibit the use of animal food in a great
measure, especially the use of the manati, the capebaru, the arapaima,
and several kinds of fish, which are considered as gross food."

             Section G.--MECHANICAL SCIENCE.

A Railway Balance Lock, designed for the purpose of Raising or

  Lowering a Train of Carriages by Horizontal Motion. By George

   Remington, Jun.

   Mr. Remington proposes that the trains should be run on to a stage
of wood or iron, and that the stage should be raised or lowered by
wheels and axles upon tram-plates or rails, laid in a series of inclined
planes made in the walls on either side of the stage ; the weight of the
stage and train is to be partially counterbalanced by a system of
weights, and the requisite power is to be supplied by a stationary

engine.

   The construction and method of working was explained by reference
to a plan and section ; and the author thinks that the introduction of
this system, both as regards cheapness and despatch, will tend in a great
measure to promote the science of railways, which has been so ably
introduced, and would extend the system to those places which have
been considered almost inaccessible.

        The Treffos Pump. By John Williams, of Bangor.

   Mr. Williams proposes to keep up a continuous supply of water,
whatever may be the relative position of the well and of the pump, by
means of an air-tight vessel or chamber, which he calls a " Treffos ;"
and which is to be filled in the first instance with water through an
aperture in the top, the aperture being completely closed before the
pump is set in motion. As the piston ascends in the working barrel
the water will flow in from the additional vessel ; and thus that which
is attained imperfectly by use of two or more cylinders acting in
succession, may be accomplished in the common house-pump.

On the Expansive Action of Steam in some of the Cornish Pumping
                Engines. By W. J. Henwood, F.G.S.

Mr. Henwood gave an account of experiments which he had in-

stituted on the expansion of steam in the cylinders of some reciprocating

engines in the Cornish mines. The curved lines described by an

indicator were exhibited, and shown to vary, as the pressures and

vol. vi. 1837.  K
130 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

quantities of steam in the boilers, the sizes of the valves, and the loads
of the engines ; at least in the early part of the working stroke. The
termination of the return-stroke well exhibited the benefit of expansive
working. The duty per bushel of coal consumed was shown to be
from 73 to 86 millions of pounds, lifted one foot high by the consumption
of each bushel of coal ; and from 870 to 1085 tons lifted one foot
high for one farthing of expense. Tabular statements of the various
elements employed, and diagrams illustrative of the conditions of the
engines examined, were also exhibited.

   The communication of Mr. Henwood gave rise to a lengthened
discussion on the duty of the Cornish engines ; and Mr. Henwood
explained his reasons for thinking that 125 or 120 millions was too
high for an average duty. The trial which gave 125 millions was of
too short a duration, not more than 24< hours ; and no reliance can be
placed on short trials, since there may be a considerable reservoir of
heat worked out ; also the engine may be in a much better condition
than can usually be maintained. Mr. Henwood considered that the
best duty was obtained from engines having 10 feet stroke in the cy-
linder and 7 feet in the working barrel, and making from about 5 to 7
strokes in the minute ; also that the single-acting do more duty than

than the double-acting engines.

On the Mechanism of Waves, in relation to the Improvement of Steam
             Navigation. BgJom<i Scott Russell, F.R.S.E.

   Mr. Russell had at previous meetings of the British Association given
an account of his investigations in the resistance of fluids to the motion
of vessels, and ascertained the law of interference of the wave in
modifying the nature and amount of that resistance.

    Since the last meeting of the Association, he had extended his ob-
servations to a variety of the applications of the principles formerly
developed, to certain objects of practical importance, and, amongst
others, to the improvement of the navigation of such rivers as the
Thames and the Clyde, where steam navigation is extensively carried
on. In these rivers it was found that steam navigation was conducted
under very great disadvantages, when compared with the open sea.
Mr. Russell had investigated the causes of these impediments, and he
had found that in shallow water one great impediment to high velocities
was the generation of the great wave of translation of the displaced
fluid: the effect of this great anterior wave was to alter the position
and increase the anterior displacement and resistance of the fluid. The
next great impediment to steam navigation consisted in the formation
of lateral currents on the side of the vessel, which, having the same
direction with the motion of the paddles, had the effect of diminishing
the relative difference of the velocity of the paddles and of the fluid,
and thus diminish the propelling power of the paddles. The third evil
resulting from the use of steam in shallow rivers arose from the stern-
wave or posterior surge, by which great injury was clone to the banks
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                     131

of the rivers, and to the smaller vessels navigating the same water.

Now it had been fully proved in the course of Mr. Russell's observation,

that there was only one mode of materially diminishing all of these
evils ; that one mode consisted not in widening the rivers as was
generally supposed, nor in giving gradual and gentle slopes to the sides

of the channel, but in deepening the river arid rendering its sides as

nearly vertical as possible. By this means it had been found that the

impediments arising from the formation of the channel were diminished

to a very great amount.

   The next species of wave generated by a steam vessel is the wave of
unequal displacement. This wave was found to arise solely from the
form of the vessel. It was this wave which was seen diverging on both
sides of the vessel, from the prow towards the stern, and might be seen,
arranged in two straight lines, extending to a great distance behind it.
This wave might be greatly diminished and almost entirely removed,
by giving to the lines of displacement a particular form which
Mr. Russell described.

On Improvements in TidalRivers. By John Scott Russell, F.R.S.E.

Mr. Russell renewed the subject of the generation and motion of

waves, as connected with the improvements which were to be made in

Hethe navigation of tidal rivers.  directed his remarks especially to

the tide wave, and to the practical methods which his remarks had led

him to, of forming the channel so as to accelerate the tide in its course
up the river, but to retard the water as much as possible on its return.

The tidal wave up a river appears to follow laws very similar to the

wave of great displacement, of which he had spoken on a previous

occasion ; hence its progress was to be accelerated by deepening the

channel and making its section rectangular. It appeared also, as the
result of his investigations, that the wave might be made to move with

rapidity in a curve by deepening the channel on the outside of the

curve. This deepening the outside of the channel would have the
effect of retarding the water flowing back, and thus the tidal water would
be preserved for a much longer time than in a straight channel.

Mr. Russell then proceeded to apply the theoretical principles to the

explanation of the formation of bores in rivers.

A New Safety Lamp. By W. Leitheed.

A New Telegraph. By Dr. Clanny, Newcastle.

Telegraphic Communication on Railroads,

    By Barnard L. Watson.

                  k2
--132 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

      On the Resistance to Railway Trains. By Dr. Lardn£r*.

   The object of this communication was to direct attention to the
principles which ought to be preserved in determining railway con-
stants, and especially to the importance of taking into the account tlio
moment of inertion of the wheels, which had been generally omitted.
Dr. Lardner detailed generally the various resistances to which the

motion of a train is subject ; and, having stated his objection to the
use of the dyanometer, proceeded to explain the method which lie
would recommend. The principle is as follows: "Let an engine be
loaded with as heavy a train as it is capable of drawing at a very slow
and uniform speed, having its steam-valve fully open, and no steam
blowing off at the safety-valve. Let care also be taken that the
diameter of the steam-pipe, from the boiler to the cylinder, shall bear
a considerable ratio to the diameters of the cylinders. Under such

circumstances we may, without sensible error, consider the pressure
of steam in the boiler and the cylinders to be the same ; and if no
steam blow off from the safety-valve, the indication of the lever will
be a true measure of the pressure of the steam upon the pistons of the
cylinders. This pressure is transmitted to the cranks, the mean
leverage of which being known, the amount of force transmitted to the
point where the driving wheels rest upon the rails is a matter of easy
calculation. This will evidently constitute the gross amount of the
tractive force exerted by the engine ; and this force may be con-
sidered as expended in moving the train and the engine, and will bo

the tractive force sought."f

   The important details of this communication will be found in the
Railway Magazine as already referred to.

        A Flexible Suspension Bridge. By W. J. Curtis.

   The peculiar feature of this bridge is the absence of a main chain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

each point is sustained by four forces, viz. two bars carried over each

pier.

On an Instrumentfor ascertaining the Focal Length of Spectacles. By

                              John Isaac Hawkins.

   Mr. Hawkins mentioned some facts respecting the differences in the
distances betwixt the eyes of different individuals, and the focal
distance of the right and left eye. In one extreme case this differ-
ence was more than 30 inches, the focal distance of one eye being 36,
and of the other only 3 inches.

   · For an account of this communication and the calculations, see Railway Maga-
zine, November, 1837.

   f Ibid.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                 133

         On the Construction of Sea Walls and Embankments.
                  By John Scott Russell, F.R.S.E.

   Mr. Russell, from his various researches on the formation of waves,
and the methods of increasing or diminishing their velocity, had come
to the conclusion that the best form of sea walls and embankments for
breaking the waves gradually is a parabolic curve, with the convexity
upwards.

On tlie Duty of the Cornish Engines. By Mr. John Taylor,

                                           F.R.S., $c.

   Mr. John Taylor gave some explanation respecting the methods of

ascertaining the duty of Cornish engines. He confirmed the state-

ment that one engine had performed 125 millions; but as this experi-

ment only lasted 26 hours, he agreed with Mr. Henwood in consider-

ing that much importance was  not     to  be  attached to  this  trial.                       He

                                                                                           _

considered the method adopted as a perfectly fair one for ascertaining

the comparative duties of engines ; but it was never asserted that the
quantity of water was actually delivered at the adit. The quantity of

coals consumed was also another very good test of the duty done,

and an examination into the account-books of the different mines con-

firmed the reports of the duty done.

On Preventing the Bangers from Collision, and from Fire in Vessels.
                            By Mr. Williams.

   The method now proposed consists in dividing the vessel into
several compartments, by division bulk-heads, built up completely
through the vessel, similar to the plan which has been adopted in the
iron steamers. Thus, should any aperture be made by collision, the
water would not extend through the whole vessel, as in the case of
the Apollo, but would be confined to the compartment in which the
injury takes place. In case of fire, the compartments in which the

fire existed might be filled with water without any clanger to the rest
of the vessel ; these bulk-heads would also prevent the existence of
any strong current of air throughout the vessel.

    Experiments on the Equilibrium of the Arch. By Professor

                        Moseley, King's College, London.

   The results of experiments on the equilibrium of the arch, laid by
Professor Moseley before the Section, confirm the theoretical conclu-
sions at which he had already arrived, in papers read before the Cam-
bridge Philosophical Society. In flat arches, the breadth of whose
voussoirs are the same, the thrust is found to be as the square of the
span, and altogether independent of the depths of the voussoirs. In
circular arches, the ratio of the depth of whose voussoirs to their radii
134 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

is the same, the thrust is as the square of the radius for the same
angle of the semi-arch. The paper was accompanied by diagrams
illustrating the manner of experimenting on the arch, and with tables
showing the agreements betwixt the theoretical and the practical con-

clusions.

    In connection with his researches on the theory of the arch, the au-
thor has instituted experiments to determine the greatest number of
voussoirs which could be made to stand in the form of a circular arch.

        On the Quality of Iron for Railways. By D. Mushet.

    Respecting the qualities most essential for railway iron, Mr. Mushet
 premises the following remarks :

    1. That a crystalline arrangement of the fracture of bar iron is
incompatible with great strength and fibre, and that it is essential to
railway iron that it should be hard and fibrous.

    2. The more frequently iron is heated or melted in the course of its
completion as bar iron, the greater is its tendency to crystallize and
become brittle when cold. This is in some measure prevented by
 repeated rollings ; but fibre acquired in this way is, to a certain extent,
 artificial ; for where native fibre is absent, heating and cooling will re-
 store the crystalline arrangement and weaken the tenacity of the iron
 when cold.

    3. Excessive decarbonization, commonly called refining, which tends

 to deprive the iron of its last portion of carbon, produces a quality of
 malleable iron, soft, and easily abraded by rubbing or friction ; and
 therefore, in point of durability, not well calculated for rail iron.

     4. Conversely, iron manufactured so as to retain the last and con-
 sequently the most intimately united portions of carbon, or to have
 this substance communicated to it in minute portions in working, is
 better calculated, provided the fibre is not injured, for rail-making on
 two accounts, because it will wear less by rubbing, and be subject to
 less waste from oxidation.

     5. Bar or malleable iron has a tendency to crystallize in the cooling,
 in proportion to the size of the manufactured mass ; a circumstance
 deserving the greatest consideration on the part of the engineer in de-
 termining the form or shape of his rails.

     6. Continued vibration, such as is produced by the motion of an
 engine or waggon travelling on a railway, causes iron to crystallize
 and to a certain degree become brittle. Hence the importance of
 making rails from iron full of fibre, so as to postpone the tendency to
  crystafiization to as remote a time as possible.

     7. Unless abridged or destroyed, by the repeated heatings and fusions
  to which iron is subjected in its various manipulations, the quantity
  and strength of fibre developed will mainly depend upon the degree or
  proportion of carbonaceous matter originally contained in the pig iron
  from which it has been manufactured.

      8. It is essential in rail-making to have a quality of iron that will
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  135

stand, without dropping or opening at the rolls, a degree of heat ca-
pable of compactly and adhesively welding the piles together, so as to
prevent exfoliation or a separation of the parts when subjected to

railroad traffic.

   The qualities most essential for railway iron being fibre and hardness,
the attention of the author has been especially directed to the manner

of iron having all these qualities in the highest possible degree.
   Mr. Mushet considers that the greatest possible quantity of fibre,

with a superior degree of hardness and durability, may be produced by
avoiding the process and waste of the refinery. The pig iron is to be at

once introduced into the puddling furnace, where being subjected to
a temperature just sufficient for fusion, some finely-ground rich iron
ore is thrown upon it and worked by the puddler into the iron. The
usual process of the hammer and the rolls is then gone through.

   Several specimens of iron made at different works were exhibited.

 On the Teeth of Wheels. By Robert Willis, M. A., Jacksonian

                       Professor in the University of Cambridge.

   Two wheels set out by the common plan, with epicycloidal teeth at

the same pitch, will work perfectly well ; but a third wheel of different
diameter, with teeth at the same pitch, will not work with either of them.

   To obviate this circumstance, Professor Willis proposes that the
teeth should be described on the following principle : If two pitch lines
be taken, and a tracing circle of any diameter, and an external epicy-

cloid be traced on the driver, and an internal epicycloid on the driven
wheel, the teeth will move each other truly. Professor Willis exhibited
also a form of tooth peculiarly applicable to cranes, or wherever the
work is only one way and great strength is required.

On the Construction of Vessels with Safety Keels. By Mr. Lang,

                     of her Majesty's Dock Yard, Woolwich.

On a New Perspective Drawing Boardfor Mechanical Drawings.
                          By Mr. Kingsley.

    On Canals and Railways in America. By Professor Henry,

                                Prince Town College.

   Professor Henry gave a most interesting account of the internal
communication in the United States, and presented to the Section a
map, showing the canals and railways complete or in progress. It
appears that 2000 miles of canal and 1800 miles of railway are com-
pleted, and that near 3000 miles of railway were in progress ; for par-
ticular accounts of which he referred to the American Almanac.
--136 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

On Mechanical Sculpture, with Specimens. By John Isaac Hawkins.

     On a New Method of obtaining an Artificial Horizon at Sea.
                               By W. Ettrick.

  On the Application of Steam to Long Voyages. By Dr. Larbner.

    On the Ventilation of Tunnels. By William West, of Leeds.

    The writer has found, by experiments repeated under various cir-
cumstances in the tunnel on the Leeds and Selby Railway, that even
when the external atmosphere is as near to perfect stillness as is
common in this climate, an atmospheric current passes through the
tunnel with sufficient rapidity to prevent the loss from hot air or gain
from cold of more than a very few degrees ; and this takes place almost
entirely at the entrance, while without rapid transmission it would of
course soon reach the mean temperature of the spot.

     Sometimes, however, the thermometer shows that the air which enters
 at the windward end passes up the nearest shaft, leaving the remainder
of the tunnel worse ventilated than if no shaft existed. As the results
 of his experiments, he submits :

     1. That the legislature and the public need apprehend no danger
 from the stagnation of air in railway tunnels, while they have abundant
 protection in the enormous cost against any company increasing without
 occasion either their number or their length.

     2. That it is at least doubtful whether open shafts do not rather
 impede than promote effectual ventilation from end to end.

                                     STATISTICS.

A Brief Memoir of the Groioth, Progress, and Extent of the Trade be-

    tween the United Kingdom and the United States of America, from

   the beginning of the Eighteenth Century to the present time. By

    G. R. Porter, Vice-President of the Statistical Society of London.

     This memoir, after reciting the date of the first settlement of each

 of the British colonies now included in the confederation forming
 " The United States of America," contains notices, from the writings
 of Sir Josiah Child and others, indicating the nature and extent of the
 commercial intercourse maintained by them with the parent country
 in the years which immediately followed the dates of their settlement.

 Tables are given in an appendix to the memoir, wherein the further
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  137

progress of that intercourse is more minutely traced, first to the period
of the independence of the United States and afterwards to the year
1836. It appears from these data, that so long as the British American
provinces continued under the operation of our colonial system, and
while their trading was consequently limited to this country, the in-
crease of their imports and exports bore an inedequate proportion to
the increased number of the colonists. In 1749, when the population
of the provinces was 1,046,000, the value of their imports and exports
was £2,117,845. In 1774, when the struggle for independence was
begun, the population was estimated at 2,803,625 ; and if the trade had
increased in an equal degree, the amount of imports and exports should
have been £5,676,523, instead of the actual amount £3,964,288 : thus
showing a virtual falling off of 30 per cent. In 1790, when the first
census of the United States was taken, the population was 3,929,328,
and the amount of trade with England £4,622,851. In 1835, the po-
pulation was estimated at 14,784,589, and the trade with England
amounted to £25,671,602. Comparing this increase of population
and trade respectively with the number and amount ascertained at

different intermediate periods, the following results are presented.

                                                                                     Increase per cent, in 1835
                                                                                                                   of

                    Population.       Trade.

Compared with 1790  276 455

       ,, 1800      178 177
       ,, 1810      104 146
       ,, 1820       53 239
       ,, 1830
                     15 57

The growth of the American cotton trade is traced from its begin-

ning in 1787 to the year 1836, in which we received from the United

States 218,615,6921bs. of raw cotton, valued at ten millions sterling.

Other tables are given, showing the tonnage of shipping employed in the

foreign trade of the United States, distinguishing American and Bri-

tish vessels from those under all other flags. These tables are followed

by an historical sketch of the progress of the British trade with Ame-

rica, and of the causes and consequences of the interruptions to which

it was exposed through the issue of Napoleon's Milan and Berlin de-

crees, and the retaliatory steps to which those measures led. The me-

moir closes with a statement of the proportions which the trade be-

tween England and the American republic bore to the whole foreign

trade of each country respectively in each year, from 1821 to 1835.

In the appendix are tables, drawn from our official returns, showing the

actual value of British manufactures shipped to the United States in

each year, from 1805 to 1836 ; the quantities of the chief articles of
American produce imported, and the quantities and value of the chief

articles of British manufacture exported to the United States in each

year, from 1827 to 1836 ; together with parallel statements compiled

from returns made to Congress by the American executive govern-

ment.
--138 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

        On the Wages of Labourers in Manufacturing Districts.
                             By Mr. Slaney.

On the State of Education in the Borough of Bolton in 1837-
                       By Mr. Ashworth.

   The return made to government in 1833 on the state of education
has been found very defective. In Bolton there have been no means

of testing its correctness ; but, if accurate, there has been a very re-
markable increase in the number of scholars, being 25 per cent, more
of day scholars and 40 per cent, more of Sunday scholars.

   There are now 21 Sunday schools, with 9867 scholars, or 19f per
cent, of the population, of whom about 2000 may be estimated as being
in attendance both at daily schools and Sunday schools, leaving the

number of 7867, or 15| per cent, of the population, receiving instruc-
tion at Sunday schools only.

   There are 66 clay and evening schools, containing 3227 scholars, or

§§ per cent.
   Total number of scholars 11,094, or about 22J- per cent, of the pre-

sent population, estimated at about 50,000.

   Children equal in number to 20 per cent, of the population are not

in attendance at any school whatever.

   In the Sunday schools were found
   2014 scholars in 4« schools connected with the Church Establish-

ment.

   1085 scholars in 1 Roman Catholic school.

   6768 scholars in 16 schools belonging to various classes of Dis-

senters.

    In Bolton there are 5 charity schools, with 692 scholars, including
the two infant schools. There is also a grammar school, whose scholars
have been entered at 120, being the number reported to government,
the master having declined to give the agent any information orf the
subject. The income was stated to the committee to be £450.

   Of superior schools for the children of persons in good circum-

stances there appear to be 17, with 721 scholars.

Of common boys' schools there are 15, with 851 scholars.

Of common girls' schools  5, 209

-- Of Dame schools        23, 634.

944 being boys and 750 girls, all the boys' schools containing some

girls, and vice versa.

Remarks on the Report of the State of Education in Liverpool, pre-

    sented to the British Association in 1836. By Mr. Merritt.

   The author dissenting from the numerical results stated in the re-
port alluded to (of which an abstract is given in the preceding volume,

p. 133.), assigned his reasons for this difference of opinion.
   Mr. Tate also presented remarks on the same subject.
                                                   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                         139

                                 On t/ie State of Crime in the Borough of Liverpool.
                                                  By Mr. Walmsley.

The author presented returns relating to Liverpool, containing the
number of persons brought before the magistrates, and the number

committed                                          the number of  felons apprehended,  and  the  number  com-
                                                ;

mitted                           and the ages of the juvenile felons.  In the year 1835, 13,506
                              ;

were taken into custody, 2138 of whom were committed. In 1836,
16,830 were taken into custody, of whom 3343 were committed. Up to
the 13th of September, 1837 (eight months), the number taken into

custody was 12,709, of whom 2849 were committed. From July 1835 to

July 1836, the number of juvenile thieves apprehended under eighteen

years of age, was 924, of whom 378 were committed. From July

1836 to 13th of September 1837, the number of juvenile thieves ap-
prehended was 2339, of whom 1096 were committed. There were in

custody, during the same period, upwards of 1500 well-known adult

thieves.

Abstract of the Report made by the Regents of the University of the

           State of New York. By Dr. W. C. Taylor.

                                 On Improvements in Agriculture, By G. W. Hall.

                                                   On Spade Husbandry. By Dr. Yelloly.

                                 On the Localities of the Plague in Constantinople.

                                                 By Mr. Urquhart.

The author stated, as the result of three years' observations, that the
plague, if it did not originate in localities close to cemetries, was oreatlv
aggravated by the proximity of burial grounds, especially when the
towns and villages stood on a lower level than the neighbouring ceme-
tries. Several statements corroborative of this view of the injurious

effects of effluvia from the shallow Turkish graves,                                   were advanced bv
other members of the section.

On  the                          Reclaiming        of the Bog of Critt, in the         County    of Galtoay.

                                                    By Mr. Bermingham.

On the Condition of the Poor of Bristol--an Inquiry now carrying on
                                 Byby the Statistical Society of Bristol.
                                                                                       C. B. Fripp.

   The inquiry, though much advanced, being still in progress it ap

pears proper to defer an abstract of the results obtained till the whole
is completed.
140 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

On the Educational Statistics of the Parish of Sidlesham, in Kent.

     By the Rev. F. De Soyres. Communicated by C. B. Fripp.

Population by census of 1831                                  1002.

in 1837                                                       1100.

Schools, in number 6, of which, Day schools, 3, with 93 scholars.

                                   Dame schools, 1,      15

                                   Sunday do., 2,        123

40 Sunday scholars also attend day-schools.

                                                         231

Adult Population.         Agricultural class.
   Able to read
                     males         55 married ; 28 unmarried.
   Not able to read
                          females  83                27

                     . . males     42 married ; 22 unmarried.

                     females .... 30                 1

                     Miscellaneous class.

Able to read         males         38 married; 16 unmarried.

                     females       40                9
                                                     3 unmarried.
Not able to read. . . . males      6 married ;       2

                     females .... 6

An Inquiry into the Origin, Procedure, and Besidts of the Strike of the

   Operative Cotton- Spinners of Preston, from October 1836 to Febru-

  ary 1837. By Mr. Ashworth, of Bolton.

In October 1836, there were in Preston and its vicinity, 42 cotton-

mills, giving employment to 8500 hands, and requiring about 1200

horse power to work them. The capital invested in the buildings,

machinery, &c. was about                                      £550,000

The working capital, about                                    250,000

                                                     Total. . £800,000

   In consequence of a struggle between the operatives and the ma-
sters, concerning the rate of wages, which the masters proposed to ad-
vance 10 per cent., the operatives ceased working on the 5th of No-
vember, when 660 spinners, 1320 piecers (children employed by the
spinners), 6100 card-room hands, reelers, and power-loom weavers,
420 overlookers, packers, engineers, &c, making in all 8500 persons,
were without employment. Weekly payments were made to them
from the funds of the " Trades' Union" previously established, but
the distress became great, and in December, notwithstanding the
grant of £100 from the corporation, " universal and intense." The
mills were re-opened by the masters, to such as chose to work, on the
9th of January, and the scale of prices was fixed as previously offered

by the masters, viz. an advance of 10 per cent. By degrees, almost all

the work-people resumed their employments, and on the 5th of Fe-
bruary the mills were in full operation.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                  141

The following estimate was made of the direct pecuniary loss to all

classes of operatives in consequence of the turn-out.
                                             =22s. Gd.
Wages of 660 spinners for 13 weeks           =5s. 6d.   £9,652
                                                          4,719
of 1320 piecers
                                                        38,142
of 6520 card-room hands, &c                  =9s.

               8500                                            9,500
Estimated loss sustained by hand-loom weavers in               8,000

   consequence of the turn-out
Estimated loss sustained by clerks, waggoners,

   carters, mechanics, dressers, sizers, &c

                                    Total               70,013

From which must be deducted                               5>013
                                                          1,040
Estimated amount of wages earned between 9th of           2,500

January and 5th of February                               4,290

Estimated value of relief given by masters

Other private charity and parochial relief

Allowance to spinners and piecers from the funds

of the union

Leaving a nett pecuniary loss to the whole body         12,803
    of Preston operatives of
                                                        57,210
Loss to the masters (three months' interest on
   £800,000)                                            45,000
                                                          4,986
Loss to shopkeepers

Total loss to the town and trade of Preston            £107,196

Report of a Committee of the Manchester Statistical Society, on the
   condition of the Working Classes in an extensive Manufacturing
   District, in 1834,. 1835, and 1836.

This inquiry embraced,

Manchester, with a population of about 200,000

Salford,                                               55,000
Bury,                                                  20,000

Ashton,                                                22,000

Stalybridge,                                           17,200
Dukinfield,                                             8,600

                                                                                   322,800

   The information was obtained by agents employed to visit every
dwelling, and was by them recorded in the manner exemplified in the
annexed form.

   The information thus collected was classified in a series of tables,
which were accompanied by an explanatory report.
--142 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

The whole has since been published for the Manchester Statistical

Society, by Messrs. James Itidgway and Son.

~: : :                                                                      House or Cellar.
                                                                         |
           TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                              143

Account of the Inhabited Courts and Cellars in Liverpool, fyc.

Whilst conducting the inquiry into the state of Education in Liver-

pool, in 1835-6, the agent of the Manchester Statistical Society took

an account of the number of inhabited courts, and of the cellars occu-

pied as dwellings in that borough, of which the following is the

summary :

Parish of Liverpool                         Courts.         Cellars.
                                            1964.
                                                            6506

Portions of four other townships, included

within the limits of the borough            307 987

           Total in the borough of Liverpool ... 2271 ... 7493*

Estimated population of the borough              230,000.

   No courts were counted, in which two or more families did not re-

side, and above one-third of the whole number contained six or more
families. Few of the courts had more than one outlet.

   No cellars were included in the above number in which the occupants

did not sleep, as Avell as live by day ; nor was any account taken of
those occupied as gin-shops. The great proportion of the inhabited
cellars were dark, damp, confined, ill- ventilated, and dirty.

   From the evidence afforded by this inquiry, it appears that, taking
an average of five to each cellar, there must be about 15 per cent, of

the entire population of Liverpool occupying cellar residences ; but
alowing 4" 17 to each cellar, (the average in Manchester and Salford,)
there would be 31,000 persons inhabiting cellars in Liverpool, out of a
total population of 230,000 ; or, taking the Avorking population at two-
thirds of the whole, about 20 per cent, of that portion of the community.

   In York no inhabited cellars were found.
   The proportion of the working population residing in cellars was
found to be,

In the borough of Manchester             11| percent.
In the borough of Salford                  8,,
In Bury
In Ashton                                 3f ,,
In Stalybridge                             1^ ,,
In Dukinfield                              li ,,

                                           lj ,,

   * This report having caused much surprise, an examination was immediately insti-
tuted ; and, on the following day, Mr. Adam Hodgson presented to the Section the
following return, made by the inspectors to Mr. M. J. Whitty, head constable :

           North Division         4,004 Inhabited Cellars.
           South ditto
                                  3,858  ditto.

                           Total  7,862

   The excess of 369 cellars, in Mr. Hodgson's return, is accounted for by the exten-
sion of building since the date of the first inquiry. In Toxteth, a very rapidly increa-
sing district of the borough, a cellar dwelling is attached to almost every new house in
the streets inhabited by the working classes.
--144 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

Inquiry into the State of Education in the City of York. By the Man-

                                           chester Statistical Society.

  This inquiry was carried on in 1836 under the direction of Mr. W.
R. Greg, Mr. W. Langton, and Mr. H. Romilly, and the report showed

the followed results :

   The number found in attendance at the different schools in the
city was 5591, of whom

2228 or 7'96 per cent, of the population attended day and evening

                       schools only.

2521 or 9 per cent, of the population attended both day and Sun-

· .-                   day schools.

4749 or 16*96 per cent, of the population.
 812 or 3'01 per cent, of the population attended Sunday schools

                       only.

5591 or 19*97 per cent, of the population.
   The population of the city is taken at 28,000 in this calculation,

which shows that nearly one-fifth of the population is in attendance

at schools.

   It is assumed that the number of children in the city between the
ages of 5 and 15 years is about 7000, and the general summary shows
that only about 4700 of the children between 5 and 15 can have been

in attendance at school at the date of the inquiry ; thus above 33 out
of every 100 must be absent from school. This approaches very closely

to the result shown in the examination of Manchester and Salford. In
the manufacturing districts, however, above half of the total number of

scholars were found to attend only a Sunday school ; while in York
the proportion attending Sunday schools only is 15 per cent.

   Several errors appear to have occurred in the returns made to the

Government in 1833, so that it could not be exactly ascertained what

increase or otherwise had taken place since that time.

   An account of the state of education in York was collected in 1826

by a Committee of the Society of Friends, a copy of which accom-

panies this report ; but as its principle of classification is different, it

shows no result which allows of a close comparison with the present

report.

   The tables annexed to the report classified in figures are the most

important features of the state of education in the city of York. Some

of these are annexed.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  145

   In the following tables York is compared with other towns examined
by the Manchester Statistical Society.

                  SUPPLEMENTARY TABLE.--I. ·

    ESTIMATED POPULATION.
146 SEVENTH REPORT 1837*
                     TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                                          147

                     »N>H.h©t©l©         ©     OOMOaiOiaOMMflD^iiNNMOHK
                                               ©M©«i-»<©o*i>»tiO--IT0i0i©co©ft©a-<N<»ex)W*-(· N©-©*»u]st©.-©H>©*s©)
                     i--i©t>»©           eo
                                         00

                     © © © © © © ©© © * © © © w ©pji *»!>.

                     -«< co ex -h
                                         r-c   ©©©eTxf©i©©*'©*"<*©i-eHxi©toS©oUiS--uisc-oro)oii«-->i»«l>t.s©©©«c>c.-e<xh©©©
                                         ·*)<

                     t)< ** us                                -<i us us                ?o                  ex               i*

                     ©»»©© © © © © © «ex ·<# b» us >-i oo oo
                     © © © © m © © ©(Ma-*'* oo eo i->'* <N -^i oo
                     © © © © * ©©»©ex eo ex eo -«i< »· >* eo eo ^*
                                                                                           --> eo o> 6X 00 i-h CO
                                                                                       05 ». eo (M >-i

                                                                                                eo ex ex ex ·<* -^

·[ooqas-toa S                                  eX-H©©eX©©©i-H'#i-Hi-H©©
b o) jou pun O
                                               ©<M-*©<Nco©i-<©'<J'eO(Meo«>.
  'Iooijos-j£ep ,,·

-uns w o) of) §
               n

                                                     :n^»h; -« ex -< i-h ex ;i-hsx                                   : ;ex : **»

                                                     ©: ** ex i-H ; ex -* ;eo : i-H :--! : :-<>*

                     © © © ©©-h ex : ex
                                                              «>»  ;©©©©©-nii-H©©i-ii-<                              ©; i-h                 I

                     <-<©ooeo                 © © © ©: -<f eo : ** oo eo ex eo ex *» <* · -i-i©
                                              _ ^. ri eo : :
                     ^h

                     -- ©<*                        © ©; -^i
                      --^ r--                                 eo ex co e*i eo oo ·**   ex *» *» >-<

                     ii

O&                   © n * © ©eo ·-* : tc oo ex i-i i* Tf
                                                                    eo eo oo i-h its ex : :©->*

                     © © © © © © © *©<*aoex
                                                     ex <# its -<*                     t-» oo ex ex   -h ex i-i -h                             us

                     © © * © © © m © ©·-I eo ·* >-i us «^ its
                                                                    t» >*              eo ex               i-i ex ·         us

                                                                           i--i
                     --sx ~h
                                        i-i i--i ^h                                                  -nex            .

                     © © © © © © © © © © ^ ©ex eo ex
                                                   ·* i-i re us «>.© t)i                                             ex tM© I

                                        © MTfteOJTjiClMN-fDNNOJtrtlNNCIOM

© ©© © -- --© © © ©© © ©© © w © ©O 09
                     ©H-i*s-tC<©H              us    us ex                        -^<  >>.eo **            i-i
                                               ex                                      -* i-h i-i 55
                                        -<ji                       p* rt rt                                             ex

                     o©o©©© © ©© ©© © ©©©©©-<© © © © ©ex i-h
                                               ex                                                         ex «>»Tt<  i-i
                                        tji ex       -"* i- i-c ex ex -* ex ex ex i- -*
                                                                                                                          -> _>

      ·ataoq }E      nexot->eh<tij©     «>»    ©-©tN©^N©©He©Hxepi--xii ©ooH©tHje< x«r-c*r-o*t*i©iosT©Ht©»ior---oci ©©©©oTo jex<©exeuxs©3©©
  oSu jo s.wo,i                         t(i
g oj.s uiojj -ok     ex ex ex
                                        ex
atuou }b s3b jo
satjaX fi jspun

                     & '3 '3         .

                     £TM^3<u <u

                     < S3 H 3 .2                O) *J 0> '
                      *. 33 33 bo a)
                                               S-5i ei3 ^G i
                     00 El, B.-3                    -r t!

                     _, C O "£ iJ              ·"© P

                     agc -g <»

                     a" m5o          S
                     JPJ?~£              .a3
                     >, X-S          -2

                     '> S «
                     © S S S u <3
                     ©©©©©
148 SEVENTH REPORT 1837-

Abstract of a paper entitled " Remarks vpon the Importance of an
   Enquiry into the Amount and Appropriation of Wages by the Work-

  ing Classes." By William Felkin, Nottingham.

The preliminary observations contain the writer's idea of the large

amount of many skilful workmen's wages, and their misappropriation.

He considers his views of their want of providential care for themselves

and their families corroborated by circumstances which occurred in

Nottingham during the spring of 1837, which he proceeds to relate.

The general commercial pressure bore so heavily upon Nottingham

as to throw a large portion of the working people out of employ ; and

in April, much suffering being apparent, the unemployed in the hosiery

and lace trades of the neighbourhood, not paupers, were set to work

in the construction of a new road, by a committee appointed to distri-

bute £5000 raised by public subscription for the pm-pose: £4-322. 1 9s. 6c?.

of this sum was expended in this way in 18 weeks ; the remainder was

paid for tools (reserved) and other necessary expenses. On the 19th

June there were  at work 49  single  men                     76 men married,  without
                                                          ;

children ; 182 having one child; 224 with two ; 179 with three ; 135
with four ; 80 with five ; and 65 with six or more children ; making a
total of 990 men, having 941 wives, and 2576 children under 16 years

of age ; 4407 were dependent that day on the fund, which was the
largest number that occurred. The road has been since completed,

leading to 100 garden allotments which have been made to the poor of

land before useless. The total number of applicants were, lace-makers

839, stockingers 797, smiths 178, sundries 164, total 1978 men, having

1401 wives and 3508 children; being 6887 persons destitute. 889 be-

longed to Nottingham, 1024 to the county, 65 elsewhere: 1083 lived

in Nottingham, 591 in the Radford Union, 304 in the parishes around.

Being soon overpowered by the numbers of applicants, the Committee

caused rigid inquiries to be made into the circumstances and charac-

ter of each new one. Out of 1100 returns, 1043 are perfect, com-

prising 452 stockingers and 498 lace-makers, and 93 smiths dependent

on the other two trades. Their wives and children were almost en-

tirely unemployed. Character, as " clean," " comfortable," " indus-
trious," " sober," " steady," " very poor," " very destitute," " honest,"

or the reverse, was given. 440 lace-makers have good and 39 bad

characters ; 360 stocking-makers good, 50 the reverse ; 75 smiths favour-

able, 13 not so; total, 875 goed, and 102 indifferent characters. On

the whole, they were decent work-people.

Eight only had been pauperised in any form.

The length of time the stocking-makers had been partly unemployed

was an average of 17 weeks, ]A days; lace, 21 weeks, and half a day;

smiths, 20 weeks, 1£ days; total average of partial employ, 19 weeks,

3 days. Totally unemployed, stocking makers, 5 weeks, 1 day; lace,

8 weeks, one day ; smiths, 8 weeks, 2 days ; total average of entire

want of employ, 6 weeks, 5 days. Not one of the 1043 stated himself

to be a depositor in the Savings' Bank. 104 stocking-makers were in

sick clubs, odd fellows' societies, &c; 141 lace and 18 smiths, total 263
                 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS,                              149

of one in four persons had provided for scarcely any thing more than
future sickness. The higher or lower rate of wages does not seem to

influence materially the desire to belong to these clubs, or to lay by for

future contingencies. 210 stocking-makers earned lis. a week and

under, of whom 43 were in sick clubs ; 103 earned 12*., of whom 22
were in sick clubs ; 139 earned 13s. and upwards, of whom 39 were in

sick clubs. Total average of stocking-makers' earnings, lis. 6%d. a

week : 176 of their wives averaged Is. lOfrf. 212 lace earned 14s.

and under, of whom 41 were in clubs; 72 earned 15s., of whom 21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;

69 earned 16s., of whom 27 ; 143 earned 17s. and above, of whom 52

were in sick clubs. Average lace earnings, 15s. Id.; and of 182 wives,

2s. l±d. 93 smiths averaged 16s. 4c?., and 34 wives Is. 96?. a week.
Total average earnings of 1043 men weekly, 13s. 7jc?.; 392 wives ls.ll^e?.

a week : and of each family when in full work, according to their own

statement, 17s. 6c?. Though the inquiry has been a difficult one, yet

this amount is found to be somewhat considerably below the actual
weekly sum received. 304 of the men had an average of 2 children

each able to work, bringing in together 3s. a week. 661 had 300 chil-

dren between 11 and 7 years of age, and 1300 below 7, or 2| on an

average.

The wages of Nottinghamshire lace hands averaged, in 1829, 25s.,

1831, 20s., 1833, 19s., in 1836, 17s. a week, rates established by the

writer's statistical paper of those years. Those employed on this fund

stated their earnings at 15s. Stocking-makers' wages had risen from

9s. in 1833, to lis. 6d. in 1836. Neither the past difficulties of the

last class, nor the prospective depression of the first, seems to have

taught them economy. These papers however show the fact, that men

with 5 or 6 children have supported themselves as long as the unmar-

ried, and form the bulk of the contributors to sick clubs, &c. The

average weekly pay from the fund was 8s. 7f<£ a man, or Is. 10c?. a

week  for  each  person  dependent  upon  it          yet  notwithstanding  the
                                                   ;

smallness of this sum, and the whole of the people being unaccustomed

to this kind of employment, they soon began to assume a far more

healthy and cheerful aspect in person and countenance, than when en-

gaged in their ordinary pursuits ; and many stated themselves stronger
and better than formerly. Hay harvest coming on, and the numbers

(which had been greatly reduced) having drained the resources of the

Committee, the affair was terminated ; having been so managed as on

the whole to give general satisfaction.

From these facts the following conclusions are drawn.

That the number of distressed applicants from one of the highest

paid trades, the lace, was as large as from one of the lowest, the stock-

ing-makers ; the one having fallen in a few years from upwards of 40s.
to under 20s., the other having risen from 7s. to about 12s. a week ;

the numbers employed in each trade in the district in question being
nearly equal. The higher paid trade had afforded its workmen means
of effecting considerable savings ; but the number who made pro-

vision for the future in sick clubs, &c, did not rise with the larger
amount of wages ; for of the 245 members, 132 were of those who had
150 SEVENTH REPORT 1837.

earned 14s. a week and under, (the average wages being 13*. Id.,) and
113 were of those receiving above that sum. The kind of provision
was partial, not meeting trade fluctuations at all ; and unsatisfactory,
because sick clubs are often ill managed, insolvent, and held at public
houses : the Savings' Bank was neglected, which is secure, and gives
facilities for receiving and withdrawing deposits to suit every emer-
gency. These 1043 cases, being unselected ones, and the returns
impartially dealt with, give results similar to those obtained from in-
quiries and observations carried on in other manufacturing districts,
and indicate an important defect in the economic principles and con-
duct of the well-paid amongst the manufacturing workmen ; and seem
to justify the writer in urging upon this Section and statistical societies,
an inquiry into the best mode of ascertaining upon a large scale the
rates and appropriation of earnings. After the preceding statements
were drawn up, the writer made out a classified account of the de-
positors in the Nottingham Savings' Bank. This document confirms
the views he has stated ; for the number and amount of deposits from
the workmen in the staple trades is very small, but large from the work-
women, whose wages are invariably of but moderate amount. By far
the largest part of the sum deposited is by domestic servants ; their
number was 1813 ; dress makers, cheveners, widows, governesses, &c,
924 ; labourers 702 ; artisans 443 ; clerks 77 ; retail traders 497 ; lace-
makers 437 ; stockingers 360 ; trustees 509 ; sundries, chiefly infants,
339 ; total 6101 ; in 1836, 621 8; accounts decreased during this pressure
in trade 117. The balances of 6057 accounts amounted to £142,328,
or £23. 10*. each ; 267 lace deposits amounted to 14s. 4rf., and the
other 170 to £28 each ; 120 stockingers' deposits to £l each, and the
remaining 240 to £23. 18s. each. The smaller sums are evidently
mere balances. The real depositors in the staple trades are 410, and
amount to £10,495. These have been scarcely affected by the late
pressure, either in number or amount.

    P. S. It may be proper to state that, the Section having requested
the publication of this paper, the writer urged upon the well-paid work-
ing classes the duty and benefit of exercising economy and foresight

 in the disbursement of their wages, through a few pages of supplement-
 ary observations; and four editions of about 10,000 copies have been
 distributed (three of the editions at the expense of private individuals,)
 chiefly amongst the working people of the manufacturing districts.
[ 151 ]

           INDEX I.

REPORTS ON THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

Oi'BJECTS and Rules of the Asso-               259, 260; population, 261 ; educa-
                                               tion, 270 ; irrigation, 272 ; agricul-
      ciation, v.                              ture, 274; land and other tenures,
                                               280; revenue, 295; assessments,
Officers and Council, viii.                    310; wages, 320; manufactures,
Treasurer's Account, xi.                      325 ; coins, 327 ; weights and mea-
                                               sures, 327; army, 332.
--Reports, Researches, and Desiderata,
      xii xxii.                            Earth, on the magnetic intensity of
                                              the 1, 497 ; general table of inten-
Synopsis of sums appropriated to sci-          sities, 42.

     entific objects, xxiii.               Education, state of, in Dukhun, 271.

--Address of Prof. Traill, xxv xlii.       Electricity of metallic veins, 133.

Communications to the General Eve-         Entomology of Dukhun, 252.
    ning Meetings, xliii.                  Epigene crystals, 194.
                                           Erman's (M.) intensity observations,
Agriculture of Dukhun, on the, 274.
                                               23.
Birds of Dukhun, 248.                      Estcourt's (Major) magnetic observa-
Blind, on the modes of printing for the
                                               tions, 35.
    use of the, 87.

Botany of Dukhun, 239.

Cast iron, composition of, 117.            Fairbairn (W.) on the strength and
               , obtained by hot and cold      other properties of cast iron, ob-
                                              tained from the hot and cold blast,
   blast, on the strength and other pro-       377.
    perties of, 337, 377.
Cave-temples of Dukhun, 255, 259.          FitzRoy's (Capt.) magnetic observa-
Chemical composition of hot and cold           tions, 32.

    blast iron, 117.                       Forbes's (Mr.) magnetic observations,
                                               41.
Climate of Dukhun, 231.
Crystals, epigene and pseudomorphous,      Fox's (R.W.) experiments on the elec-
                                              tricity of metallic veins, and on the
    194.                                      temperature of mines, 133.

Daubeny (Dr.) on the growth of plants      Freycinet's (Capt.) magnetic obser-
                                               vations, 35.
    confined in glass vessels, 505.
Dimorphous bodies, on, 163.                Fuss's (G.) observations on the mag-
Douglas's (Mr. D.) magnetical obser-
                                               netic intensity of the earth, 497.
    vations, 27.
Due's (Lieut.) magnetic observations,      GayLussac's magnetical observations,

    23.                                         7.

Dukhun, on the statistics of, 217 ; ex-    Geology of Dukhun, 219.
   tent and physical circumstances,        Glands, &c, of the human body, ana-
   217; geology, 219; climate, 231;
   botany, 239 ; zoology, 245 ; civil          lysis of the, 149.
   divisions, 253 ; Boodh cave-tem-
    ples, 255, 259; rivers, 256, 257,      Hansteen's (M.) observations on the
                                               magnetic intensity of the earth, 23.
152

Heart, on the motions and sounds of                                                                                                    Lenz, (M.) on the magnetic intensity
    the, 155.                                                                                                                              of the earth, 13.

Hodgkin, (Dr.) on the composition                                                                                                      --Lloyd's ( .) magnetical observations,
   of secretions, and on the organs
    producing them, 139.                                                                                                                   33.

Hodgkinson (E.) on the strength and                                                                                                    Lubbock, (J. W.) on the tides, 103.
    other properties of cast iron ob-                                                                                                  Liitke's (Capt.) observations on the
   tained by hot and cold blast, 337.
                                                                                                                                          magnetic intensity of the earth, 13.
Humboldt's observations on the mag-
                                                                                                                                       --Magnetic intensity of the earth 1 ; ob-
    netic intensity of the earth, 5, 7.                                                                                                   servations made by: Rossel, 3;
                                                                                                                                          Humboldt, 5 ; Humboldt and Gay
Ichthyology of Dukhun, 251.
Iron, cast, on the composition of, 117.                                                                                                Lussac, 7; Sabine, 11, 19,33; Erich-

               , obtained by hot and cold                                                                                              sen 11; Keilhau,ll,22; Boeck, 11;
    blast, on the strength and other
    properties of, 337, 377.                                                                                                           Erman, 1 1, 23 ; Liitke, 13; King, 15;
Irrigation of Dukhun, 272.                                                                                                             Hansteen and Due, 23 ; Kupffer, 25
Isomorphism, 164; Isodimorphous
    groups, table of, 169 ; remarks on,                                                                                                Quetelet, 26; Douglas, 27; Fitzroy,

     170.                                                                                                                              32 ; Rudberg, 33'; Lloyd, 33 ; Ross,

                                                                                                                                       33 ;  Estcourt,  35 ;  Freycinet,  35
                                                                                                                                                                                       ;

                                                                                                                                       Forbes, 41 general table of inten-
                                                                                                                                                                                        ;

                                                                                                                                       sities, 42; general conclusions,   63
                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

                                                                                                                                       Fuss's observations, 497.

Johnston (Prof.) on dimorphous bo-                                                                                                     Manufactures of Dukhun, on the, 325.

dies, 163 ; isodimorphous groups,                                                                                                      Medical Section, reports of the, 139
168; monomorphous groups, 175;
of analogous chemical groups, which                                                                                                    161.

                                                                                                                                       Minerals of Dukhun, 229.

taken singly are monomorphous,                                                                                                         Mines, on the temperature of, 134.

but which as groups are dimorphous,                                                                                                    Monomorphous groups, table of, 175.

185; of bodies assuming two or                                                                                                         Music for the blind, 97.

more series of unlike physical pro-

perties, but of which the crystalline                                                                                                  Nutation, determination of the con-
                                                                                                                                           stant of, 127.
form belonging to each series has

not yet been determined, 187 ; of                                                                                                      Plants, on their growth in closed glass
crystallized bodies not known to as-
sume more than one form, which                                                                                                         vessels, 501.

yet exhibit unlike physical proper-                                                                                                    Printing for the blind, on the various

ties in different portions of their                                                                                                    modes of, 87 ;   mathematics, 96
mass, 192 ; of epigene and pseudo-                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;
morphous crystals, 194; of trimor-
                                                                                                                                       music, 97; a comparison between

                                                                                                                                       the advantages and disadvantages

phous bodies, 1 97 ; relation of di-                                                                                                   of the common Roman and arbi-

morphism and molecular arrange-                                                                                                        trary alphabets, 98.

ment in general, to temperature,                                                                                                       Pseudomorphous mineral substances,

electricity, and mechanical pressure,                                                                                                  list of, 195.

199 ;  eause of dimorphism, 203
                                                                                                                                    ;

extent of dimorphism, 206 ; rela-                                                                                                      Quetelet's (M.) magnetic observations,
                                                                                                                                           26.
tion of the crystalline doctrine of

dimoi'phism to the chemical doctrine

of isomorphism, 209; desiderata,                                                                                                       Rees (Dr.) on the analysis of the
                                                                                                                                          glands, &c. of the human body, 149.
214.
                                                                                                                                       Reptilia of Dukhun, 251.
Keilhau's (M.) magnetic observations,                                                                                                  Rivers of Dukhun, 257, 259, 260.
     22.                                                                                                                               Robison (Sir J.) on waves, 417.
                                                                                                                                       Robinson (Rev. Dr.) on the determi-
King's (Capt.) observations on the
    magnetic intensity of the earth,                                                                                                       nation of the constant of nutation
                                                                                                                                          by the Greenwich observations, 127.
     15.                                                                                                                               Ross's (Capt.) magnetic observations,

Kupffer's (M.) magnetic observations,                                                                                                      33.

    25.
                                           153

Rossel's observations of the variations    Tidal wave, on the, 417.
   of the magnetic intensity, 3.           Tide observations, results of, 103.
                                           Todd (Dr.) on the motions and sounds
Rudberg's magnetical observations,
    33.                                        of the heart, 155.

Russell's (J.S.) report on waves, 417.     Trap Rocks of Dukhun, structure and
                                               mineral composition of, 227.
Sabine (Major) on the variations of
    the magnetic intensity observed at     Trimorphous bodies, 197.
    different points of the earth's sur
    face, 1, 497.                          Veins, metallic, on the electricity of,
                                                133.
Secretions, on the composition of,
    139.                                   Ward (N. I.) on the growth of plants

Statistics of Dukhun, 217.                     in closed glass vessels, 501.
Sykes (Lt.-Col.) on the statistics of      Waves, researches on, 417.

   Dukhun, 21 7.                           Weights and measures of Dukhun,

Taylor (Rev. W.) on thevarious modes            327.
                                           Williams (Dr.) on the motions and
    of printing for the use of the blind,
     87.                                       sounds of the heart, 155.
Temperature of mines, 134.
                                            Yates's (J.) report on the growth of
Thomson (Thos.) on the composition              plants in closed glass vessels, 501.
    of cast iron produced by cold and
                                            Zoology of Dukhun, 245.
    hot blast, 117.

             INDEX II.

MISCELLANEOUS COMMUNICATIONS TO THE

                            SECTIONS.

Aerial currents of the temperate           Apjohn, (Dr.) on a new variety of
   zones, on the probable causes of, 34.
                                               alum, 49.
Alcohol and nitric acid, on the specific   Arabian leprosy, 128.

    heats of, 43.                          Amott (Dr.) on safety lights formines,
Allis (T.) on the sclerotic bones of the
                                               54.
   eye in birds and reptiles, 98.
Alum, new variety of, 49.                  Ashes of plants, on, 103.
Andrews (Dr.) on the action of nitric      Ashworth (Mr.) on the state of edu-

    acid on certain metals, 57.                cation in Bolton in 1837, 138.
Anemometer, Whewell's principle of,                 on the strike of the cotton spin-

    32 ; observations with, 32.                ners of Preston, 140.
       , new registering, 33.              Atmosphere, on Poisson's theory of the

Antiinonial compound, applicable as            constitution of the, 31.
    a pigment, 58.                         Aurora borealis, on its occurrence in

Apjohn (Dr.) on a new chemical com-           England during summer, 28.

    pound, 48.                             Babington (C. C.) notice of a botanical
154

    excursion to Guernsey and Jersey,       Clarke (Dr.) on the calculations of
     103.                                        gases, 57.
Bache's (Prof.) researches on radia-
                                            Clarke (Rev. W. D.) on the pheno-
     tion, on, 20.                             mena of the plastic clay formation,
Bellingham (Dr.) on the motions of
                                                near Poole, 93.
     the heart, 114.
                                            --Coal : on the smelting of iron with
Bermingham (Mr.) on reclaiming the
    hog of Critt, in Gal way, 139.              anthracite coal, 52; on the unity
                                                of the coal deposits of England and
Bickersteth (Mr.) on the milk of ga-            Wales, 75 ; coal district of South
    lactodendron utile, 102.                    Lancashire, 77; coal-measures of
                                               West Lancashire, 81 ; dislocations
Bird (Dr. G.) on the crystallization of         of the coal strata in Wigan, 82;
    metals hy voltaic action, 45.               South Welsh coal basin, 83 ; Penn-
                                                sylvanian coal-field, 96.
Birt (Mr.) on the probable causes of        Cotton spinners of Preston, results of
    the aerial currents of the temperate        the strike of, 140.
    zones, 34.                              Crane (G.) on the smelting of iron
                                                with anthracite coal, 52.
Black (Dr.) on the epidemic influenza
    at Bolton-le-Moors, 115.                Crook (Dr. W. H.) on the unity of the
                                               coal deposits of England and Wales,
Black (W.) on the influence of elec-
    tricity on the process of brewing, 58.       75.

Blackburn (C.) on some new proper-          Cunningham (J.) on a method of con-
                                                structing magnets, 38.
    ties of geometric series, 2.
Blood, on albuminous principles ex-         Curtis ( W. J.) on a flexible suspension

    isting in the, 125.                         bridge, 132.
Bolton, state of education in, 138.         Crystallization of metals by voltaic
Botany, 97.
Brain, on the uses of the ventricles            action, 45.
                                            Crystallized metallic copper, 47.
   and convolutions of the, 123.
Brett (R. H.) on the physical and che-      Dalton (Dr.) on the non-production
                                                of carhonic acid by plants, 58.
    mical characters of expectoration in
    different diseases of the lungs, 125.   Davy (Prof.) on a new gaseous com-
Brewing, influence of electricity on           pound of carbon and hydrogen, 50.
    the process of, 58.
Brewster (Sir D.) on the cause of the       Death, from a blow on the stomach,
                                                on the cause of, 104.
   optical phenomena in the crystal-
                                            De la Rive (Prof.) on an optical pha?-
    line lens during the absorption of         nomenon observed at Mont Blanc,
    distilled water, 11.
                                                 10.
       on a new property of light, 12.
       on a new structure in the dia-               on the interference of electro-
   mond, 13.                                    magnetic currents, 27.

Carbon and hydrogen, new gaseous            Denham (Capt.) on the tidal capacity
   compound of, 50.                            of the Mersey estuary, &c, 85.

Carlile (H.) on the structure of the        Devon, on the grauwacke of, 95.
   sacrum in man, 112.                      Diamond, a new structure in the, 13.
                                            Dick (J.) on a new form of iron bottle
Carson (Dr.) on the motion of the
   blood in the head, and on the uses          for obtaining oxygen from peroxide
   of the ventricles and convolutions of       of manganese, 58.
    the brain, 123.                         Dickson (Sir D. J. H.} on laceration
                                                of the rectus abdominis muscle,
Chemical compound, new, 48.                     124.
Chemistry, 38--58.                          Dublin magnetical observatory, 20.
Christie (S. H.) on a singular optical      Ducane (Capt.) on the metamorphism
                                                of a species of crustacean, 98.
   phenomenon seen at sunset, 15.           Dundee, on the tides of, 5.
        on the occurrence of the aurora
                                            Earth, on the refrigeration of the, 91.
   borealis in England during summer,

    28.

Clanny (Dr.) on a new telegraph, 131.
                                              155

--Education : educational statistics of       Hall's (E.) mineral map of Derby-

    Sidlesham, 140 ; state of education           shire, 91.
    in York, 144.
Electrical researches, by Prof. Henry,        Hall (G. W.) on improvements in
    22.
Electricity, its influence on the process         agriculture, 139.
    of brewing, 58.
Electro-magnetic apparatus, for the           Ham (J.) on the mud deposited by the
   production of electricity of high in-
    tensity, 24.                                 tidal waters of the Severn, Usk, and
                                                 Avon, 76.
       currents, on the interference of,27.
Ettrick (W.) on Prof. Wheatstone's            Hamilton's (Sir W. R.) exposition of

    determination of the velocity of elec-       the argument of Abel, respecting
    tric light, 28.                               equations of the fifth degree, 1
                                                 new applications of the calculus of
        on browning gun-barrels, 57.              principal relations, 1; exposition of
        on a new method of obtaining an          Mr. Turner's theorem of odd num-
    artificial horizon at sea, 1 36.             bers, and the cubes and other
Evanson (Dr.) on the functions of the            powers of natural numbers, 1.
    brain, 108.                               Hancock (Dr.) on the disease called
Expectoration, in different diseases of          Cocobae by the Africans, 128.
   the lungs, the physical and chemi-         Hare (Prof.) on fusing platina, 41.
    cal characters of, 125.                   Hare (S.) on the curvature of the
                                                  spine, 114.
Felkin (W.) on the amount of work-            Hartley (J. B.) on preventing the
   men's wages, and their misappro-               corrosion of cast and wrought iron
                                                 immersed in salt water, 56.
    priation, 148.                            Hawkins (J. I.) on the focal length of
Filaria, on, 97.
                                                   spectacles, 132.
Fishes of the Ludlow rocks, 91.                        on mechanical sculpture, 136.
Forbes (E.) on new and rare British
                                              Heart, on the motions of the, 114.
    plants and animals, 102.                  Henry (Prof.), electrical researches
Fossil vegetables, 59; wood andplants,
                                                   by,. 22.
   discovered low down in the grau-
                                                      on canals and railways in Ame-
    wacke, 94.
Fripp (C. B.) on the condition of the             rica, 135.

    poor at Bristol, 139.                     Henwood (W. J.) on the higher tem-
                                                  perature which prevails in the slate
Gardner (G.) on the internal structure
    of the palm tribe, 102.                       than in the granite of Cornwall, 30.
                                                       on some intersections of veins in
Gaseous compound of carbon and hy-
                                                  the Dolcoath and Huel Prudence
     drogen, 50.
 Geology, 59.                                      mines, in Cornwall, 74.
                                                        on-the expansive action of steam,
 Geometric series, on some new pro-
                                                   129.
      perties of, 2.                                   on the geology of the coal district

 Glaciers, on the mechanism of the                of South Lancashire, 77.
    movement of, 64.                           Hitchcock (Prof.) on foot impressions

 Glasgow, on the tides of, 5.                     in the new red sandstone, 60.
 Glosso-pharyngeal nerve, 109.                 Holland (Dr.) on the influence of re-
 Gold (Col. C.) on the possibility of
                                                  spiration on the circulatory system,
     effecting telegraphic communica-              104; on the cause of death from a
     tions during foggy weather, 38.              blow on the stomach, 104.
 Gould (J.) on the Trogonidaj, 97.
 Gray 's (J. E.) notice of some in tercsting  Hope (Rev. F. W.) on Filaria, 97.
    mammalia, 99 ; new land shells,100.        Hopkins (W.) on the refrigeration of

           on Victoria Regina, 100.                the earth, 91.
 Griffith (R.) on the leading features
                                               Hydrogen and carbon, new gaseous
      of the geology of Ireland, 88.              compound of, 50.

                                               Influenza at Bolton-le-Moors, on the,
                                                   115.

                                               Ireland, on the new red sandstone of,
156

    88 ; on the leading features of the         magnetic apparatus for the produc-
    geology of, 88.                             tion of electricity of high intensity,
Iron, for railways, quality of, 134.
                                                 24.
       , immersed in salt water, on pre-
    venting its corrosion, 56.               Mackie (D.) on the tides of Dundee
                                                and Glasgow, 5.
        , smelted with anthracite coal, 52.
                                             Mackintosh (Dr.) on cholera, 107.
Johnston (Prof.) on a variety of ozo-                            on morbid preparations
     cerite, 51.
        on a new compound of nitrate            relating to Dysmenorrhea, 107.
    with oxalate of lead, 52.                                    on diseased lungs from

Kane (Dr.) on pyroacetic acid, 52.               sand respired, 108.
Kingsley (Mr.) on a new perspective
                                             Madden (Dr.) on the connexion be-
    drawing board, 135.                         tween the nerves and muscles, 106.

Lancashire, on the geology of the coal       Maecenas, colossal bust of, presented
    district of, 77 ; on the coal measures
     of, 81.                                     to the Association, xliii.
                                             Magnetical observatory at Dublin, 20.
Lang (Mr.) on vessels with safety
                                             Magnets, method of constructing, 38.
     keels, 135.                             Mallet (R.) on the formation of cry-
Lardner (Dr.) on the resistance to
                                                 stallized metallic copper in Crone-
    railway trains, 132.                         bane copper mine, and of native sul-
        , on application of steam to long
                                             --phate of iron and copper, 47.
    voyages, 136.                               -- on the mechanism of the move-
                                                ment of glaciers, 64.
Lead, oxalate of, new compound of                     on the power of aged trees to re-
                                                 produce themselves, 102.
     nitrate with, 52.
                                             Manchester Statistical Society, on the
Leitheed (W.), on a new safety lamp,             condition of the working classes,
                                                 141 ; on the state of education in
     131.
Lens, crystalline, 11.                         --York, 144.
Leprosy, on the cure of, 128.
Liehig (Prof.) on the products of the        Mathematics and physics, 1 30.
                                             Mechanical science, 129.
     decomposition of uric acid, 3S.         Medical science, 104.
                                             Merritt (Mr.) on the state of educa-
Light, on a new property of, 12.
       , on Von Wrede's explanation of            tion in Liverpool, 138.
                                             Mersey, on the tidal capacity of the,
     the absorption of, 16.
        , on the dispersion of, 18.               85.
                                             Meteorological committee, proceed-
Limax variegatus, in the human in-
                                                  ings of the, 37.
     testines, 98.
 Lindley (Dr.) on the structure and af-      Meteorology, &c, 31--38.
                                             Miller (Prof.) on the unequal expan-
     finities of Orobanchacea?, 101.
 Liverpool, state of crime in, 139 ; ac-          sion of minerals in different direc-
                                                 tions by heat, 43.
    count of the inhabited courts and         Minerals, on their unequal expansion
     cellars in, 143.                            in different directions by heat, 43.
Lloyd's (Rev. Prof.) account ofthemag-       Mines, safety lights for, 54, 131.
     netical observatory at Dublin, 20.
 Logan (Mr.) on the South Welsh coal         Mont Blanc, on an optical phaenomenon

     basin, 83.                                  observed at, 10.
                                             Morrison (Lt.) on an instrument for
 Lubbock (J. W.) on M. Poisson's
                                                 measuring the electricity of the at-
     theory of the constitution of the at-       mosphere, 38.
     mosphere, 31.                           Moseley (Prof.) on the equilibrium of
                                                  the arch, 133.
Lyell (C.) on certain phenomena con-         Murchison (R. I.) on the fishes of the
                                                 Ludlow rocks, 91.
     nected with the junction of granite     Mushet (D.) on the waste experienced
    and transition rocks in Norway, 67.          by hot and cold blast iron during
                                                  the process of refining, 56.
 M'Gauley (Rev. J.W.) on an electro-
                                             157

Musliet (D.) on the quality of iron for      Railway balance lock, 129.
    railways, 134.                                    trains, on the resistance of, 132.

Nerves and muscles, connexion be-            Railways, on the quality of iron for,
                                                 134.
tween the, 106.                                       in America, on, 135.

Nitric acid and alcohol, on the specific     Rain-gauge, new registering, 33.
                                             Reade (Rev. J. B.) on the ashes of
heats of, 43.
                                                 plants, 103.
Niven (Mr.) on vegetable physiology,                  on the chemical composition of

102.  .                                         vegetable membrane and fibre, 104.
                                             Reid (Dr.) on the glosso-pharyngeal,
Optical phsenomena, in the crystalline
   lens during the absorption of distilled       pneumogastric, and spinal accessory
    water, cause of, 11.
                                                 nerve, 109.
Optical phenomenon, observed at
   Mont Blanc, 10.                           Remington (G.) on a railway balance

                , singular, seen at sunset,      lock, 129.
                                             Respiration, its influence on the circu-
     15.
                                                 latory system, 104.
Orobanchaceas, structure and affinities      Rigg's (R.) inquiry into a peculiar pro-
    of, 101.
                                                  perty of the earth, 50.
Osier (F.) on a new registei'ing ane-        Rivers, steam navigation of, 131.
   mometer and rain-gauge, 33.
                                                     , improvements in tidal rivers,
Owen (Prof.) on the production of ca-             131.
    taract by a worm, 98.                     Robinson (Rev. Dr.) on the parallax of
                                                 a Lyra?, 3.
Ozocerite, on a variety of, 51.               Russell (J. S.) on the mechanism of
                                                  waves, in relation to steam naviga-
Parallax of « Lyra?, 3.                           tion, 130.
Peace (W.) on the dislocations of the
                                                       on improvements in tidal rivers,
   coal strata in Wigan, 82.                       131.
Pearsall (T. J.) on the action of water
                                                       on the construction of sea walls
   upon lead, 58.                                 and embankments, 133.
Pennsylvania, bituminous coal field of,
                                              Scotland, on the changes which have
    96.                                           taken place in the levels of, 85.

Phillips (SirT.), method of destroying        Sedgwick (Prof.) on the incursion of
   insects which attack books, &c, 99.           the sea into the collieries at Work-

Phillips (H.) on the bituminous coal               ington, 75.
    field of Pennsylvania, 96.                Shells, new, 100.

Physiology, vegetable, 102.                   Simpson (J. G.) on the contagiousness
Platina, method of fusing, 41.                     of cholera, 108.
Pneumogastric nerve, 109.
Poisson's (M.) theory of the constitu-        Slaney (Mr.) on wages in manufactu-
                                                   ring districts, 138.
    tion of the atmosphere on, 31.
Porter (G. R.) on the trade between            Smelting of iron with anthracite coal,
                                                   52.
   the United Kingdom and the United
                                               Smith (J.) on the changes which have
     States, 136.                                  taken place in the levels of Scotland,

Portlock (Capt.) on the new red sand-               85.
    stone of England and Ireland, 88.                  , notice of undescribed shells, 100.

Powell (Prof.) on Von Wrede's expla-           Southwood's (Mr.) account of his ob-
                                                  servations with Mr. "Whewell's ane-
     nation of the absorption of light, 16        mometer, 33.
    on the dispersion of light, 18.
                                               Soyres (Rev. F. De), educational sta-
          on experiments relative to the           tistics of Sidlesham, 140.
    influence of surfaces on radiation,
                                               Spain, on the geology of, 70.
     20.                                       Spinal accessory nerve, 112.
                                               Spine, on the curvature of, 114.
 Pump, Treffos, on the, 129.

Radiation, on experiments relative to
    influence of surfaces on, 20.
158

 Spineto (Marquis) on the results of         Walmsley (Mr.) on the state of crime
     trials made for water in the desert
     between Suez and Cairo, 66.                 in Liverpool, 139.

  Statistics, 136.                          Warren (Dr.) on some crania found in
                                                North America, 108.
 Steam navigation, mechanism of waves
                                            Watson (B. L.) on telegraphic com-
      in relation to, 130.                      munication on railways, 131.

 Strickland (H. E.) on the nature and       Waves, mechanism of, in relation to
     origin of transported gravel, 61.          steam navigation, 130.

 Sulphate of iron and copper of Crone-      West (W.) on the ventilation of tun-
     bane copper mine, 47.
                                                nels, 136.
 Survey for level, from Bridgewater to      Wheels, on the teeth of, 135.
    Axmouth, 59.
                                            Whewell (Rev. W.) on tides, 4.
 Suspension bridge, flexible, 132.                  on the principle of his anemo-

 Taylor (J.) on the duty of the Cornish         meter, 32.
     engines, 133.                          Williams (Dr. D.) on limax variega-

Taylor (Dr. W. C), report of the Uni-          tus in the human intestines, 98.
   versity of New York, 139.                Williams (Rev. D.) on some fossil wood

Thomson (Dr.) on the specific heats            and plants discovered low down in
    of nitric acid and alcohol, 43.            the grauwacke of Devon, 94.
                                           Williams (J.) on the Treffos pump,
Tidal capacity of the Mersey, 85.
Tidal rivers, on improvements in, 131.          129.
Tides, on, 4 ; of Dundee and Glasgow,       Williams (Mr.) on preventing the dan-

     5.                                        gers of collision, and of fire in vessels,
                                                133.
Traill (Dr.) on an antimonial com-         Williamson (W. C.) on the coal-mea-
   pound applicable as a pigment, 5S.          sures of West Lancashire, 81.
           on the geology of Spain, 70.    Willis (Prof.) on the teeth of wheels,
       , notice of Argas Persicus, 98.
                                                135.
Tunnels, ventilation of, 136.              Wrede's explanation of the absorption

Undulatory theory of light, 16.                of light, on, 16.
Uric acid, on the products of the de-
                                           Yates (J.) on fossil vegetables from
    composition of, 38.
Urquhart (Mr.) on the plague in Con-          the new red sandstone of Worcester-

    stantinople, 139.                          shire, 59.
                                           Yelloly (Dr.) on spade husbandry,
Ventilation of tunnels, on the, 136.
Voltaic action, crystallization of metals      139.
                                           York, state of education in, 144.
    by, 45.
                                           Zoology, 97.

     END OF THE SIXTH VOLUME.

                       LONDON

     PRINTED BY RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR,
             RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCE-
               MENT OF SCIENCE.

                                                Price 13s. 6d. in boards,

  THE Second Edition of the REPORT of the FIRST and SECOND
MEETINGS of the BRITISH ASSOCIATION, held at York and Oxford

in 1831 and 1832.

 -- --Contents : Prof. Airy, on the Progress of Astronomy ; J. W. Lubbock,
-- --Esq., on the Tides; Prof. Forbes, on the Present State of Meteorology ; Prof.
--Powell, on the Present State of the Science of Radiant Heat; Prof, dim-
--ming, on Thermo-Electricity; Sir David Brewster, on the Progress of
-- --Optics ; Rev. W. Whewell, on the Present State of Mineralogy ; Rev. W.
--D. Conybeare, on the Recent Progress and Present State of Geology ; Dr.

Prichard's review of Philological and Physical Researches.

   Together with Papers on Mathematics, Optics, Acoustics, Magnetism, Elec-
tricity, Chemistry, Meteorology, Geography, Geology, Zoology, Anatomy, Phy-
siology, Botany, and the Arts; and an Exposition of the Object and Plan of
the Association, &c.

                                                   Price 12s. in boards,

  REPORT of the THIRD MEETING of the BRITISH ASSOCIA-

TION, held at Cambridge in 1833.

 -- --Contents: Proceedings of the Meeting; Mr. John Taylor, on Mineral
-- --Veins; Dr. Lindley, on the Philosophy of Botany ; Dr. Henry, on the Phy-
--siology of the Nervous System; Mr. Peter Barlow, on the Strength of Ma-
-- --terials; Mr. S.H.Christie, on the Magnetism of the Earth; Rev. J. Challis,
--on the Analytical Theory of Hydrostatics and Hydrodynamics ; Mr. George
--Ronnie, on Hydraulics as a Branch of Engineering, Parti.; Rev. G. Peacock,

on certain Branches of Analysis.

   Together with Papers on Mathematics and Physics, Philosophical Instruments
and Mechanical Arts, Natural History, Anatomy, Physiology, and History of

Science.

          Price 15s. in boards,

REPORT of the FOURTH MEETING of the BRITISH ASSOCIA-

TION, held at Edinburgh in 1834.

 -- --Contents : Mr. H. D. Rogers, on the Geology of North America ; Dr. C.
--Henry, on the Laws of Contagipn ; Prof. Clark, on Animal Physiology;
-- --Rev. L. Jenyns, on Zoology ; Rev. J. Challis, on Capillary Attraction; Prof.
--Lloyd, on Physical Optics ; Mr. G. Rennie, on Hydraulics, Part II.

Together with the Transactions of the Sections, and Recommendations of

the Association and its Committees.

                                                Price 13s. 6d. in boards,

  REPORT of the FIFTH MEETING of the BRITISH ASSOCIA-

TION, held at Dublin in 1835.
 --Contents: Rev. W. Whewell, on the Recent Progress and Present Con-

dition of the Mathematical Theories of Electricity, Magnetism, and Heat;

--M. A. Quetelet, Apercu de l'Etat actuel des Sciences Math6matiques
--chez les Beiges ; Captain Edward Sabine, on the Phaenomena of Terrestrial

Magnetism.
   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, and Recommendations of

the Association and its Committees.

                                                    Price 12s. in boards,

  REPORT of the SIXTH MEETING of the BRITISH ASSOCIA-

TION, held at Bristol in 1836.

 --Contents : Prof. Daubeny, on the Present State of our Knowledge with
--respect to Mineral and Thermal Waters ; Major Edward Sabine, on the

Direction and Intensity of the Terrestrial Magnetic Force in Scotland;

--Mr. John Richardson, on North American Zoology ; Rev. J. Challis, on the
--Mathematical Theory of Fluids; Mr. J. T. Mackay, a Comparative View

of the more remarkable Plants which characterize the neighbourhood of

--Dublin and Edinburgh, and the South-west of Scotland, &c. ; Mr. J. T.

Mackay, Comparative geographical notices of the more remarkable Plants

--which characterize Scotland and Ireland; Report of the London Sub-Com-

mittee of the Medical Section on the Motions and Sounds of the Heart;
Second Report of the Dublin Sub-Committee on the Motions and Sounds of the

--Heart ; Report of the Dublin Committee on the Pathology of the Brain and
--Nervous System ; J. W. Lubbock, Esq., Account of the recent Discussions of
--Observations of the Tides; Rev. Baden Powell, on determining the Refractive
--Indices for the Standard Rays of the Solar Spectrum in various media ; Dr.

Hodgkin, on the Communication between the Arteries and Absorbents ;

--Prof. Phillips, Report of Experiments on Subterranean Temperature ; Prof.

Hamilton, on the Validity of a Method recently proposed by George B.
Jerrard, Esq., for Transforming and Resolving Equations of Elevated Degrees.

   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, and Recommendations of
the Association and its Committees.

  LITHOGRAPHED SIGNATURES of the MEMBERS who met at

Cambridge in 1833, with the Proceedings of the Public Meetings. 4to.
Price 4s. (To Members, 3s.)

   N.B. Members of the Association are entitled to purchase from the Local

&Treasurers, at the Depots, or at the Office of Messrs.R. J. E. Taylor, Printers,

Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, London, at the following prices : Vol. I. 9s.;

Vol. II. 8s. ; Vol. III. 10s.; Vol. IV. 9s. ; Vol. V. 8s.
                  LIST

               OF MEMBERS

                                            OF THE

BRITISH ASSOCIATION

                                  FOR THE

     ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE.

                            TO WHICH ARE ADDED

A LIST OF THE OFFICERS, RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION,
              AND CONTENTS OF THE REPORTS
                       ALREADY PUBLISHED.

                       LONDON:

           PRINTED BY RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR,

                                        RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
                                                    1838.
LIFE MEMBERS.

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OF SUSSEX,

              PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY.

                             A.                                             B.

Abbatt, Richard, F.R.S., Epping, Essex.    Babbage, Charles, F.R.S. L. and E.,
Abbott, Joseph, 16, Gloucester Street,        Lucasian Prof, of Mathematics, Cam-
                                              bridge, 1, Dorset St., London.
    Dublin.
                                           Babbage, B. H., London.
Abell, Joshua, 27, Eustace St., Dublin.    Babington, C. C, M.A., St. John's Coll.,
Abercrombie,John,M.D.,F.R.S.E.,Edin-
                                               Cambridge.
    burgh.                                 Bache, Rev. Samuel, Edgbaston, Bir-

Ablet, Joseph, Ruthin, North Wales.           mingham.
Abraham, J. H., F.L.S., Sheffield.         Backhouse, Thos. Jas., Sunderland.
Acland, SirT.D., Bart., Killerton, Devon.  Bagot, Thomas N., County of Galway.
Adair, John, 11, Mountjoy Sq., Dublin.     Bailey, Samuel, Sheffield.
Adam, Walter, M.D., Edinburgh.             Bald, John, Dublin.
Adamson, J., F.L.S., F.S.A., M.R.S.L.,     Baldwin, Rev. J., M.A., Christ's College,

    Newcastle-upon-Tyne.                       Cambridge.
Adare, Lord Viscount, B.A., Dublin.        Ball, John, 85, Stephen's Green South,
Adeane, H. J., Babraham, Cambridge-
                                               Dublin.
    shire.                                 Ball, Richard, Taunton.
                                           Ball, Robert, M.R.I.A., Mountjoy Sq.
Ainsworth, Peter, M.P., Bolton.
Airy, G. B., Astron. Royal, Greenwich.         North, Dublin.
Alderson, James, M.D., Hull.               Barclay, Charles, F.A.S., F.G.S., Bury
Alexander, Edward N., F.S.A., Sec. Lit.
                                               Hill, Dorking.
   and Phil. Soc, Halifax.                 Barker, Francis, M.D., Prof. Chem., T.C.,
Alexander, Robert, F.R.S., 5, Essex
                                               Dublin.
    Court, Temple.                         Barker, Richard, M.D., M.R.D.S., 123,
Allen, William, 50, Henry St., Dublin.
Allis, Thomas, York.                           Great Britain Street, Dublin.
Allman, W., Prof, of Botany, Dublin.       Barlow, Edward, Bristol.
Alston, John, Glasgow.                     Barlow, Francis, Lower Gardiner Street,
Amery, John. F.S.A., Stourbridge.
Andrews, Thomas, M.D., Belfast.                Dublin.
Anthony, Charles, Clifton.                 Barlow, Major, 5, Gr. George St., Dublin.
Apjohn, James, M.D., Prof, of Chemistry,   Barlow, Peter, 5, Gr. George St., Dublin.
                                           Barnes, Rev. Joseph W., M.A., Fellow of
    Royal Coll. Surg., Dublin.
Armstrong, George, India Buildings, Li-        Trinity College, Cambridge.
                                           Baron, John, M.D., F.R.S., Gloucester.
    verpool.
                                           Barton, John, 44, Mary Street, Dublin.
Arnott, G. A. Walker, Kinross-shire.       Bateman, James, F.L.S., Knypersly
Arnott, Neill, M.D., 38, Bedford Sq.
Arrow, John James, Edinburgh.                  Hall, near Congleton.
Ash, Rev. E. J., M.A., Tutor of Christ's
                                           Bateson, James Glynn, 36, Anne Street,
    Coll., Cambridge.
Ashhurst, Rev. T. H., D.C.L., All-Souls'        Liverpool.
                                           Bayldon, John, York.
    College, Oxford.                       Bayley, Rev. J., M.A., Eton.
Ashton, Thomas, Hyde, Cheshire.
Ashton, Thomas, Jun., Hyde, Cheshire.      Beale, Samuel, Birmingham.
                                           Beale, Capt., Toronto, Upper Canada.
Ashworth, Edmund, Manchester.              Beamish, Richard, Sans Souci, Cork.
Ashworth, Henry, Manchester.               Bean, R. H., Blackwell Hill, near Bristol.
Aspland, Rev. Robert, Hackney.             Beaufoy, Henry, F.R.S., South Lambeth.
Aspland, Rev. R. Brooke, M.A., Bristol.    Belcombe, H.S., M.D., York.
Atkinson, James, York.                     Belgrave, Rev. T., M.A.,North Kilworth,

Auldjo, John, F.G.S., London.                   Leicestershire.

                                           Bell, Jacob, 338, Oxford Street.
                                                                           a2
LIFE MEMBERS.

Bell, Thomas, F.R.S., F.L.S., Prof, of      Brabant, R. II., M.D., Devizes.
   Zoology, King's College, London, 17,     Bradshaw, Rev. John, Lambey Parson-

  New Broad Street.                         age, Lisburne.

Bell, Thomas, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.          Brady, D. F., 58, Old Dominick Street,
Bell, William, Edinburgh.
Bellingham, Sir Alan, Castle Bellingham.    Dublin.
Bengough, Geo., Cotham Lodge,. Clifton.
Benson, Robert, Jun., Liverpool.            Braham, John, Bristol.
Bergin, Thomas F., 5, Westland Row,         Brancker, Rev. Thomas, Fellow of Wad-

    Dublin.                                    ham College, Oxford.
Bickersteth, Rob., Rodney St., Liverpool.
                                            Brandreth, I. M., Preston.
Bingham, Rev. Wm., B.A., St. Mary's
                                            Bridstock, W. P., F.G.S., Stoke Hill,
    Hall, Oxford.
Birks, J. R., Trinity College, Cambridge.   Guildford.
Birmingham, Thos., Kilmanna, Kilconnel.
Black, James, M.D., Bolton.                 Briggs, Col. John, M.R.I. A., London.

Blackburn, BewicV.e, Clapham Common.        HamBright, Rich.,  Green, near Bristol.
Blackburn, Charles, B.A., 40, Ken-
                                            Brisbane, Sir Thomas M., K.C.B., M.A.,
    sington Square.
                                              Cam., F.R.S.L. & E., Makerstown,
Blackburne, Rev. John, Attercliffe, Shef-
                                            Kelso.
      field.
                                            Brocklebank, Thomas, Mount Pleasant,
Blackburne, Rt. Hon. Francis, Dublin.
Blackmore, John, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.       Liverpool.
Blackwall, John, F.L.S., Crumpsall Hall,
                                            Brooke, Charles, Gower Street.
    Manchester.
Blackwell, Thos. E., Hungerford, Berks.     Brooke, H. J., F.R.S., F.G.S., Stockwell
Blake, Malachi, M.D., Taunton.
Blake, William, Crewkerne.                  Place.
Bland, Rev. Miles, D.D., F.R.S., F.A.S.,
                                            Brown, G. B., Halifax.
    Ramsgate.
Blanshard, William, York.                   Brown, Robert, D.C.L., F.R.S.L. & E.,
Blick, Rev. C, B.D., Fellow of St. John's
                                               V.P.L.S., M.R.I.A., &c, 17, Dean St.,
    College, Cambridge.
Bliss, Rev. Philip, D.C.L., Registrar of    Soho.

    the University of Oxford.               Brown, Alex., Richmond Hill, Liverpool.

Blood, W. Bindon, F.R.S.E., &c, Edin-       Brown, John, F.G.S., Colchester.

     burgh.                                 Brown, Wm., Richmond Hill, Liverpool.
Blore, Edward, F.S.A., 62, Welbeck St.      Bruce, Halliday, M.R.D.S., 37, Dame
Blundell, R.H., Liverpool.
 Blunt, Henrv, Shrewsbury.                      Street, Dublin.
Boase, C. W", M.G.S.C., Dundee.
Boddington, Benj., Badger Hall, Shiffnall,  Brunei, I. K., F.R.S., 18, Duke Street,

      Salop.                                Westminster.

 Bodley, Thomas, Brighton.                  Bryce, James, M.A., F.G.S., Belfast.
Bolton, R. L., Gambier Terr., Liverpool.
 Bond, H.I.H., M.D., Cambridge.             Bryce, Rev. R. J., LL.D., Principal of
 Bond, Walter M., Armagh.
 Boothman, Thomas, Manchester.              the Academy, Belfast.
 Botfield, Beriah, Norton Hall, Daventry.
 Botfield, Thos., F.R. and G.S., Hopton     Buchanan, D.C., Everton, Liverpool.

     Court, near Bewdley.                   Buckland, Rev. William, D.D.,V.P.G.S.,
 Boult, E.S., Chatham Street, Liverpool.
 Bourne, J.D., Rodney Street, Liverpool.    F.R.S., Canon of Christ Church, Prof,

 Bowman, J. E., Elm Place, New Stret-       of Geology, Oxford.

     ford Road, Manchester.                 Buddie, John, Wallsend, Newcastle.

 Bowstead, Rev. James, M. A., Fellow of     Bulman, John, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.

     Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.     Bunch, Rev. R. J., M.A., Fellow of Em-
 Boyle, Alex., M.R.D.S., 35, College
                                               manuel College, Cambridge.
     Green, Dublin
                                            Burchell, W. J., F.L.S., Fulham.

                                            Burgoyne, Col., M.R.I. A., Board of
                                               Works, Dublin.

                                            Burke, Francis, 5, Upper Rutland St.,

                                            Dublin.

                                            Burlington, Earl of, F.R.S., Chancellor of

                                            the University of London, 10, Belgrave

                                            Square.

                                            Burn, William, F.R.S., Edinburgh.

                                            Bushell, C, Bedford Street, Liverpool.

                                            Buxton, Edward North, Upton.
                                            Byng, W. B., Staines.

                                            Cadell, Robert, Edinburgh.
                                            Cairns, Nathan, Liverpool.
LIFE MEMBERS.

Caldwell, Robert, 9, Bachelor's Walk,      Clendining, Alex., Westport, Ireland.
    Dublin.                                Clerke, Rev. C. C., B.D., Archdeacon of

Campbell, Sir H. H. P., Bart, March-           Oxford.
   mont House, Greenlaw, Berwick.          Clonbrock, Lord, Cionbrock, Palmerston.
                                           Cloncurry, Lord, M.R.D.S., Maritimo.
Campbell, Jas., Edinburgh.                 Clough. Rev. A.B., B.D., Jesus College,
Canterbury, His Grace the Archbishop
                                               Oxford.
   of, Lambeth Palace.                     Clow, John, 23, Mt. Pleasant, Liverpool.
Cape, Rev. Jos., M.A., Fellow of Clare     Coathupe, C. T., Wraxall, Somerset.
                                           Colbv, Colonel T. F., Tower.
    Hall, Cambridge.                       Collins, Robert, M.D.,M.R.D.S., 2, Mer-
Carlisle, Thomas, Penpark, Westbury.
Carmichael, Andrew, M.R.I.A., 24," Pa-         rion Square North, Dublin.
                                           Collins, Stephen, Merrion Sq., Dublin.
   lace Row, Dublin.                       Collins, J. V., M.R.D.S., 10, Denzill

Carmichael, H., 18, Hume St., Dublin.          Street, Dublin.
                                           Colthurst, John, Clifton.
Carmichael, Richard, M.R.I. A., Dublin.    Colvile, Sir C. H., Duffield Park, Derby.
Came, Joseph, F.R.S., F.G.S., Penzance,    Combe, George, Edinburgh.

    Cornwall.                              Compton, The Earl, Castle Ashby, North-
Carpenter, Rev. Lant, LL.D., Bristol.
                                               amptonshire.
Carpmall, Wm., Lincoln's Inn, London.      Connell, Arthur, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
                                           Connell, Archibald, Edinburgh.
Cartmell, Dr. William, Carlisle.
Cartmell, James, Corpus Christi College,   Conway, C, Pont-y-newydd Works,Mon-

    Cambridge.                                 mouthshire.
Cartwright, Rev. R. B., Shirehampton.
Cash, George, M.R.I.A., 34, Rutland        Conybeare, Rev. W. D., M.A., F.R.S.,

    Square West, Dublin.                       V.P.G.S., Visitor of Bristol College,
                                              Axminster, Devon.
Castle, Robert, Elm Cottage, Redland,      Cooke, Rev. G. L., B.D., Sedleian Prof.,
                                              Oxford, Pres. Nat. Hist. Soc. Warwick,
     Bristol.                                  Cubington.
                                           Cooke, Rev.T.L., M.A., Magdalen Coll.,
Cattle, Robert, York.                          Oxford.
Cayley, Sir George, Bart., M.P., Bromp-    Cooke, Capt. Adolphus, Cookborough,
                                               Ireland.
    ton, near Malton.                      Cooke, James K., M.A., 71, Blessington
Cayley, Digby, Brompton, near Malton.          Street, Dublin.
Cayley, E. S., M.P., Wydale, Malton.       Cooke, J. B., Exchange Buildings, Li-
Challis, Rev. Prof. James, M.A., Ob-           verpool.
                                           Cooke, Howard, M.D., 71, Blessington
   servatory, Cambridge.                       Street, Dublin.
Chalmers, Rev. Thomas, D.D., Professor     Cooper, Jos., Queen's Coll., Cambridge.
                                           Cooper, Paul, Weston-super-Mare.
   of Divinity in the Univ. of Edinburgh.
                                           Cory, Rev. Robert, B.D., Fellow of Em-
Chance, L. R., New Inn Hall, Bir-
                                              manuel College, Cambridge.
   mingham.                                Cotter, John, Cork.
Chantrey, Sir Fr., D.C.L., R.A., F.R.S.,   Cotton, Wm., Walwood House, Leyton-

    F.G.S., Pimlico.                           stone.
Cheshire, John, Hartford, Cheshire.
                                           Cotton, W. C. Jun., M.A., Christ Church,
Chevallier, Rev. T., B.D., New Town,
                                               Oxford.
    Cambridge.                             Coulter, Thomas, M.D., M.R.I.A., 28,
Christie, S. H., M.A., F.R.S., Professor
                                               Trin. College, Dublin.
   of Mathematics, Woolwich.               Courtney, Rich., 117, Baggot St., Dublin.
Christison, Rob., M.D., F.R.S.E., Prof,
                                           Courtney, Henry, 27, Upper Mount St.,
   of Materia Medica, Edinburgh.
Clare, Peter, Manchester.                      Dublin.
                                           Craig, J. F., Gibson, Edinburgh.
Clark, G. T., 18, Duke St., Westminster.   Crampton, Hon. Judge, 1, Merrion Sq.,
Clark, Sir James, M.D., F.R.S., George
                                               Dublin.
   St., Hanover Square, London.            Crampton, John, M.D., M.R.I.A., 39,
Clark, Francis, Birmingham.
Clark, Courtney R., Ringsend.                  Kildare Street, Dublin.
Clark, Thomas, 123, Baggot St., Dublin.    Crane, George, London.
Clarke, William, M.D., F.G.S., Prof, of

   Anatomy, Cambridge.
Clarke, George, Crumpsall Lodge, Man-

    chester.
Clarkson, Rev. J., B.A., Cambridge.

Clayton, Gen. Browne, K.C., D.C.L.,
    Adlington Hall, Cheshire.
6 LIFE MEMBERS.

Craven, Robert, Hull.                                                                                          Derbishire, S. D., Manchester.
                                                                                                               Derby, The Earl of, F.R.S., F.L.S.,
Cresswell, Cresswell, M.P., London.
                                                                                                                   F.G.S., Knowsley Hall, Lancashire.
Creyke, Rev. Stephen, M.A., York.                                                                              DeTabley, Lord.Tabley House, Cheshire.
                                                                                                                Dickenson, John, 67, Stephen's Green,
Croft, Rev. John, M. A., Fellow of Christ's
                                                                                                                    Dublin.
College, Cambridge.
                                                                                                               Dilke, C. Wentworth, 9, Lower Grosve-
Croker, C. P., M.D., M.R.I.A., Merrion                                                                             nor Place, London.

Square, Dublin.                                                                                                Dircks, H., 7, Boundary St., Liverpool.
                                                                                                               Dixon, W. J., Abercromby Sq., Liverpool.
Crompton, Jos., Edgbaston, Birmingham.                                                                          Dobbin, Leonard, Jun., 23, Gardiner's

Crook, W. H., LL.D., 40, Gloucester                                                                                 Place, Dublin.
  Place, New Road, London.                                                                                      Dollond, George, F.R.S., St. Paul's

Crook, G. W., Town Hall, Liverpool.                                                                                Church Yard, London.
                                                                                                               D'Olier, Isaac, M.R.I.A., Bank of Ire-
Crook, J. T., Wolstonholme Square, Li-
                                                                                                                    land, Dublin.
verpool.                                                                                                        D'Olier, I, M., LL.D., M.R.I.A., IS,

Croome, Rev. John, Bourton-on-the-                                                                                 Baggot St., Dublin.
                                                                                                               Donkin, Thomas, York.
Water.                                                                                                         Douglas, James, Cavers, Roxburghshire.

Crosthwaite, Leland, M.R.D.S., 63,                                                                             Douglas, John, Gyrn, Holywell, N. W.

Fleet Street, Dublin.                                                                                          Dowdall, Hamilton, Belmont, Dublin.
                                                                                                               Downall, Rev. John, Budworth, Notts.
Wm,Cubitt,  M.R.I.A., 6, Great George
                                                                                                               Drake, Rev. James, Kirkthorpe, Wake-
Street, Westminster.
                                                                                                                     field.
Cully, Robert, Bank of Ireland, Dublin.
                                                                                                               Drennan, William, Belfast.
Curtis, J. W., Alton, Hants.                                                                                   Drinkwater, J. E., Barrister, Temple.
                                                                                                               Drummond, Lieut. Thomas, F.R.A.S.,
Cusack, James Wm., M.D., M.R.I.A.,
                                                                                                                   Dublin Castle.
3, Kjldare Street, Dublin.                                                                                     Drummond, R. Home, Blair Drummond.
                                                                                                               Duck, Nehemiah, Ridgeway House, near
                 D.
                                                                                                                     Bristol.
D'Aguilar, Colonel George, Royal Ho-
                                                                                                               Dugard, Thomas, M.D., Shrewsbury.
    spital, Dublin.                                                                                            Duncan, J. F., 37, Marlborough Street,

Dalby, Rev. Wm., Vicarage, Warminster.                                                                             Dublin.
Dalmahoy, James, H.E.I.C.S.
Dalmeny, Lord, Dalmeny Park.                                                                                   Duncan, W. H., M.D., Liverpool.
Dalton, Edw., LL.D., F.S.A., Dunkirk
                                                                                                               Duncan, J., Farnham House, Finglass.
    House, near Minchinhampton.                                                                                Dundas, Major-Gen. Rob., Arlington St.
Dalton, Rev. J. E., M.A., Fellow of                                                                            Dunnington, Rev. J., B.A., Thickett

    Queen's College, Cambridge.                                                                                    Hall, York.
Daniel, Henry, M.D., Clifton.                                                                                  Durnford, Rev. R., Middleton, Lanca-
Daniell, F., Prof, of Chemistry, King's
                                                                                                                    shire.
    College, London.
Daubeny, C. G. B., M.D., F.R.S., F.L.S.,                                                                       Dury, Rev. Theodore, Keighlcy, York.
                                                                                                               Dwyer, Rev. Thomas, M.A., West Derby
    F.G.S., Prof, of Chemistry and of Bo-
    tany in the University of Oxford.                                                                               Street, Liverpool.
Davenport, E.D., Calverley, Cheshire.
Davies, J. Birt, M.D., Birmingham.                                                                                                                E.
Davies, James, Maryland St., Liverpool.
Davis, Charles, M.D., M.R.I.A., St.                                                                            Earle, Chai'les, Woolton, near Liverpool.
   Anne Street, Dublin.                                                                                        Earle, William, Jun., Abercromby Sq.,
Davy, Edmund, Prof. Chem., R.D.S.,
    M.R.I.A., Dublin.                                                                                              Liverpool.
Dawes, Matthew, Bolton le Moors.                                                                               Earnshaw, Samuel, B.A., St. John's
Dawes, Rev. W. R., F.R.A.S., Ormskirk,
    Liverpool.                                                                                                     College, Cambridge.
Dawson, Robert, Llangollen, Wales.                                                                             Ebden, Rev. J. C, M.A., Ipswich.
Dawson, Christopher, Yorkshire.                                                                                Edgar, P.M., Bristol.
Dawson, James, Mt. Pleasant, Liverpool.                                                                        Eden, Rev. John, B.D., Bristol.
Dawson, Henry, Bedford St., Liverpool.                                                                         Eden, Thos., 96, Mt. Pleasant, Liverpool.
Dawson, John, Halifax.                                                                                         Eden, James, 96, Mt. Pleasant, Liverpool.
Deck, Isaiah, Chemist, Cambridge.                                                                              Edwards, Jas., Downing Coll., Cambridge.
                                                                                                               Edwards, John, Halifax.
De la Beche, H. T., F.R.S., F.L.S.,                                                                            Edwards, Joshua, Bedford St., Liverpool.

   F.G.S., London.

Denison, Lieutenant, R. E. Chatham.
                                                                                                            ;
LIFE MEMBERS.

   Egerton, Lord Fr., Bridgwater House.       Fielding, G. H., Hull.
  Egerton, Sir Philip de Malpas Grey,
                                              Finch, Charles, Jun., Cambridge.
       Bart., M.P., F.R.S., F.G.S., Oulton
       Park, Cheshire.                        Finch, J., Sir Thomas's Buildings, Liver-
  Ellacombe, Rev. H. T., Bitton, near
                                              pool.
        Bristol.
                                              Finch, John, Jun., Sir Thomas's Build-
  Ellice, Alexander, B.A., Caius College,
      Cambridge.                              ings, Liverpool.

  Ellens, G.C.                                Finlay," James, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
  Ellis, Rev. Robert, M.A., York.
  Ellis, T.F., M.A., 15, Bedford Place.       Firth, Thos., Northwich, Cheshire.
  Ellis, Rich., 12, Fitzwilliam St., Dublin.
  Ellis, George, 11, Fitzgibbon St., Dublin.  Fish, W. C, Goswell Road, London.
  Ellis, Thos., M.D., 5, South Frederick
                                              Fisher, Rev. J. H., M.A., F.G.S., Kirby
      Street, Dublin.
                                              Lonsdale.
 Ellman, W. B., Oxford.
                                              Fisher, Rev. J. M., 20, Gt. George Street,
  El toft, William, Manchester.
                                              Liverpool.
 Empson, Wm., M.A., Prof, of Law at
                                              Fitzwilliam, Earl, D.C.L., F.R.S., Presi-
      the E. I. College, Hailebury, Temple.
  English, Henry, Broad Street.               dent of the Yorkshire Philosophical
  Enys, John, Enys, Cornwall.
  Estcourt, T. G. B., M.P., D.C.L., F.S.A.,   Society, Milton.

      Estcourt,nearTetbury, Gloucestershire.  Fitzwilliam, Hon. G. W., Milton.
 Estcourt, W.J., Baliol College, Oxford.
                                              Fleetwood, P. H., M.P., Rossall, Lanca-
 Ettrick, Wm., High Barnes, Sunderland.
 Eustace, John, M.D., 21, Middle Glou-        shire.

     cester Street, Dublin.                   Fleming, Christopher, M.D., 9, Moles-
 Evanson, R. T., M.D., M.R.I.A., 36,             worth Street, Dublin.

    Dawson Street, Dublin.                    Fletcher, E., Rodney Street, Liverpool.
 Everest, Dr., St. Anne Street, Liverpool.
 Ewart, William, Eaton Place, London.         Fletcher, William, LL.D., 26, Merrion
 Eyre, Rev. C. W., M.A., Carlton.Notts.
 Eyton, Chas., Hendred House, Abingdon.       Square, Dublin.

                                    F.        Fletcher, Samuel, Manchester.

 Fairbairne, William, Manchester.             Flood, C. J., Lower Mount St., Dublin.
 Fannin, Robert, M.R.D.S., 10, Harring-
                                              Flood, Valentine, M.D., M.R.I.A., 19,
     ton Street, Dublin.                          Blessington Street, Dublin.
 Fannin, John, M.A., 41, Grafton Street,
                                              Flower, Rev. Wm., Jun., M.A., York.
     Dublin,
 Faraday, Michael, D.C.L., F.R.S., Prof.      Forbes, Charles, Greenhill, Edinburgh.

    of Chemistry in the Royal Institution.    Forbes, George, F.R.S., Edinburgh.

Fawcett, H. E., M.A., New Temple              Forbes, Edward, Isle of Man.

     Buildings.                               &Forbes, J.D., F.R.S.L.       E., F.G.S.,

Fawcett, Wm., Argyle Street, Liverpool.       Professor of Nat. Phil, in the Univer-

Fearon, J. P., F.G.S., Inner Temple.          sity of Edinburgh.
Fell, S. B., Ulverston.
Fellows, Charles, 30, Russell Sauarc.         Forbes, John, M.D., F.R.S., Chichester.
Ferguson, Robert, F.R.S.E., Ra'ith, Fife.
Ferrall, J. M., M.R.I.A., 38, Rutland         Forbes, Sir John S., Bart., Edinburgh.
                                              Formby, Richard, M.D., Sandon Terrace,
    Square, Dublin.
Ferrier, James, M.R.D.S., Willow Park,        Liverpool.

    Booters-town, Co. Dublin.                 Forshall, Rev. Josiah, M.A., F.R.S., Sue.,
Ferrier, A. I., William Street, Dublin.          British Museum.
Field, E. W., 41, Bedford Row, London.
Field, J. W., Heaton Hall, Bradford.          Forster, Robert, Dungannon.
Fielden, William, M.P., Todmorden,            Forster, Wm., Ballymore, Ireland.

    Lancashire.                               Foster, H. S., Brooklands, Cambridge

Fielding, George, Hull.                       Foster, R., Brooklands, Cambridge.

                                              Foster, John, B.A., Clapham.

                                              Foulger, William, Norwich.

                                              Foulger, Rev. W., Leiston, Suffolk^

                                              Fowler, R., 1 9, Merrion Square, Dublin
                                              Fox, G. T., F.L.S.,Durharr..

                                              Fox, Thomas, Canton.

                                              Francis, W., Sekford Street, London.

                                              Franks, Robert, M.R.D.S., 152, Leeson

                                              Street, Dublin.

                                              Fraser, J., 17, Lower Dorset St.,Dublin.

                                              Freckelton, George, M.D., Oxford Street,

                                                  Liverpool.

                                              Freer, G. C, Tiverton, near Bath.

                                              Fripp, G. D., Bristol.
8 LIFE MEMBERS.

Fripp, C. B., Bristol.                       Gray, Wm., Jun., Sec. Yorks. Phil. Soc,

Frodsham,W. J., 4, Change Alley, Corn-           York.

     hill.                                   Gray, J. E., F.R.S., British Museum.
                                             Gray, Rev. Walker, M.A., Henbury,
Fry, Francis, Bristol.
Fry, Richard, Bristol.                            Bristol.
Fry, Robert, Bristol.
Furlong, Rev. Thos., 146, Leeson Street,     Green, Joseph H., F.R.S., F.G.S., Prof,
                                                of Anatomy to the Royal Academy,
    Dublin.                                      Lincoln's Inn Fields.

                  G.                         Greenaway, Edw., 9, River Terrace, Is-

Gadsden, A. W., Hull.                            lington.
                                             Greenock, Major-gen. Lord, Edinburgh.
Gair, S. S., 5,GambierTerrace, Liverpool.
                                             Gregg, T. H., 2, Upper Fitzroy Street,
Galloway, S. H., Laibach, Austria.               Fitzroy Square, London.

Galton, S. T., Leamington.                   Gresham, Rev. John, LL.D., Waterford.
                                             Gresham, T. M., Sackville St., Dublin.
Garnons, Rev. W. L. P., F.L.S., Sidney       Greswell, Rev. Richard, M.A., F.R.S.,

College, Cambridge.                              Worcester College, Oxford.
                                             Greville, R. K., M.D., F.R.S.E., Edin-
Gibb, Duncan, Strand Street, Liverpool.
                                                 burgh.
Gibbins, William, Falmouth.                  Griffin, S. F., Cheltenham.
                                             Griffin, Thomas, Cheltenham.
Gibson, Edward, Hull.                        Griffith, Rev. C. T., D.D., Warminster.
                                             Griffith, Joseph P., Great Elm, Somerset.
Gilbert, Rev. Ashurst T., D.D., Princi-      Griffith, R. J., F.G.S., Fitzwilliam PL,

pal of Brazen-nose College, Oxford.              Dublin.
                                             Griffith, G. R., Fitzwilliam PI., Dublin.
Gilbert, Davies,D.C.L.,Oxon. V.P.R.S.,
                                             Griffiths, John, B. A., Fellow of Wadham
F.L.S., &c, Eastbourne, Sussex.
                                                 College, Oxford.
Gilbertson, William, Preston.                Grooby, Rev. Jas., B.A., F.R.S., Swin-

Gilby, Rev. W. R., Beverley.                     don, Wilts.
                                             Guest, J. J., M.P., Dowling, Glamorgan.
Gilderdale, J., M.A., Egerton Lodge,         Guinness, R. R., Stillorgan, Dublin.

Huddersfield.                                Gwynne, Colonel A. G., F.R.S.E., Abe-

Giles, Rev. William, Patricroft, near             rayron, Cardiganshire.

Manchester.                                                              H.

Gill, Thomas, Plymouth.                      Hackett,Michael,BookLawn,Palmerston.
                                             Haggitt, Rev. G., Bury St. Edmunds.
Gillies, John, M.D., Edinburgh.              Hailstone, Samuel, F.G.S., Bradford.
                                             Halford, Sir Henry, Bart., D.C.L., F.R.S.,
Glover, Thomas, Manchester.
                                                 President of Royal Coll. of Physicians,
Godby. Aug.,General Post Office, Dublin.         16, Curzon Street, London.
                                              Hall, Rev. T. B., Coggeshall, Essex.
GofF, Wm., Ross Trevor, Ireland.              Hallam, Henry, M.A., F.R.S., V.P.S.A.,
                                                 67, Wimpole Street.
Goldie, George, M.D., Shrewsbury,            Halliday, A. H., M.A., Belfast.
                                             Halswell, Edm., M.A., M.R.I.A., Gore
Goldsmid, F. H., 3, New Sq., Lincoln's           Lodge, Brompton.

Inn.                                         Hamilton, Sir W. R., B.A., M.R.I.A.,

Gordon, James, Bristol.                          Astronomer Royal of Ireland.

       Gotch, Thomas H., Kettering.          Hamilton, W. R., F.R.S., 66, South

· ^Gould, J., 20, Broad St., Golden Square,      Audley Street.
                                             Harcourt, Rev. C. G. Vernon, M.A.,
London.
WmGourlie,                                       Rothbury, Northumberland.
            , Jun., Garnet Hill, Glas-
                                             Harcourt, Rev. Wm. Vernon, F.R.S.,
gow.
                                                 F.G.S., Bishopthorpe, York.
Grace, Capt. P., R.N., London.               Harcourt, Egerton Vernon, Bishopthorpe.

Gradon, Col. George, R.E., Portsmouth.       Harcourt, Geo., M. P., Nuneham, Oxford.

Graham, Rev. J., D.D., Master of Christ's    Hare, Samuel, Leeds.

College, Cambridge.

Graham, R., M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor

of Botany in the Univ. of Edinburgh.

Graham.Prof. Thos.,F.R.S.E., University

College, London.

Grantham, Rev. Geo., B.D., Magdalen

College, Oxford.

Granville, A. B., M.D., F.R.S., F.G.S.,

   16, Grafton Street, London.

Grasswell, A. N., Heme Hill.

Graves, Charles, A.B., Fellow of Trinity

College, Dublin.

Gray, Jon., V. P. Yorks. Phil. Soc, York.
LIFE MEMBERS.

Harford, J. S., Bristol.                    Hodgkinson, Eaton, Member Phil. Soc,
Harley, John, Pontypool.
Harris, Hon. Charles, All-Souls College,    Manchester.

    Oxford.                                 Hodgson, Adam, Everton, Liverpool.
Harrison, Robert, M.D., M.R.I. A., 1,
                                            Hodgson, J. F.,HeskinHall, Lancashire.
   Hume Street, Dublin.
                                            Hodgson, Joseph, F.R.S., Birmingham.
Hartley, J. B., Bootle, near Liverpool.
Hartley, Jesse, Trentham St., Liverpool.    Holden, Moses, Preston.
Hartnell, M.A., B. A.,BirchesHouse,near
                                            Holditch, Rev. H., Cambridge.
    Stroud.
Hartnell, Aaron, Sec. Bristol Lit. and      Hollingsworth, Rev. N. J., Boldon,

    Phil. Soc., 8, Grenville PI., Clifton.  Durham.
Hartstonge, Major R. W., 15, Molesworth
                                            Holme, Edward, M.D., Manchester.
    Street, Dublin.
Harvey, Enoch, Cheapside, Liverpool.        Holmes, Rev. W. R., Broughton, Skipton
Harvey, T. K., Cork.
Hasted, Rev. H., M.A., F.R.S., Bury         Holt, Edward, Falkner St., Liverpool.

    St. Edmunds.                            Holt, Henry, Notton, near Wakefield.
Hatfield, Wm., M.A., Newton Kyme,
                                            Hone, Joseph, M.R.D.S., 47, Harcourt
    Tadcaster.
Haughton, James, M.R.D.S., 34, Eccles       Street, Dublin.

     Street, Dublin.                        Hone, Nathaniel, M.R.D.S., 53, Har-

Haughton, Wm., 28, City Quay, Dublin.           court Street, Dublin.
Hawkins, J. H..M.P., F.R.S., Athenaeum,
                                            Hope, T. C, M.D., F.R.S., V.P.R.S.E.,
     Westminster
                                            Prof, of Chemistry in the University of
Hawkins, J. J., Pancras Vale, Hamp-
                                            Edinburgh.
    stead Road.
Hawkins, Thomas, Sharpham Park, near        Hope, John, Dean of Faculty, Edinburgh.
                                            Hope, Wm., Hope Street, Liverpool.
     Glastonbury.                           Hopkinson, Wm., Stamford.
 Hay, Sir J., Bart., F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
                                            Hopkins, Wm., M.A., St. Peter's Coll.,
Hayward, W. W., Cambridge.
                                            Cambridge.
 Heath, J., 11, Albemarle Street, West-
                                            Hornby, Hugh, Sandown, Liverpool.
     minster.
                                            Horner, Leonard, F.R.S., L.&E. London.
 Henn, Richard, 22, Merrion Sq., Dublin.
 Hervey.Wm., M.D., F.R.S., Manchester.      Horsfall, Charles, Everton, Liverpool.
 Henslow, Rev. J. S., M.A., F.L.S.,
                                            Horsfall, John, Wakefield.
     F.G.S., Prof, of Botany, Cambridge.
                                            Hotham, Rev. C, M.A., Trinity College,
Henwood, W. J., F.G.S., Penzance.
                                            Oxford.
 Herschel, Sir J. F. W., M.A., F.R.S.,
                                            Hovell, Thomas, Cambridge.
     F.G.S.
Hey, John, Curator Lit. and Phil. Soc,      Hovenden, V. F., Sion Hill, Clifton.
                                            Houghton, Wm., Moss St., Liverpool.
     Leeds.
 Hey, Richard, York.                        Houghton, Jas., Rodney St., Liverpool.
Heywood, Benj., Claremont, Manchester.
 Heywood, Robert, Bolton.                   Houghton, W., Salisbury St., Liverpool.
 Heywood, James, Acresfield, Manchester.
 Heyworth, L., Bootle, near Liverpool.      Houston, J., M.D., 31, York St., Dublin.
Heyworth, Laur.,Jun., Bootle, Liverpool.
 Hibbert, Samuel, M.D., F.R.S.E., F.G.S.,   Howell, John, M.D., F.R.S.E., Dep. In-

     Edinburgh.                             spector Gen., Clifton.                    *
 Hildyard, James, B.A., Fellow of Christ's
                                            Huddart, Rev. T. P., 14, Mountjoy S$.
     College, Cambridge.
 Hill, Edw., B.A., Christ Church, Oxford.   East, Dublin.
 Hill, Rowland, 2, Burton Crescent.
 Hill, T. W., Bruce Castle, Tottenham.      Hudson, James, at Mr. Beaufoy's, South

Hincks, Rev. Wm., F.L.S., York.             Lambeth.
Hindley, H. J., Nile St., Liverpool.
 Hindmarsh, L., Alnwick.                    Hudson, Henry, M.D., M.R.I.A., 24,
 Hoare, J. Gurney, Hampstead.
                                            Stephen's Green North, Dublin.

                                            Hudson, Mr., Oxford.

                                            Hughes, John, Grove, Stillorgan, Dublin.
                                            Hume, Arthur, Dawson Street, Dublin.

                                            Humphreys, James, Claremont, Dublin.

                                            Hunt, R. G., Fleet Street, Liverpool.

                                            Hunter, Adam, M.D., Edinburgh.
                                            Hunter, W. Percival, Albany, London.

                                            Hussey, Rev. Rob., M.A., Christ Church,

                                            Oxford.

                                            Hutchison, Graham, Glasgow.

                                            Hutchison, James, Leith.

                                            Hutton, Edward, M.D., M.R.I.A., 33,
                                               Summer Hill, Dublin.

                                            Hutton, Robert, M.P., F.G.S., Putney.
10 LIFE MEMBERS.

Hutton, Thomas, M.R.D.S., 14, Sum-                       Johnstone,Sir J. V. B.,Bart.,M.P., M. A.,
    mer Hill, Dublin.                                        F.R.S.E., Pres.Scarborough Phil. Soc,

Hutton, Henry, Barrister, Mountjoy Sq.                       Hackness, Scarborough.
     East, Dublin.
                                                        WJollie, alter, Edinburgh.
 Hutton, H., 18, Gardiner's PL, Dublin.
                                                         Jones, C. H., Castle Street, Liverpool.
Hutton, Daniel, 6, Lower Domimck                         Jones, E. T., Clifton.

     Street, Dublin.                                     Jones, Rob. ,22, Pembroke St., Liverpool.
Hutton, Wra., F.G.S., Newcastle-upon-
                                                         Jones, Josiah, Castle Street, Liverpool.
    Tyne.
Hyett, W.H., Painswick, Gloucestershire.                 Joy, Rt. Hon. Henry, Lord Chief Baron,
                                                             Dublin.
                                                    I.
                                                        Joy, W. B., 2, Mountjoy Square South,
Ibbetson, L. L. Boscawen, Ventnor, Isle
    of Wight.                                                Dublin.

 Ilsley, William, Bristol.                              Joy, H. H, 17, Mountjoy Square East,
Inglis, Sir R. H., Bart., M.P., D.C.L.,
                                                             Dublin.
    F.U.S., 7, Bedford Square.                          Joy.J. H., 2, Mountjoy Sq.South.Dublin.
Inglis, John, Redhall, Bristol.                         Jubb, Abraham, Halifax.
Ireland, R. S., M.D., 121, Stephen's                    Jukes, J. B., Wolverhampton.

    Green, Dublin.                                                                    K.
Irvin, Rev. Alexander, M.A., Cullens-
                                                         Kane, R. L.M.D., M.R.I. A., 23, Lower
    wood, Dublin.                                            Gloster Street, Dublin.

Jackson, Charles, Bristol.                               Kelly, J. C, Dublin.
                                                         Kenedy, Rev. J., D.D., Ardtrea.
Jackson, G. V. M. A., Ennipol Cross,                     Kennedy, John, Manchester.
                                                         Kenny, Matthias, M.D., Castle Pollard,
    Molina, Co. Sligo.
Jackson, Prof. Thos., LL.D., St. Andrews.                     Ireland.
Jacob, Arthur, M.D., 23, Ely PI., Dublin.
Jacob, John, M.D., Maryborough, Queen's                  Kenrick, Rev. George, Hampstead.
                                                         Kenrick, Rev. John, M.A., York.
    County.                                              Kenrick, Samuel, West Bromwieh, near
James, Sir John K., Bart., Kingstown,
                                                            Birmingham.
    Dublin.                                              Kent, J. C, Levant Lodge, near Upton.
James, James, Calthorpe St., Birmingham.                 Key, C. II., 104, Prince's St., Edinburgh.
 Jaidine, Sir William, Jardine Hall,                     Kidd, John, M.D., F.R.S., Regius Prof.

     Lockerbie, Dumfriesshire.                               of Medicinein theUniversity of Oxford.
Jarrctt, Rev. Professor, Cambridge.                      King, Joseph, Jun., Everton, Liverpool.
Jebb, Rev. John, 41, Rutland Sq., Dublin.
Jeffreys, Rev. H., B.D., Fellow of St.                  King, W. P., Bristol.

    John's College, Cambridge.                           Kingston, A. J., Mosstown, Longford.
Jemmett, Matthew, 54, Marlborough                        Kinnear, J. G., Edinburgh.
                                                        Kirkpatrick, Rev. W.B., 132, Capel St.,
    Street, Dublin.
Jenkyns, Rev. H., M.A., Oriel College,                       Dublin.
                                                        Knight, R. G., F.G.S., 4G, Tavistock Sq.
    Oxford.
Jenkyns, Rev. Leonard, M.A., F.L.S.,                        London.
                                                        Knight, Henry, Birmingham.
    Swaffham Ilulbeek, Cambridgeshire.                  Knowles, G. B., F.L.S., Birmingham.
Jerrard, Rev. Dr., Fellow of Cains Coll.,               Knowles, L. P., Liverpool.
                                                        Knox, Rev. H.B., Monks Eieigh, Suffolk.
    Cambridge, Principal of Bristol Coll.               Knox, G. J., 10, Nassau Street, Dublin.
Jerrard, Jos. H., LL.D., 59, Albany St.,                Knox, Rev. T. P., Toomavara, Killaloc.
                                                        Kurtz, Andrew, Upper Stanhope Street,
    Regent's Park.
Jesse, John, Manchester.                                    Liverpool.
Job, Samuel, 3, Chatham PI., Liverpool.
Johnson, P. N.,F.G.S.,79,HattonGarden,                  Lace, Ambrose, Much Wool ton.
                                                        Lacy, H. C, Kenyon House, Manchester.
   London.
Johnson, John, Parr Cottage, Lancashire.                Laird, John, Birkenhead, Cheshire.
Johnstone, J.F.W., M.A., Prof, of Che-                  Lamb, David, 34, Rodney St., Liverpool.
                                                        Langley, George, Boxford, Suffolk.
   mistry in the University of Durham.                  Langton, William, Manchester.
LIFE MEMBERS.                                11

Lansdowne, Marquis of, F.R.S., D.C.L.,       Lloyd, W. H., F.L.S., 1, Park Square
   Bowood, Wilts.
                                                West, Regent's Park.
Lanyon, Charles, Naas.                       Lock, Sir Joseph, Oxford.
Laprimaudaye, Rev. Chas.,M.A.,Leyton.        Lock, Edward, Oxford.
Larcom, Lieut. R. E., Phoenix Park,          Locke, Joseph, Grand Junction Railway,

    Dublin.                                      Liverpool.
Lardner, Rev. Dionysius, L.L.D.,F.R.S.,
                                             Locke, W. O., M.D., SwafTham.
    London.
Lassell, William, Jun., Norton Street,       Lockey,Rev.Fran.,Swanswick,nearBath.

    Liverpool.                               Lloyd, R. A., Whittington.
                                             Loder, J. S., Bristol.
Latouche, D. C, M.R.I.A., Castle St.,
                                             Lodge, Rev. John, M. A., Fellow of Mag-
    Dublin.
Lauder, SirT. Dick, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.         dalen College, Cambridge.
Law, Rev. William, M.A., Boxford,
                                             Logan, W. E., Swansea.
     Suffolk.                                London, The Lord Bishop of.

Lawrence, William, F.R.S., 18, White-        Longfield, Mountford, F.T.C., Regius
    hall Place, Westminster.                     Professor of Law, Dublin.

Lawson, William, Liverpool.                  Lowe, Geo., F.G.S., Civil Engineer, 39,
Leach, H. T., Barley Hall, Bradford.             Finsbury Circus, London.
Leadbetter, John, Glasgow.
Leatham, William, Wakefield.                 Lowndes, M.D., St. Anne St., Liverpool.
Leeson, H. B., Greenwich.                    Lowndes, W.,M.D., Egremont, Cheshire.
Legh, G. Cornwall., HighLegh, Cheshire.       Loyd, Samuel Jones, London.
Legh, Rev. H. C, High Legh, Cheshire.        Lubbock, J. W., M.A., V.P.R.S., Vice
 Leigh, John Shaw, Liverpool.
 Leigh, P.T., 12, Lower Gardiner Street,         Chancellor of the University of London,
                                                 29, Eaton Place.
     Dublin.                                 Lucas, Edward, Castle Hayne.
                                              Lucas, William, Dublin.
 Leinster, His Grace the Duke of, Carton      Lutwidge, Charles, M.A., Hull.
    House, Maynooth, Ireland.                 Lutwidge, R.W.S.,M.A., 21, Old Square,
                                                  Lincoln's Inn.
 Lemon, Sir Charles, Bart., M.P., M.A.,       Lyell, Charles, Jun., M.A., F.R.S.,
                                                 F.L.S., F.G.S., Hart Street, London.
     F.R.S., F.G.S., Carclew, Cornwall.
 Lendrick, Charles, M.D., 3, Hatch                                     M.

     Street, Dublin.                          Macartney, Jas.,M.D., F.R.S., M.R.I.A.,
                                                 Professor of Anatomy, Dublin.
 Lentaigne, Joshua, 12, Great Denmark
                                              Macbride, J. D., D.C.L., Principal of
     Street, Dublin.                             Magdalen College, Oxford.
 Lentaigne, John, M.D., 12, Great Den-
                                              Macdonnel, Rev. Dr., F.T.C., Dublin.
    mark Street, Dublin.                      Macdonnell, H.H.G., F.T.C., Dublin.
                                              Macgregor, J., Woolton Hill, Liverpool.
 Lewis, T. D., Theatre Royal, Liverpool.      Machines, Col. J., Edinburgh.
                                              Macintosh, Charles, Glasgow.
 Leyland, John, 11, Queen Anne Street,        Mackenzie, Sir F. A., Bart., Gairloch,

      Liverpool,                                  Union Club House.
                                              Mackie, Rev. J. W., M.A., Christ Church,
 Liddell, Andrew, Glasgow.
 Lightfoot, J. J., Old Burlington Street.         Oxford.
 Lightfoot, W.B., Grove Street, Liverpool.    Maclagan, D., M.D., F.R.S.E., Edinb.
 Lindley, John, LL.D., F.R.S., Prof, of       Magan, F., 20, Usher's Island, Dublin.
                                              Maguise, Bernard, Belmont, Co. West-
     Botany, University College, London.
 Lindsay, H. L., Civil Engineer, Armagh.          meath.
 Lingwood, Robert, Highlands, Sussex.         Mallet, Robert, M.R.I.A., 94, Capel St.,
 Lister, J. J., F.R.S., 5, Tokenhouse Yard,
                                                  Dublin.
     London.
 Lister, J., Gt. Mersey Street, Liverpool.    Malley, A. I., 62, Upper Mount St.,
 Littledale, Harold, Liscard, Cheshire.
 Litton, D., 18, Lower Mount St., Dublin.         Dublin.
 Litton, S., M.D., V.P.R.I.A., Dublin.        Marriott, John, Allerton, Liverpool.
 Lloyd, Rev., Humphrey, F.T.C.D., Pro-        Marsh, Henry, M.D., M.R.J. A., 21,

     fessor of Nat. and Exper. Philosophy,        Molesworth Street, Dublin.
                                              Marshal], John, Headingley, Leeds.
      Trin. Coll., Dublin.                    Marshall, J., Jun., Headingley, Leeds.

 Lloyd, Rev. C, M.A., Whittington,

      Oswestry.
 Lloyd, Owen, Boyle.
12 LIFE MEMBERS.

Marshall, J.G., M.A.,Headingley, Leeds.      Moseley, Sir Oswald, Bart., Rollestone
Martin, F., Cambridge.                            Hall, Stafford.

Martin, S., 3, Chesterfield St., Liverpool.  Moss, John, Otterspool, near Liverpool.
Martineau, Rev. James, Liverpool.            Mulgrave, His Excellency Earl, Dublin.
Mason, Thomas, York.                         Murchison, R. I., F.R.S., F.G.S., 2,
Massey, Lord, Castle Connor, Ireland.
Mather, J., 92, Mt. Pleasant, Liverpool.         Upper Eccleston St., Belgrave Square.
                                             Murphy, Rev. Robert, M.A., Fellow of
Mather, Daniel, 92, Mount Pleasant,
                                                 Caius College, Cambridge.
     Liverpool.                              Murray, John, Albemarle Street.
                                             Murray, John, Sunderland.
Matthews, W. P., Dublin Castle.              Musgrave, John, Tourin Cappoquin,
Maund, Benjamin, F.L.S., Bromsgrove,
                                                  Ireland.
     Worcestershire.
Maynard, Henry, M.D., London.                Musgrave, Rev. Thos., M.A., Professor
Maynard, Thomas, Bold St., Liverpool.            of Arabic, Cambridge.

Mayne, Rev. Charles, M.R.I.A.,2, Upper       Muspratt, James, 9, Pembroke Place,
    Merrion Street, Dublin.
                                                  Liverpool.
McAdam, James, Corr. Sec. Nat. Hist.         Muston, George, Bristol.
                                             Myers., Rev, F., Clare Hall, Cambridge.
    Soc, Belfast.
MeCullach, James, F.T.C., Dublin.                                         N.
McCulloch, G., Cullenswood, Dublin.
McKay, John, Dublin Castle.                  Nairne, James, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
McKenny, John, M.R.D.S., 13, Beres-          Napper, J.L., Loughcrea, Co. Meath.
                                             Neilson, Robt., Woolton Hill, Liverpool.
    ford Place, Dublin.                      Neilson, J. R., Glasgow.
McMaster, Maxwell, 97, Grafton Street,       Nevin,Ninian, Botan. Garden, Glasnevin.
                                             Newby, Richard, Bookseller, Cambridge.
    Dublin.
                                             Newman, W.L., York.
Mellor, J., 24, Shaw Street, Liverpool.      Nicholl, Iltyd, Usk, Monmouth.
Melville, Lord Viscount, Melville Castle.    Nicholson, John, M.D., Balrath, Co.
Merz, Philip, Birmingham.
Miller, Patrick, M.D., Exeter.                   Meath.
Miller, Rev. W. H., M.A., F.G.S., Pro-       Norris, Charles, Halifax.
                                             Norris, William, Halifax.
    fessor of Mineralogy, Cambridge.         Northampton, Marquis of, F.G.S., Castle
Milne, Sir David, K.C.B., F.R.S.E.,
                                                 Ashby.
    Edinburgh.                               Northumberland, His Grace the Duke of,
Milne; David, M.A., F.R.S.E., Edin-
                                                K.G.,M.A., F.R.S., Alnwick.
    burgh.                                   Northen, R., Sec.Lit. and Phil.Soc, Hull.
Milne, Captain, R.N., F.R.S.E., Edin-        Norwich, The Lord Bishop of.
                                             Noverre, R., M.D., Trin. Coll., Dublin.
    burgh.
Milne, R. M., M.P., Bawtry, Yorks.                                          O.
Milton, Lord Viscount, Milton.
Milward, Captain Andrew, R.N., I.U.S.        O'Beirne, James, M.D., 23, North Cum-

    Club, London.                               berland Street, Dublin.
Moilliet, J.L., Hampstead Hall, Stafford.    O'Brien, Sir Lucius, Bart., Dromoland,
Molyneux, James, 91, Duke Street,
                                                Newmarket on Fergus.
    Liverpool.                               O'Brien, Edward, M. A., University Club,
Molyneux, Lieut., I.U.S. Club, London.
                                                London.
Money, Rev. K.E., M.A., Much-March           O'Callaghan, George, Tulla, Co. Clare.
                                             O'Grady, M., M.D., T.C.D., Lamancha.
    Parsonage, Ledbury.                      Oliphant, William, Jun., Edinburgh.
                                             O'Reardon, John, M.D., 33, York Street,
Moore, W.D., 9, St. Anne Street, Dublin.
Moore, John, 12, Broad Weir, Bristol.            Dublin.
Moore, Alex., M.D., Preston.                 O'Reilly, Lieut.-Col., Kelso.

Morant, Rev. Jas., Wakefield.                Orpen, Thomas Herbert, M.D., 13, South
More, I. S., Adv., F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
                                                 Frederick Street, Dublin.
Morgan, J. M,, Ham Common.                   Orpen, J. H., M.A., 13, South Frederick

Morgan,William,D.C.L., 26, Old Square,           Street, Dublin.
    Lincoln's Inn.                           Orpen, Charles, M.D., 11, North Great

Moriarty, Merion, M.D., Dowry Parade,           George Street, Dublin.

     Clifton.

Morpeth, Lord Viscount, Castle Howard.
Morris, S., M.R.D.S., Fortvein, Clontarf.
LIFE MEMBERS.                                13

Osborne, Jeremiah, Bristol.                  Plumptre, R. B., A.M., Forthampton,
Overend, Wilson, Sheffield.                      Tewkesbury.
Owen, Jeremiah, Plymouth.
Owen, R., College of Surgeons, London.       Pollock, A., 16, Capel Street, Dublin.
                                             Porter, Rev. Chas., B.D., Stamford.
Palmer, Wm., Harcourt Street, Dublin.        Porter, H. J., Castle Tanderagee, County
Palmer, William, M.A., 5, Essex Court,
                                                Armagh.
   Temple.                                   Porter, Rev. T. H., D. D., Trinity College,
Parker, C. S., Liverpool.
Parker, Rev W., M.A., Saham, Norfolk.            Dublin.
Partridge, R., Lancaster Place, London.      Portlock, Captain, R.E., M.R.I. A., Ord-
Pasley, Col. C. W., C.B., R.E., F.R.S.,
                                                nance Survey Office, Dublin.
   Chatham.                                  Potter, H. G., Newcastle.
Paxton, James, Surgeon, Oxford.              Potter, S. T., County Leitrim.
Paxton, Jos., Chatsworth, Derbyshire.        Potter, Rich., Jun., Smedley Hall, near
Peacock, Rev. Geo., M.A.,F.R.S.,F.G.S.,
                                                 Manchester.
   Tutor of Trinity College, Cambridge.      Potter, William, Everton, Liverpool.
Pearsall, T. J., Lit. and Phil. Soc, Hull.   Powell, Rev. Baden, F.R.S., Savilian
Pearson, Charles, Greenwich.
Pearson, Rev. Thomas, M.A., Fellow of           Professor of Geometry, Oxford.
                                             Powell, Rev. Dr., Clitheroe.
   Queen's College, Cambridge.               Pratt, Rev. J. H., B.A., Caius College,
Pearson, Rev. William, LL.D., F.R.S.,
                                                 Cambridge.
    V.P.R.As.S., South Kilworth, Lei-        Pratt, S. P., F.L.S., F.G.S., Bath.
    CGstcvsnirG                              Prelions, Thomas, 12, Upper North
Peel, Sir Robert, Bart., M.P., D.C.L.,
    F.R.S., Whitehall Gardens.                  Cumberland Street, Dublin.
Peel, George, Higher Ardwick Lodge,          Preston, Cooper, FlaxbyHall, Yorkshire.
    Manchester.                              Prestwich, Jos., Jun., 20, Mark Lane.
Peile, Williamson, 14, Luke Street, Dub-     Prevost, J.L., Consul-General of Switzer-

     lin.                                        land, 3, Suffolk Place, Pall Mall.
                                             Price, Thomas, Furnace Lodge, Disley,
Pemberton, Rev. R.M., Stratton, Salop.
Pendarves, E.W.W., M.P., M.A.,F.R.S.,            Cheshire.

    F.G.S., 36, Eaton Place.                 Price, J. T., Neath Abbey.
Pennefather, Edward, 5, Fitzwilliam          Prince, J.C., Brownlow Street, Liverpool.
                                             Pring, Capt. Daniel, R.N.
    Square, Dublin.                          Pritchard, I. C, M.D., F.R.S., Bristol.
Pering, Rev. J., Kildwick, Craven, Yorks.    Punnett, Rev. J., Cornwall, of Clare Hall,
Perkins, Rev. B. R., B.C.L., Wootton-
                                                 Cambridge.
    under-edge.
Perry, Rev. Charles, M.A., Fellow of         Putland, George, Lower Mount Street,

    Trinity College, Cambridge.                  Dublin.
Perry, James, Obelisk Park, Black Rock.
Pettiward, Rev. D., M.A., F.G.S., Stow-                                    R.

    market.                                  Radford, J. G., 11, Catherine Street,
Phillips, C, M.D., Manchester.                   Liverpool.
Phillips,M.,M.P., Park, near Manchester.
Phillips, John, F.R.S., F.G.S., Prof. Geol.  Radford, W., Trinity College, Dublin.
                                             Radice, Evasio, LL.D., Trinity College,
    King's College, London.
Phillips, Richard, F.R.S., Camberwell.           Dublin.
Phillips, Rev. Samuel, Woolton Priory,
                                             Raffles, Rev. Thomas, LL.D., Edge Hill,
    Liverpool.
                                                 Liverpool.
Philpot, Rev. H., M. A., Fellow of Catha-    Rake, Joseph, Bristol.
                                             Ranee, Henry, Cambridge.
    rine Hall, Cambridge.                    Rathbone, T. W., Allerton Priory, Li-
Pigott, J. H. Smith, Brockley Hall.
Pike, Ebenezer, Cork.                            verpool.
Pim, James, Jun., Monkstown, Dublin.         Rathbone, William, Liverpool.
Pim, George, 15, Usher's Island, Dublin.
                                             Rawson, Christopher, F.G.S., Pres. Lit.
Pim, W. H., Monkstown, Dublin.                  and Phil. Soc, Halifax.

                                             Rawson, T. S., Highpark Road, Liver-

                                                 pool.

                                             Read, W. H.R., B.A., F.L.S., Lincoln's

                                                 Inn.
                                             Reades, Rev. Joseph B., M.A., Halifax.
                                             Redwood, Isaac, 15, Crawford Street.
14 LIFE MEMBERS.

Reid, W., Lead Merchant, Glasgow.            Selby, P. J., F.R.S.E., Twizell House,
Rennie, Sir J., F.R.S., 15, Whitehall PI.        Northumberland.
Rennie, G., F.R.S., 21, Whitehall Place.
Reynolds, W., M.D., Liverpool.               Semple, Robert, Wavertree, Liverpool.
Reynolds, Win., 38, Water Street, Liver-     Serle, Rev. Philip, B.D., Oddington,

    pool.                                        Oxfordshire.
                                             Sharp, Rev. John, B.A., Wakefield.
Rice, Right Hon.T. Spring, M.P., M.A.,       Sharp, Rev. Samuel, M.A., Wakefield.
    Mansfield Street.                        Sharp, Rev. William, B.A., Wakefield.
                                             Shepherd, Rev. William, LL.D., Gate-
Rice, S.E. Spring, Mansfield Street.
Richardson, J., M.D., F.R.S., Chatham.           acre, Liverpool.
Rickman, Thomas, F.S.A., Birmingham.
Rigg, Robert, Walworth Road.                 Sheppard, W. H., Newland Vicarage,
Rigaud, S. P., M.A., V.P.R.S., Savilian
                                                near Monmouth.
    Professor of Astronomy, Oxford.          Sheppard, Henry, Bristol.
Roberts, Richard, Manchester.                Sherrard, D. H., 72, Blessington Street,
Robertson, John, Manchester.
Robinson, John, Athlone.                         Dublin.
Robinson, Rev. T. R., D.D., Professor of
                                             Shore, Offley, Sheffield.
   Astronomy, Armagh.                        Short, Rev. Augustus, M.A., Christ
Robinson, John, Sec. R.S.E., Edinburgh.
                                                 Church, Oxford.
Rochfort, J. S., Sackville Street, Dublin.   Sigmond, George, 24, Dover Street.
Roe, G. N., Donnybrooke.                     Sillar, Z., M.D., Sion House, Liverpool.
Roe, H., 2, Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin.      Sims, John, M.D., Cavendish Square.
Rogers, Rev. J., M.A., Canon of Exeter.
Roget, P. M., M.D., Sec. R.S., F.L.S.,       Simms, Wm., F.R.A.S., 136, Fleet St.
                                             Simpson, Thos., 4, Mount Vernon, Liver-
    F.G.S., 39, Bernard Street, Russell Sq.
Rosebery, The Earl of, Dalmeny Park.             pool.
Rotch, Benjamin, Furnival's Inn.
Rothman, R. W., F.R.A.S. F.G.S.,             Sidney, M.I.F., Cowpen, Newcastle.
                                             Singer, Rev. Dr., F.T.C., Dublin.
    Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.    Sirr, Rev. J. D., Lower Castle Yard,
Rothwell, Peter, Bolton.
                                                 Dublin.
Roughton, Wm., Jun., Kettering.
                                             Sisson, Wm., 17, Parliament Street.
Russell, Rev. 'P., Enfield.                  Skelmersdale, Lord, Lathom House,
Russell, James, Birmingham.
                                                 Lancashire.
Rutter, John, M.D., 19, St Anne Street,      Sligo, George, Seacliffe, Haddington.
                                             Sligo, John, Carneagle, Scotland.
    Liverpool.                               Smales, R. H., Kingston Bottom.

Rutton, Wm., North Allerton.                 Smethurst, Rev. R., Stand, near Man-
Ryland, Arthur, Cherry St., Birmingham.
                                                  chester.
                                      S.
                                             Smith, Rev. G. S., Trinity Coll., Dublin.
Sabine, Major, R.E., F.R.S., Limerick.       Smith, James, Glasgow.
Sadleir, Rev. Dr., Senior Fellow of          Smith, James, Deanston Works, Scotland.
                                             Smith, J. Pye, D.D., Homerton.
    Trinity College, Dublin.                 Smith, James, 9, St. James's Road,
Salisbury, Sir John, Huskisson St., Liver-
                                                  Liverpool.
    pool.                                    Smith, Rev.B., F.S.A.,Coton Hall, Salop.

Salmon, W. W., Devizes.                      Smith, Samuel, 2, New Square, Lincoln's

Sanders, J. N., Clifton.                          Inn.
                                             Smith, Thomas, South Hill Grove,
Sanders, Wm., Bristol.
Satterthwait, Michael,M.D., Manchester.           Liverpool.
Scholfield, Edwd., M.D., Doncaster.
Scoresby, Rev. Wm., F.R.S.L. and E.,         Soden, John, 18, Down Street, Piccadilly.

    Exeter.                                  Soden, J. Smith, Bath.

Scott, James, Q. C, Merrion Sq. South,       Somerset, His Grace the Duke of, Presi-
                                                 dent of the Royal Institution, Park
    Dublin.                                      Lane, London.

Searle, Wm., Cambridge.                      Sopwhite, Thos., Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Sedgwick, Rev. Adam, M.A., F.R.S.,           Spineto, Marchese, Cambridge.
                                             Spottiswoode, Col.
    F.G.S., Woodwardian Professor of         Staniforth, Rev. Thos., Bolton.
    Geology, Cambridge.                      Stanley, SirT.S., Bart., Hooton, Cheshire.
                                             Stanley, A. P., Alderley, Cheshire.
                                             Stanway, J. Holt, Manchester.
.

LIFE MEMBERS.                              15

Stapleton, M. H., B. M., 1, Mountjoy       Thodey, Winwood, 4, Poultry, London.
                                           Thorn, Rev. David, Falkner Street,
    Place, Dublin.
Staveley, T. R., Ripon.                        Liverpool.
Stevenson, Robert, F.R.S.E., F.G.S.,       Thorn, John, Glasgow.

    Edinburgh.                             Thomas, Samuel, Bristol.
Steventon, Hugh, Egremont, Cheshire.       Thomas, Edward, Bristol.
Steventon, Edward, M.A., Fellow of         Thomas, George, Bristol.
                                           Thomason, Sir Edward, Birmingham.
   Corp. Chris. Coll., Cambridge.          Thompson, E. P., Manchester.
Stewart, Thomas, Liverpool.                Thompson, D. P., M.R.I.A., Burnham
Stowe, William, Buckingham.
Strachey, Richd., Ashwick Grove, Bristol.      House, Dingle, Co. Kerry.
Straton, Major-Gen., Sir Jos., K.C.H.,     Thompson, George, Salop.
                                           Thompson, George, Gildart Street, Liver-
  &C.B., F.R.S. L. E., U. Service Club.
                                               pool.
Strickland, Eustachius, York.
Strickland, Chas., Lough Glynn, Ireland.   Thompson, G., Chemist, Church Street,
Strickland, J. E.,FrenchPark, Roscommon.
                                               Liverpool.
Strickland, W., French Park, Roscommon
                                           Thompson, Leonard, Hutton Park, York-
Strong, Rev. William, Stanground, near
    Peterborough.                               shire.

Stroud, Rev. Jos., M.A., Wadham Col-       Thompson, A. T., M.D., F.L.S., F.G.S.,
                                               Professor of Materia Medica in Uni-
    lege, Oxford.                              versity Coll., London.
Strutt, William, Temple.
Stuart, Robert, Manchester.                Thomson, George, Banker, Oxford.
Stutchbury, Samuel, Curator, Institution,  Thomson, James, F.R.S., Clitheroe.
                                           Thomson, J. G., Edinburgh.
     Bristol.                              Thomson, Corden, Sheffield.
                                           Thomson, Thomas, 127, George Street,
Sullivan, Jas., M.B., 51, Lower Gardiner
                                               Edinburgh.
    Street, Dublin.                        Thornely, Thomas, M.P., Liverpool.
Sutcliffe, William, Bath.
Sutherland, A. R., M.D., F.R.S., 1, Par-   Thornton, Samuel, Camp Hill, Birming-

    liament Street.                            ham.
Sutherland, A. J., London.                 Thorpe, Rev. Archdeacon, M.A., F.G.S.,
Sutton, J. B., Carlisle.
Sweetman, Walter, M.R.D.S., 4, Mount-            Bristol.

   joy Square, Dublin.                     Tierney, Edward, M.R.D.S., 15, Lower
Synge, John, Glanmore, Ashford, Co.
                                               Fitzwilliam St., Dublin.
    Wicklow.                               Tinne, J. A., Briarly Aigburth, Liverpool.

Talbot, Hon. F., Lay cock Abbey, Wilts.    Tite, W., Hon. Sec. London Institution,
Taprell, William, Inner Temple.                25, Upper Bedford Place.
Tayler, Rev. J. J., B.A., Manchester.
Taylor, Frederick, Everton Terrace,        Tobin, Sir John, Liverpool.
                                           Tobin, Rev. John, Cheshire.
     Liverpool.                            Todd, Rev. J. H., F.T.C.D., M.R.I.A.,
Taylor, John, F.R.S., Treas. Geol. Soc,
                                                Dublin.
    12, Bedford Row.                       Todhunter, J., 3, College Green, Dublin.
Taylor, John, Jun., F.G.S., Coed du,       Torrie, T. Jameson, F.G.S., Edinburgh.
                                           Towgood, Edward, St. Neots, Hunts.
    near Mold, Flintshire.                 Townend, Thomas, Manchester.
Taylor, Richard, F.G.S., Truro.            Townsend, George, Newbury.
Taylor, Richard, Assist. Sec. Linn. Soc,   Townsend, K. E., Springfieid, Norwood.
                                           Tregelles, Nathaniel, Neath Abbey, Gla-
   F.G.S., Red Lion Court, Fleet St.
                                               morgan.
Taylor, J. E.,Broughton, near Manchester.  Trench, F. A., St. Catherine's Park,
Taylor, Jas., Todmorden Hall, Halifax.
Taylor, Captain, London.                        Dublin.
Taylor, Rev. William, F.R.S., York.        Trevelyan, W.C., M.A., F.R.S.E., F.L.S.,

Taylor, W. C, LL.D., 131, Grove St.,           F.G.S., Wallington, Northumberland.
    Camden Town.                           Tuckett, Francis, Frenchay, near Bristol.
                                           Tuckett, Henry, 20, Finsbury Circus.
Tennant, Charles, Glasgow.                  Tuckett, Frederick, Bristol.
Tennent, R. J., Pies. Lit. Soc, Belfast.   Tumbull, Rev. F. S., F.R.S., Caius Col-
Thickness, Ralph, Jun., Wigan.
                                               lege, Cambridge.

                                           Turner, Chas., Aigburth, Liverpool.
16 LIFE MEMBERS.

Turner, Thos., M.D., Curzon Street,         Waterhouse, John, Halifax.
                                            Watford, A., Engineer, Cambridge.
   May Fair.                                Watkins, James R., Bolton.
                                            Watson, H. H., Bolton.
Turner, Sam., F.R.S., F.G.S., Liverpool.    Waud, Rev. S. W., Fellow of Magdalen
Turner, William, Halifax.
Tweedy, William Mansel, Truro.                  College, Cambridge.
Tyrconnell, Earl of, F.R.S., F.G.S., Kip-   Weaver, Thomas, 9, Panton Square,

    lin Catterick, Yorks.                      Haymarket.
Tyrrell, John, Exeter.                     Webb, Rev. T. W., M.A., Tretyre, near

                               U.               Ross, Herefordshire.

Upton, J. S., F.G.S., Trinity College,      Webb, Rev. John, Tretyre.
    Cambridge.                              Webster, Thomas, Cannon Row.
                                           Webster, B. D.,Penns, near Birmingham.
Vance, Robert, Belfast.                    Weld, Isaac, Sec. R.D.S., M.R.I.A.,
Veitch, A. J., M.D., Galway.
Verney, Sir Harry, Lower Clayton,               Dublin.

    Bucks.                                 Wellstood, John, Finch St., Liverpool.
Vernon, Rt. Hon. Lord, 2.5, Wilton Cres-   West, William, Sec. Lit. and Philos. Soc,

     cent.                                      Leeds.
Veysie, Rev. Daniel, B.D., Christ Church,  West, William, M.D., M.R.I. A., 5, Great

    Oxford.                                   Denmark Street, Dublin.
Vigors, N. A., M.P., 16, Chester Terrace,
                                           Westhead, John, Manchester.
    Regent's Park.                         Wetherd, Rev. Thomas, Leeds.
Visgar, Harman, Bristol.
                                           Wharton, W. L., M.A., Dryburn, Dur-
Voelker, Professor Chas., St. Domingo
                                               ham.
    Street, Liverpool.                     Whatton, Rev. Robert, F.R.S., Man-

                       W.                        crisstcr.

Walker, James, Pres. of Institution Civ.   Whewell,Rev. William, M.A., F.R.S.,
    Engineers, Great George Street, West-      F.G.S., Trinity College, Cambridge.
    minster.
                                           Whitehouse, William, Exchange Build-
Walker, Edward, Chester.
Walker, William, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.          ings, Liverpool.
Walker, Rev. Robert, M.A., F.R.S.,
                                           Wigram, Rev. Jos. C, 5, Cork Street.
   Wadham College, Oxford.                 Wilderspin, Samuel, Cheltenham.
                                           Willan, William, 6, Old Bridge Street,
Walker, Francis, F.L.S.,F.G.S., 49, Bed-
    ford Square.                               Dublin.
                                           Williams, C. J. B., M.D.,46, Half-Moon
Walker, Jos. N., F.L.S., President of the
   Liverpool Royal Institution, Allerton        Street, Piccadilly.
    Hall.
                                           Williams, C. W., Dublin Steam Packet
Wall, Rev. C.W., D.D.,S.F.T.C, Dublin.
                                               Office, Liverpool.
Wall, Rev. R. H., A.M., G, Hume Street,
                                           Williams, Richard, Dame St., Dublin.
    Dublin.
Wallace, J. R., Isle of Man.               Williams, Robert, Bridehead, Dorset.
Wallinger, Rev. William, Hastings.         Williams, Robert, Jun., 36, Grosvenor
Walmesly, Joshua, Church St., Liverpool.
                                               Square.
Walmesley, Joshua, Jun , Mount             Williams, Rev. David, F.R.S., Bleadon

    Pleasant, Liverpool.                       near Cross, Somerset.
Walsh, John, Prussian Consul, Dublin.      Williams, William, Birchin Lane.
                                           Williams, John, Jun., Berncoose, Corn-
Wansey, William, 16, Riches Court,
   Lime Street.                                wall.
                                           Williamson, William, Lincoln's Inn.
Ward, Rev. Richard, 24, Cadogan Place,
   London.                                 Williamson, W. C, Manchester.

Wardell, William, Chester.                 Willimott, John, F.G.S.,45, GreatMarl-
Waring, S., Stoke Bishop, near Bristol.       borough Street.
Warren, R. B., Q.C., 55, Leeson Street,
                                           Willis, Rev. Robert, M.A., F.R.S.,
    Dublin.                                   F.G.S., Caius College, Cambridge.

Warwick, W. A., Cambridge.                 Wills, William, Birmingham.
Wasse, Jonah, M.D., Mount Hall,            Wilson, James, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
                                           Wilson, John, Sen., Clyde Iron Works,
    Boroughbridge.
                                              Glasgow.
                                           Wilson, Thos., Banks, near Barnsley.
                                           Wilson, Alex., Bryanstone Square.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                        17

Wilson, Riv. Dr. James, M.R.I.A.,                                          Y.
    Dublin.
                                           Yarrell, William, Ryder St., St. James's.
Wilson, W. J., Manchester.                 Yate, Rev. Charles, M.A., Fellow of St.

Winsor, F. A., M.R.I, A., 10, John St.,        John's College, Cambridge.
    Adelphi.                               Yates, James, M.A., F.L.S., F.G.S., 49,

Winterbottom, Rev. J. E., M.A., F.L.S.,       Upper Bedford Place, Russell Square.
   F.G.S., East Woodhay, Hants.            Yates, Jos. Brooke, F.S.A., Pres. Lit.

Wood, Rev. Samuel, London.                    and Philos. Soc. Liverpool, West Din-
Wood, Peter, M.D., Manchester.                 gle, near Liverpool.
Wood, G. W., F.L.S., F.G.S., Singleton     Yates, R. Vaughan, Toxteth Park, Liver-

    Lodge, near Manchester.                    pool.
Wood, William, 16, Castle St., Liverpool.  Yeates, George, 2, Grafton St., Dublin.
Wood, John, London.
Woods, Edward, Manchester.                 Yelverton, W., Kirkdale, near Liverpool.
Woods, Samuel, Jun., India Buildings,      York, His Grace the Archbishop of.
                                           Yorke, Col., 12, Duke St., Grosvenor Sq.
    Liverpool.                             Young, James, Chemist, London.
Woolgav, J. W., F.R.A.S., Lewes.           Young, Rev. John, D.D., F.R.A S.,
Woolley, William, Hull.
Worthington, William, Brockhurst Hall,        Warwick House, Cheltenham.
                                           Young, John, Taunton.
   Northwich.                              Younge, Robert, M.D., Sheffield.
Worthington, Archibald, Whitchurch,        Younge, Robert, F.L.S., Sheffield.

    Salop.

Wrottesley, John, Blackheath.

ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Abbott, C. H., Long Ashton.                Addington, John, Ashley Court.
Abbott, Henry, Long Ashton, Somerset-      Addison, Rev. J. A., Wallasey, Cheshire.
Abraham, Abraham, Edge Hill,Liverpool.     Addison, T. B., Preston.
Ackers, Joseph, Vauxhall Road, Liverpool.  Aiken, P. F., Bristol.
Acland, Robert, Boulston.                  Aikin, James, 1, Alfred St., Liverpool.
Acraman, Alfred, Jun., Bristol.            Ainslie, Rev. John, East Lothian.
Acraman, D. W., Clifton.                   Akenhead, David, Newcastle.
Acraman, W. E., Bristol.                   Alcock, Benjamin, M.D., Frederic St.,
Acton, Rev. Henry, Exeter.
Adah, Henry, 11, Mountjoy Sq. South,           Dublin.
                                           Alder, Joshua, Newcastle.
    Dublin.
Adair, John, 11, Mountjoy Square           Aldridge, J. F., Bristol.

    South, Dublin.                         Alexander, W. W., Bristol.
                                           Alexander, R. C, Corsham, Wilts.
Adams, Robert, 1 1, Gt. Denmark Street,
                                           Alford, Henry, Taunton.
    Dublin.                                Allcard, William, Liverpool.
Adams, S. B., Clifton.                     Allen, Andrew, Bristol.
Adams, G. H., Belfast.                     Allen, J. Penn, North Cerney, Glosters.
Adamson, John, Solicitor, Newcastle.       Allen, T. D., North Cerney, Glostershire.
Addams, Robert, 20, Pembroke Square,       Allen, L. Baugh, Dulwicn Common.
                                           Allen, W., 32, Hardwicke Street, Dublin.
    Kensington.                            Allies, Jabez, Catherine Villa, near Wor-
Adcock, Robert, London.
Adcock, Henry, London.                         cGst f*r
Addington, H. J., Langford Court, So-      Alloway, R. T., Hotwells, Bristol.

     merset.                               Allwood, Rev. Robert, Clifton Park.
18 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS,

Amer, John, Preston.                      Backhouse, William, Newcastle.
Ames, G. H., Stoke Bishop, near Bristol.  Backhouse, T. I., Sunderland.
Anderson, Rev. D., B.A., South Hunter     Bacon, Robert, McCausland, 12, Fitz-

     St., Liverpool.                          gibbon Street, Dublin.
                                          Badham, J. B., Bristol.
Anderson, T. D., South Hunter St., Li-    Baen, Martin, Bristol.
                                          Bailey, Lieut. Joseph, R.N., Bristol.
     verpool.                             Bailie, Rev. Dr. Kennedy, ArdtreaHouse,
Anderson, J. M., Bedford Street South,
                                              Tyrone.
     Liverpool.                           Baily,Fran.,Treas.R.S., F.G.S., London.
Anderson, Joseph, M.D., 5, Oxford St.,    Baily, James, Brighton.

     Liverpool.                           Baines, Thomas, Hope St., Liverpool.
Anderson, James, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.     Baird, David, M.D., 97, Duke Street,
Anderson, David, of Exeter Coll. Oxon.,
                                               Liverpool.
    Edinburgh.                            Baker, Thomas, Bristol.
Anderton, Henry, Woolton, near Liver-     Baker, George, Northampton.

     pool.                                Baker, T. B. L., Hardwick Court, Glou-

Andrade, Joachim, 68, Duke St., Liver-         cester.

     pool.                                Balcarras, The Earl of, Haigh Hall,
                                              Wigan.
Andrew, H. P., Bodrean, Truro.
Ansted, D. T., Jesus College, Cambridge.  Bald.William, F.R.S.E., Board of Works,
Appleton.Rev.Richard, A.M.,22, Spring-
                                              Dublin.
    field, Liverpool.                     Ball, Rev. John, Manchester.
Archbold, James, Newcastle.               Ball, John, Seacombe, Cheshire.
                                          Ball, Nicholas, 85, Stephen's Green So.,
Archer, Francis, Renshaw Street, Liver-
                                              Dublin.
     pool.                                Balleny, William, 50, Oxford Street,
Ariel, Miles, Bristol.
                                              Liverpool.
Armstrong, G. A., Dublin.
                                          Bangley, George, 24, St. John's Wood
Armstrong, W. J.,Rathcoale, Co. Dublin.
                                              Road.
Armstrong, William, Bristol.              Banner, J. M.,24, Rodney St., Liverpool.
Arnaud, Elias, Abercromby Square,         Banning, T. H., 27, CanningSt., Liverpool.
                                          Barber, Thos., Exchange Alley North,
     Liverpool.
Ash, Richard, Bristol.                        Liverpool.
Ash, R. H., Middle Temple.                Barber, Charles, 18, Moira St., Liverpool.
Ash, J. H., Bristol.
Ashburner, George, London.                Barclay, Thomas, Castlebar.
                                          Barclay, T. B., Wavertree Lodge, Liver-
Ashton, H., Woolton Wood, Liverpool.
Ashton, C. E., Woolton Hall, Liverpool.       pool.
Ashton, H. P., Gildart St., Liverpool.
Ashton, Jos. Yates, South John Street,    Bardon,Rowland,HamptonHall, Ireland.
                                          Bardsley, S. A., M.D., Manchester.
    Liverpool.                            Bardsley, J. L., Manchester.
Ashton, Michael, 2, Gildart St., Liver-   Barham, Dr. T. F., Exeter.
                                          Barham, Francis, London.
    pool.                                 Barker, Rev. Frederick, B.A., Edge Hill,

Ashworth, Thomas, Poynton, Stockport.         Liverpool.
Ashworth, Samuel, Oxford.
Aspinall, Rev. James, Abercromby Sq.,     Barker, James, 24, North Cumberland
                                              Street, Dublin.
    Liverpool.
Aspland, A. S., Temple.                   Barker, Rev. T. F., Everton, Liverpool.
                                          Barker, James, Bakewell, Derbyshire.
Aston, Lieut. Henry, of Bombay Army,      Barker, Rev. Henry, Clifton.

   Torquay.                               Barnard, W. H., South Shields.
Atcherly, John, 3, Gt. George's Place,
                                          Barratt, John, Conistone, near Kendall.
    Liverpool.                            Barrow, Samuel, Bath.
                                          Barton, Stephen, Bristol.
Auchinleck, William, 39, Dominick St.,
    Dublin.                               Batchelor, W. M., Abbeville, County

Avison, Thomas, Jun., Catherine Street,       Dublin.
                                          Bates, John, Clifton.
    Liverpool.
                                          Bath and Wells, The Lord Bishop of,
Austen, Robert A. C, Stratford House,
                                              Palace, Wells.
    Guildford.

                                   B.

Backhouse, Edward, Jun., Sunderland.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                                               19

Bathurst, Earl, Cirencester.                Bigg, L. O., Bristol.

Batty, C, Liverpool.                        Bigge, Cbas. J., Dunston Hill, Durham.
Baumgartner, A., Manchester.
                                            Bigge, C. W., Linden, Newcastle.
Bayly, John, Abbott's Leigh, Bristol.
Bayly, T. K., Abbott's Leigh, Bristol.      Biggs, R. H., Bristol.
Bayne, Rev. Thomas, Warrington.
Baynton, William, Bristol.                  Biggs, William, Leicester.
Bealey, Richard, Radcliffe.
Beardman, Joseph, Chesterfield.             Biggs, John, Leicester.
Beasley, Thos., Fitzwilliam Sq., Dublin.
Beatty,T. E.,M.D.,M.R.I.A., 16, Moles-      Billett, James, Taunton.
                                            Bincks, C, Edinburgh.
    worth Street, Dublin.
                                            Birch, Sir T. B., Bart., Prescot.
Beaufort, His Grace the Duke of, Bad-
                                            Bird, Golding, Guy's Hospital.
    minton.
Beddoes, Lieut. C. H., R.N., Clifton.       Bird, William, Dingle Mount, Liverpool.
Bedford, R. G., Clifton.
Beilby, William, M.D., Edinburgh.           Birkbeck, William, Settle, Yorks.
Bell, David, Blessington Street, Dublin.
Bell, T. B., Edinburgh.                     Birrell, Rev. C. M., Roscommon Street,
Bell, J. W., Q.C., 1, Gardiner Street,
                                            Liverpool.
    Dublin.
Bell, Peter, M.D., Wolverhampton.           Bishop, C. K., Tiverton.
Bell, John, Royal Barracks, Dublin.
                                            Black, James, M.D., Bolton.
Bell, Matthew, M.P., Wolsington, New-
                                            Black, William, 65, Cornhill.
     castle.
                                            Blackaller, Rev. H., Clapville, America.
Bellamy, Wm., Rodney Street, Liverpool.
                                            Blackburn, E. B., Alnwick Castle.
Bellingham, Rev. J. G., B.A.
Beney, Perceval, Bedford Row.               Blackburn, James, Alnwick Castle.
Bennett, Richard, Bristol.
Bennett, C. F., Clifton.                    Blackburn, J. J., M.P., Warrington.
Bennett, Henry, Bristol.
Bennett, G., St. John's, Newfoundland.      Blackburn, T., Camden St., Liverpool.
Benson,Rob.,Jun., Lodge Lane, Liverpool.
                                            Blackett, Christopher, M.P., Wyham Oak-
Benson, W. W., Lieut. 57th. Regiment.
                                            wood, Newcastle.
Benwell, Rev. William, Stanton Drew.
Berend, S. S., Bold Street, Liverpool.      Blackball, Rev. Samuel, North Cadbury.
Bernard, C. E., M.D., Clifton.              Blain, William, Mount Vernon, Liver-
Berkeley, F. H.,St. John's Priory.Chester.
Bernard, F. J., Bristol.                    pool.
Bernard, R. M., Bristol.
Bernard, R. W., M.D., Cheltenham.           Blair, Harrison, Mill Hill House, Bolton.

Bernard, W. H., Whitburn, Durham.           Blake, John, 104, Bold Street, Liverpool.
Bernard, W. R., M.A., Clifton.
                                            Blake, J. H., Lisduff, Co. Galway.
Berry, Rev. William, Settle, York.
Bessonet, James, 28, Leeson St., Dublin.    Blake, Jas., Jun., Great George Square,
Bettune, William, Boston.
Bevan, John, Great George Square, Liver-    Liverpool.

    pool.                                   Blake, William, Crewkerne.

Bevan, John, Cowbridge, Glamorgan.          Bliss, Thomas, Jun.,Trin. Coll., Dublin.
Bevan, Samuel, Neath.
Bevan, William, 3, Leeson St., Dublin.      Blisset, Charles, Clifton.
Bevan, Rev. William, Frazer Street,
                                            Blood, W. Bindon, Edinburgh.
     Liverpool.
                                            Blower, Benjamin, Surgeon, Northern
Bevan, Robert, M.D., Monmouth.
                                            Hospital, Liverpool.
Biggs, Arthur, Bristol.
Bickford, J. S., Hayle, Cornwall.           Blundell, William, Crosby Hall, Liver-
Biddle, John, Leamington.
                                            pool.
Biddle, James, 10, Mount Pleasant,
                                            Blundell, Richard, Hooton, Cheshire.
     Liverpool.
                                            Boisragon, Theodore, Cheltenham.

                                            Bold, N. D., Duke St., Liverpool.
                                            Bold, Rev. Thomas, Duke Street, Liver-

                                                pool.

                                            Bold, Thomas, Water Street, Liverpool.

                                            Boley, Richard, Ashley Hill, near Bristol.

                                            Bolton, Ogden, Great George's Street,

                                            Liverpool.

                                            Bompas, G. G., M.D., Fishponds, near

                                            Bristol.

                                            Bompas, G. J., Jun., Fishponds, Bristol.
                                            Bompas, C. C, 11, Park Road, Regent's

                                            Park.

                                            Booker, Richard, British Guiana.

                                            Booker, Josias, Allerton, Liverpool.

                                            Booth, Abraham, Hackney.

                                            Booth, Charles, Bedford Street North,

                                            Liverpool.

                                                        b2
20 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Bootli, John, M.D., F.G.S., Brush House,    Brockett, John Trotter, Newcastle.
                                            Brodie, Robert, Clifton.
     Sheffield.                             Brodigan, Thomas, Drogheda.
                                            Bromby, Rev. J. E., Bristol.
Booth, Henry, Abercromby Square, Liver-     Bromby, C. H., St. John's Coll., Cam-

    pool.                                       bridge.
Boothby, J. B., Everton, Liverpool.
Boswall, Capt., R.N., Edinburgh.            Brookes, Rev. Jonathan, M.A., Everton,
Boswell, William, 115, Stephen's Green,         Liverpool.

    Dublin.                                 Brooks, John, 28, Great George Street,
Bouch, Thomas, Everton, Liverpool.               Liverpool.
Bovill, William, London.
Bourne, Rt. Hon. William Sturges, Brook     Brooks, J. H., Brazennose Coll., Oxford.
                                            Brougham, Lord, Brougham Hall.
     Street.                                Broughton, S. D., F.R.S., F.G.S., 12,

Bourne, Timothy, Liverpool.                     Great Marlborough Street.
Bower, Anthony,85, Islington, Liverpool.    Brown, Ebenezev, A.M., Bedford Street,
Bowes, John, M.P., Streatham Castle,
                                                 Liverpool.
    Durham.                                 Brown, George, Clifton.
                                            Brown, George, Liverpool.
Bowler, Capt., Liverpool.                   Brown, Samuel, Bristol.

Bowman, J. E., F.L.S., Gresham, near        Brown, Rev. Geo., M.A., Edge Hill,
   Wrexham.
                                                 Liverpool.
Bowman, Thos., Berkeley Square, Bristol.
Bowring, John, LL.D., 1, Queen Square,      Brown, W. A., North John Street, Liver-

    Westminster.                                 pool.
Bowstead, Rev. T. S., Maryland Street,
                                            Brown, James, Douglas, Isle of Man.
     Liverpool.                             Brown, James, India Buildings, Liver-
Boyd, G. W., Winson, near Liverpool.
Bradshaw, R. S., Belfast.                        pool.
Bragg, J. K., Clifton.
 Brandling, John, Newcastle.                Brown, Thomas, Barbadoes.
                                            Brown, Dr., Sunderland.
Brandling, R. W., Low Gosforth,             Brown, J. B., Bedford Place, London.
                                            Brown, Rev. Thos., Inneskip.
     Newcastle.                             Brown, G. A., Manchester.
Brandon, J. J., Clifton.                    Browne, William, Richmond Hill, Clifton.
                                            Browne, Robert, Liverpool.
Brandreth, J., M.D., Rodney Street,         Browne, James, Bristol.
                                            Browne, John, Bridgewater.
     Liverpool.                             Bruce, O. Tyndall, Falkland, Fifeshire.
Brandreth, James, Tavistock Place.          Bruce, Rev. J. C., Newcastle.
                                            Bruce, Robert, Frenchay, near Bristol.
Branker, Henry, Wadham Coll., Oxford.       Bruce, Robert, Jun., Frenchay.
Branker, W. H., Rodney St., Liverpool.      Bruce, William, Middle Temple.
                                            Brunei, M. I., V.P.R.S., 18, Duke St.,
 Branson, Thomas, Sheffield.
 Bran white, Nathaniel, Bristol.                Westminster.
 Branwhite, Nathaniel, Jim., Bristol.       Bryan, R. B., M.R.D.S., 20, Eccles St.,
 Bray, Charles, Coventry.
Breiitano, L. La Roche, 5, Bedford Street,       Dublin.

     Liverpool.                             Bryan, James, Netherfield Road North,
 Brereton, Joseph, Liverpool.
                                                 Liverpool.
 Bretherton, Edward, South Hunter St.,      Bryant, Samuel, Bristol.

     Liverpool.                             Bryce, Charles, M.D., Mount Pleasant,
 Brett, R. H., F.L.S., London.
                                                 Liverpool.
 Brewster, Sir David, M.A. Cambridge,        Buchanan, John, 2, Harrington Street,

     D.C.L. Oxon., LL.D., K.H., F.R.S.,          Liverpool.
    L. and E., St. Andrews.                 Buchanan, Daniel, Everton, Liverpool.
 Brice, Rev. H. C, Bristol.
 Bridges, H. L., Clifton Hill.              Buckingham, C. J., New York.
 Bright, Robert, Abbott's Leigh, Bristol.
 Bright, Richard, Jun., M.D., Abbott's       Budd, J. P., South Hill Road, Liverpool.
     Leigh, Bristol.                         Budd, John, Liverpool.
 Bright, Richard, M.D., F.R.S., F.G.S.,     Buddicombe, Rev. R. P., M.A., F.A.S.,
    11, Saville Row.
 Bright, Samuel, Liverpool.                      Everton, Liverpool.
 Broadbent, William, Latchford, near
     Warrington.                            Buddicombe, W. B., Liverpool.

                                             Buddie, John, Newcastle.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                                                21

Bull, H. W., London.                       Carne, C. F., 9, Bold Street, Liverpool.
Bulley, Thomas, 17, Falkner St., Liver-    Carpenter, R. L., College, York.
                                           Carpenter, Rev. Benjamin, Nottingham.
    pool.
                                           Carpenter, W. B., Edinburgh.
Bunbury, Richardson, IS), Mountjoy Sq.,
    Dublin.                                Carpenter, Ph. P., Jun., Bristol.

Bunt, T. G., Bristol.                      Carr, R. L., St. Anne St., Liverpool.
Bunting, Jabez, D.D., London.              Carr, I. T. J., 10, Old Church Yard,
Burgess, Alfred, Leicester.
Burgess, Daniel, Clifton.                      Liverpool.
Burgess, Daniel, Jun., Clifton Vale.       Carr, Rev. William, B.D., Gomersal,
Burnett, George, Jan., Newcastle.
Burrell, William, Newcastle.                  near Leeds.
Burroughs, J. A., Bristol.
                                           Carr, William, Gomersal.
Burroughs, W. G., Clifton.
Burton, H. S., Carrigaholt, County Clare.  Carrick, A., M.D.
Busby, John, Monkstown Avenue-, Dub-       Carrow, I. M., Temple, London.
                                           Carson, J. W., M.D., F.R.S., Mount
      lin.
                                               Pleasant, Liverpool.
Bush, James, Beach Bitton, near Bristol.   Carson, James, Jun., M.D., Liverpool.
Bush, Thomas, Beach Bitton.
Bush, James, Baldwin Street, Bristol.      Carson, P. M., Mount Pleasant, Liver-
Bush, Henry, Clifton.
Bush, George, Durdham Down, Bristol.           pool.
Bush, William, Bristol.                    Carson, Joseph, Trinity College, Dublin.

Bushby, W. P., Exchange Alley, Liver-      Carter, Rev. Augustus, Theakstone, York-

    pool.                                      shire.

Bushby, F. A., Exchange Alley, Liver-      Case, B. C. T,, Malmesbury.
                                           Case, W. A., Garston, Liverpool.
    pool.
                                           Case, R. E., Clifton.
Bushell, W. D., Kingshill Villa, Cotham.
Butler, Charles, M.D., 53, Lower Sack-     Case, J. Ashton, Aigburth, Liverpool.

    ville Street, Dublin.                  Casin, Henry, Bristol.

Butterworth, J. H., Henbury Court,         Casson, Wm., Greenland St., Liverpool.

     Bristol.                              Castle, H. M., Bristol.

Byles, J. B., London.                      Castle, Michael, Grove House, Clifton.
Byng, Rev. John, Merton Coll., Oxford.
                                           W.Castle,  H., Stoke's Croft, Bristol.
                                      C.
                                           Cattell.T. W., 16, Seymour Street, Liver-
Cales, Henry, Cheltenham.
Callcott, Captain G.B., Lower Crescent,        pool.
                                           Catto, Robert, Aberdeen.
     Clifton.                              Cay, R. B., Sunderland.

Cary, Edward, Isle of Man.                 Chadwick, Edwin, Somerset House.
Campbell, Rev. Augustus, Duke Street,      Chaigneau, Peter, Upper Fitzwilliam St.,

     Liverpool.                            Dublin.
Campbell, Rev. Jas., D.D., Dublin.
Campbell, John, India Buildings, Liver-    Chambers, James, Dublin.
                                           Champion, Guy, Dublin.
     pool.
 Campbell, Colin.Toxteth Park, Liverpool.  Chancellor, George, Dublin.

 Campbell, Rev. Colin, M.A., Newport,      Chanter, John, Earl Street.
                                           Chapman, Capt. J. G., R.A., Clifton.
     Salop.                                Chappell, Commander, R.N., Dublin

 Campbell, R. C, Glasgow.                      Steam Packet Office, Liverpool.
 Campbell, John, LL.D., Fishill, Ire-
                                           Charles, S., Bristol College.
     land.
                                           Charlesworth, Edward, British Museum.
 Capron, A., Park Row, Bristol.
 Carey, Rev. Robert, Clonmel.              Charters, Capt. Samuel, R.N., Bath.
 Cargill, William, Newcastle.              Chawner, Dr. Darwin, Newark.
 Carlisle.H. H.,Bushfield Avenue, Dublin.  Chatfield, Henry, Devonport.
 Carlisle, Richard, Enfield.
 Carmichael, Thomas, 10, Upper Temple      Cheeseborough,* John, 48, St. Anne St.,

     Street, Dublin.                       Liverpool.

                                           Cheetham, David, Preston.
                                           Chibborn, Edward, Cullenswood, Dublin.

                                           Chileott, John, Bristol.
                                           Chilcott, Thomas, Clifton.
                                           Cholmeley, M., Oxford.
                                           Clanny, Rev. R., F.R.S.E., Sunderland.
                                           Clann'y, Dr., Sunderland.
                                           Clapham, Col., Over Court.
22 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Clark, Alonzo, M.A., New York.                  Comer, George, Exchange Buildings,

Clark, Bracy, F.L.S., 7, Taunton Place,             Liverpool.
    Regent's Park.                              Comrie, A., London.
                                                Condie, John, Willsonton Iron Works,
Clarke, W. H., London.
Clarke, James, Q. C, Recorder of Liver-            North Britain.
                                                Condie, A., North Britain.
    pool.                                       Congreave, C, Sheffield.
                                                Connebee, Richard, Dorking.
Clarke, Bramhall, Old Hall Street, Li-          Conolly, John, M.D., Warwick.
                                                Conolly, William, M.D.,Castleton House,
    verpool.
Clarke, J. L., Woolton, Liverpool.                  near Cheltenham.
Clarke, Joshua, Bristol.                        Conybeare, John, Sully Rectory.
                                                Cook, J., 4, King's Bench Walk, Temple.
Clarke, Rev. W. B., Stanley Green, near         Cooke, Rev. Dr. George, Tortworth.
                                                Cooke, J. A., Clifton.
    Poole.                                      Cooke, George, West Derby, Liverpool.
                                                Cooke, Isaac, Clifton.
Clarke, Rev. Edward, M.A., Essex.               Cooke, Samuel, Christ Church, Oxford.
Clarke, N. D., Manchester.                      Cookson, Joseph, Clifton.
Clarke, E. S., Palmerston.                      Cookson, Isaac, Meldon, Newcastle.
                                                Cooper, John, Bristol.
Clarke, Sir Arthur, M.D., 44, New Great         Cooper, J. S., M.R.I.A., Upper Merrion

    George Street, Dublin.                           Street, Dublin.
Claxton, Christopher, Clifton.
Clay, Robert, Bold Street, Liverpool.           Cooper, James, St. Anne Street,Liverpool.
Clay, Rev. John, B.D., Adlington Hall,          Cooper, Paul, Isle of Man.

     Cheshire.                                  Copeland, Dr., Enniskillen.
Clayton, John, Newcastle.                       Copeland, G. F., Cheltenham.
                                                Copeland, James, M.D., 1, Bulstrode St.
Cleave, W. O., Clifton.                         Copinger, John, M.D., Cork.
Clegram, W. B., Gloucester.                     Corbett, William, 22, Lower Baggot St.,
Clendining, Dr. John, 16, Wimpolc St.
                                                     Dublin.
Clerk, Henry, Bristol.                          Corrie, John, Pres. Birmingham Philos.
Clerk, Thomas, M.D., Aberdeen.
Clerk, Rev. D. M., Yatton, near Bristol.            Institut.,Woodville,near Birmingham.
Clerke, Major Shadwell, K.H., F.R.S.,           Corrie, J. R., M.D., Birmingham.
                                                Corrie, Thomas, Bedford St., Liverpool.
    Athenseum.                                  Corrie, V. B., London.
 Clive, Rev. William, Welsh Pool                Corser, Rev. Win., Stand, near Bury.
 Clutterbuck, James, Cheltenham.                Coryndon, R. W., Plymouth.
 Coates, William, Clifton.                      Cosby, Major Wm., M.R.D.S., 1, Belve-
 Coates, William, Jim., 5, Richmond Ter-
                                                    dere Place, Dublin.
      race, Clifton.                            Costello, Marcus, Dublin.
 Coathupe, Oliver, Redland, near Bristol.       Cotes, Thomas, 59, Lincoln's Inn Fields,
                                                Cotesworth, Charles, Brunswick Street,
 Cobden, Richard, Manchester.
 Cock, Edward, Guy's Hospital.                       Liverpool.
 Cock, James, Liverpool.
 Cocker, John, Salford.                         Cottam, G. C, Engineer,Winsley Street,
                                                    London.
 Cocks, W. S., Upper Newington, Liver-
                                                Cottam, S. E., Manchester.
     pool.                                      Coulston, T. L., Clifton Wood.
 Cocks, J. Somers, Legh, Worcester.
                                                Coultherd, Wm., Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
 Cocks, Rev. H. Somers, Legh.                   Co wall, J. W., Gloucester.
 Coffin, William, Llandaff.                     Cowan, Charles, M.D., Bath.
 Coglan, Thomas, Exchange Street East,          Cowan, William, LL.D., Lodge Lane,

      Liverpool.                                     Liverpool;
                                                Cowan, Capt. T., R.N., Edinburgh.
 Colbeck, Thomas, Southampton How.               Cowie, C. 6., Liverpool.
 Cole, Lord Viscount, M.P., Florence             Cowling, John, Temple.

      Court.                                     Cowling, John, Maryland St., Liverpool.
 Cole, Walter K., Bristol College.              Cox, Robert, 28, St. Anne St., Liverpool.
 Coles, Rev. Thos., Bourton on the Water.        Cox, James, 10, Oxford St., Liverpool.
 Colles, Maurice, M.D., 18, Mcrrion Sq.,

     Dublin.
 Collings, D. H., Queen's Coll., Oxford.
 Collins, James, M.D., 11, Norton Street,

      Liverpool.

 Collinson, Rev. John, A.M., Gateshead.

  Colville, Lieut. R., y7th. Regt., Stockport.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                             23

 Craig, Edward, M.A., Staines.                   Curtis, W., Alton, Hants.
 Craigh, Hugh, Percy Street, Liverpool.          Curtis, John, F.L.S., 11, Robert Street,
 Crane, George, Swansea.
 Crawford, T. R., Charles Street, Berkeley           Hampstead Road.

      Square,                                    Cuthbert, S. T., Clifton.

 Crawley, Rev. Wm.,Brynywyn Rectory,                                           D.
    Monmouth.
                                                 Dakin, Thomas, London.
 Creig, W. L., Red Castle, Castle Douglas.       Dale, J. C, Granville's Wootten, Dorset.
                                                 Dale, T. A., Hanover Street, Liverpool.
 Creighton, Captain, London.                     Dale, E. H., Bristol.
 Crewdson, Wilson, Manchester.                  Dale, Henry, North Shields.
 Crichton, Sir Alexander, Kent.                 Dale, Rev. P. S., Holland's Green, War-
 Cripps, Frederick, 39, Mount Pleasant,
                                                     rington.
     Liverpool.
                                                Dalgleish, Robert, Wigan.
 Crisp, T. S., Baptists' Coll., Stoke's Croft,  Dalton, John, D.C.L. Oxon., F.R.S.,&c,

      Bristol.                                       Manchester.

 Croft, Rev. R., Edmund St., Liverpool.          Dalton, J. S., Mount Vernon, Liverpool.
                                                Danger, William, Durdham Down Lodge,
 Croft, J. R., Straw Street, Liverpool.
 Crompton, C, Barrister, 52, Doughty St.              Bristol.
 Crompton, Edward, Eton House, Liver-
                                                Daniel, Edward, Jun., St. George's,
      pool.                                          Somerset.

Crompton, Henry, Eton House, Liverpool.         Daniel, Thomas, Henbury, near Bristol.
Crompton, Albert, Eton House, Liverpool.        Daniel, Thomas, Jun., Sneed Park, near
Crompton, Woodhouse, Liverpool.
Crooke, Nicholas, Christ Church, Oxford.             Bristol.
Croome, William, Cirencester.
Cropper, John, Everton, Liverpool.              Darley, William, 34, Lower Baggot St.,
Cropper, John, Jun., Dingle, Liverpool.             Dublin.
Cropper, Edward, Dingle, Liverpool.
Ci-osfield, Win., Mason Street, Liverpool.      Darthez, S. T., Clapham Park.
Crosfield, John, Temple Court, Liverj>ool.      Daubeny, J. W., Cote, near Bristol.
Crosfield, Simon, Bedford St., Liverpool.       Davey, Gen.W.,Tracey Park, near Bath.
Cross, B. J., Kingsdown, Bristol.               Davey, Richard, Redruth, Cornwall.
Cross, William, Clifton.                        Davies, Thomas, Montpelier, Bristol.
Cross, Thomas, Bristol.                         Davies, Theodore, Nailsea, near Bristol.
Cross, T. B., Chorley, Lancashire.              Davies, David, M.D., Bristol.
Crosse, J. A., Broomfield, near Taunton.
Crossfield, Joseph, Warrington.                 Davies, W. W., Coate Bank, Westbury.
Crouch, E. A., Penzance.                        Davies, John, M.D., 31, Lennox Street,
Cruickshanks, Alexander, Boulogne.
Crum, Walter, Glasgow.                              Dublin.
Crump, John, Woodside, Cheshire.                Davies, Rev. Robert, M.A., Browulow
Culdwell, J.S.,Linley Wood,Staffordshire.
Cull, Richard, London.                               Street, Liverpool.
Cumberland, G., Bristol.
Cumming, Rev. Professor, F.R.S.,F.G.S.,         Davies, Rev. Richard, B.A., Brownlow

    Cambridge.                                       Street, Liverpool.
Cumming, George, M.D., Denbigh.                 Davies, Walter, Liscard, Cheshire.
Cunningham, James, Clifton.
Cunningham, James, Jun., Clifton.               Davies, Edward, Wrexham.
                                                Davies, John, Abergeley, Denbigh.
Cunningham, John, Wood St., Liverpool.          Davies, James, Lyceum Place, Liverpool.
Cunningham, George, Oak Vale, near
                                                Davis, Francis, Waterford.
    Liverpool.                                  Davis, Joseph, Westbury-upon-Tyne.
                                                Davy, Rev. Dr., Master of Cains College,
Cunningham, William, Castle Pollard.
Currie, Donald, 20, Regent Street.                  Cambridge.
Currie, William, Q.C., 37, Summer Hill,         Dawell, John, Bristol.
                                                Dawell, Stephen, Abbott's Leigh, Hunts.
    Dublin.                                     Dawson, Charles, Llangollen.
                                                Dawson, John, Rodney Street, Liverpool.
Currie, W. W., Ellerslie, Liverpool.            Dawson, Robert, Sandwell Cottage, Bir-

Curry, P. F., Knotty Ash, near Liverpool.          mingham.
Curtis, B. W., Bristol.                         Dawson, Joseph, 20, Stafford Street,

                                                    Liverpool.

                                                Dawson, Edw., Aldcliffe Hall, Liverpool.
                                                Day, Alfred, Bristol.
24 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Day, Joseph H., Bristol.                                                      Dunalley, Lord, Kilbay, Nenagh.
Day, John, Peckham.                                                           Dunbar, David, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Day, J. D., Brazennose College, Oxford.                                       Duncan, Philip B., M.A., Keeper of Ash-
Day, J., Llangollen.
Deane, Sir Thomas, Cork.                                                        molean Mus., Fell, of New Coll. Oxford.
Deane, Alexander, Cork.
                                                                              Duncan.W. H., M.D., 18, Rodney Street,
De Beauvoir, Sir John E., Bart., Albe-
                                                                                  Liverpool.
    marle Street.                                                             Duncan, Dr., Glasgow.

De Butts, Rev. G., A.M., Crickhowel,                                          Duncan, G. I., 21, Rodney St., Liverpool.
                                                                              Duncan, J. C, Everton Road, Liverpool.
    Glamorganshire.                                                           Duncan, Jas., 13, Percy Street, Liverpool.
                                                                              Duncan, J. R., Dumfries.
Denham, Capt. H. M., R.N., Toxteth                                            Duncan, Robert, Dumfries.
                                                                              Dungannon, Lord, M.P., Wickham Park,
    Park, Liverpool.
Denny, Henry, Leeds.                                                              Northampton.
                                                                              Dunlevie, C. T., Brunswick St., Liverpool.
De Ridder, L. E., 5, Victoria Place, near                                     Dunn, William, Hedgfield.
                                                                              Dunsford, William, Park Place, Clifton.
     Bristol.                                                                 Duppa, T. D., Salop.
                                                                              Durbin, F. J., Trinity Coll., Cambridge.
De Soyres, Rev. F., Siddlesham, Sussex.                                       Durby, Abraham, Colebrook Dale.

Dick, Dr. Paris, Bristol.                                                     Earle, William, Woolton Hall, Liverpool.
Dicker, J. R., Woodside, Cheshire.                                            Earle, Hardman, Exchange Buildings,
Dickinson, Jos., M.B., Trinity College,
                                                                                  Liverpool.
    Dublin.                                                                   Eaton, Rev. George, Norwich.
Dickson, Rev.T. B. Whittle, near Preston.
                                                                              Eaton, Rev. George, The Pole, near
                                                                           ;      Warrington.

Dillon, Edward, 39, York Street, Dublin.                                      Eaton, Joseph, Bristol.
Dillwin, L. W., Spelty Hall, Swansea.
DiXjJohn, Jun.,Somerset Terrace, Bristol.                                     Eastwicke, W. H., Heynsham.
Dixon, James, Birkenhead, Cheshire.
Dixon, James, Oxford.                                                         Eckersall, John, Bath.
Dixon, William, Parish Office, Liverpool.                                     Edgar, John Foy, Bristol.
Dixon, William, Jim., Abercromby                                              Edgworth, Francis, Bristol.
                                                                              Edington, William, 18, Leinster Street,
     Square, Liverpool.
Dixon, J. D., Everton, Liverpool.                                                 Dublin.
Dobbs, A. A., Birkenhead, Cheshire.                                           Edwards, Thomas, Bristol.
Dobson, T. O., 5, Myrtle St., Liverpool.                                      Edwards, G. O., Redland, near Bristol.
Dockray, Benjamin, Lancaster.
                                                                              Edwards, S. C, Long Ashton, Somerset.
Dockray, David, Jun., 24, Cook Street,                                        Edwards, Richard, Roby Hall, Liverpool.
                                                                              Edwards, John, M.D., 23, Bold Street,
     Liverpool.
                                                                                   Liverpool.
Don, David, F.L.S., Professor of Botany,                                      Edwards, J. P., Falkland St., Liverpool.
    King's College, London.                                                   Egerton, Rev. William, Cheshire.

Donato, F. K., Bristol.                                                       Egerton, W. G., Oulton Park, Cheshire.
Donovan, A. F., 14, Anson St., Liverpool.
Doran, Thomas, Bristol.                                                       Egerton, Rev. William, Hodnet, Salop.
Doveton, Rev. J. F., Clifton.                                                 Eginton, Harvey, Worcester.
Douglas, H. G., France.                                                       Eglington, Sam., 88, Islington, Liverpool.
Douglas, J. J., 4, Garden Court, Temple.                                      Eglington, J. T., 88, Islington, Liverpool.
Douglass, Rev. William, Prebendary of                                         Elgin, Edward, York.
                                                                              Elliott, William, M.D., Carlisle.
    Durham.                                                                   Ellis, Francis, Bristol.
Dow, Robert, M.D., Waterford.                                                 Ellis, Capt. G. M., Ballyshannon.
 Dowell, Rev. Henry, M.A., Axminster.                                         Ellis, Carteret J. W., 47, Albion Street,
 Drake, John, Bedminster.
 Dublin, His Grace the Archbishop of.                                            Hyde Park.
                                                                              Ellison, King, Mount Pleasant, Liverpool.
Du Buisson, Thomas, Wandsworth.
                                                                              Elton, Ar. H., Bristol.
 Duckworth, Robinson, 2, Canning Street,                                      Elton, C. A., Bristol.
                                                                              Elverson, James, Bushby, Leicestershire.
     Liverpool.

 Dudgeon, Robert, Mount Pleasant,

     Liverpool.
Dudgeon, John, Edinburgh.

 Duffy, John, 5, Upper Fitzwilliam Street,
     Dublin.

 Duke, Valentine, M.D., Dublin.
Dumbell, G. W., Isle of Man.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                          25

Elwin, Rev.F.,Grosvenor Cottage, Clifton.    Filgate, W. H., Castle Bellingham.
Elvvin, F. H., London.
Emery, George, Banvvell, Somerset.           Finlay, John, LL.D., 31, North Cumber-
Errington, J. E., Hartford.                      land Street, Dublin.
Errington, William, Hartford.
                                             Firke, Robert, Clifton.
Estlin, J. B., Bristol.                      Fisher, Rev. Charles, Badgworth, near

Etches, J. C, Price Street, Liverpool.           Cross, Somerset.
Evans, Eyre, 43, Renshaw St., Liverpool.
Evans, John, London.                         Fisher, Rev. Thomas, 32, Edmund Street,
Evans, Richard, Swansea.
Evans, Rev.Wm., Park Wood, Tavistock.            Liverpool.
Ewart, J. C, Mosely Hall, Liverpool.         Fisher, Thomas, Liverpool.
Exall, William, Reading.                     Fisher, John, Bristol.
Exley, Thomas, M.A., Bristol.
Eyes, Edward, Everton, Liverpool.            Fisher, W. B., M.B., Downing College,
Eyes, Edward, Jim., Liverpool.
Eyton, T. C. Eyton, Wellington, Salop.           Cambridge.
Eyton, John, Holywell.                       Fitzherbert, E. H., Temple.
Eyton, Edward, Flintshire.                   Fitzhugh,W.H.,GoreePiazzas,Liverpool.
                                             Fitzpatrick, Thomas, M.D., 12, Park
Fabian, Lieut., R.N., London.
Fairbrother, Alexander, M.D., Clifton.           Street, Dublin.
Falkner, E. D., Fairfield House, Liverpool.  Fleming, John, Bootle, Liverpool.
Fannin, Thomas, Dublin.                      Fletcher, John, Toxteth Park, Liverpool.
 Fargus, John, Bristol.                      Fletcher, J. D., Toxteth Park, Liverpool.
Farquharson, Lieut.-Col., Bolton.            Fletcher,R. A., Park Hill Road, Liverpool.
Farran, Joseph, 44, York Street, Dublin.     Fletcher, Thomas, Gateacre, Liverpool.
 Farre, F. S., F.L.S., London.               Fletcher, Robert, Exchange, Bristol.
 Faulder, John, Bristol.                     Fletcher, Angus, Athenasum.
 Fearne, Charles, Wakefield.
 Fearon, H. B., 105, Bond Street.            Flood, P. T., M.R.D.S., Lower Mount
 Fearon, Rev. J., Bootle, Liverpool.
 Fedden, O., Bedminster.                          Street, Dublin.
 Felkin, William, Nottingham.
 Fell, J. A., Woodside, Cheshire.             Folingsby, T. G., Belfast.
 Fellows, Charles, 30, Russell Square.       P'oote, Simon, Essex Bridge, Dublin.
 Fenwick, Addison, Newcastle.                Forbes, John, LL.D., Aberdeen.
 Fenwick, John, Newcastle.                   Forbes, Rev. John, Glasgow.
 Ferguson, James, M.D., 62, St. Anne         Ford, Major H., Conway.
                                             Ford, William, Liverpool.
      Street, Liverpool.
 Ferguson, J., Carlisle.                     Ford, H. R., Hareholme, near Rochdale.

 Ferguson, Hugh, M.D., M.R.I. A., Sack-      Forrest, Richard, Heathfield Terrace,
     ville Street, Dublin.
                                                 Turnham Green.
 Fergusson,Thomas, Birkenhead, Cheshire.     Forrester, George, Vauxhall Foundry,

 Femehough, W. F., 16, Chatham Street,            Liverpool.
                                             Forshaw, Richard, Colquitt St., Liverpool.
      Liverpool.
 Ferris, Richard, Clifton.                   Forster, Francis, 6, Rodney St., Liverpool.
 Field, Arthur, Liverpool.                   Forster, Edward, Woodford, Essex.
 Field, Henry, M.D., Blackrock, Ireland.
 Field, John, Seacombe, Cheshire.            Forster, William, Jun., Liverpool.
 Field, Joshua, Lambeth.                     Forster, J. N., Biggleswade, Beds.
 Fielden, John, M.P.,Todmorden, Lancas.
 Fielden, Joshua, Todmorden, Lancashire.     Forsythe, Thomas, Edge Hill. Liverpool.
 Fielden, Rev.Robt.,Bebbington, Cheshire.    Forsythe, Thomas, 31, St. Anne Street,
 Fife, G., M.D., Newcastle.
 Fife, John, Newcastle.                           Liverpool.
 Fife, William, Newcastle.                    Foster, Geo., Pendle Hill, near Clitheroe.
                                              Foster, Rev. F. D., Doddington.
                                              Foster, William, 13, Merrion Square East,

                                                  Dublin.
                                              Fowler, Rev. John, Bristol.
                                              Fowler, Richard, M.D.,F.R.S., Salisbury.
                                              Fowler, John, Bristol.
                                              Fox, G. F., Brislington, near Bristol.

                                              Fox, H. H., Bristol.
                                              Fox, G. C, Grove Hill, Falmouth.
                                              Fox, Edwin, Brislington.

                                              Fox, F. K., Brislington.
                                              Fox, C. P. Brislington.
                                              Fox, Robert Were, Falmouth.
                                              Fox, R. B., Falmouth.
26 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

 Fox, Alfred, Falmouth.                         George, Christopher, Abbott's Leigh,
 Fox, Charles, Perran Arworthal, Truro.
 Fox, Rev. S. W., 96, Stephen's Green,                Bristol.

     Dublin.                                    George, C. F., Abbott's Leigh.
 Francis, G. G., Royal Institution,             Gettings, William, London.

      Liverpool.                                Gibbons, Wm., M.D., Richmond, Surrey.
 Francis, Francis, London.                      Gibbons, Benj., Corbyne Hall, Staffords.
 Francis, William, Whitehall, near Truro.
 Francis, John, Swansea.                        Gibbs, George, Belmont, Somersetshire.
 Franklin, B.W., 2 1, Canning St., Liverpool.   Gibbs, G. H., 11, Bedford Square.
 Franklyn, G. W., Clifton.                      Gibbs, H. H., 11, Bedford Square.
 Franklyn, John, Clifton.                       Gibbs, James, Bristol.
 Franklyn, J. N., Clifton.                      Gibson, John, Newcastle.
 Fraser, G. G., Bold Place, Liverpool.          Gibson, Solomon, 22, Gildart's Street,
 Fraser, William, Demerara.
 Fraser, William, Edinburgh.                        Liverpool.
                                                Gibson, Rev.N. W., Ardwick, Manchester.
 Freeman, J. C, Clifton.                        Gibson, Rev. Geo., Park Place, Liverpool.
 French, Arthur, 9, Merrion Square,
                                                Gilbert, John Davics, Eastbourne.
     Dublin.                                    Gilbert, Richard, Tranmere, Cheshire.
French, Charles, Club House, Kildare            Gilbert, Rev. Joseph, Nottingham.
                                               Giles, Rev. Hen. ,3, Mill Street, Liverpool.
     Street, Dublin.                           Gilfillan, Jas., Rodney Street, Liverpool.
Frend, William, M.A., F.R.S., 31, Upper        Gillon,Andrew,ClarenceStreet, Liverpool.
                                               Gillow, Rev. Robert, 50, Warren Street,
    Bedford Place, Russell Square.
Frere, R. E., 13th Light Infantry, Bitton.          Liverpool.
Freser, J. W., Manchester.
Fripp, William, Bristol.                       Gilly, Dr., College, Durham.
Fripp, E. B., Westbury, near Bristol.          Gladstone, David, Canning Street,
Fripp, James, Bristol.
Frith, J. G., London.                               Liverpool.
Frodsham, George, 4, Change Alley.
Fry, Joseph, Bristol.                          Gladstone, William, Liverpool.
Fry, William, India Buildings, Liverpool.      Gladstone,T.S.,ChathamStreet, Liverpool.
Fry, Thomas, Exchange Alley North,             Gladstone, Murray, Great George Street.

    Liverpool.                                     Westminster.
Fryer, J. H., Whitley House.                   Glasco, John, Springfield, Liverpool.
Fryer, Thomas, Bristol.                        Glasebrook, T. K., Everton, Liverpool.
                                               Godwin, J. H., Highbury College.
Fryer, William, London Road, Liverpool.        Goldney, A., West Lydford.
Fuge, John, Plymouth.                          Goldney, Samuel, Hot wells, Bristol.
Furnival, Rev. James, St. Helen's, near
                                               Goldsmid, M. A., PortmanSquare, London.
     Liverpool.                                Goldsmid, I. L., St. John's Lodge,

Gage, Rev. Robt., N.T.L., Vady, Ireland.           Regent's Park.
Gage, M. A., 17, Slater Street, Liverpool.     Goodenough, Very Rev. Edward, D.D.,
Gale, R. L., 42, Seymour St., Liverpool.
Gamble, J. C.,St. Helen's, near Liverpool.         Dean of Wells.
Gamboa, A., Bristol.                           Goodall, Ebenezer, 1 9, Molesworth Street,
Gardon, George, Truman St., Liverpool.
Garrard, T., Bristol.                              Dublin.
Garston, E. H., 18, Catherine Street,          Goodeve, J. W., Clifton.
                                               Goodfellow, R., Demerara.
    Liverpool.                                 Goodlett, George, Leith.
Garston, Henry, 18, Catherine Street,          Goodwin, Rev. F. G., A.M., Wigwell,

    Liverpool.                                     Derbyshire.
Gaskell, Jas.,Smithdovvn Lane, Liverpool.      Goodwin, Capt., Wigwell Grange,

Gawne, Robert, Bristol.                            Derbyshire.
Gennest, Charles, Isle of Man.
Geoghegan, Thomas, M.D., 52, York              Goore, W. H., Aigburth, Liverpool.

    Street, Dublin.                            Gordon, Alexander, 22, Fludyer Street,
                                                  London.

                                               Gordon, Harry, Great George Street,
                                                   Liverpool.

                                               Gordon, A. F., Edinburgh.
                                               Gordon, James, Jun., Kincardine.
                                               Gore, Col. George, Tours, France.
                                               Gore, R. T., Bath.
                                               Gotch, F. W., Kettering.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                           27

Goutliwaite, John, 102, Richmond Row,         Griffiths, S. F., Cheltenham.
                                              Griffiths, Samuel, Kingswood School.
    Liverpool.                                Griffiths, R. S., Carrglwyd, Anglesea.
                                              Griffiths, Thomas, M.D., Westbury.
Graham, Robert, Edinburgh.                    Grimaldi, Joseph, 3, Great Oxford Street,
Grainger, Richard, Newcastle.
                                                  Liverpool.
Granger, F. R., Bristol.
Grant, Geo., Rodney Street, Liverpool.        Grinfield, Rev. Thomas, Clifton.
Grant, R. E., M.D., Professor of Zoology      Grosvenor, Gen., Hare Park, Cambridge-

    in University College, London.                 shire.
Grantham, Richard, Limerick.
Grantham, John, Everton, Liverpool.           Groves, Chas., Canning Street, Liverpool.
Grantham, Richard, F.G.S., Streatley,         Grabble, Rev. J. H., 3, Bedford Place,

    Berkshire.                                    Kensington.
Grapel, Win., Church Street, Liverpool.       Grundy, Joshua, Oates, near Leicester.
                                              Guillebaud, Rev. Peter, Clifton.
Gravatt, William, 7, De la Haye Street,       Guillebaud, Henry, Clifton.
                                              Guillemard, John, M.A., F.R.S., F.G.S.,
    Westminster.
Graves, R. I., M.D., M.R.I.A., 9, Har-           27, Gower Street.
                                              Guinness, Arthur, Beaumont, Dublin.
     court Street, Dublin.                    Guinness, Rev. Wm., Beaumont, Dublin.
Graves, J. T., M.A., 20, Southampton          Guppy, T. R., Bristol.
                                              Guppy, Samuel, London.
    Buildings, Chancery Lane.                 Gutch, J. W. G., Swansea.
 Graves, Rev. R. H., D.D., Glebe,             Gutch, J. M., Bristol.
                                              Guyton, Jos., Irwell Street, Liverpool.
    Mitchelstown.
 Gray, James, Manchester.                                                  H.
Gray, J. E., 36, Great George Street,
                                              Hackett, Dr. William, Newry.
    Westminster.                              Hadow, G. I., Clifton.
Green, F. W., Dean's Marsh, Bristol.           Hadow,George, Jim., BalliolColl., Oxford.
Green, Henry, Turbot Town, Ireland.           Haigh, Thomas, Liverpool.
Green, George, M.D., 14, Harcourt             Hailey, Edward, Bristol.
                                              Haire, Robert, Q.C., 19, Summer Hill,
     Street, Dublin.
 Green, Rev. H., Knutsford, Cheshire.              Dublin.
 Green, J. A., LL.B., 107, Lower Gar-
                                              Haire, James, 19, Summer Hill, Dublin.
     diner Street, Dublin.                    Hall, John, 12, Hope Street, Liverpool.
 Green, George, Aigburth, Liverpool.           Hall, John, 35, Hope Street, Liverpool.
 Green, Thomas, Bristol.                       Hall, John Wesley, Ashley Down, near
 Greenall, Edward, Gambier Terrace,
                                                    Bristol.
     Liverpool.                                Hall, Elias, Derbyshire.

 Greene, John, M.R.D.S., 4, Lower Or-          Hall, George Webb, Saecd Park, near
    mond Quay, Dublin.
                                                    Bristol.
 Greene, R.W., 49, Stephen's Green East,
                                               Hall, J.R., Stockbridge Terrace, London.
     Dublin.                                   Hall, J. T., Mountjoy Square, Dublin.
 Greenhaw, T. M., Newcastle.
 Greenless, Matthew, Glasgow.                  Hall, B., M.P., 36, Hertford Street, May
 Greenough.G.B., F.R.S., F.L.S., F.G.S.,
                                                    Fair.
      Regent's Park.                           Hall, James, St. James's Barton, Bristol.
 Greenslade, Amos, Bristol.                    Hall, R. B., Alderley, Gloucestershire.
 Green well, William, North Shields.
  Greeves, Augustus F. A., Nottingham.         Halliday, J. C, Seacombe, Cheshire.
  Greg, R. H., Manchester.                     Halpin, George, Jun., 10, Middle Mount-

 Greg, W. R., Manchester.                          joy Street, Dublin.
                                               Halse, Edward, Clifton.
  Greg, Samuel, Manchester.                     Halsall, Edward, Bristol.
  Gregg, R. H., Norclifte, Cheshire.            Halton, Rev. Thomas, M.A., Islington,
  Greig, Charles, Bristol.
  Gretton, Rev. R. H., Rector of Nantwich.          Liverpool.

  Grier, J. R., Clifton.                       Ham, Thomas, Ballina.
  Griffin, J. J., Chemist, Glasgow.            Ham, John, Bristol.
  Griffin, Edw., Beckwith Street.Liverpool.     Hamer, John, Preston.
  Griffin, Nathaniel, Portsmouth.
  Griffin, S. J., Cheltenham.                   Hamilton,C.W., 37,Dominick St.,Dublin.

  Griffin, Thomas, Cheltenham.

  Griffith, W. V., 13, Clare Street, Dublin.
28 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Hamilton, James, Commercial Bank of            Hart, A. S., F.T.C.D.,Trin. Coll., Dublin.
     England, Liverpool.
                                              Harte, W. L., Newcastle.
Hamilton, G. A., Hampton Hall, Bal-
                                               Hartop, Henry, Hoyland Hall, Barnsley.
     briggan.                                 Harve}', Thomas, Blackburn Terrace,
 Hamilton, C. J., Liverpool.
Hamilton, Rev. H. P., M.A., F.R.S.                 Liverpool.
                                               Harvey. James, Jun., Liverpool.
   &L. E., F.G.S., Wath, Ripofl.               Harvey, R. E., Islington, Liverpool.
                                              Harvey, Alexander, Glasgow.
Hamilton, Gilbert, Soho, Birmingham.          Harvey, John, Ripon.
Hamilton, Win. Tighe, Co. Meath.
Hamilton, Alexander, Perth.                   Harwood, William, Jun., Bristol.
Hamilton, Arthur, LL.D., 12, South            Harwood, Edw., Barton Hill, near Bristol.
                                              Harwood, Reynold, Edinburgh.
    Cumberland Street, Dublin.                Hassal, Rev. J., Toxteth Park, Liverpool.

Hamilton, Daere, New Leach, Monaghan.          Hasseli, Charles, Bristol.

Hancock, John, M.D., Commercial Road.         Hassell, William, Bristol.
Handley, Hen., Culverthorpe, Lincoln-
                                              Hastings, William, Huddersfield.
      shire.                                  Hawkes, William, Birmingham.

Hannay, Alex., M.D., Great George             Hawkshaw, John, Manchester.
                                              Hawtrey, Rev. M. I. G., M. A., Liverpool.
     Street, Liverpool.                       Hay, J. P., Norwich.

 Hanson, Thomas, Woodside, Cheshire.          Hayes, Rev. H, Bath.
 Hanson, Thomas, Jun., Smith wick,
                                              Hayes, John, Edinburgh.
    Birmingham.                               Haynes, Rev. Thomas, Bristol.
 Haram, Benj., 11, Chapel Street, Liverpool.  Hayward, J. C, Quedgelley House,
 Harbard, fl. G., South Dispensary,
                                                   Gloucestershire.
     Liverpool.
 Harden, Rev. Edward, Norwood.                Headham, J. E.,M.D.,Mayorof Newcastle.
                                              Healey, Elkanah, Liverpool.
Harden, J. W., Hope Street, Liverpool.        Healey, S. R., Edge Hill, Liverpool.
Hardman, Edward, 4, Upper Mount               Heath, Edward, King Street, Liverpool.
                                              Heath, Rev. Thomas, Chester.
     Street, Dublin.                          Heaton, Charles, Endon, Staffordshire.
 Hardwick, James, Bristol.                     Heaven, C. G., Bristol.
 Hardwicke, William, Surgeon, London.         Hebson, Douglas, Liverpool.
 Hare, John, Springfield.                     Hedley, Dr., Mayor of Morpeth.
 Hare, C. B., Bristol.                        Hegan, Jos., Rodney Street, Liverpool.
 Hare, Charles, Bristol.                      Heigham, Capt., 4th Dragoon Guards.
                                              Heiniken, Rev. N. S., Sidmouth.
Hare, W. C, Bristol.                          Hele, Matthew, London.
                                              Hellicar, John, Bristol.
 Harford, J. S., Bristol.
 Harford, Somers,Tirhowy, Abergavenny.        Hellicar, Joseph, Hotwells, Bristol.

Harford, W. H., Bailey Wood, Somerset.        Hellicar, Valentine, Bristol.

 Hargreave, James, Leeds.                     Henderson, Samuel, 9, Exchange Build-
 Hargreaves, John, Settle, Yorkshire.
                                                  ings, Liverpool.
Hargreaves, Wm., Oakhill, Blackburn.          Henderson, AVilliam, Bristol.
Harland, W. C, M.P., 4, Albemarle St.
Harley, Edward, Bristol.                      Hendlam, T. E., M.D., Newcastle.
Harley, Edward, Jun., Bristol.                Hennell, C. C, London.
                                              Hensman, Rev. John, Clifton Grove.
Hailing, William, Chester.                    Herapath, William, Mansion House, Old
Harness, T. B., Tavistock.
Harnett, John, 42, Mt. Pleasant, Liverpool.       Park, Bristol.

Harnett, Michael, 42, Mount Pleasant,         Herapath, W. B., Old Park, Bristol.

     Liverpool.                               Herapath, John, Kensington.
Harper, Abiezer.Kingsdown, near Bristol.      Herbert, Thomas, Nottingham.
Harris, Thos., Crete Hill, near Bristol.      Hess, S. Y., Lord Street, Liverpool.
Harris, William, Bristol.                     Hetherington, George, M.D., 9, Castle
Harris, Edward, Meath.
Harris, Joseph, Chapel Villa, Liverpool.          Street, Dublin.
                                              Hetling, William, Clifton.
Harris, G. F., Harrow on the Hill.            Hetling, Geo., 19, College Green, Bristol.

Harris, Wm. Snow, F.R.S., Plymouth.           Hewitson, W. C, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.

Harrison, John, Bristol.                      Hewitson, Henry, Seaton Burn.
Harrison, John, Nottingham.
Harrison, T. E., Whitburn.
Harrison,Wm., Fulwell Grange, Durham.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                         29

Hewitt, Wm., Heath Cottage, Westerleigh.    Holt, George, West Derby, Liverpool.
                                            Homfray, C. G., Oriel College, Oxford.
Hewitt, T. H, Clifton Hill.                 Hooker, Sir William, LL.D., Prof. Bot,

Heywood, Francis, Edge Lane Hall,               Glasgow.
                                            Hope, Rev. Thomas, Clifton.
    Liverpool.                              Hope, Rev. F. W., M.A., 39, Upper Sey-

Heywood, J. P., Brunswick St., Liverpool.      mour Street.
Hibblewhite, Thos., Slater St., Liverpool.  Hope, Samuel, Liverpool.
Higgins, Robert, Wavertree, Liverpool.      Hopkinson, W. L, M.D., Stamford.
Higgins, Vincent, Upper Parliament          Hore, Edwin, 3, Salisbury St., Liverpool.
                                            Hornblower, Jethro, Bristol.
    Street, Liverpool.                      Hornby, Joseph, Everton, Liverpool.
Higgins, John, Salford.                     Hornby, Rev. T., Canning St., Liverpool.
Higginson, Alfred, South Dispensary,        Horsfall, C. H., Toxteth Park, Liverpool.

     Liverpool.                             Horsfall, T. B., Everton, Liverpool.
Hill, Charles, Hotwells, Bristol.
                                            Horsfall, J. G., Bradford.
Hill, Charles, Distillery, Bristol.
Hill, Jeremiah, Bristol.                    Houghton, John, Rodney St., Liverpool.
Hillhouse, Martin, Clifton.                 Houston, Robert, Greenock.
                                            Howell, John, Park Row, Clifton.
Hillhouse, George, Combe, Gloucestersh.     Howick, Viscount, M.P., Whitehall Place.
Hilton, Major, Allerton Hall.               Hudson, Rev. E., Glenville, Co. Cork
Hilton, James, Edge Hill, Liverpool.        Hughes, Rev. Morris, St. Anne's, near
Hilton, Sir John, Conway.
Hincks, Rev. T. D., LL.D., Belfast.             Bangor.
Hincks, Thomas, York.                       Hughes, Henry, King's Town, Dublin.
Hincks, Thomas, Elm House, near             Hughes, D. S., Kingstown, Dublin.
                                            Hughes, J. G., Middle Temple.
     Liverpool.                             Hughes, H. N., 2, India Buildings, Li-
Hind, J. H., Salthouse Dock, Liverpool.
Hinde, J. H., M.P., Newcastle.                   verpool.
Hinton, G. P., Kingsdown, near Bristol.     Hull, Rev. A. H., Donaghadee.

Hitching, Rev. W. J., London.               Hull, Col. Wm., M.R.A.S., 31, Norfolk
Hobhouse, Rt. Hon. Henry, Hadspen
                                                 Street, London.
     House, Somerset.
 Hobhouse, B. T., Temple.                   Hull, W. D., Ross Trevor, Ireland.
Hodge, Rowland, Dep. Master of Trinity       Humble, Henry, University, Durham.
                                             Humpage, Edward, Bristol.
    House, Newcastle.                        Humphreys, J. C, Birkenhead, Cheshire.
 Hodges, Rev. Dr. Edward, Bristol.
 Hodgkin, Thomas, M.D., 20, Finsbury         Humphries, D. J., Cheltenham.
                                             Hunt, Harry, Birmingham.
     Circus.                                 Hunt, T.j Chemist, Kingstown, Dublin.
 Hodgkinson, Francis, LL.D., V.P. Trin.      Hunter, Rev. Jos., F.S.A., 30,Torrington

      Coll., Dublin.                             Square.
 Hodgson, Rev. J. S., Rufford.               Hunter, Robert, 46, Burton Crescent.
 Hodgson, Rev. J., Rector of Hortburne.      Hurle, John, Bristol.
 Hodgson, Richard, M.P.
 Hodgson, David, Everton, Liverpool.        Hurle, W. I., Newcastle.
 Hodgson, I., Thurnley, Leicestershire.      Hurst, M. C, Nottingham.
 Hodson, William, Middleton, Co. West-       Hurt, K. C, Winksworth, Derbyshire.
                                             Husenbeth, F. C, Bristol.
     meath.
 Hodson, H., Cambridge.                      Hutching, Rev. A., London.
 Hogan, Rev. James, Tintern Abbey.           Hutchings, E., Keynsham, near Bristol.
 Hogan, William, 15, Fitzwilliam Street,     Hutchinson, Frederick, 7th Regiment

     Dublin.                                      Fusileers.
 Holgate, J., Chatham Place, Liverpool.      Hutchinson, James, Paris.

 Holland, C, Goree Piazzas, Liverpool.       Hutchinson, Captain C, North Hall,
                                                Wigan.
 Holland, P. H., Manchester.
 Holland, Peter, Knutsford, Cheshire.        Hutton, Rev. Jos., M.A., Fairfield, Glas-
 Holland, G. C, M.D., Sheffield.
 Holland, Edward, Worcestershire.                nevin.
 Holme, A. H., Seel Street, Liverpool.       Huxtable, Edgar, Bristol.
 Holmes, H., Everton Brow, Liverpool.
 Holmes, John, Chatham St., Liverpool.      Hyett, W. H., Painswick, Gloucester-
 Holmes, Robert, Dublin.
                                                  shire.
30 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

                                               I.   Johnson, Captain E. J., 14, Cambridge
                                                       Terrace, Hyde Park.
 Iliff, Rev. T., Royal Institution, Liver-
                                                    Johnson, R., Chapel Walk, Liverpool.
     pool.                                         Johnson, David, M.D., Edinburgh.
                                                   Johnson, Charles, M.D., 13, Molesworth
 Ingham, Robert, Westoe, South Shields.
 Ingle, Rev. Charles, York.                             Street, Dublin.
Inglis, James, M.D., Ripon.                        Johnson, Thomas, Chester.
Irlam, Thomas, Old Hall St., Liverpool.            Johnson, R., Soho Street, Liverpool.
 Irvine, Rev. A., St. Margaret's, Leicester.       Johnson, Richard, Jun., Park Hill Road,
 Irving, John, Jun., Bristol.
Irving, James, Fleet Street, Liverpool.                 Liverpool.
Irving, George, Bristol.
 Isaacson, Joseph, Curator, Zoological             Johnson, James, Great Mersey Street,

    Gardens, Liverpool.                                 Liverpool.
Ivatt, James, Bristol.                             Johnson, John, Kirkdale, Liverpool.
                                                   Johnson, J., Hatton Garden, Liverpool.
Jackson, J., Hatton Garden, Liverpool.             Johnson, George, Cbester.
Jackson, C, Eastland House, Notts.                 Johnson, James, M.D., Suffolk Street,

Jackson, Rev. W., Leigh, near Man-                     London.
                                                   Johnson, Edward, Chester.
     chester.                                      Johnson, William, M.A., Cambridge.
Jackson, Samuel, Clifton.                          Johnson, Rev. B.
Jackson, Rev. I. E., Farleigh Castle, near         Jones, Rev. Francis, Middleton.
                                                   Jones, Edward, Kingsdown, Bristol.
    Bath.                                          Jones, R. P., Charfield, Glostershire.
Jackson, C. It., Barton Lodge, Liverpool.          Jones, George, Bristol.
Jacobs, Joseph, Bristol.
                                                   Jones, W. C. Bristol.
Jacques, W. S., Clifton.
                                                   Jones, A., Bristol.
James, E., Hatton Garden, Liverpool.               Jones, Thomas, Bristol.
James, H. G., Bristol.                             Jones, Edward, Nine Tree Hill, Bristol.
James, Rev. Thomas, Oxford.                        Jones, Edward, M.D., Waterford.
James, Lieut., R. E., Ordnance Survev              Jones, Edward, Waterford.
                                                   Jones, E. R., Brazennose College, Oxford.
    Office, Dublin.                                Jones, B. H., India Board, London.
James, William, Bristol.                           Jones, C. H., Cambridge.
James, Evan, Swansea.                              Jones, Rev. D., Bedford St., Liverpool.
Jarman, Francis, Bristol.                          Jones, B. H., Lark Hill, Liverpool.
Jee, Matthew, Edge-Hill, Liverpool.
Jeffcott, I. Arthur, Isle of Man.                  Jones, E., Mouut Pleasant, Liverpool.
                                                   Jones, E., Walton Breck, Liverpool.
Jeffrey, Joseph, Abbey Fore Gate,                  Jones, Wm., Walton Breck, Liverpool.
    Shrewsbury.                                    Jones, W. M., 10, Alfred St., Liverpool.

Jeffrey, Rev. James, Greenock.                     Jones, John, Everton, Liverpool
Jeffreys, Thomas, M.D., 19, George Sq.,            Jones, R., Everton Crescent, Liverpool.
                                                   Jones, J. O., Castle Street, Liverpool.
    Liverpool.                                     Jones, Hugh, Bank, Brunswick Street,
Jeffreys, J. G., Swansea.
Jelly, Rev. Henry, Bath.                                Liverpool.
Jenkins, William, Bristol.
Jenkinson, Captain, Bristol.                       Jones, H. H., Mary Anne St., Liverpool.
Jenkyn, Rev. John, Yeovil.
Jerdan, William,M.R.S.L., Grove House,             Jones, E., Brecon.

    Brompton.                                      Jones, R. Wynne, Beaumaris.
Jerrard, Joseph, Kingsdown, Bristol.               Jones, Rev. Robert, D.D., Bedfont.
Jerrard, George, Bristol.
Jerrard, J., Clifton.                              Jones, Professor F. R., King's College,
                                                       London.
Jerrard, F. W. H., Bristol,
                                                   Jordan, H. B. Bristol.
Jerrard, B. G., Bristol.                           Jordan, Joseph, Manchester.
Jevons, T., Park Hill Road, Liverpool.             Joy, Frederick, Belfast.
Jevons, William, Jun., Park Hill Road,
                                                                                   K.
    Liverpool.
Jevons, William, Alfred St., Liverpool.            Kay, I. P., Norwich.
                                                   Kay, I. L.| Park Road, Liverpool.
                                                   Kay, WiHiam, Park Road, Liverpool.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                           31

Kearle, Thomas, Havpingdon, Herts.            Laine, Le Chevalier, French Consul, 60,
Kearsley, S., 16, Percy Street, Liverpool.       Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Keet, Edwin, Kensington.
Kelly, T. L., Board of Education, Marl-       Lake, Frederick, Taunton.
                                              Lamb, Joshua, Newcastle.
   borough Street, Dublin.                    Lambert, Rev. R. W., Churchill, Som-
Kelly, J. C. Athlone.
Kelsa, J. B., Engineer, Glasgow.                   erset.
Kemmies, H. K., 12, Merrion Squai-e,
                                              Lampert, C. L. P., Liverpool.
    Dublin.                                   Lampert, William, Liverpool.
                                              Lane, A. C, Clifton.
Kempe, F., Bispham Lodge, Lancashire.         Lane, Richard, Manchester.
Kennedy, G. A..M.D., 49, Summer Hill,         Lang, James, London.
                                              Lang, W., Hospital, Guinea St., Bristol.
    Dublin.                                   Lang, Thomas, Ashfield Lodge, near
Kennedy, P. G., M.D., Edinburgh.
Kenny, J. W., Dublin.                              Bristol.

Kenrick, Samuel, West Bromwich, Bir-          Lang, Samuel, Bristol.
   mingham.                                   Lang, O., Royal Dock Yard, Woolwich.
                                              Langley, F. H., Everton, Liverpool.
Kent, William, Bath.                          Langton, Col. William Gore, Newton
Kershaw, Thomas, Ormskirk, Liverpool.
Killaloe, The Lord Bishop of, Dublin.             Park, Somerset.
King, Richard, London.
King, The Right Hon. Lord, 10, St.            Langton, Henry Gore, Clifton.
                                              Langton, H. C.,62, Dale St., Liverpool.
    James's Square.                           Langton, J. B., Liverpool.
King, John, Clifton.                          Langton, Joseph, Great George Square,

King, J. W., 74, Dame Street, Dublin.              Liverpool.
                                              Lankester, Edwin, Doncaster.
King, R. P., Bristol.                         Lashbury, F. P., 21, Wellington Place,
King, Alfred, Norton Street, Liverpool.
                                                   Bristol.
King, J., 5, Roscommon St., Liverpool.
                                              Lassell, William, Bold Street, Liverpool.
King, Robert, Liverpool.                       Latham, John, Wavertree, Liverpool.
 Kingdon, J. H., Barrister, Exeter.            Laton, Henry, Bristol.
Kingsburg, Thomas, Bath.                       Laughton, J. B., B.A., Edge Hill, Liver-
Kingsley, Jeffries, Nenagh.
Kingsley, R. Tipperary.                             pool.
 Kington, Thomas, Clifton.
 Kirkpatrick, J. S., Dale Street, Liverpool.   Laurence, Rev. C.W., Bold Place, Liver-

 Kirr, M., 79, Duke Street, Liverpool.             pool.
 Knapp, A. J., Bristol.                        Laurence, Charles, Wavertree Hall,

 Knifton, T. T., Uphill Lodge, Somerset.           Liverpool.
 Knight, A. L, M.D., Sheffield. (Life.)        Laurence, G. H., Bedford St., Liverpool.
 Knight, Col., Ireland.                        Laurence, George, London.
 Knight, J. P., 4, SuffolkPlace,Haymarket.     Laurie, Sir Peter, 7, Park Sq., London.
 Knight, Patrick, Stewart's Town, Armagh.      Laurie, Peter, Temple.
 Knight, William, Chelmsford.
 Knight, William, M.A., Bristol.               Law, George, 5, Montague Place, Bedford
 Knight, William, Jun., Bristol.
 Knipe, J. A., Worcester.                          Square.
 Knott, Samuel, M.D., Newcastle.               Lawrence, John, Leicester.
 Knowles, Andrew, Bolton.                      Lawson, Henry, London.
 Knox, Rev. R., Killaloe, Co. Limerick.        Lawson, William, Everton, Liverpool.
 Knox, C. G., 22, Lincoln's Inn Fields.
 Kbnig, Arnold, Manchester.                    Lax, Joseph, Clifton.
 Kyan, J. H., Cheltenham.                      Lax, Robert, Bristol.
  Kynnersley, T. C. S., Uttoxeter.             Lax, William, Ormskirk, near Liverpool.
                                               Leach, John, B.A., Windsor, near
 Kyrke, James, Glascoed, near Wrexham.
                                                    Liverpool.
                                          L.
                                               Leadbetter, John, Gloucester.
  Lacey, Rev. Charles, Tring, Herts.
  Lacon, Samuel, Falkner St., Liverpool.        Lean, Joel, Bristol.
                                               Lean, Thomas, Marazion, Cornwall.
                                                Lean, James, Clifton Hill.
                                                Lear, John, Jun., Liverpool.
                                               Leathom, Thos., Hanover Street, Liver-

                                                     pool.

                                                Lee, Rev. S., Banwell,near Cros3, Somer-

                                                     setshire.
32 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Lee, T. G., Birmingham.                      Lomi, Mark, Sion House, Clifton.
Lee, Nathaniel, Ilfracombe.                  Long, James, Infirmary, Brownlow Hill,
Lees, T., 23, Berkeley Street, Liverpool.
Lees, S. D., M.D., Ashton-under-Lyne.            Liverpool.
Lees, Henry, Ashton-under-Lyne.
Leferne, Jules, Abercromby Terrace, Li-      Long, William, Hartshall, Saxmundham.
                                             Lonsdale, William, F.G.S., Somevset
    verpool.
                                                 House.
Leicester, Rev. Robert, Much Woolton,        Lonsdale, James, Berner's Street.
                                             Looney, Francis, Manchester.
    Liverpool.                               Lord, Lieut. William, R.N., 79, Duke

Leifchild, John, Bushy Park, Dublin.             Street, Liverpool.
Leigh, J. G., Eton College.                  Losh, James, Newcastle.
Leigh, J. H., Warrington.                    Low, J. M., St. John's Coll., Cambridge.
Leigh, T. G., Birmingham.                    Lowe, Robert, E.I.C. Service, London.
Leigh, Rev. T. G., Abercromby Square,        Lube, D. G., 24, Kensington Crescent.

    Liverpool.                               Lucas, William, The Mills, Sheffield.
                                             Lucena, J. L., Garden Court, Temple.
Lemon, J. J., Bristol.
Lemon, Frederick, Infirmary, Bristol.            (Life.)
Le Nonnand, Gustave, Abercromby Ter-
                                             Ludlow, J. T., Bristol.
    race, Liverpool.
                                             Ludlow, Serjeant, Down House, Bristol.
Leonard, Rev. Thomas, Dublin.
Lethbridge, A. G., Sandhill Park,Taunton.    Lunell, George, Bristol.
Leveson, Lord, M.P.
Lewin, J., 22, Queen Anne St., Liverpool.    Lunell, W. P. Bristol.
Lewis, Rev. J., Ashton Vicarage.
Lewis, Rev. T. T., Aymestry, Leominster.     Lunell, J. G., Ashley, near Bristol.
Liddell, Hon. H., Percy's Cross, Fulham.     Lunn, William, Montreal, Edinburgh.
Liddell, Hon. Thos., Ravensworth Castle.
Liddiard, Rev. W., Dunshaghlin, Co.,         Luscombe, Thomas, Comm. Gen., Kil-

    Meath.                                      lerton House, Dublin.
Liddle, Sir Charles, Egremont, Cheshire.     Lyle, Acheson, 17, Gardiner's Place,
Lightbody, John, Birchfield, Liverpool.
Lightbody, Robert, Birchfield.                   Dublin.
Lingard, Rev. John, D.D., Hornby,            Lynch, George, Clifton.
                                             Lynch, Gerard, 18, James St., Liverpool.
    Lancashire.                              Lynch, John, 18, James Street, Liverpool.

Lister, E., Jun., Everton, Liverpool.        Lyne,Cornelius,15, Hume Street, Dublin.
Little, John, Edinburgh.
Littledale, E., 99, Bold Street, Liverpool.                            M.

Litton Edward, Q. C, 37, North Great         Macalester, Col., Axminster.
    George Street, Dublin.
                                             Macalester, Rev. J., St. Domingo House,
Livett, James, Ashley Place, Bristol.
Livingstone, Terence, Bigburg, Devon.             Liverpool.
Llewellyn, G., Baglan Hall, Glamorgan.       MacAlister, Rev. Jos., Newcastle.
Llewellyn, D. J., Swansea.                   Macauley, James, Middle Temple.
Llewellyn, John, Clifton.                    Macbin, George.
Llewellyn, Peter, Kingsdown, Bristol.        Macdonald, George, St. James's Barton,
Llewellyn, Richard, Westbury.
Lloyd, B. C, 8, Leinster Street, Dublin.          Bristol.
Lloyd, T., 79, Falkner Street, Liverpool.
Lloyd, George, M.D., Leamington.             Macdougall, A. H., F.R.A.S.,46, Parlia-
Lloyd, Samuel, London.                          ment Street.
Lloyd, Thomas, M.D., Ludlow.
Loch, George, Southill road, Liverpool.      Macintire, Dr., 14, Slater St., Liverpool.
Lockhart, William, Everton, Liverpool.
Logan, H. F. C, 36, Hardwick Street,         Macintire, L. H., 32, King Street,

    Dublin.                                       Liverpool.
Logan, C, Blackfield House, Liverpool.       Mackay, R. W., Lincoln's Inn.
Logan, Simon, West St., Walworth.            Mackay, J. T., M.R.I.A., Cottage Ter-
Lomas, John, Birmingham.
Lomax, Robert, Harwood.                          race, Dublin.
                                             Mackenzie, Dr., 22, Great George Street,

                                                  Liverpool.
                                             Mackie, David, Lect. Nat. Pbilos.

                                                 Glasgow.
                                             Mackie, Robert, Slater Street, Liverpool.
                                             Mackintosh, John, M.D., Edinburgh.
                                             Maclaine, Lieut.-Col. Hector, Kyneton,

                                                 Thornbury.

                                             Maclaine, W. A., Kyneton, Thornbury.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                         S3

MacLeay, W. S.,F.L.S., 11, Park Place,      Marsh, M. N., Inner Temple.
                                            Marshall, Buchanan, Clayton Square,
    Regent's Park.
                                                Liverpool.
Macma, W., Bromsgrove, Worcestershire.
Macrorie, David, M.D., Duke Street,         Marshman, J.R.,Fig Tree Court, Temple.
                                            Martin, R. Montgomery, 86, Piccadilly.
    Liverpool.                              Martin, James, Bristol.
                                            Martin, Studley, 3, Chesterfield Street,
McAdam, James, Belfast.
McBayne, L., Clifton Down.                      Liverpool.
McBayne, William, Clifton Down.             Martin, G., St. John'sColiege.Cambridge.
                                            Martin, Anthony, Birmingham.
McBride, J. W., 21, Islington, Liverpool.
McCall, Chas., 34, Nelson St., Liverpool.   Marton, J. A., Edge Hill, Liverpool.
McCann, J. H., 38, Stephen's Green,         Mascarenhas, A. B. de, Portuguese

    Dublin.                                     Consul, Bristol.
McCaul, John, LL.D., Trinity College,       Mash, James, Infirmary, Northampton.
                                            Mason, George, Dent.
    Dublin.                                 Mason, Rev. John, Tuxford.
McCauley, Henry, Hnddersfield.              Mather, J. P., M.A., Everton, Liverpool.
                                            Mating, Edward, Sunderland.
McCausland, Rev. J. C, Armagh.              Matthew, Rev. John, Chelvey, near
McClean, T. R., Belfast.
McCrea, Charles, M.D., Clondalkin.              Bourton.
McCullach, John, 13, College, Dublin.       Matthew, M., Brierly Hall, Staffordshire.
McCulloch, Samuel, 99, Duke Street,         Maurice, Michael, Reading.

    Liverpool.                              Maw, H. L., Tetley Crowle, Lincolnshire.
                                            Maxwell, Francis, 24, Pembroke Place,
McDiarmid, J., Dumfries.
McDouall, P. M., Ramsbottom, near               Liverpool.

    Bury.                                   Mayer, Joseph, Lord Street, Liverpool.
McGauley, Rev. J. W., 79, Marlborough       Maynard, J. A., M.A., King's Bench

    Street, Dublin.                            Walk, Temple.
                                            Maynard, R., Poultry.
McGill, Thomas, 91, Mount Pleasant,         Maynard, Alleyne, Barbadoes.
                                            Mayne, E. C, French Street, Dublin.
    Liverpool.
                                            Maze, Peter, Rownham Lodge, Bristol.
McGregor, W. F., Everton, Liverpool.
McHutchen, John, Isle of Man.               Mealy, Rev. R. R. P., M.A., Bangor.
McKay, J. T., M.R.I. A., 5, Cottage Ter-    Mease, Rev. J., Rathmullin.

    race, Dublin.                           Meason, M. L., 8, Bold Street, Liverpool.

McLauchlan, Henry, F.G.S., Map Office,      Melvill, William, Great George Street,

   Tower.                                       Liverpool.
McNeil, Rev. Hugh, Roscommon Street,        Menlove, Thomas, Bristol.
                                            Menzies, Rev. William, Greenock.
    Liverpool.                              Merac, Theophilus, College Green, Bristol.

McNeill, R., Exchange Alley, Liverpool.     Merritt, John, Edge Hill, Liverpool.
Madge, Rev. Thos., 12, Doughty Street.      Merz, Philip, Manchester, (Life).
Magrath, Rev. F., Queen's County.           Meynell, Thomas, Jun., F.L.S.,Friarage,
Mainwaring, Townsend, Wrexham.
Malcolm, George, 61, Upper Parliament          Yarm, Yorkshire.
                                            Middleton, John, Clifton.
    Street, Liverpool.                      Miles, P. I., M.P., Leigh Court, Bristol.
                                            Miles, W.,King'sWeston, Gloucestershire.
Mallard, William, Bristol.                  Mill, Baron B., Bath.
Manifold, Win,, Elliott Street, Liverpool.  Miller, John, Jun., 100, Mount Pleasant,
Manley, Charles, 9, John Street, Adelphi.
                                                Liverpool.
Mann, Joseph, Mary Ann St., Liverpool.
Mann, John, 173, Aldersgate Street.         Miller, Wm., 8, Percy Street, Liverpool.

Mardon,Benjamin, M.A., Grovo,JCentish       Miller, T. B., Hillside, Totterdown.
   Town.
                                            Miller, John, Nursery Villa, Durdham
Margerison, Edmund, Burnley.                   Down.
Mariescheau, Armand, French Consul,
                                            Miller, John, Jun., Exchange Street West,
    Dublin.
Marks, D. W., Professor of Hebrew,              Liverpool.
                                            Mills, John, Bristol.
   Mount Pleasant, Liverpool.               Mills, Rev. J. P., Abbott's Leigh, near
Marples, David, Lord Street, Liverpool.
Marreco, A. J. F., North Shields.                 Bristol.

Marriott, Peter, Bath.
Marsden, Ellis, Everton, Liverpool.

Marsh, S. H. J., Cotham Cottage, Bristol.
34. ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Milne, Joshua, High Cromptjn, near          Moxham, John, Kingsdown, Bristol.
                                            Mozley, Lewin, 62, Mount Pleasant,
    Manchester.
Milne, Thomas, Halifax.                         Liverpool.

Milner, Joseph, Huddersfield.               Mozley, Charles, 62, Mount Pleasant,

Milnev, W. P., Bengal Army, Liverpool.          Liverpool.
Minshull, J. L., St. Anne St., Liverpool.   Mozley, E. J. Lord Street, Liverpool.

Mitchell, D. W., Oxford.                                                                                 ;

Mitchell, W. A., Newcastle.                 Mozley, M. L., Great George Street,

Mitchelson, A. H., Edinburgh.                   Liverpool.
Mocatta, E., Jun., 28, Chester Terrace,     Muir, T. A., Director Philos. Soc, Glas-

    Regent's Pai-k.                            gow.
Mogg, J.R.,Cholwell House, near Bristol.    Muller, William, Bristol.
Mogg, Michael, Bristol.                     Mullineux, J. W., Gloucester Place,
Molesworth, J. E. N., Canterbury.
Moline, James, Godalming.                       Liverpool.
Molland, P. J., Manchester.                 Mullineux, James, Great George Street,
Mollans, John, M.D., 32, Upper Glou-
                                                Liverpool.
    cester Street, Dublin.
                                            Munro, Rev. Alex., Manchester.
Molloy, Jas. Scot, Dublin.                  Murch, Rev. Jerome, Bath.
Monck, Sir Charles, Bart., Belsay Castle,
                                            Murch, Rev. W. H., Stepney College.
    Newcastle.
Monck, A., Belsay Castle.                   Mure, John, Edinburgh.
Monday, John, Kingsdown, Bristol.           Mure, William, Edinburgh.
Monday, J. R., Olveston, near Bristol.      Muroe, William, Druid's Stoke, near

Monk, Rev. J. B., M. A., St. Anne Street,        Bristol.

     Liverpool.                             Murphy, Dr. P. J., 2, Upper Parliament

Montgomery, W. F., M.D., M.R.I.A.,               Street, Liverpool.

    18, Molesworth Street, Dublin.          Murphy, Rev. Francis, Park Place,
Moon, Edward, Tithebarn St., Liverpool.
Moon, James, Walton Rectory, near                Liverpool.
                                            Murray, Sir James, M.D., 2, Merrion
     Liverpool.
Moore, John, 51, Park Lane, Liverpool.          Square South, Dublin.
                                            Murray, Rev. Dr., 9, Mountjoy Square
Moore, Nehemiah, Bristol.
Moore, Alfred, St. Anne Street, Liverpool.      South, Dublin.
 Moore, Thomas, Slopperton Cottage,         Murray, J., F.S.A., Hull.
                                            Musket, David, Coleford.
     Devizes.                               Muspratt, John, Jun., 9, Pembroke Place,
 Moore,T. L., Slopperton Cottage, Devizes.
                                                 Liverpool.
 Moore, John, Pembroke Place, Liverpool,
 Moore, Henry, 17, Huskisson Street,                                      N.

     Liverpool.                             Nalty, John, M.D., Clare Street, Dublin.
                                             Nanny, George, Demerara.
 Moore, John, Bolton.                        Nash, Llewellyn, Stafford St., Liverpool.
 Moorton, Samuel, Birmingham.                Nash, J. E., Bristol.
 Morden, Professor, London.                  Naylor, Benjamin, Altringham.
                                             Neave, R. D., Epsom.
 Morgan, W. F., Bristol.                     Needham, Samuel, 9, Exchange Build-

 Morgan, R. G., 10, Oxford St., Liverpool.       ings, Liverpool.
 Morgan, Rev. J., Kirkby Laythorpe, Lin-
                                             Needham, William, Varley Hill, near
      colnshire.
                                                 Pontypool.
 Morley, Henry, Camberwell.                  Neild, William, Manchester.
 Morrah, James, 62, Sloane Street.           Ncill, Hugh, I, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
 Morris, Edward, Worcester.                  Neill, Patrick, LL.D., F.R.S.E., Edin-
 Morris, Lieut.-Col. George, Gardiner's
                                                 burgh.
      Place, Dublin.                         Neville, Parker, 14, York Street, Dublin.
 Morrison, Lieut. R. J., Cheltenham.
 Mortimer, William, Clifton.                 Nevin, Rev. John, Great Newton Street,
 Moseley, Rev. Henry, Prof, of Nat. and
                                                  Liverpool.
     Exper. Philos. King's Coll. London,
     Wandsworth.                             New, G. R., Newport, Monmouth.
 Mould, R. A., 4, Anson St., Liverpool.      New, F. T., Shepton Mallet.
 Mounsey, G. G., Mayor of Carlisle.          Newman, J. W., 6, Clarence Place,

                                                   Bristol.

                                             Newman, Henry, North Dispensary,

                                                 Liverpool.
                           ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                      35

Newman, C. W., Jim., Edge Lane, Li-          Ottley, Drury, Exeter.
                                             Ouchterlony, J., Madras.
    verpool.                                 Ould, Rev. Fielding, Rathmore Glebe.
Newton, Rev. J. H., York.                    Outram, B. F., M.D.,F.R.S., F.G.S., 1,
Nicholl, Iltyd, Jim., Exeter Coll., Oxford.
                                                Hanover Square, (Life).
Nicholl, Whiflock, Adamsdown, near           Owens, J. R., Jesus College, Oxford.
                                             Owens, Rev. W. H., St. Asaph.
     Cardiff.                                Oxmantown, Lord, Brier Castle, Ireland.

Nicholl, F. V., Adamsdown, near Cardiff.                      P.
Nicholl, R. E. W., Adamsdown.
Nicholson, Samuel, Ballymena.                Page, Capt. Robert, Charlton, Somersets.
Nicholson, Robert, Manchester.
Nicholson, John, Lyme Regis.                 Paget, John, Temple.
Nicol, Dr., 4, Rodney Street, Liverpool.
                                             Paget, John, Leicester.
Nielson, J. B., Liverpool.
                                             Pakenham, Daniel, State Apothecary, 58,
Nielson, David, 40, Rodney St., Liverpool.
Nightingale, Breton, Ashton Street,          Henry Street, Dublin.

    Liverpool.                               Paley, G. B., B.D., Freckenham, Suffolk.
Nightingale, Thos., Infirmary, Liverpool.
Nixon, R. L., 4, Grenville St., Dublin.      Palmer, Frederick, Bristol.

Noad, H. M., Shawford, near Bath.            Palmer, H. R., 2, Great George Street,
Noble, C, Salford.
Noble, A., Salford.                          Westminster.                        /
Norman, George, Bath.
Norton, Capt. John, London.                  Palmer, A. H., Bristol.
Nottingham, John, Upper Parliament
                                             Palmer, A. H., Jun., Bristol.
     Street, Liverpool.
                                             Palmer, H. A., Clifton.
Nowell, John, Farnley Wood, near
                                             Palmer, J. W., Hanham.
     Huddersfield.
Nugent, Lord, 6, Chandos Street, Caven-      Panter, J. R., Bristol.

    dish Square.                             Pariente, J. J., London.
Nugent, Edward, Exeter Coll., Oxford.
                                             Parker, Rev. Edwin, Berkshire.
                                   O.
                                             Parker, Wm., Seymour Street, Liverpool.

                                             Parker, Joseph, Penzance.

                                             Parker, R. T., M.P., Curedon, Chorley.

                                             Parker, Patrick, Aigburth, Liverpool.

                                             Parker, Rev. E. J., Waltham, St. Law-

O'Brien, Donat, M.R.D.S., Chester.           Parkinson, W. H., M.D., 32, Marlbo-

O'Brien, John, M.D., Mountjoy Square         rough Street, Dublin.

    East, Dublin.                            Parnell, R., Devonshire.

Odgers, W. J., Plymouth.                     Parke, John, Edge Hill, Liverpool.

O'Donnell, John, M.D., Rodney Street,        Park, Rev. John, M.A., 19, Norton

Liverpool.                                   Street, Liverpool.

O'Farrell, Rev. Patrick, Bristol.            Parsons, George, Aigburth, Liverpool.

Ogilvie, G. S., Calne.                       Parton, Joseph, Edge Hill, Liverpool.

Ogilvy, Thomas, Wallasey, Cheshire.          Partridge.W. J., Hockham Hall, Norfolk.
O'Kelly, M. J., 147, James St., Dublin.
                                             Patchett, John.
Okely, W. J., Bristol.
                                             Patterson, A. T., Soho Street, Liverpool.

O'Neil, Rev. A., Carrickfergus.              Patterson, Henry, M.D., 32, Blessington

O'Neil, Rev. J. T., Nenagh.                  Street, Dublin.

Wm,Ord,  M.P., Whitfield, Hull.              Pattinson, H.L., Newcastle.

Orred, Geo., Exchange Alley, Liverpool.      Pattison, F., Master of Trinity House,

Orred, John, Exchange Alley, Liverpool.      Newcastle.
Ortt, Edmund, Park Chapel, Liverpool.
                                             Payne, Charles, Clifton.

Osborne, Edw., Berwick Lodge, Henbury.       Peace, William, Wigan.

Osborne, Robert, Bristol.                    Pearsall, R. L., Willsbridge House, near

Osier, Thomas, Clifton.                      Bristol.

Osier, A. F., Birmingham, (Life).            Pearson, J. W., Gateacre, Liverpool.

Ossulston, Lord, M.P. Grosvenor Square.      Pease, Joseph, M.P., 3, Queen Square,
                                                London.
O'Sullivan, Rev. Samuel, Phoenix Park,
                                             Penkivil, W. T., Bristol.
Dublin.

Oswald, H. R., Douglas, Isle of Man.         Pennington, Frederick, Hindley, near

Ottley, Sir Richard, Heavitree.              Wigan.

                                                              c2
36 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Perceval, Stanley, Allerton, Liverpool.     Porter, G. R., Board of Trade.
Perceval, Stanley, Jun., Allerton.
Perrott, Francis, Brunswick Street,         Porter, W. G., Peterborough.

    Liverpool.                              Porter, John, 22, Lincoln's Inn Fields.
Perrott, Samuel, Cork.                      Porter, W. O., M.D., Bristol.
Perry, James, Newton, Lancashire.
Peters, Daniel, Bristol.                    Potter, W. H., London.

Petrie, Dr. J., 7, Upper Parliament St.,    Potts, Frederick, Chester.
                                            Potts, Henry, Chester.
    Liverpool.
Phelp, James, Bristol.                      Powell, Edward, Edge Hill, Liverpool.
Phelps, Rev. William, Meare, near Glas-     Powell, Thomas, Bristol.
                                            Powell, Samuel, Jun., Knaresborough.
    tonbury.                                Powell, William, Temple Gate, Bristol.
Phillips, Sir Richard, London.
Phillips, J. B., All Souls' Coll., Oxford.  Pownall, W. L., St. John's College,
Phillips, T. J., London.
Phillips, William, M.D., Scarborough.           Cambridge.
Phillips, Rev. Robert, Stoke Newington      Pownall, William, Jun., Wavertree, Li-

    Green.                                      verpool.
Phillips, J. L., Melksham, Wilts.           Pratt, Rev. John, Birkenhead, Cheshire.
Phillips, George, Conlongan Castle.         Prendergast, J. P., 78, Stephen's Green,
Phillips, Rev. Robert, Bettuos Abergeth,
                                                Dublin.
    North Wales.                            Preston, Richard Rushton, Great George
Phillips, Shakspeare, Barton Hall, Man-
                                                Street, Westminster.
     chester.                               Preston, E. R., Mt. Pleasant, Liverpool.
Phillips, J. M., Everton, Liverpool.        Preston, R. W., West Derby, Liverpool.
                                            Prevost, Geo., Water Street, Liverpool.
Philp, F. R., M.B., Liverpool.              Price, H. H., 4, Parliament Street.
Phippen, Robert, Bedminster.                Price, J. R., Westfield, Mountrath,
Phipps, Robert, LL.D., F.T.C., Dublin.
                                                Queen's County.
Pickin, W. J.,Whitemore Allerton, Notts.    Price, John, A.M., Bristol College.
Picton, J. A., Warren Street, Liverpool.    Price, H. C, Westbury.
                                            Prichard, Edward, Clifton.
Pigot, M., Staffordshire.                   Prichard, Richard, Oxford.
Pilgrim, C. H., 17, York Terrace, Re-       Prichard, Edward, Ross.
                                            Priestley, John, Toxteth Park, Liverpool.
    gent's Park, (Life).                    Pringle, J. W., Athenaeum.
Pilgrim, Foster, Bavbadoes.                 Pritchard, Andrew, 263, Strand.
Pilling, John, Great Oxford Street, Liver-  Pritchard, J. B., Catherine St., Liverpool.
                                            Prittie, Henry, Corville, Co. Tipperary.
     pool.                                  Proctor, Thomas, Birmingham.
                                            Prosser, Samuel, Blackheath.
Pilling, Wm., Richmond Row, Liverpool.
Pinkus, Henry, London.                      Protheroe, M. D., Clifton.
                                            Protheroe, Philip, Richmond HilhClifton.
Pinney, William, Somerton.                  Protheroe, Edward, Jun., Newnham,
Pinney, Charles, Clifton.
Pitcairn, John, M.D., Edinburgh.                 Gloucestershire.
Pittard, Thomas, Edinburgh.
Player, John, Oakwood, Neath.               Provis, John, Chippenham.
Plenderleath, Col., Clifton.                Prout, William, M.D., F.R.S., 41, Sack-

Plummer, M.                                     ville Street, London.
                                            Prout, J. S.,Cotham Cottage, near Bristol.
Plunkett, Randall, Portland St., Dublin.    Prowse, James, St. James's Barton,
Pocock, George, Bristol.
Pollexfen, John, M.D., Orkney.                   Bristol.

Pollock, James, Mayor of Gateshead.         Prudhoe, Lord.
Pollock, Joseph, 9, Camden Street, Cam-     Purdon, Robert, Plympton, Devon.
                                            Purdon, Simon, Devonport.
   den Town.
Poole, Matthew, M.D., Waterford.            Purdon, Rev. W. J., M.A., Aigburth,
Poole, Thos., Stowey, near Bridgewater.
Pooley, Henry, 83, Dale St., Liverpool.         Liverpool.
Pooley, Frederick, 1, Exchange Build-
                                            Purdy, Richard, Lower Ormond Quay,
    ings, Liverpool.
                                                Dublin.
Porch, T. P., M.A., The Abbey, near
                                                                           Q.
    Glastonbury.
Porter, Thomas, Everton, Liverpool.         Quail, John, M.D., London.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                          37

Queckett, J. T., Langport, Somerset.         Reid, Henry, 5, Mountjoy Square North,
Quinn, Richard, Liverpool.
                                                 Dublin.
Quirk, George, Isle of Man.                  Reid, Rev. J. S., D.D., Carrickfergus.
Quirk, J. R., Isle of Man.                   Reid, John, M.D., Edinburgh.
Quirk, R., Isle of Man.                      Reid, Robert, M.D., M.R.I. A., 16, Bel-

Radcliffe, John, "West Derby, Liverpool.        vedere Place, Dublin.
                                             Remmington, Rev. Thomas, M.A., Trin.
RadclifFe, Richard, Town Hall, Liverpool.
Radcliffe, Richard, Jun., West Derby,            Coll., Cambridge.

    Liverpool.                               Rennie, M. B., 6, Whitehall Place.
                                             Renny, H. L., M.D., Royal Hospital,
RadclifTe, Right Hon. John, LL.D.,
                                                 Dublin.
   M.R.I.A., Hume Street, Dublin.            Renshaw, Geo., Nottingham Park, Notts.
                                             Renton, Henry, Bradford.
Raddon, William, Bristol.                    Reynold, John, Liverpool.
Radford, Thomas, Christian Street, Li-
                                             Reynolds, J. G., Bristol.
    verpool.                                 Reynolds, T. F., London.
Rae, Ebenezer, Liverpool.
                                             Rham, Rev. W. L., Winkfield, Berkshire.
Raffles, T. S., B.A., Edge Hill, Liverpool.
Raikes, Henry, B.A., Chester.                Rhodes, Thomas, 55, Russell Street,
Raikes, Rev. Chancellor, Chester.
Rainy, George, Demerara.                          Liverpool.
Ralph, Rev. Hugh, LL.D., Hope Street,        Ricardo, Sampson, 4, Eccleston Street,

     Liverpool.                                   Liverpool.
                                              Ricardo, Frederick, 4, Eccleston Street,
Ramsay, P., M.D., Chatham Street, Li-
                                                  Liverpool.
      verpool.
 Randall, John.                               Ricardo, M., Brighton.
 Randolph, Rev. J. H., Bildeston, Suffolk.    Richards, E. L., F.G.S., Rolls Chambers,

 Rankin, Thomas, Bristol.                         Chancery Lane.
 Rankin, Robert, Clifton.                     Richards, Rev. Henry, Bristol.
 Rankin, Robert, Jun., Chief Justice of       Richardson, Thomas, Montpelier Hill,

     Sierra Leone.                                Dublin.
 Rankin, Rev. Charles, Brislington, near
                                              Rick, W. E. J., Sunderland.
      Bristol.
                                              Rickards, Richard, Clifton.
 Rathbone, R. R., Woodcroft, Liverpool.
 Rathbone, William, Jun., Liverpool.          Rickett, Richard, Bristol.
                                              Rickett, Henry, Brislington, Bristol.
 Ravenhill, W. H., Bristol.                   Riddell, Sir J. M., Bart., Strontian, Scot-
 Rawdon, Christopher, Elm House, Liver-
                                                   land.
      pool.
                                              Riddell, Thomas, Strontian.
 Rawlins, C. E., Jun., Brook Cottage,
      Sutton, Cheshire.                       Riddle, Isaac, Bristol.

 Rawlinson, E. A., Chadlington, Oxon.         Riddle, T. H., Bristol.
 Rawson, William, Higher Ardwicke,
                                              Riddle, W. L. Bristol.
      Manchester.
 Rawson, John, Halifax.                       Ridgway, John, Staffordshire Potteries.
  Rawson, Samuel, Dulwich Hill.                                                                                                                                                                               _
  Reade, Dr. Joseph, Cork.
  Read, Thomas, Castle Street, Liverpool.     Ridgway, Joseph, 8, India Buildings, Li-
  Redwood, Theophilus, Neath.
  Redwood, J., Birmingham.                         verpool.
  Reed, Thomas, Oxford.
  Rees, Thomas, 18, Shaw Street, Liver-       Ridgway, J., India Buildings, Liverpool.
                                              Ridley, Sir M., Bart, Newcastle.
       pool.                                  Ridout, Geo., Newland, Gloucestershire.
                                               Ridyard, William, Gateacre, Liverpool.
  Rees, G. O., Holland Place, Clapham         Rigg, Henry, Lancashire.
      Road.                                   Rigg, J. F.,Wood Broughton, near Miln-

  Reeve, Andrews, Wadham Coll., Oxford.            thorpe.

  Reeves, J. F., Taunton.                      Riley, Henry, M.D., Bristol.
  Reid, Alexander, Edinburgh.                  Ripley, William, Abercromby Square, Li-
   Reid, Alexander, Hartford, Cheshire.
                                                    verpool.

                                               Rippon, C, M.P., Stanhope Castle,
                                                  Durham.

                                               Ritson, James, 41, Rodney St., Liver-

                                                    pool.

                                               Robberds, Rev. J. G., Manchester.
                                                Roberts, Arthur, Bath.
                                               Roberts, Owen, M.D., St. Asaph.
38 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Roberts, Edward, Bettuos Abergetb,              Salmond, Edw., Exeter College, Oxford.
   North Wales.                                 Salt, C. F., Chatham Street, Liverpool.
                                                Salter, Rev. John, Iron Acton, Glouces-
Roberts, Thomas, Tranmere, Cliesliire.
                                                tershire.
Robertson, William, M.D., 2, New Square,
                                                Salusbury, J. S. P., Huskisson Street, Li-
    Lincoln's Inn.
Robertson, Archibald, M.D., Great               verpool.

    George Street, Liverpool.                   Sambrook, J. R., Temple.
Robinson, Jas., Brunswick St., Liverpool.       Sampson, Benjamin, Tullimore, Truro.
Robinson, James, Stafford St., Liverpool.
Robinson, Thomas, Settle, Yorkshire.            Sampson, Edward, Bristol.
Robinson, Rev. Win., Dinham Rectory.
Robley, Henry, Clifton.                         Sampson, Edward, Jun., Bristol.
Rodick, Thomas, Gateacre, Liverpool.            Samuel, William, Landillo, Carmarthen.
                                                Samuel, Edward, Canning St., Liverpool.
Rodman, S. W., New Bedford.
                                                Sanbach, H. R., Aigburth, Liverpool.
Roe, Major Thomas, Newbury.
Rofe, John, Birmingham.                         Sanbach, Samuel, Aigburth, Liverpool.
Rogers, John, Clifton.
Rogers, George, 15, Lower College Green,        Sanbach, Samuel, Jun., Trinity College,

     Bristol.                                      Cambridge.
                                                Sanbach, G. R., Brazennose College, Ox-
Rogers, Geo., 13, College Green, Bristol.
Rogers, William, Hampstead Heath.               ford.
Rogerson, G., M.D., Suffolk Street, Li-
                                                Sanders, Rev. John, M.A., Ever ton, Li-
     verpool.
Rooker, James, Bideford.                        verpool.

Rootsey, Samuel, Upper Easton House,            Sanders, G. E., Clifton.
                                                Sanders, Thomas, Bristol.
     Bristol.
                                                Sanders, T. R., Jun., Bristol.
Roper, H. J., Bristol.                          Sanders, Joseph, Edge Hill, Liverpool.

Roscoe, W. S., Upper Parliament Street,         Sanderson, G. S., Evcrton, Liverpool.
                                                Sandford, G. A., M.P., Ninehead Court,
     Liverpool.
                                                    Somerset.
Rose, Rev. H. J, B.D., Principal of King's      Sandford, G. A., Jun., Ninehead Court.
    College, London.
                                                Sandland, J. D., Salford.
Roskell, Robert, Church Street, Liverpool.      Sandon, Lord, M.P.,41, Lower Grosvenor
Roskell, Nicholas, Gambier Terrace, Li-
                                                    Street.
     verpool.
                                                Sands, Thomas, Everton, Liverpool.
Roskell, John, Church Street, Liverpool.
Ross, Rev. Alexander, Castle Street, Li-        Sandwith, Colonel William, Oriental Club,

     verpool.                                      London.
Ross, Captain Sir John, R.N., Castle
                                                Sangster, W. B., Leeds Street, Liverpool.
     Stranraer.                                 Sanwick. J. W., Holms Vale, Bury.
                                                Sargent, R. S., M.D., Upper Sherrard St.,
Ross, Captain, J. C, F.R.S., London.
Rowan, Rev. A. B., M.R.I. A., Dublin.^             Dublin.
Rowe, W. Carpenter, Temple.                     Sargent, Rev. J. P., 47, North Great
 Roxby, J. W., South Shields.
Royle, J. F., M.D., G2, Berners Street.            George Street, Dublin.
Rudd, John, Jamaica.
 Rudhall, Henry, Bristol.                       Sass, Hen., 6, Charlotte St., Bloomsbury.

 Russell, J. S., 22, Coates's Crescent,         Saul, W. D., F.G.S., Aldersgate Street.
     Edinburgh.
                                                Saunders, Rev. A. B., M.A., Charter
 Russell, James, Jim., Birmingham,
 Russell, J. R., Edinburgh.                     House.
 Ryley, Jas., Jun., Bedford St., Liverpool.
                                                Savage, Francis, Jun., Bristol.
                                            S.
                                                Savage, J. C, Bristol.
 St. Albin, William, Chester.
 St. David's, the Lord Bishop of, Deanery,      Savery, Charles, Bristol.        Quay,
                                                Saxton, Sir Charles, Abingdon.
    Durham.                                     Scanlan, Maurice, Rogerson s

 St. Leger, Noblet, Carrick-on-Shannon.             Dublin.
 St.Pant, Sir Horace,Bart.,E\vart, Wooler,      Schimmelpennick, L., Bristol.

     Northumberland.                            Scobell, Captain, R.N., High Littleton,
                                                   near Old Down.

                                                Scott, R. W., M.D., 5, Great George St.,

                                                    Liverpool.

                                                Scott, John, Wesleyan Minister, Bristol.
                                                Scott, J. J., St. James's Walk, Liverpool.

                                                Scott, William, Bristol.

                                                Scott, John, Sunderland.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                           39

Scouler, John, M.D., Prof. R.D.S., Dub-        Smith, Brook, Stoke Bishop, near Bristol.
                                              Smith, John, M.A., Warwick Street, Li-
      lin.
                                                   verpool.
Scutt, ThomasWhite, Glinde, near Lewes.        Smith, George, Toxteth Park, Liverpool.
Sealey, Edward, Bridgewater.
Sealey, H. N., Clifton.                       Smith, Rev. John, M.A., 18, Great George
                                                   Street, Liverpool.
Sealey, George, Clifton.
Searle, J. C, Bristol.                        Smith, Chas., Canning Street, Liverpool.
Sedgwick, Rev. James, Freshwater, Isle        Smith, J. H., 32, Rodney St., Liverpool.
                                              Smith, Rev. J. F., Ince Blundell, Liver-
    of Wight.
Sedgwick, Rev. John, Dent.                         pool.
Selby, George, Alnwick.
Selden, David, 27, Pembroke Place, Li-        Smith, J. D., Romford, Essex.
                                              Smith, H. L. Southam, Warwicks.
     verpool.                                 Smith, Robert, Margam, Glamorgans.
                                              Smith, Captain George, R.N., London.
Senewith, Col. William, London.
Shand, Alexander, Everton, Liverpool.         Smith, W. H., Birmingham.

Shand, W. S., Everton.                        Smith, Joseph, Manchester.
Shand, Wm., Old Church Yard, Liver-           Smith, Augustus, Ashlyn Hall, Berk-

     pool.                                        hampstead.
                                              Smith, J. T., Lincoln's Inn.
Sharp, Sir C, Sunderland.                     Smith, William, Everton, Liverpool.
Shaw, J., Wingfield, London.                  Smith, J. L., Vice Principal of Brazen-
Shaw, J. C, Dublin Steam Packet Office,
                                                  nose College, Oxford.
     Liverpool.                               Smith, R. W., Trinity College, Dublin.

Shaw, J. R., Arrow Hal), Cheshire.            Smith, John, Upper Warwick St., Liver-
Shaw, R.N., Springfield, Liverpool.
Shenkwin, Charles, Bristol.                        pool.

Shepherd, J. G., Wadham Coll., Oxford.        Smith, Charles, M.A., St. John's College,
                                                  Cambridge.
Sheppard, William, B.A., Oriel College,
    Oxford.                                   Smith, Wm., LL.D., Newborough Cottage,

Sherring, R. B., Bristol.                         Scarborough.
Shew, Charles, Bristol.                       Smith, Aquila, M.D., M.R.I.A., 120,
Shipley, J oseph, Bedford Street, Liverpool.
Shute, Robert, North John St., Liverpool.         Lower Baggot Street, Dublin.
Shuttleworth, John, Manchester.               Smith, John, Glasgow.
Shuttle worth, Thomas, Manchester.            Smithurst, John, Moreton Hampstead.
Silke, Edward, Kingsdown, Bristol.            Smyth, G.L., 1 6, Bridge St., Westminster.
Silvertop, Col. Charles, F.G.S., 55, Lower    Smyth, Rev. Mitchell, Garvagh, Ireland.
                                              Sneyd, Thomas, Belmont, Staffordshire.
    Grosvenor Street.                         Solly, Reynolds, 48, Albemarle Street.
Simon, J. P., M.D., Exeter.                   Somerton, W. H., 35, Broad St., Bristol.
Simpson, James, Edinburgh.                    Sorley, J., 77, Great George St., Liverpool.
Simpson, J. N., M.D., Edinburgh.              Southam, Samuel, Trinity Street, Bristol.
Sims, James, Chasewater, near Truro.          Southwood, T. A., Devonport.
Sinclair, Capt. John, R.N., Edinburgh.        Southworth, Ebenezer, Bolton.
Sinclair, Archibald, Edinburgh.               Sparkes, Robert, M.D., M.R.I.A., 25,
Sinclair, John, Red Castle, Castle Douglas.
Singleton, John, Quinville Abbey, Co.             Suffolk Street, Dublin.
                                              Spence, Henry, London.
    Clare.                                    Spence, R. H., Hull.

Singleton,Rev. Archdeacon, Elden Castle.      Spence, W. B., London.
Slaney, R. A., M.P., Walford Manor,
                                              Spence, John, Q.C., London.
    Salop.                                    Spence, William, F.R.S.
                                              Spencer, J. H. F., Cheltenham. -
Slattery, Thomas, 26, Brunswick Street,       Spender, J. C, Bath.
                                              Spoor, R., Mayor of Sunderland.
    Liverpool.
Sleigh, Rev. Thomas, Newcastle-under-         Squires, W. W., M.D., Everton, Liver-

    Lyne.                                         pool.
Smith, Richard, 38, Park Street, Bristol.
Smith, J. G., Ashley Down, Bristol.           Squires, Rich., Walton Lodge, Liverpool.
Smith, Orton, 2, Berkeley Crescent,
                                              Staite, Opie, Bellevue, Bristol.
     Bristol.
                                              Staite, W. E., Highbury Place, Bristol.
Smith, Partridge, 10, Charlotte Street,
                                              Stamp, Rev. J. S., Chester.
     Bristol.                                 Standish, Chas., M.P., Grosvenor Street.
40 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Stanger, William, M.D., Wisbeach.            Strickland, H. E., M.A., F.G.S., Cra-
Staniforth, Saml., Stamp Office, Liverpool.     combe House.
Stanley, T. W., 19, Trin. Coll., Dublin.
Stanley, Henry, Leamington.                  Strong, Dr., Hereford.
Stanley, Sir Edward, M.R.D.S., Rose          Strong, William, Bristol.

    Vale, Raheny.                            Stubbs, Henry, Upper Duke Street, Li-

Stanton, John, Bristol.                          verpool.
                                             Stuckey, Vincent, Langport.
Staples, E. J., Bristol.
                                             Sturge, Young, Bristol.
Starkey, J. J. 28, Water St., Liverpool.     Summers, Nathaniel, Bristol.
Statley, Benjamin, Chester.                  Summers, Samuel, Bristol.
Steaton, Joseph, London.                     Surrage, James, M.D., Wincanton.
Steele, Thomas, Lough O'Connell.             Sutherland, John, M.D., Liverpool.
Steele, E., St. James's Mount, Liverpool.    Sutton, H. G., Moss Street, Liverpool.
                                             Swainson, William, F.L.S., St. Albans.
Steele, Henry, New Gas and Coke Com-         Swainson, Anthony, St. Anne Street,

    pany, Liverpool.                             Liverpool.
Stephens, Edward, Bristol.
Stephens, Henry, Bristol.                    Swainson, C. A., St. Anne St., Liverpool.
Stephens, John, Bristol.                     Swann, W. B., Merrixton House, Pem-
Stephens, Thomas, Tynemouth.
                                                 broke.
Stephens, Rev. M. F. T., Thornbury,          Swanwick, James, Jun., Bury.

    Gloucestershire.                         Swayne, J. C, Bristol.
                                             Sweetman, William, 16, Middle Gardiner
Stephenson, Rev. J. A., Lympsham Rec-
                                                 Street, Dublin.
    tory, Somerset.                          Swete, Rev. John. D.D., Bristol.
                                             Swinburne, Francis, Gateshead.
Stephenson, J. H., Lympsham Rectory.         Swinburne, R. W., South Shields.

Stephenson, G., Leicestershire.              Swinburne, W. A., South Shields.

Stephenson, W. B., Bristol.                  Swire, Samuel, Ashton-under-Lyne.
                                             Sykes, Lieut-Col. W. H., F.L.S., F.G.S.,
Stevelly, Professor John, Belfast.
Stevelly, Rev. Rob., 5, Charlemont Mall,        47, Albion Street, Hyde Park.

    Dublin.                                  Symes, Richard, Yatton, Somerset.
Stevens, E. B., Chemist, London.             Symonds, J. A., Bristol.
Stevens, Thomas, North Shields.              Symons, Arth., Board of Trade, London.
Stevenson, William, Clifton.                 Synge, A. H., Glanmore, Co. Wicklow.
                                             Synge, Francis, Glanmore.
Stevenson, Wm., Birkenhead, Cheshire.        Synnott, Rev. Mark, Seel St., Liverpool.
Stewart, Robert, Skibbor Wen, near Usk.
Stewart, John, Lawson Street, Liverpool.     Tagart, Rev. Edward, 33, Porchester
                                                 Terrace, Bayswater.
Stewart, William, Edinburgh.
                                             Taite, C. M., Amen Court, St. Paul's.
Stiff, B. J., Bristol.
Stiff, William, Bristol.                     Talbot, Hon. James, Evercreech, near
                                                 Shepton Mallet.
Stock, Wm. Spry, Norwood Villa, Bristol.
                                             Talbot, W. H., Wrightington Hall,
Stock, Thomas, Bristol.
Stock, Samuel, Jun., Manchester.                 Eastwood.
Stock, J. S., Barrister, London.             Tanner, John, Dublin.
Stoker, Abraham, Dublin Castle.              Tanner, William, Calne.
Stokes, Rev. Geo., Grove St., Liverpool.     Tate, William, Renshaw Street, Liverpool.
Stokoe, William, Newcastle.
Stone, John, Summer Hill House, near         Tattershall, Rev. Thos., A.M., Shaw St.,

     Bristol.                                    Liverpool.
                                             Tattershall, E. B., Solicitor, London.
Stoney, T. B., Portland, Ireland.
Stonham, David, Bedford St., Liverpool.      Taunton, R. C, Ashley, Hants.
Stonhouse, John, Glasgow.                    Taunton, Wm., Stoke Bishop, near Bristol.
Stott, William, Kearsley.                    Tawney, R., Willoughby, Warwickshire.
Strachey, Sir Henry, Bart., Sutton Court,    Tayleur, C, Edinburgh.
                                             Tayleur, W. E., Edinburgh.
    Somerset.                                Taylor, Charles, High Street, Dublin.

Stralley, Rev. Edward, 30, Seymour St.,      Taylor, Rev. G., Manchester.

    Liverpool.

Stratford, W. S., Notting Hill.

Street, Henry, Clifton.
Strickland, H. E., Jun., Cracoinbe House,

    Worcestershire.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                          41

Taylor, Rev. James, Clifton.                 Thornley, J. D., Blackburn Place, Liver-
Taylor, John, Seddon Street, Liverpool.
Taylor, John, Preston.                           pool.
Taylor, Stephen, Duckinfield, near Ash-
                                             Thomley, Wm., Jim., Blackburn Place,
    ton-under-Lyne.
Taylor, Robert, Broomlands, Dumfriessh.          Liverpool.
                                             Thornley, Samuel, Clarence St., Liverpool.
Taylor, Wm., Moss Cottage, Preston.          Thornton, J. P., London.
                                             Thorpe, Rev. Charles, D.D., Archdeacon
Taylor, J. A., Worcester College, Oxford.
Taylor, G. E., Bristol.                         of Durham.
Taylor, Sir Brook, London.                   Thorpe, Rev. Charles,Warden of Univer-
Taylor, Peter, Manchester.
Taylor, R. H., Bristol.                         sity, Durham.
Tebay, Thomas, Winstanley Park, Wigan.       Thwaites,G. H. K., King's Down, Bristol.
Tennant, John, Liverpool.                    Timmon, John, M.D., Drogheda.
                                             Tipping, John, Low Hill, Liverpool.
Tennant, Wm., Castle Bytham, Lincoln.        Todd, R. B., M.D.. King's Coll., London.
                                             Tollett, G. W., Bitley, Staffordshire.
Tennent, John, Glasgow.                      Tomkins, Dr. Charles, Devizes.
Teschemacher, E. F., Camherwell.             Tomlinson, Joseph, Toxteth Park, Liver-
Thadstone, T. S., Chatham St., Liverpool.
Thorn, Rev. J. H., 13, Nile St., Liverpool.      pool.
Thomas, B. C, Malmesbury.
Thomas, C. E., Pembroke College, Cam-        Topham, John, Castle Street, Liverpool.
                                             Topp, Richard, Cork.
    bridge.                                  Tothill, William, Redland, Bristol.
                                             Tothill, William, Jun., Redland.
Thomas, David, Kingsdown, Bristol.           Touchett, John, Manchester.
Thomas, Morgan, R.A., Island Bridge,         Townley, Charles, Water St., Liverpool.

    Dublin.                                  Townsend, W. H., Bristol.

Thompson, Alderman Wm., M.P., 12,            Townsend, Rev. J. C, M.A., Milton,

    Whitehall Place.                             Oxfordshire.
Thompson, B., Director of Carlise Rail-
                                             Townshend, Mr., College, Durham.
    way.                                     Tracey, Rev. E.H., Toddington, Glouces-
Thompson, Thomas, Sunderland.
Thompson, David, Dublin.                          tershire.
Thompson, G. H., Falkner St., Liverpool.
Thompson, S. H., Abercromby Square,          Tracey, Rev. C. H., 35, Doon Street,

  ' Liverpool.                                    Bristol,

Thompson. R. D., M.D., 20, Gower St.         Traiks, H. F., 4, Park Terrace, Regent's
Thompson, W. K., 2, Paul St., Liverpool.         Park.
Thompson, William, V.P. Nat. Hist. So-
                                             Traill, T. S., M.D., Professor, Edinburgh.
     ciety, Belfast.                         Traill, T. S., Jun., Edinburgh.
                                             Travers, Robert, M.B.,Rathmines,Dublin.
Thompson, Rev. T., 19, Daulby Street,        Tribe, E. S., 29, Soho Square.
                                             Trimmer, Joshua, Carnarvon.
    Liverpool.                               Trotman, Thomas, M.D., Bristol.
                                             TrotmaiijS. L., Park HillRoad, Liverpool.
Thompson, Andrew, Bristol.                   Trowbridge, Lieut., 7th Fusileers.
Thompson, Rev. W., Cheadle, Cheshire.        Tucker, Robert, Bristol.
Thompson, J., Kirk House, near Carlisle.     Tucker, Francis, Torqueer, Dumfries.
Thompson, John, Edinburgh.                   Tucker, I. M., Clifton.
Thompson, Thomas, M.R.D.S., 49, Har-         Tuckett, Alfred, Moorend, near Bristol.
                                             Tuckett, P. D., Frenchay, Bristol.
    court Street, Dublin.                    Tudor, John, Bath.
Thompson, Theophilus, 15, Keppel Street.     Tudor, Richard, Bushfield, Clontarf, Co.
Thomson, Robert, M.D., Rathmines,
                                                 Dublin.
    Dublin.                                  Tudor, William, Bath.
Thomson, Thomas, M.D., Prof. Chem.,
                                             Tuffnell, E. C, London.
    Glasgow.
Thomson, James, Glasgow.                     Tuke, James, York.
Thomson, Charles, Manchester.                Turnbull, George, Cardiff.
Thomson, Thomas, 100, St. Vincent St.,       Turner, R. B., Hanover St., Liverpool.
                                             Turner, J. A., Manchester.
    Glasgow.                                 Turner, S. A., Aigburth, Liverpool.
Thomson, Thomas, Clitheroe.                  Turner, Rev. William, Sec. Lit. and
Thorburn, R. M., Edinburgh.
                                                 Philos. Soc, Newcastle.
Thornborrow, Michael, Mount Vernon,

     Liverpool.
42 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Turner, William, M.D., Melrose.             Walker, Rev. A., Wexford.
Turner, Thomas, Lincoln's Inn.              Walker, C. L., Bristol.
Twells, Rev. John, Perlethorpe, Ollerton,   Walker, Rev. Richard, Sheffield.
                                            Walker, John, Kirkcudbright.
     Notts.                                 Wallace, Robert, M.D., Carshalton

Twycross, Edward, 69, Dame St., Dublin.         Lodge, Surrey.
Tyers, I. T., The Grove, Wrington.          Wallace, I. E., Trin. Coll. Cambridge,

Tyrer, James, Bootle, near Liverpool.           Carshalton Lodge.
                                            Wallis, George, Bristol.
                               U.           Wallscourt, Lord, Ardtrea, Ireland.
                                            AValmesley, Hugh, Liverpool.
Ullathorne, Rev. S., D.D., Renshaw St.,
                                            Wain, Robert, Oldham St., Liverpool.
     Liverpool.                             Wain, William, Hope Street, Liverpool.
Ullathorne, William, Sydney, Australia.     Walsh, Rev. H. G., M.A., Claybrook,
Underwood, Frederick, Bristol.
Upton, James, Sedgburgh, Yorkshire.              Leicester.
Urquhart, David, London.                    Walton, T. T., King's Parade, Bristol.

                                 V.         Ward, Richard, Burfield House, West-
                                                bury.
 Vachell, C. R., Cardiff.
                                            Ward, It. B., Burfield House, Westbury.
Vandeleur, Lieut.-Gen. Sir John, 7, Mer-    Ward, D. H., Bristol.
     rion Square, Dublin.                   Ware, John, Clifton.
                                            Waring, H. F., Lyme Regis.
Van Oven, Joshua, 10, Great George St.,     Warner, Charles, Everton, Liverpool.
                                            Warr, Richard, Bristol.
     Liverpool.                             Wasborough, C., Kingsdown, Bristol.
                                            Wason, James, 46, Cornwallis St., Liver-
 Van Zeller, John, Abercromby Square,
                                                 pool.
     Liverpool.
                                            Wason, James, Jun., Fort, Bristol.
 Vaughan, Hugh, Crete Hill, Bristol.        Waterfield, Rev. William, Wrexham.
 Vaughan, E. P., M.A., Wraxall, near        Waterhouse, Daniel, Aigburth, Liverpool.
                                            Waterhouse, Alfred, Aigburth, Liverpool.
      Bristol.                               Waterhouse, Octavius, Liverpool.
                                             Waterhouse, Roger, Edge Hill, Liverpool.
 Vaugban, James, Middle Temple.              Waterhouse, Henry, Manchester.
 Vavasour, Mervyn, Melbourne Hall,           Watling, Rev. C. H., Cirencester.
                                            Watson, Col. Sir H., Spottiswoode Park.
     Pocklington, Yorks.                    Watson, John, Glasgow.
 Venables, T. A., Colquitt St., Liverpool.  Watson, Barnard L., 26, Hope St. South,
Vice, William, Truro.
 Vignoles, Rev. Dr. Charles, M.R.I. A.,          Liverpool.

     Dublin Castle.                         Watson, Andrew, King St., Liverpool.
 Vignoles, C. B., 5, Westland Row,Dublin.   Watson, Jos., Newcastle.
 Vigors, Ferdinand, Regent's Park.          Watt, Charles, London.
 Vildosola, A. E., Lower Redland, Bristol.  Watt, George, Sen., Glasgow.
 Vining, John, Richmond Hill, Clifton.      Watts, H. B., Isle of Man.
 Vint, James, Sunderland.                   Way, Rev. H. H., Henbury, Bristol.
 Vose, I. A., M.D., 19, Hope St., Liver-    Wayte, Samuel S., Bristol.
                                            Wayte, William, Highlands, near Calne.
      pool.                                 Wellbeloved, Rev. Charles, V.P. Yorks.

 Vose, James, Jun., M.D., 19, Hope St.,         Philos. Society, York.
                                            Wellington, James, Bristol.
     Liverpool.                             Wellington, J. H., Bristol.
 Vye, Nathaniel, Ilfracombe, (Lite).        Wentworth, D. S. E., M.D., Brownlow
 Vyvyan, Sir R. R., Bart., Trelowarren,
                                                 Street, Liverpool.
     Cornwall.                              Wentworth, Joseph, Cambridge.
                                            West, Arthur, Bath.
                         W.                 West, William, Observatory, Clifton.
                                            Westcot, Jasper, Bristol.
 Wade, Frederick, Liverpool.                Wetherby, Percival, Toxtetb Park, Liver-
Wade, Joseph, Clifton.
 Wainwrigbt, T. W., Everton.                    pool.
Wainwright, William, Abercromby Sq.,

     Liverpool.
Wait, Samuel, Bristol.

Walcott, W. H. L., Southampton.

Waldo, Edward, Bristol.
Walker, George, Lewes.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                         43

Wheatstone.C, Professor, King's College,    Wills, Frederick, Bristol.
    London, 20, Conduit Street.             Wills, John, Bristol.

Whettbam, Col., Abbott's Leigh, near        Wills, W. D., Bristol.

     Bristol.                               Wilmot, Samuel, 120, Stephen's Green,

White, Andrew, M.P.                             Dublin.
White, Francis, V.P. College of Surgeons,   Wilmot, John, Birmingham.
                                            Wilson, Rev. Professor H. H., Oxford.
   42, Dawson St., Dublin.                  Wilson, John, 7, Bold Street, Liverpool.
White, James, Ballitore.
Whitehead, Walter, Derby House, Che-        Wilson, J. C, Myrtle Street, Liverpool.

     shire.                                 Wilson, J. G., Bristol.
                                            Wilson, Rev. J. A., Childwall, near Li-
Whiteside, Rev. J. W., Ripon.
Whithers, Richard, Everton, Liverpool.           verpool.
Whitley, Rev. Charles, Durham.
Whitley, John, Shaw St., Liverpool.         Wilson, John, Jun., Clyde Iron Works,
Whitmore, William, Dudmaston, Salop.            Glasgow.
 Whittuck, C. J., Bristol.
Whittuck, S. H., Heathend House, near       Wilson, Rev. R. C, Vicarage, Preston.
                                             Wilson, Rev. Richard, Wigan.
     Wotton-under-edge.                      Wilson, Thomas, Gateshead.
 Whitty, Harry, Dublin.                      Wilson, George, Manchester.
 Whitwell, Stedman, Highgate.                Wilson, William, Nottingham.
 Whitworth, J., Manchester.
 Whyte, Thomas, Edinburgh.                   Wingfield, Charles, Oxford.
 Wilcock, Rev. P., Great Horner Street,      Wingate, Alexander, Glasgow.
                                             Winstanley, William, M.D., Woolton
     Liverpool.
 Wild, John, Bristol.                            Lodge, Liverpool.
 Wildes, Rev. George, Liverpool.             Winstanley, William, Jun., Woolton

 Wilkie, Sir David, R.A., D.C.L., Ken-           Lodge, Liverpool.
                                             Winstanley, Thos., Church St., Liverpool.
      sington.                               Winstanley, S. S., Great George Street,

 Wilkins, Major William, Oriental Club,          Liverpool.
     London.                                 Winter, Henry, Bristol.
                                             Wintle, Thomas, Bristol.
 Wilkinson, Rev. Thomas, Edmund Street,
                                             Winwood, John, Clifton Down.
      Liverpool.                             Wise, Robert, Manchester.
                                             Witham, H. T. M., Lartington, Barnard
 Wilkinson, W. A., Camberwell.
 Wilkinson, Edmund, 87, Upper Islington,          Castle.

      Liverpool.                             Witham, Rev. Thomas, Stella, Durham.
 Willan, E., Jun., Bold St., Liverpool.      Withington, R., Bristol.
 Willans, W., 6, Bridge Street, Dublin.      Withy, John, Bristol.
 Willcock, Dr., South Hill Road, Liver-      Wood, James, Bristol.
                                             Wood, R. W., Edge Hill, Liverpool.
       pool.                                 Wood, R. N., Macclesfield.
                                             Wood, J. R., Penketh, near Warrington.
 Willcock, Jacob, South Hill Road, Liver-    Woodcock, Henry, Wigan.
                                             Woodhead,G.,Mottram,nearManchesler.
       pool.                                 Woodhouse, T. J., Leicester.
                                             Woods, William, Chairman of Durham
 Williams. J. W., Co. Durham.
  Williams, Rev. James, Anglesea.                Junction Railway.
  Williams, John, Holywell, Flint.           Woodward, Rev. F. B., 1 1, Kildare Street,
  Williams, Samuel, Dublin.
                                                  Dublin.
  Williams, Elijah, Bristol.                 Woollcombe, Henry, President of the Ply-
  Williams, R. P., Clifton.
  Williams, Rev. Thos., Heytesbury, Wilts.       mouth Institution, Plymouth.
  Williamson, Sir H., Bart., Whitburn,       Woollett, J. S., 69, Duke St., Liverpool.
                                             Woolwright, John, Bold St., Liverpool.
     Durham.                                 Worrall, George, Frenchay, near Bristol.
                                             Worsley, Philip, Hampstead.
  Williamson, Joshua, Dublin.                Worsley, Samuel, F.G.S., Bristol.
  Williamson, Richard, D.D., Dean's Yard,    Worswick, Thomas, Great Oxford Street,

      Westminster.                                Liverpool.
  Willis, J. S., Liverpool.
  Willis, Richard, Halstead, near Prescot.   Worthington, Charles, Rodney Street,
  Willis, Henry, Bristol.
  Willoughby, E., Birkenhead, Cheshire:           Liverpool.
  Wills, Anthony, 17, Upper Gardiner St.,

      Dublin.
44 CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.

Worthington, John, Liverpool.                                              Y.
Worthington, James, Manchester.
Wortley, Hon. J. S., Wortley Hall, Shef-  Yaniewiez, W. F., Bold Street, Liverpool.

     field.                               Yard, Charles, 97th Regt., Stockport.
                                          Yates, John Ashton, M.P., F.G.S., 33,
Wotherspoon, Matthew, India Buildings,
                                              Bryanstone Square.
    Liverpool.                            Yelloly, John, M.D., F.R.S., Woodton
"Wreford, Rev. J. R., Birmingham.
Wreford, R. W., Bristol.                      Hall, Norfolk.
Wreford, W.E., Kingsdown, near Bristol.
Wright, John, Derby.                      Yelloly, S. T., Woodton Hall, Norfolk.
Wright, John, Jun., Liverpool.            Yeo, Dr., Wadebridge, Cornwall.
Wright, George.                           Yescombe, Morris, Truro.
Wright, R. F., Hinton Blewitt, Somerset.  Youens, Rev. Dr., 50, Warren Street,
Wright, Roger, 50, Bedford Street, Li-
                                              Liverpool.
    verpool.                              Young, C. B., Everton.

Wright, Thomas, Cheltenham.               Young, G. R., Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Wrigley, J. H., Liverpool.                Young, Thomas, 46, Nelson Square.
Wybergh, John, Everton, Liverpool.        Young, Adam, Camberwell.
Wybergh, J-, Jun., Everton, Liverpool.    Young, James, Brewery, Spitalfields.
Wyse, Thomas, M.P., Waterford.            Young, Robert, Clifton.
                                          Young, Rev. Edward, Clifton.
                                          Yule, Captain, U. S. Club, London.

CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.

Agassiz, Professor, Neufchatel.
Arago, M., Secretary of the Institute, Paris.
Berzelius, Professor, Stockholm.

De la Rive, Professor, Geneva.
Dumas, Prof., Paris.

Humboldt, Baron Alexander von, Berlin.
Liebig, Prof., Giessen.
Oersted, Professor, Copenhagen.
Plana, Jean, Astronomer Royal, Turin.
Quetelet, M., Brussels.
Schumacher, Professor, Altona.

Foreigners who have attended Meetings of the British

                                      Association.

Agardh, Dr., C.A., Prof., Lund, Sweden.                                     B.

Agassiz, Professor L., Neufchatel.        Bagge, Professor, J. S., Stockholm.
                                          Bartolome, M. M., Segovia.
Allen, Horatio, New York.                 Bazzine, Professor, Padua.
                                          Berardi, Le Chevalier G., Rome.
Andiftredi, Le Chevalier, Piedmont.       Bernhardi, T., Erfurt.
Arago, P., Paris.                         Bocca, Louis, Valenciennes.
                                           45

Bocca, Henri, Valenciennes.                    Hoffmann, David.LL.D., Maryland, U.S.
Breda, I. G. S. Van, Professor, Leyden.
                                               Holt, G. A., New Orleans.
                                   C.
                                               Hooper, R. W., M.D., Boston, U.S.

Campbell, Dr. G. W., Tenesee, U.S.             Jackson, Bolton, Baltimore.
Chauviteaux, M., Paris.                        Jacobson, I., Berlin.

Chilton, G., New York.                         Jonge van Ellemut, W.C.M. de.
Clark, Alonzo, New York.
                                               Krantz, M. Berlin.
Clemson, T. G., Paris.
                                                                                  L.
Cohen, M. I., United States.
Combes, C.P.M., Paris.                         Lappenberg, Dr. J.M.,F.S.A., Hamburgh.
                                               Le Play, F., Paris.
Coupery, Jacques, Paris.
Coussins, Jules, Paris.                        Liebig, Professor, Giessen.
                                               Loomis, Professor Elias, Ohio, U.S.
                             D.                Lowell, J. J., Boston, U.S.

D'Abbadie, M., Paris.                          Luca, L' Abate Antonio di, Rome.
Darbue, Samuel, Paris.
Dana, S. L., M.D., Boston, U.S.                                        M.
Daubree, Auguste, Paris.
DeLancey, Rev. Dr.W.H., Philadelphia.          Main, A.L. J., New York.
Demonville, M., Paris.
                                               Manni, Pietro, Rome.
Deshouillieres, M.
                                               Marcartin, Felix, Lille.
Dieterici, M., Berlin.                         Marcet, Professor.
                                               Marshall, John, Dantzig.
Dow, Dr. Robert, New Orleans.                  Martens, B., Brunswick.
                                               Martinez del Rio, M., Mexico.
Druffel, F. C. Von, Prussia.                   Maxey, M., Amer. ChargS d'AfFaires,
Dufrenoy, A. P., Paris.
Dupin, Baron Charles, Paris.                       Belgium.
                                               Mendelsohn, Bartholdy Felix, Berlin.
                                  E.           Mendes, J. C, United States.
                                               Metcalf, S. L., M.D., Kentucky, U.S.
Ende, Charles Baron, Baden.                    Michaelis, S. D., Berlin.
Erbkam, Barnard, Berlin.
Esterhazy, Count Maurice, Vienna.              Milner, Clarke, New Orleans.
Evans, E. C, Philadelphia.
                                               Mongey, M., Paris.
Fiske, Williber, D. D., President of Wes-      Montalembert, M. de, Paris.

    leyan Univ., Middleton, U.S.               Morgan, H. E., New York.
Fleming, William, Leyden.
                                               Miincke, Dr. C. F., Apolda.
                              G.               Munier, Rev. R., Rector Univ., Geneva.

Gerard, M., Paris.                                                         N.
Giacomini, Professor, Padua.
Gordon, I. M., Niagara, U.S.                   Nachot, Dr. H. W., Saxony.
Gore, Col. George, Tours.                      Natschayef, Professor, St. Petersburgh.
Guiniaraem, M., Carara, Venezuela.             Nebel, Henry, Heidelberg.
                                               Nevins, J. W., Philadelphia.
                            H.                 Nilsson, Professor S., Lund, Sweden.
                                               Noislieu, Martin de.
Hahn, Dr., Germany.                            Nolthenius, H. J., Batavia.
Hare, Robert, M.D., Prof., Philadelphia.
Harland, Richard, M.D., Philadelphia.                                         O.
Harvey, D. C, M.D., Philadelphia.
Henry, Professor, Princeton, U.S.              Omer, EfTendi, Cairo.
Herbst, G., M.D., Gbttingen.                   Otto, Edward, Berlin.
                                             »

                                         46

Oxlcy, Charles, New Orleans.                 Spencer, J., Philadelphia.
                                             Stanley, Prof.,Newhaven University,U.S.
                                   P.        Stevenson, M., American Minister, Lon-

Parigot, Dr., Prof. Geol., Brussels.             don.
                                             St. John, Professor, Yule Cottage, U.S.
Parigot, M. J., Ghent.
                                             St. Leger, M. de, Paris.
Parker, William, Cincinnati, Ohio.           Strom, H. C, Norway.
Pearsall, R. L., Carlsruhe.
Phillips, Hardman, Pennsylvania.             Suermondt, M., Utrecht.
Peithman, Dr., Berlin.
Peithman, M., Berlin.                                                          T.
Pirondi, Cyras, Marseilles.
Popp, Alexander, Paris.                      Tanner, Professor P., Joannian Univer-

Prandi, M.                                        sity, Stiria.

                              Q.             Tickner, George, Boston, U.S.

Quetelet, M., Brussels.                      Tocqueville, M. de, Paris.
                                             Toyno, Dr., Philadelphia.
                                R.           Tolly, Baron Barclay de, Russia.
                                             Toorn, A. van der, Holland.
                                             Treviranus, Dr. L. C, Bonn.

Rathen, A. B. von, Vienna.                   Yaux, M., Sec. American Minister, I-on-
Raumer, F. von, Professor, Berlin.               don.
Riernacki, L., Calitz, Poland.
Rivas, San Benigno, Carara, Venezuela.       Verneuil, M. de.

Rive, Thomas de la, Professor, Geneva.       Vlastos, Dr., Chios.
Roberts, S. W., Philadelphia.
Rochemont, Pietot de, Geneva.                                              U.
Rogers, H. D., Professor, Philadelphia.
                                             Ulman, C, Weimar.
Rostain, A., Paris.                          Urano, Carlo, Acad. Royale d'Anvers.

Saxton, Joseph, Philadelphia.                                        W.
Searle, M., Vienna.
Sedgwick, Theodore, United States,           Warren, Dr. J. C, Boston, U.S.
Sentis, Eugene, Paris.                       Wedal Jarlsberg, Count, Norway.
Seybert, Henry, Philadelphia.                Wedal Jarlsberg, Baron, Norway.
                                             Wolff, Doctor, Hanover.

N.B. As it is feared that many errors may have crept into the List, Members are re-
       spectfully requested to forward any corrections either to the Treasurerin London,

        or to the nearest local Treasurer.
  RULES OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION

                                             RELATING TO THE

                   ADMISSION OF MEMBERS,

                                                   AND

       PAYMENT OF SUBSCRIPTIONS AND ACCOUNTS.

                                                Members.

All persons who have attended the First Meeting (at York in 1831) shall
be entitled to become Members of the Association, upon subscribing an ob-

ligation to conform to its Rules.
   The Fellows and Members of Chartered Literary and Philosophical Societies,

publishing Transactions, in the British Empire, shall be entitled in like
manner to become Members of the Association.

   The Officers and Members of the Councils, or Managing Committees, of
Philosophical Institutions shall be entitled in like manner to become Mem-

bers of the Association.

   All Members of a Philosophical Institution, recommended by its Council or
Managing Committee, shall be entitled in like manner to become Members

of the Association.
   Persons not belonging to such Institutions shall be elected by the General

Committee or Council, to become Members of the Association, subject to the

approval of a General Meeting.

                                                   Subscriptions.

   The amount of the Annual Subscription shall be One Pound, to be paid in
advance upon admission ; and the amount of the Composition in lieu thereof

Five Pounds.
    Subscriptions shall be received by the Treasurer or Secretaries.

                                                     Arrears.

   If the Annual Subscriptions of any Member shall have been in arrear for
Two Years, and shall not be paid on proper notice, he shall cease to be a
Member ; but it shall be in the power of the Committee or Council to rein-
state him on payment of arrears.

                                                   Accounts.

   The Accounts of the Association shall be audited Annually, by Auditors
appointed by the Meeting.
                                                 49

II. Table showing the Members of Council of the British Association from
   its Commencement, in addition to Presidents, Vice-Presidents, and Local

     Secretaries.

                               fRev. Wm. Vernon Harcourt, F.R.S., &c.                                                     1832--1836.
                               VRFRS FG^^J                                                                                1835 -
General Sbeecoreettaanrieess.     Francis Bai1                    and Treas R S"
General Treasurer.                                                                                                     -  1836> lg37>
Trustees (permanent) .            R j Murchison>                       _g                                                 1837.

                               LRev. G. Peacock, F.R.S. F.G.S., &c                                                        --1832 1837.

                                  John Taylor, F.R.S. Treas. G.S., &c

                                fCharles Babbage, F.R.S. L. & E., &c.

                               ^ R. I. Murchison, F.R.S., &c.
                                (_John Taylor, F.R.S., &c.

Assistant- General             )  nPl' ofcessor  Pmh.i-lTMl-ips,  F-.cRo.So.,  &o c                                       _1 8 3 2 18 3 7>
         Secretary.
                               j

                                  Members of Council.

G. B. Airy, F.R.S. Astronomer Royal                                            1834, 1835.

Francis Baily, V.P. and Treas. R.S                                             1837.

George Bentham, F.L.S                                                          1834, 1835.

Rev. Professor Buckland, D.D. F.R.S., &c. 1833, 1835.

Robert Brown, D.C.L. F.R.S                                                     1832, 1834, 1835.

Sir David Brewster, F.R.S., &c                                                 1832.

M. I. Brunei, F.R.S., &c                                                       1832.

Rev. T. Chalmers, D.D. Prof, of Divinity,

       Edinburgh                                                               1833.

Professor Christie, F.R.S., &c                                                 --1833 1837
William Clift, F.R.S. F.G.S. '
                                                                               1832--1835.

John Corrie, F.R.S., &c                                                        1832.

Professor Daniell, F.R.S                                                       1836.

J. E. Drinkwater                                                               1834, 1835.

The Earl Fitzwilliam, D.C.L. F.R.S., &c. 1833.

Professor Forbes, F.R.S.L. & E., &c                                            1832.

Davies Gilbert, D.C.L. V.P.R.S., &c                                            1832.

Professor Graham, M.D. F.R.S.E                                                 1837.

John Edward Gray, F.R.S. F.L.S., &c. ...1837.

Professor Green, F.R.S. F.G.S                                                  1832.

G. B. Greenough, F.R.S. F.G.S                                                  1832--1837.

Henry Hallam, F.R.S. F.S.A., &c                                                1836.

Sir William R. Hamilton, Astron. Royal

of Ireland                                                                     1832, 1833, 1836.

Rev. Prof. Henslow, M.A. F.L.S. F.G.S. .1837.

Sir John F. W. Herschel, F.R.S. L. & E.

F.R.A.S. F.G.S., &c                                                            1832.

Thomas Hodgkin, M.D                                                            1833--1837.

Prof. Sir W. J. Hooker, LL.D. F.R.S., &c. .1832.

Rev. F. W. Hope, M.A. F.L.S                                                    1837.

Robert Hutton, M.P. F.G.S., &c                                                 1836, 1837.

Professor R.Jameson, F.R.S.L. & E                                              1833.

Rev. Provost Lloyd, D.D                                                        1832, 1833.

Professor Lindley, F.R.S. F.L.S., &c                                           1833, 1836.

J. W. Lubbock, F.R.S. F.L.S., &c, Vice-
--Chancellor of the Univ. of London ...1833 1836.
Rev. Thomas Luby
                                                                               1832.

William Sharp MacLeay, F.L.S                                      , 1837.
50 MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.

Patrick Neill, LL.D. F.R.S.E                     1833.

Richard Owen, F.R.S. F.L.S                       1836.

Rev. George Peacock, M.A. F.R.S., &c. ...1832, 1834, 1835.

Rev. Professor Powell, M.A. F.R.S., &c. ...1836, 1837-

J. C. Prichard, M.D. F.R.S., &c                  1832.

George Rennie, F.R.S                             1833--1835.

Rev. Professor Ritchie, F.R.S                    1833.

Sir John Robison, Sec. R.S.E                     1832, 1836.

P. M. Roget, M.D. Sec. R.S. F.G.S., &c. .1834--1837-
Rev.William Scoresby, B.D. F.R.S. L. & E.1832.

Lieut.-Col.W. H. Sykes, F.R.S. F.L.S., &C.1837-

Rev. J. J. Tayler, B.A                           1832.

Professor Traill, M.D                            1832, 1833.

N. A. Vigors, M.P., D.CL. F.S.A. F.L.S. 1832, 1836.

William Yarrell, F.L.S                           1833--1836.

Secretaries to the  ( Edward Turner, M.D. F.R.S. L. & E....1832-- 1836.
        Council.
                    \ James Yates, F.L.S. F.G.S               1832--1837-
                                             --                                                                                                                                                                               --

                                      51

BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCE-
               MENT OF SCIENCE.

  The Published Reports of Proceedings at the Meetings of the Association may be
obtained by Members only, on application to the under-mentioned Local Treasurers, or

Agents appointed by them, at the following prices :

London-             TREASURER.                                                                                                                                                         DEPOT FOR THE REPORTS.

                   John Taylor, Esq.                                                                                                                                             Messrs. R. and J. E. Taylor's Printing Office,
            2, Duke Street, Adelphi.                                                                                                                                                       Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

           LOCAL TREASURERS.                                                                                                                                                                     DEPOTS.

Oxford      Dr. Daubeny                                                                                                                                                          Ashmolean Museum, Mr. Kirkland.

Cambridge   Professor Henslow                                                                                                                                                    House of the Philosophical Society.

Dublin      Dr. Orpen                                                                                                                                                            13, South Frederick Street.

Edinburgh   Charles Forbes, Esq. ...Apartments of the Royal Society.

York        WilliamGray,Jun.,Esq.. .Mr. Sunter's, Stonegate.

Bristol     George Bengough,Esq                                                                                                                                                  .Philosophical  Institution,  Park  Street.
                                                                                                                                                                              .

Liverpool   Samuel Turner, Esq. ...Bank of England Branch Bank,S.Turner, Esq.

Manchester  Rev. John Jas. Taylor ..Mr. R. Robinson's, St. Anne's Place.

Birmingham  James Russell, Esq. ...Mr. Belcher's, 6, High Street.

Newcastle-on-Tyne .William Hutton, Esq.... Apartments of the Natural History Society.

Plymouth    HenryWoollcombe,Esq..Henry Woollcombe's, Esq.

  VOL. I.--PROCEEDINGS of the FIRST and SECOND MEETINGS, at York

and Oxford, 1831 and 1832, 10s.

 -- --Contents : Prof. Airy, on the Progress of Astronomy ; J. W. Lubbock, Esq., on
-- --the Tides ; Prof. Forbes, on the Present State of Meteorology ; Prof. Powell, on the
--Present State of the Science of Radiant Heat; Prof. Cumming, on Thermo-Electri-
-- --city; Sir David Brewster, on the Progress of Optics; Rev. W. Whewell, on the
--Present State of Mineralogy ; Rev. W. D. Conybeare, on the Recent Progress and
--Present State of Geology; Dr. Prichard's review of Philological and Physical Re-

searches.
    Together with Papers on Mathematics, Optics, Acoustics, Magnetism, Electricity,

Chemistry, Meteorology, Geography, Geology, Zoology, Anatomy, Physiology, Botany,
and the Arts; and an Exposition of the Object and Plan of the Association, &c.

  VOL. II.--PROCEEDINGS of the THIRD MEETING, at Cambridge, 1833, 8s.

 -- --Contents: Proceedings of the Meeting; Mr. John Taylor, on Mineral Veins;
--Dr. Lindley, on the Philosophy of Botany ; Dr. Henry, on the Physiology of the
-- --Nervous System ; Mr. Peter Barlow, on the Strength of Materials; Mr. S. H. Christie,
--on the Magnetism of the Earth ; Rev. J. Challis, on the Analytical Theory of Hydro-
--statics and Hydrodynamics ; Mr. George Rennie, on Hydraulics as a Branch of Engi-
--neering, Part I. ; Rev. G. Peacock, on certain Branches of Analysis.

   Together with Papers on Mathematics and Physics, Philosophical Instruments and

Mechanical Arts, Natural History, Anatomy, Physiology, and History of Science.

  VOL. III.--PROCEEDINGS of the FOURTH MEETING, at Edinburgh,

1834, 10s.

 -- --Contents : Mr. H. D. Rogers, on the Geology of North America ; Dr. C. Henry,
-- --on the Laws of Contagion ; Prof. Clark, on Animal Physiology ; Rev. L. Jenyns, ou
                                                                              --

                                                                     .

                             52

-- --Zoology;                                     Lloyd, on  Physical Optics
Rev. J. Challis, on Capillary Attraction;  Prof.                                                                           ;
-- Mr. G. Rennie, on Hydraulics, Part II.

Together with the Transactions of the Sections, and Recommendations of the Asso-

ciation and its Committees.

  VOL. IV.--PROCEEDINGS of the FIFTH MEETING, at Dublin, 1835, 9*.

 --Contents : Rev. W. Whewell, on the Recent Progress and Present Condition of
--the Mathematical Theories of Electricity, Magnetism, and Heat; M. A. Quetelet,
--Apercu de l'Etat actuel des Sciences Mathematiques chez les Beiges ; Captain Ed-

ward Sabine, on the Phenomena of Terrestrial Magnetism.
   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, and Recommendations of the Asso-

ciation and its Committees.

  VOL. V.--PROCEEDINGS of the SIXTH MEETING, at Bristol, 1836, 8s.

  --Contents : Prof. Daubeny, on the Present State of our Knowledge with respect to
--Mineral and Thermal Waters; Major Edward Sabine, on the Direction and Intensity
--of the Terrestrial Magnetic Force in Scotland; Mr. John Richardson, on North
-- --American Zoology; Rev. J. Challis, on the Mathematical Theory of Fluids; Mr.

J. T. Mackay, a Comparative View of the more remarkable Plants which characterize
the neighbourhood of Dublin and Edinburgh, and the South-west of Scotland, &c. ;
Mr. J. T. Mackay, Comparative geographical notices of the more remarkable Plants

--which characterize Scotland and Ireland ; Report of the London Sub-Committee of
--the Medical Section on the Motions and Sounds of the Heart ; Second Report of the
--Dublin Sub-Committee on the Motions and Sounds of the Heart ; Report of the Dublin
--Committee on the Pathology of the Brain and Nervous System ; J. W. Lubbock, Esq.,
--Account of the recent Discussions of Observations of the Tides; Rev. Baden Powell,

on determining the refractive Indices for the Standard Rays of the Solar Spectrum in

--various media ; Dr. Hodgkin, on the Communication between the Arteries and Ab-
--sorbents; Prof. Phillips, Report of Experiments on Subterranean Temperature;

Prof. Hamilton, on the Validity of a Method recently proposed by George B. Jerrard,
Esq., for Transforming and Resolving Equations of Elevated Degrees.

   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, and Recommendations of the Asso-
ciation and its Committees.

  VOL. VI.--PROCEEDINGS of the SEVENTH MEETING, at Liverpool, is

in the Press.

  LITHOGRAPHED SIGNATURES of the MEMBERS who met at Cambridge

in 1833, with the Proceedings of the Public Meetings. 4to. Price 4s. (To Mem-

bers, 3s.)

Printed by Richard and John E. Taylor, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street

