      ,i'li

iilii'*;-.!;'- ,
!i!
S, l^.q_
            REPORT

         TENTH MEETING

BRITISH ASSOCIATION

  ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE;

                    HELD AT GLASGOW IN AUGUST 1840.

                  LONDON:

       JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.

                                                  1841.
PRJNTED BY RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR,

             RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
                      CONTENTS

Objects and Rules of the Association                                  Page

                                                                         v

Officers and Council                                                  viii

Places of Meeting and Officers from commencement                       ix
Table of Council from commencement
Officers of Sectional Committees, and Corresponding Members             x
Treasurer's Account
                                                                       xii
                                                                      xiv

Reports, Researches, and Desiderata                                   xvi

Recommendations for Additional Reports and Researches in              xxiii
    Science

Synopsis of Money Grants                                            xxxii

Arrangements of the General Evening Meetings                 xxxiv

Address of the General Secretaries                                    xxxv

REPORTS OF RESEARCHES IN SCIENCE.

Report on the recent progress of discovery relative to Radiant        1
   Heat, supplementary to a former Report on the same subject
   inserted in the 1st volume of the Reports of the British Associa-

   tion for the Advancement of Science. By the Rev. Baden
   Powell, M.A., F.R.S., F.R. Ast. S., F.G.S., Savilian Professor

   of Geometry in the University of Oxford

Supplementary Report on Meteorology. By James D. Forbes,              37

   Esq., F.R.S., Sec. R.S. Ed., Professor of Natural Philosophy in
   the University of Edinburgh

Report, on Professor Whewell's Anemometer, now in Operation at

Plymouth. By Wm. Snow Harris, F.R.S., &c                              157

                          a2
                                                                        1

IV CONTENTS.

                                                                                                                                                  Page

Report on « The Motions and Sounds of the Heart." By the

   London Committee of the British Association, for 1839-40. . . 163

An Account of Researches in Electro-Chemistry. By Professor

ScHONBEiN, of Basle                                                 209

Second Report upon the Action of Air and Water, whether fresh

or salt, clear or foul, and at various temperatures, upon Cast

Iron, Wrought Iron, and Steel. By Robert Mallet, M.R.I.A.,

Ass. Ins. C.E                                                       221

Report on some Observations on Subterranean Temperature. By

Robert Were Fox, Esq                                                309

Report on the Observations recorded during the years 1837, 1838,

1839, and 1840, by the Self-registering Anemometer erected at

the Philosophical Institution, Birmingham. By A. Follett

Osler, Esq                                                          321

Report respecting the Two Series of Hourly Meteorological Ob-

servations kept at Inverness and Kingussie, at the Expense of

the British Association, from Nov. 1st, 1838, to Nov. 1st, 1839.

By Sir Davld Brewster, K.H., F.R.S., &c                             349

Report on the Fauna of Ireland : Div. Vertehrata. Drawn up, at

the request of the British Association, by William Thompson,

Esq. (Vice-Pres. Nat. Hist. Society of Belfast), one of the Com-

mittee appointed for that purpose                                   353

Report of Experiments on the Physiology of the Lungs and Air-

tubes. By Charles J. B. Williams, M.D., F.R.S                       41

Report of the Committee appointed to try Experiments on the

Preservation of Animal and Vegetable Substances. Drawn up

by the Rev. J. S. Henslow, F.L.S., Professor of Botany in the

University of Cambridge                                             421

Provisional Reports, and Notices of Progress in Special Researches

entrusted to Committees and Individuals                             423
     OBJECTS AND RULES

               THE ASSOCIATION.

                            OBJECTS.

The Assoc rATiON contemplates no interference with the ground

--occupied by other Institutions. Its objects are, To give a

stronger impulse and a more systematic direction to scientific

--inquiry, to promote the intercourse of those who cultivate Sci-

ence in different parts of the British Empire, with one another,

--and with foreign philosophers, to obtain a more general atten-

tion to the objects of Science, and a removal of any disadvan-
tages of a public kind which impede its progress.

                          RULES.

                                      MEMBERS.
   All Persons who have attended the first Meeting shall be
entitled to become Members of the Association, upon subscri-
bing an obligation to conform to its Rules.
   The Fellows and Members of Chartered Literary and Philo-

sophical Societies publishing Transactions, in the British Em-

pire, shall be entitled, in like manner, to become Members of

the Association.

   The Officers and Members of the Councils, or Managing

Committees, of Philosophical Institutions, shall be entitled, in

like manner, to become Members of the Association.
   All Members of a Philosophical Institution recommended by

its Council or Managing Committee, shall be entitled, in like
manner, to become Members of the Association.

    Persons not belonging to such Institutions shall be elected by
the General Committee or Council, to become Members of the
Association, subject to the approval of a General Meeting.

                                       SUBSCRIPTIONS.

   The amount of the Annual Subscription shall be One Pound,
to be paid in advance upon admission ; and the amount of the

composition in lieu thereof, Five Pounds.
VI RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION.

   An admission fee of One Pound is required from all Members

elected as Annual Subscribers, after the Meeting of 1839, in
addition to their annual subscription of One Pound.

   Members are entitled to receive copies of any volume of the
Transactions for two-thirds of the price at which it is sold to
the public ; or by one present payment of Five Pounds, as a
fixed Book Subscription,to receive a copy of all the volumes of

Transactions published after the date of such payment.
    Subscriptions shall be received by the Treasurer or Secretaries.

   If the annual subscription of any Member shall have been in

arrear for two years, and shall not be paid on proper notice, he
shall cease to be a Member.

                                        MEETINGS,

   The Association shall meet annually, for one week, or longer.
The place of each Meeting shall be appointed by the General
Committee at the previous Meeting ; and the Arrangements

for it shall be entrusted to the Officers of the Association.

                           GENERAL COMMITTEE.

   The General Committee shall sit during the week of the

Meeting, or longer, to transact the business of the Association.

--It shall consist of the following persons :

     1. Presidents and Officers for the present and preceding years,
 with authors of Reports in the Transactions of the Association.

    2. Members who have communicated any Paper to a Philo-

 sophical Society, which has been printed in its Transactions,
 and which relates to such subjects as are taken into considera-
 tion at the Sectional Meetings of the Association.

     3. Office-beai-ers for the time being, or Delegates, altogether
 not exceeding three in number, from any Philosophical Society
 publishing Transactions.

     4. Office-bearers for the time being, or Delegates, not ex-
 ceeding three, from Philosophical Institutions established in
 the place of Meeting, or in any place where the Association
 has formerly met.

     5. Foreigners and other individuals whose assistance is de-

 sired, and who are specially nominated in writing for the meet-
 ing of the year by the President and General Secretaries.

    6". The Presidents, Vice-Presidents, and Secretaries of the
 Sections are ex officio members of the General Committee for

 the time being.
                              SECTIONAL COMMITTEES.

    The General Committee shall appoint, at each Meeting,
 Committees, consisting severally of the Members most conver-

 sant with the several branches of Science, to advise together for
 the advancement thereof.
RULES OP THE ASSOCIATION.                                         VU

    The Committees shall report what subjects of investigation
 they would particularly recommend to be prosecuted during the
 ensuing year, and brought under consideration at the next

 Meeting.

    The Committees shall recommend Reports on the state and
 progress of particular Sciences, to be drawn up from time to
 time by competent persons, for the information of the Annual

 Meetings.

                  COMMITTEE OP RECOMMENDATIONS.

   The General Committee shall appoint at each Meeting a Com-

mittee, which shall receive and consider the Recommendations

of the Sectional Committees, and report to the General Com-

mittee the measures which they would advise to be adopted for
the advancement of Science.

   All Recommendations of Grants of Money, Requests for
Special Researches, and Reports on Scientific Subjects, shall be
submitted to the Committee of Recommendations, and not taken
into consideration by the General Committee, unless previously
recommended by the Committee of Recommendations.

                                 LOCAL. COMMITTEES.

  ^ Local Committees shall be formed by the Officers of the Asso-
ciation to assist in making arrangements for the Meetings.

    Committees shall have the power of adding to their numbers

those Members of the Association whose assistance they may

 desire.

                                            OFFICERS.

  A President, two or more Vice-Presidents, one or more Se-

cretaries, and a Treasurer, shall be annually appointed by the
General Committee.

                                           COUNCIL.

    In the intervals of the Meetings, the affairs of the Association

shall be managed by a Council appointed by the General Com-
mittee. The Council may also assemble for the despatch of
business during the week of the Meeting.

                     PAPERS AND COMMUNICATIONS.

   The Author of any paper or communication shall be at liberty

to reserve his right of property therein.

                                        ACCOUNTS.

   The Accounts of the Association shall be audited annually, by
Auditors appointed by the Meeting.
                      REPORT 1840.

       OFFICERS AND COUNCIL, 1840-41.

 --Trustees {permanent). Francis Baily, Esq. R. I. Murchi-

son. Esq. John Taylor, Esq.

 --President. The Most Noble the Marquis of Breadalbane.
  --Vice-Presidents. The Very Reverend Principal Macfarlane.

Major-Gen. Lord Greenock. Sir David Brewster. Sir Thos.

Macdougall Brisbane.

--President elect.--Rev. Professor Whewell, F.R.S., V.P.G.S.

Vice-Presidents elect. The Earl of Mount Edgcumbe. The

Earl of Morley. Lord Eliot, M.P. Sir C. Lemon, Bart.,

--M.P. Sir T. D. Acland, Bart., M.P.
    General Secretaries. R. I. Murchison, Esq., F.R.S. Major

--Sabine, F.R.S.
   Assistant General Secretary. John Phillips, Esq., F.R.S.,

York.

 --Secretaries for the Plymouth, Devonport, and Stonehouse

Meeting in 1841. Wm. Snow Harris, F.R.S. Col. Hamilton

Smith, F.L.S. Robert Were Fox, F.R.S. Richard Taylor,

--jun., Esq.
   General Treasurer. John Taylor, Esq., F.R.S., &c. 2, Duke

Street, Adelphi, London.              Henry Woolcombe,

 --Treasurer to the Meeting in 1841.

--Esq.
    Council. Dr. N. Arnott. R. Brown, Esq. Rev. Dr. Buck-

land. J. C. Colquhoun, Esq., M.P. Dr. Daubenj-. Sir P. G.
Egerton, Bart., M.P. Professor T. Graham. J. E. Gray, Esq.

G. B. Greenough, Esq. W. J. Hamilton, Esq. Dr. Hodgkin.

R. Hutton,Esq., M.P. H. B. Jerrard, Esq. C. Lyell, Esq.
Professor Miller. Professor Moseley. The Marquis of North-

ampton. The Very Rev. Dr. Peacock. E. Pendarves, Esq.,

M.P. Professor Powell. Lord Sandon, M.P. H. E. Strick-

land, Esq. Lieut.-Col. Sykes. H. Fox Talbot, Esq. N. A.

Vigors, Esq., M.P. James Walker, Esq. Captain Washing-

ton. Professor Wheatstone.

  --Secretary to the Council. James Yates, Esq., F.R.S. 49,
--Upper Bedford Place, London.

   Local Treasurers. Dr. Daiibeny, Oxford. Professor Hens-

low, Cambridge. Dr. Orpen, Dublin. Charles Forbes, Esq.,

Edinburgh and Glasgow. William Gray, jun., Esq., York.

William Sanders, Esq., Bristol. Samuel Turner, Esq., Liver-

pool. Rev. John James Tayler, Manchester. James Russell,

Esq., Birmingham. William Hutton, Esq., Newcastle- on-
Tyne. Henry Woolcombe, Esq., Plymouth.
X REPORT 1840.

II. Table showing the Members of Council of the British Association
       from its Commencement, in addition to Presidents, Vice-Presidents,
       and Local Secretaries.

                      rRev.Wm. Vernon Harcourt, F.R.S., &c, 1832--1836.

                         Francis Baily, V.P. and Treas. R.S                     1835.

General Secretaries.  \ R. I. Murchison, F.R.S., F.G.S                          1836--1840.

                         Rev. G. Peacock, F.R.S., F.G.S., &c. ...1837, 1838.

                      LMajor Sabine, V.P.R.S                                    1839, 1840.

General Treasurer.       John Taylor, F.R.S., Treas. G.S., &c. ...1832--1839.

                      {Charles Babbage, F.R.SS.L. & E., &c.                     (Resigned.)

                         R. I. Murchison, F.R.S., &c.
                         John Taylor, F.R.S., &c.

                         Francis Baily, F.R.S.

Assistant General     j Professor  Phillipcs,'  F.R.S.,                     &c  1832-1839.
        oecretary.                                                       '

                      J

                         Members of Council.

G. B. Airy, F.R.S., Astronomer Royal            1834, 1835.
                                                1838, 1839, 1840.
Neill Arnott, M.D

Francis Baily, V.P. and Treas. R.S              1837--1839.

George Bentham, F.L.S                           1834, 1835.

Robert Brown, D.C.L., F.R.S                     .1832,1834,1835,1838-1840.

Sir David Brewster, F.R.S., &c                  1832.

M. I. Brunei, F.R.S., &c                        1832.

Rev. Professor Buckland, D.D., F.R.S., &c. .1833,1835,1838,1839,1840.

The Earl of Burlington                          1838, 1839.

Rev. T. Chalmers, D.D., Prof, of Divinity,

Edinburgh                                       1833.

Professor Clark, Cambridge                      1838.

Professor Christie, F.R.S., &c                  1833--1837.

William Clift, F.R.S., F.G.S                    1832--1835.

J. C. Colquhoun, Esq., M.P                      1840.

John Corrie, F.R.S., &c                         1832.

Professor Daniell, F.R.S                        1836, 1839.

Dr. Daubeny                                     1838, 1839, 1840.

J. E. Drinkv?ater                               1834, 1835.

Sir P. G. Egerton, Bart., M.P                   1840.

The Earl Fitzwilliam, D.C.L., F.R.S., &c....l833.

Professor Forbes, F.R.SS.L. & E., &c            1832.

Davies Gilbert, D.C.L., V.P.R.S., &c            1832.

Professor R. Graham, M.D., F.R.S.E              1837.

Professor Thomas Graham, F.R.S                  1838, 1839, 1840.

John Edward Gray, F.R.S., F.L.S., &c            1837--1839, 1840.

Professor Green, F.R.S., F.G.S                  1832.

G. B. Greenough, F.R.S., F.G.S                  1832--1839, 1840.

Henry Hallam, F.R.S., F.S.A., &c                1836.

Sir William R. Hamilton, Astron. Royal of

        Ireland                                 1832, 1833, 1836.
                                                1840.
W. J. Hamilton, Sec. G.S

Rev. Prof. Henslow, M.A., F.L.S., F.G.S.. ..1837.

Sir John F. W. Herschel, F.R.SS. L. &. E.,

F.R.A.S., F.G.S., &c                            1832.

Thomas Hodgkin, M.D                             1833--1837, 1839, 1840.

Prof. Sir W. J. Hooker, LL.D., F.R.S., &c. .1832.
                   MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.                                 XI

Rev. F. W. Hope, M.A., F.L.S             1837.

Robert Hutton, M.P., F.G.S., &c          1836, 1838, 1839, 1840.
                                         1833.
Professor R. Jameson, F.R.SS. L. & E

Rev. Leonard Jenyns]                     1838.

H. B. Jenard, Esq                        1840.

Dr. R. Lee                               1839.

Sir C. Lemon, Bart., M.P                 1838, 1839.

Rev. Dr. Lardner                         1838, 1839.

Professor Lindley, F.R.S,, F.L.S., &c    1833, 1836.

Rev. Professor Lloyd, D.D                1832, 1833.

J. W. Lubbock, F.R.S., F.L.S., &c., Vice-

   --Chancellor of the University of London 1833 1836, 1838, 1839.

Rev. Thomas Luby                         1832.

Charles Lyell, jun., F.R.S               1838, 1839, 1840.

William Sharp MacLeay, F.L.S             1837.

Professor Miller, F.G.S                  1810.

Professor Moseley                        1839, 1840.

Patrick Neill, LL.D., F.R.S.E            1833.

The Marquis of ^lorthampton, P.R.S       1840.

Richard Owen, F.R.S., F.L.S              1836, 1838, 1839.

Rev. George Peacock, M.A., F.R.S., &c    1832,1834,1835,1839,1840.
E. Pendarves, Esq., M.P                  1840.

Rev. Professor Powell, M.A., F.R.S., &c  1836, 1837, 1839, 1840.

J. C. Prichard, M.D., F.R.S., &c         --1832.
George Rennie, F.R.S
                                         1833 1835, 1839.

Sir John Rennie                          1838.

Rev. Professor Ritchie, F.R.S            1833.

Sir John Robison, Sec. R.S.E             1832, 1836.

P. M. Roget, M.D., Sec. R.S., F.G.S., &c.... 1834-- 1837.

Major Sabine                           , 1838.

Lord Sandon,M.P                          1840.

Rev. William Scoresby, B.D., F.R.SS. L. & E.1832.

H. E. Strickland, Esq., F.G.S            1840.

Lieut.-Col. W. H. Sykes, F.R.S., F.L.S., &c. 1837--1839, 1840.

H. Fox Talbot, Esq., F.R.S               1840.

Rev. J. J. Tayler, B.A., Manchester      1832.
                                         1832, 1833.
Professor Traill, M.D

N. A. Vigors, M.P. , D.C.L., F.S.A., F.L.S.. . 1832, 1836,1840.

James Walker, Esq., P.S.C.E              1840.

Captain Washington, R.N                  1838, 1839, 1840.

Professor Wheatstone                     1838, 1839, 1840.
                                         1838, 1839.
Rev. W. Whewell

William Yarrell, F.L.S                   1833--1836.

--Secretaries to the ( Edward Turner, M.D., F.R.SS. L. & E.1832 1836.

Council.      (James Yates, F.R.S., F.L.S., F.G.S. 1831--1840.
              .

--xii REPORT 1840,

OFFICERS OF SECTIONAL COMMITTEES AT THE
                  GLASGOW MEETING.

     SECTION A. MATHEMATICAL AND PHYSICAL SCIENCE.

  --President. Professor Forbes, F.R.S.
  --Vice-Presidents. G. B. Airy, Esq., F.R.S., Astron. Royal.

Rev. Professor Whewell, F.R.S. Professor James Thomson,

LL.D.

 --Secretaries. Professor Stevelly. Rev. Dr. Forbes, F.R.S.

Arch. Smith, Esq.

SECTION B. CHEMISTRY AND MINERALOGY.

--President. Dr. Thomas Thomson, F.R.S.             Pro-
--Vice-Presidents. Professor Thomas Graham, F.R.S.

fessor Johnston, F.R.S.

  --Secretaries. Dr. R. D. Thomson. Dr. Thomas Clark. Dr.

L. Playfair.

    --SECTION C. GEOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY.

 --President for Geology. Charles Lyell, Esq., F.R.S.
 --Presidentfor Physical Geography G. B. Greenough, Esq.,

F.R.S.

   Vice-Presidents.-- Rev. Professor Buckland, F.R.S. H. T.

De la Beche, Esq., F.R.S. James Smith, Esq., F.R.S. Capt.

Washington, R.N.

   Secretaries.-- \N. J. Hamilton, Esq., F.R.S. H. E. Strick-
land, Esq., F.G.S. D. Milne, Esq., F.G.S. John Secular, Esq.,

M.D. Hugh Murray, Esq., F.R.S.E.

              SECTION D. ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY.

President.--Sir W. J. Hooker, LL.D.

--Vice-Presidents. The Rev. Professor Fleming, D.D. Sir

WilUam Jardine, Bart. Professor Graham, F.R.S.E. P. J.

Selby, Esq., F.L.S.                        Robert Paterson,

 --Secretaries. Professor William Couper.

Esq. Edward Forbes, Esq., M.W.S.

                     SECTION E. MEDICAL SCIENCE.

  --President. James Watson, Esq., M.D.

  --Vice-Presidents. J. Hodgkin, Esq , M.D. Dr. Andrew

Buchanan. Dr. John M'Farlane.

  --Secretaries. Professor Couper. Dr. James Brown. Pro-

fessor Reid.
OFFICERS OF SECTIONAL COMMITTEES.                 XIU

                              SECTION F. STATISTICS.

 --President. Lord Sandon, F.R.S., M.P.
  --Vice-Presidents. Mr. Sheriff Alison. Rev. Dr. Chalmers.

Lieutenant- Colonel Sykes, F.R.S.

 --Secretaries. Pi*ofessor Ramsay. R.W. Rawson, Esq. Charles

R. Baird, Esq.

         --SECTION G. MECHANICAL SCIENCE.         The Rev.

--President. Sir John Robison, Sec. R.S. Edin.

--Vice-Presidents. His Grace the Duke of Argyll.

T. R. Robinson, D.D. John Taylor, Esq., Treas. B.A. James

Walker, Esq., Pres. Inst. Civ. Eng.

  --Secretaries. J. Scott Russell, Esq. Charles Vignoles, Esq.,

C.E. James Thompson, Esq., C.E. James Tod, Esq., Sec.

Soc. of Arts.

              CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.

   Professor Agassiz, Neufchatel. M. Arago, Secretary of the

Institute, Paris. A. Bache, Principal of Girard College, Phi-

ladelphia. Professor Berzelius, Stockholm. Professor De la

Rive, Geneva. Professor Dumas, Paris. Professor Ehrenberg,

Berlin. Professor Encke, Berlin. Baron Alexander von Hum-
boldt, Berlin. M. Jacobi, St. Petersburgh. Professor Liebig,

Giessen. Professor Link, Berlin. Professor CErsted, Copen-

hagen. M. Otto, Breslau. Jean Plana, Astronomer Royal,
Turin. M. Quetelet, Brussels. Professor Schumacher, Altona.
                     BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE

                                              TREASURER'S ACCOUNT from

                                RECEIPTS.                                                        £ s. d.

                                                                                        £ s. d.

Balance in hand from last year's Account                                                         460 13 4

Compositions from Members at the Birmingham Meeting 1 c^o

   and since                                  J
Subscriptions, 1839
                                                 1023 I

Ditto  1840                                                                             2

Ditto Arrears 1838                                                                      18 1

                                                                                                 1555 2

Dividend on £5500 in 3 per cent, consols, 6 months to\                                  §2 10
                                                                                        75
January 1 840        ditto                                                           J
   Ditto £5000
                                          6 months to Julv last

                                                                                                 157 10

Received on account of Sale of Reports, ^^z.                                              16 14
                    1st vol., 2nd Edition                                                 12 16
                    2nd vol                                                              17 10
                      3rd vol                                                            26 2
                       4th vol                                                           27 4
                       5th vol                                                           83 6
                       6th vol                                                          160 15
                       7th vol
                                                                                                 344 7       3
Lithographs sold                                                                                     1 10    6
Dublin Report sold                                                                                        2
Compositions for future publications
                                                                                                   75
Sale of £500 3 per cent, consols                                                                 460 13

                                                                                                 £3054 18 1

W. H. SYKES,                "1

LEONARD HORNER, I. Auditors.

WILLIAM YARRELL, J
ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE.

16th August 1839 to the 31st August 1840.

                                     PAYMENTS.

                                                            £ s. d.     £ B.

Expenses of Meeting at Birmingham

Disbmrsements by General and Local Treasurers

Salaries to Assistant Secretary, Accountant and Clerk

Grants to Committees for Scientific purposes, viz. for

Reduction of Stars in Histoire Celeste                      242 10

Do.                 do.   LacaiUe                           4 15

Catalogue  do                                               264

Tides' Discussions at Bristol, 1838                         100

Do. do                                                      50

Subterranean Temperature                                    13 13 6

Land and Sea Level        1838                              6 11 1

Atmospheric Air                                             15 15

Action of Water on Iron                                     10
                                                              7
      Do on Organic matter

Foreign Scientific Memoirs, 1838          ^£100         Ol          ,,
                                                            ,,,, ,  "

Do.                 do. 1839                   12 1 6/

Working Population,       1838                              100

School Statistics,        1838                              50

Forms of Vessels,         1838                              184 7

Meteorological Observations at Plymouth                     40

Mr. Osier's Anemometer             do                       30

Professor WheweU's do.             do                       10

Meteorological Observations in Scotland (Hourly)            52 17 6

Magnetical Observations (Instruments)                       185 13 9

Chemical and Electrical Phaenomena                          40

Experiments on the Heart                                    18 19

Do. Lungs                                                   8 13

Reduction of Meteorological Observations                    18
 xvi REPORT 1840.

 The following Reports on the Progress and Desiderata of dif-
   ferent branches of Science have been drawn up at the request
    of the Association, and printed in its Transactions.

                                               1831-32.

   On the progress of Astronomy during the present century,

by G. B. Ah-y, M.A., Astronomer Royal.

   On the state of our knowledge respecting Tides, by J. W.

Lubbock, M. A., Vice-President of the Royal Society.

   On the recent progress and present state of Meteorology,

by James D. Forbes, F.R.S., Professor of Natural Philosophy,
Edinburgh.

   On the present state of our knowledge of the Science of Ra-

diant Heat, by the Rev. Baden Powell, M.A., F.R.S., Savilian
Professor of Geometry, Oxford.

   On Thermo-electricity, by the Rev. James Gumming, M.A.,

F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, Cambridge.

   On the recent progress of Optics, by Sir David Bi'ewster,

K.C.G., LL.D., F.R.S., &c.

   On the recent progress and present state of Mineralogy, by

the Rev. WiUiam Whewell, M.A., F.R.S.

   On the progress, actual state, and ulterior prospects of

Geology, by the Rev. William Conybeare, M.A., F.R.S.,

V.P.G.S., &c.

   On the recent progress and present state of Chemical Science,
by J. F. W. Johnston, A.M., Professor of Chemistry, Durham.

   On the application of Philological and Physical researches to
the History of the Human species, by J. C. Prichard, M.D.,

F.R.S., &c.

                                                    1833.

   On the advances which have recently been made in certain

branches ofAnalysis, by the Rev. G. Peacock, M.A.,F.R.S.,&c.

   On the present state of the Analytical Theory of Hydrostatics

and Hydrodynamics, by the Rev. John ChaUis, M.A.,F.R.S.,&c.

   On the state of our knowledge of Hydx'aulics, considered as a

branch of Engineering, by George Rennie, F.R.S., &c. (Parts

I. and II.)

   On the state of our knowledge respecting the Magnetism of
the Earth, by S. H. Christie, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of Ma-

thematics, Woolwich.

  On the state of our knowledge of the Strength of Materials,

by Peter Barlow, F.R.S.

  On the state of our knowledge respecting Mineral Veins, by

John Taylor, F.R.S., Treasurer G.S., &c.

  On the state of the Physiology of the Nervous System, by
William Charles Henry, M.D.
                               ,

       RESEARCHES IN SCIENCE.  XVll

   On the recent progressof Physiological Botany, by John Lind-

ley, F.R.S., Professor of Botany in the University of London.

                                                   1834.

  On the Geology of North America, by H. D. Rogers, F.G.S.
  On the philosophy of Contagion, by W. Henry, M.D.,F.R.S.
  On the state of Physiological Knowledge, by the Rev. Wm.

Clark, M.D., F.G.S. , Professor of Anatomy, Cambridge.

  On the state and progress of Zoology, by the Rev. Leonard

Jenyns, M.A., F.L.S., &c.

  On the theories of Capillary Attraction, and of the Propaga-

tion of Sound as affected by the Development of Heat, by the

Rev. John Challis, M.A., F.R.S., &c.

  On the state of the science of Physical Optics, by the Rev.

H. Lloyd, M.A., Professor of Natural Philosophy, Dublin.

                                                   1835.

   On the state of our knowledge respecting the application of

Mathematical and Dynamical principles to Magnetism, Electri-

city, Heat, &c., by the Rev. Wm. Whewell, M.A., F.R.S.

  On Hansteen's researches in Magnetism, by Captain Sabine,

F.R.S.

  On the state of Mathematical and Physical Science in Bel-
gium, by M. Quetelet, Director of the Observatory, Brussels.

                                                    1836.

  On the present state of our knowledge with respect to Mine-

ral and Thermal Waters, by Charles Daubeny, M.D., F.R.S.

M.R.L A., &c.. Professor of Chemistry and of Botany, Oxford.
  On North American Zoology, by John Richardson, M.D.,

F.R.S., &c.

  Supplementary Report on the Mathematical Theory of Fluids,
by the Rev. J. Challis, Plumian Professor of Astronomy in the
University of Cambridge.

                                                   1837.

   On the variations of the Magnetic Intensity observed at dif-

ferent points of the Earth's Surface, by Major Edward Sabine,

R.A., F.R.S.

  On the various modes of Printing for the use of the Blind,

by the Rev. William Taylor, F.R.S.

   On the present state of our knowledge in regard to Dimor-

phous Bodies, by Professor Johnston, F.R.S.

   On the Statistics of the Four CoUectorates of Dukhun, under

the British Government, by Col. Sykes, F.R.S.

       1838.

   Appendix to Report on the variations of Magnetic Intensity,
by Major Edward Sabine, R.A., F.R.S.

1840.  b
xviii  --REPORT 1840.

                                                    1839.

   Report on the present state of our knowledge of Refractive
Indices for the Standard Rays of the Solar Spectrum in dif-
ferent media, hy the Rev. Baden Powell, M.A., F.R.S., F.G.S.,
F.R.Ast.S., Savilian Professor of Geometry, Oxford.

   Report on the distribution of Pulraoniferous MoUusca in the
British Isles, by Edward Forbes, M.W.S., For. Sec. B.S.

                                                    1840.

    Report on the recent progress of discovery relative to Radiant
Heat, supplementary to a former Report on the same subject
inserted in the first volume of the Reports of the British Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science, by the Rev. Baden
Powell, M.A., F.R.S., F.R.Ast.S., F.G.S., Sa\ilian Professor
of Geometry in the University of Oxford.

    Supplementary Report on Meteorology, by James D. Forbes,
Esq., F.R.S., Sec. R.S. Ed., Professor of Natural Philosophy in
the University of Edinburgh.

The following Reports of Researches undertaken at the request
               of the Association have been published, viz.

                                                    1835.

  On the comparative measurement of the Aberdeen Standard

Scale, by Francis Baily, Treasurer R.S., &c.

  On Impact upon Beams, by Eaton Hodgkinson.

   Observations on the Direction and Intensity of the Terrestrial
Magnetic Force in Ireland, by the Rev. H. Lloyd, Capt. Sabine,
and Capt. J. C. Ross.

   On the Pheenomena usually referred to the Radiation of Heat,
by H. Hudson, M.D.

  Experiments on Rain at different Elevations, by Wm. Gray,

jun., and Professor Phillips.
   Hourly observations of the Thermometer at Plymouth, by

W. S. Harris.
   On the Infra-orbital Cavities in Deers and Antelopes, by A.

Jacob, M.D.

   On the Effects of Acrid Poisons, by T. Hodgkin, M.D.
   On the Motions and Sounds of the Heart, by the Dublin

Sub-Committee.

   On the Registration of Deaths, by the Edinburgh Sub-

Committee.

                                                     1836.

    Observations on the Direction and Intensity of the Terres-
                   RESEARCHES IN SCIENCE.                                                                                                                        XIX

trial Magnetic Force in Scotland, by Major Edward Sabine,

R.A., F.R.S., &c.

Comparative view of the more remarkable Plants which cha-

racterize the Neighbourhood of Dublin, the Neighbourhood of

Edinburgh, and the South-west of Scotland, &c. ; drawn up for

the British Association by J. T. Mackay, M.R.I.A., A.L.S,,

&c., assisted by Robert Graham, Esq., M.D., Professor of

Botany in the University of Edinburgh.

Report of the London Sub-Committee of the Medical Section

of the British Association on the Motions and Sounds of the

Heart.

Second Report of the Dublin Sub-Committee on the Motions

and Sounds of the Heart.

Report of the Dublin Committee on the Pathology of the

Brain and Nervous System.

Account of the Recent Discussions of Observations of the

Tides which have been obtained by means of the grant of money

which was placed at the disposal of the Author for that purpose

at the last Meeting of the Association, by J. W. Lubbock, Esq.

Observations for determining the Refractive Indices for the

Standard Rays of the Solar Spectrum in various media, by the
Rev. Baden Powell, M. A., F.R.S., Savihan Professor of Geo-

metry in the University of Oxford.

Provisional Report on the Communication between the Arte-

ries and Absorbents, on the part of the London Committee, by

Dr. Hodgkin.

Report of Experiments on Subterranean Temperature, under

the direction of a Committee, consisting of Professor Forbes,

Mr. W. S. Harris, Professor Powell, Lieut.-Colonel Sykes, and

Professor Phillips (Reporter).

Inquiry into the validity of a method recently proposed by

George B. Jerrard, Esq., for Transforming and Resolving

Equations of Elevated Degrees                                                                                                                                    undertaken, at the request of
                                                                                                                                                              ;

the Association, by Professor Sir W. R. Hamilton.

                                                    1837.

   Account of the Discussions of Observations of the Tides
which have been obtained by means of the grant of money which

was placed at the disposal of the Author for that purpose at the

last Meeting of the Association, by J. W. Lubbock, Esq.,

F.R.S.

   On the diflPerence between the Composition of Cast Iron
produced by the Cold and the Hot Blast, by Thomas
Thomson, M.D., F.R.SS. L. & E., &c., Professor of Chemistry,

Glasgow.

  On the Determination of the Constant of Nutation by the
                                  b2
--XX REPORT 1840.

 Greenwich Observations, made as commanded by the British
 Association, by the Rev. T. R. Robinson, D.D.

   On some Experiments on the Electricity of MetalUc Veins,
 and the Temperature of Mines, by Robert Were Fox.

    Provisional Report of the Committee of the Medical Section
 of the British Association, appointed to investigate the Com-
 position of Secretions, and the Organs pi'oducing them.

    Report from the Committee for inquiring into the Analysis of

the Glands, &c. of the Human Body, by G. O. Rees, M.D.,

 F.G.S.
    Second Report of the London Sub-Committee of the British

Association Medical Section, on the Motions and Sounds of
 the Heart.

    Report from the Committee for making experiments on the
Growth of Plants under Glass, and without any free communi-
cation with the outward air, on the plan of Mr. N. I. Ward,
of London.

    Report of the Committee on Waves, appointed by the British
Association at Bristol in 1836, and consisting of Sir John Robi-
son, K.H., Secretary of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and
John Scott Russell, Esq., M.A., F.R.S. Edin. (Reporter).

   On the relative Strength and other mechanical Properties of

Cast Iron obtained by Hot and Cold Blast, by Eaton Hodgkinson,
Esq.

   On the Strength and other Properties of Iron obtained from
the Hot and Cold Blast, by W. Fairbairn, Esq.

                                                    1838.

    Account of a Level Line, measured from the Bristol Channel
to the English Channel, during the Year 1837-38, by Mr.
Bunt, under the Direction of a Committee of the British As-

sociation. Drawn up by the Rev. W. Whewell, F.R.S. , one

of the Committee.

  A Memoir on the Magnetic Isoclinal and Isodynamic Lines

in the British Islands, from Observations by Professors Hum-
phrey Lloyd and John Phillips, Robert Were Fox, Esq., Cap-
tain James Clark Ross, R.N., and Major Edward Sabine,
R.A., by Major Edward Sabine, R.A., F.R.S.

   First Report on the Determination of the Mean Numerical
Values of Railway Constants, by Dionysius Lardner, LL.D.,

F.R.S., &c.
   First Report upon Experiments, instituted at the request of

the British Association, upon the Action of Sea and River
Water, whether clear or foul, and at various temperatures,
upon Cast and Wrought Iron, by Robert Mallet, M.R.I.A.,
Ass. Ins. C.E.
RE SEARCHES IN SCIENCE.  XXI

     Notice of Experiments in progress, at the desire of the
 British Association, on the Action of a Heat of 212° Fahr.,
 when long continued, on Inorganic and Organic Substances,
 by Robert Mallet, M.R.I.A.

     Experiments on the ultimate Transverse Strength of Cast
 Iron made at Arigna Works, Co. Leitrim, Ireland, at Messrs.
 Bramah and Robinson's, 29th May, 1837.

    Provisional Reports, and Notices of Progress in Special Re-
 searches entrusted to Committees and Individuals.

                                                     1839.

    Report on the application of the sum assigned forTide Calcula-
 tions to Mr. Whewell, in a Letter from T. G. Bunt, Esq., Bristol.

    Notice of Determination of the Arc of Longitude between
 the Observatories of Armagh and Dublin, by the Rev. T. R.
 Robinson, D.D., &c.

    Report of some Galvanic Experiments to determine the
existence or non-existence of Electrical Currents among Stra-
tified Rocks, particularly those of the Mountain Limestone
formation, constituting the Lead Measures of Alston Moor,
by H. L. Pattinson, Esq.

    Report respecting the two series of Hourly Meteorological
Observations kept in Scotland at the expense of the British
Association, by Sir David Brewster, K.H., LL.D., F.R.SS.
L. and E.

    Report on the subject of a series of Resolutions adopted
by the British Association at their Meeting in August 1838,

at Newcastle.

   Report on British Fossil Reptiles, by Richard Owen, Esq.,

F.R.S., F.G.S., &c.
    Third Report on the Progress of the Hourly Meteorological

Register at the Plymouth Dock-yard, Devonport, by W. Snow

Harris, Esq., F.R.S.

                                                    1840.

   Report on Professor Whewell's Anemometer, now in opera-

tion at Plymouth, by W. Snow Harris, Esq., F.R.S., &c.

   Report on the Motions and Sounds of the Heart, by the
London Committee of the British Association for 1839-40.

   An Account of Researches in Electro- Chemistry, by Pro-

fessor Schonbein, of Basle.
   Second Report upon the Action of Air and Water, whether

fresh or salt, clear or foul, and at various temperatures, upon
Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, and Steel, by Robert Mallet,
M.R.I.A., Ass. Ins. C.E.

   Report on the Observations recorded during the Years 1837,
Xxii  --REPORT 1840.

1838, 1839, and 1840, by the Self-registering Anemometer

erected at the Philosophical Institution, Birmingham. By

A. Follett Osier, Esq.
   Report respecting the two series of Hourly Meteorological

Observations kept at Inverness and Kingussie, at the Expense
of the British Association, from Nov. 1st, 1838, to Nov. 1st,

1839. By Sir David Brewster, K.H., F.R.S., &c.
   Report on the Fauna of Ireland : Div. Vertehrata. Drawn

up, at the request of the British Association, by William Thomp-

son, Esq. (Vice-Pres. Nat. Hist. Society of Belfast), one of the

Committee appointed for that purpose.
    Report of Experiments on the Physiology of the Lungs and

Air-tubes. By Charles J. B. Williams, M.D., F.R.S.
    Report of the Committee appointed to try Experiments on

the Preservation of Animal and Vegetable Substances. By

the Rev. J. S. Henslow, F.L.S.

The following Reports and Continuations of Reports have been
  undertaken to be drawn up at the request of the Association.

  On Salts, by Professor Graham, F.R.S.
  On the Dififerential and Integral Calculus, by the Rev. Pro-

fessor Peacock, M.A., F.R.S., &c.

   On the Geology of North America, by H. D. Rogers, F.G.S.,

Professor of Geology, Philadelphia.

   On Vision, by Professor C. Wheatstone, F.R.S.
   On the application of a General Principle in Dynamics to
the Theory of the Moon, by Professor Sir W. Hamilton.
   On Isomeric Bodies, by Professor Liebig.
   On Organic Chemistry, by Professor Liebig.
   On Inorganic Chemistry, by Professor Johnston, F.R.S.
   On Fossil Reptiles (continuation), by Professor Owen, F.R.S.
   On the Salmonidse of Scotland, by Sir W. Jardine.
   On the Caprimulgidse, by N. Gould, F.L.S.
   On the state of Meteorology in the United States of North

America, by A. Bache.

   On the state of Chemistry as bearing on Geology, by Pro-

fe.ssor Johnston.

   On Molluscous Animals and their Shells, by J. E. Gray,
F T? S

   On Ornithology, by P. J. Selby, F.R.S.E.
   On the Specific Gravity of Steam, by a Committee, of which

Mr. B. Donkin is Secretary.

   On the Temperature of the deep Mines of Cornwall, from his
own observations, by W. J. Henwood, F.G.S.
                           RESEARCHES IN SCIENCE.

  On the recent progress and present condition of Electro-

Chemistiy and Electro-Magnetism, by Professor de la Rive, of
Geneva.

Recommendations for Additional Reports and Researches in
   Scieiwe adopted by the General Committee at the Glasgow

    Meeting.

ADDITIONAL REPORTS ON THE STATE OF SCIENCE REQUESTED.

   --Resolved

   That Professor Airy be requested to furnish a second Report
on the progress of Astronomy during the present century.
The date of the former Report, presented by Professor Airy, is
1831-32.

   That a Committee, consisting of the Astronomer Royal,
Professor Lloyd, Major Sabine, and Professor Phillips, be
appointed to report on the publication or other disposal of

Hourly Meteorological Observations now in possession of the

Association.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That Professor Willis be requested to furnish the Report on
the state of our knowledge of the Phaenomena of Sound, for-
merly requested.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That Dr. Peacock be requested to furnish the Report on the
Differential and Integral Calculus, formerly requested.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That Professor Wheatstone be requested to furnish the Re-
port on Vision, formerly requested.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

  That Professor Sir W. Hamilton be requested to furnish the

Report on the application of a General Principle in Dynamics
to the Theory of the Moon, formerly requested.

   The Report to be presented at the next Meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That Professor Kelland be requested to draw up a Report on
Xxiv  --REPORT 1840.

the History and present state of the Theory of the Undulations
of Fluid and Elastic Media.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That Professor Kelland be requested to furnish a Report on
the relative state of our experimental and mathematical know-
ledge on the subject of the Conduction of Heat ; to point out
the experiments already made which require repetition, and
those which are necessary to complete the comparison of Theory
and Experiment.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That Professor Bache be requested to furnish his Report on
the Meteorology of the United States for the next meeting of

the Association.

  That a Committee, consisting of Mr. Lubbock, Sir J. W.

Herschel, Dr. Robinson, Professor Forbes, Professor Whewell,
Professor Miller, Sir David Brewster, and Major Sabine, be

requested to report to the Association how far the Desiderata

in our knowledge of the condition of the upper strata of the

Atmosphere may be supplied by means of ascents in balloons

or otherwise ; to ascertain the probable expense of such experi-
ments, and draw up directions for observers in such circum-

stances.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That Professor Johnston be requested to furnish the Report
on Inorganic Chemistry, formerly requested.

   That Professor de la Rive, of Geneva, be requested to furnish
the Report on the recent progress and present condition
of Electro-Chemistry and Electro-Magnetism, formerly re-

quested.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That Professor Johnston be requested to continue his re-
searches upon Chemical Geology, and to direct his attention
particularly to the eflfects of igneous rocks.

   That Dr. Daubeny be requested to prepare a Report on the
connexion of Chemistry and Agriculture, formerly requested.
                        --

RESEARCHES IN SCIENCE.  XXV

   That Sir John Graham Dalyell be requested to prepare a
Report on the habits of the Radiate Animals.

   That the following be a Committee to inquire into and

report on the experiments made by Mr. C. W. Williams, of

Liverpool, on the Combustion of Coal and other Fuels, with

the view of obtaining from them the greatest calorific effect,

and avoiding the generation of smoke, viz. Mr. Vignoles, Mr.
Fairbairn, Mr. Grantham, and Mr. Spence.

   That Mr. Hodgkinson be requested to complete his experi-
ments on the resistance of the Atmosphere to Moving Bodies,
and to report the result to the next meeting of the British

Association.

   That the following be a Committee to make experiments

for ascertaining the comparative eflBciency of the Turbine and

Common Water Wheels, and to report at the next meeting :

Mr. Smith, of Deanston, Professor Gordon, Mr. W. Fairbairn.

Recommendations of Researches in Science involving Grants

   of Money for Scientijic Purposes, adoj)ted by the General

    Committee at the Glasgoiv Meeting.

   --Resolved

   That Sir D. Brewster and Professor Forbes be requested to
revise and continue the Hourly Observations at Inverness and
Kingussie, and that a sum not exceeding 85/. be placed at their

disposal for the purpose.

   That a Committee, consisting of Professor Whewell, be re-
quested to superintend calculations on the Tides at Leith by
Mr. D. Ross, and that the sum of 501. be placed at the dis-
posal of Professor Whewell for the purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That a Committee, consisting of Professor Whewell, be re-
quested to superintend calculations on Tides at Bristol by Mr.
Bunt, and that the sum of 50/. be placed at the disposal of
Professor Whewell for the purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That Major Sabine be requested to provide a good mountain
xxvi  --UEPORT 1840.

barometer and a thermometer for the assistance of Mr. M'Cord
in his Meteorological Observations, the sum of 20/. to be placed
at the disposal of Major Sabine for the purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That the grant of 100/. for the reduction of Meteorological
Observations, under the superintendence of Sir J. Herschel,

be continued.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That the Committee already appointed for the revision of the
Nomenclature of Stars, consisting of Sir John Herschel, Mr.
Whewell, and Mr. Baily, be re-appointed, and that the sum of
501. be placed at the disposal of the Committee for the purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That the Committee already appointed for the reduction of
the Stars in the Histoire Celeste, consisting of Mr. Baily, the
Astronomer Royal, and Dr. Robinson, be re-appointed, and

that the sum of 150/. be placed at the disposal of the Com-

mittee for the purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That the Committee already appointed to extend the Royal
Astronomical Society's Catalogue, consisting of Mr. Baily, the
Astronomer Royal, and Dr. Robinson, be re-appointed on the
condition originally stipulated, that the Catalogue be called the
British Association Catalogue, and that 150/. be placed at the
disposal of the Committee for tliat purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That the sum of 40/. be granted to Mr. Osier for the pur-
pose of completing the Anemometer in the course of erection
at Edinburgh, and also for Tabulating the Observations from
the above instruments, in conjunction with those in Birming-
ham and Plymouth.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That a sum of 60/. be placed at the disposal of Sir D. Brew-
ster, Mr. Osier, and Professor Forbes, for erecting an Ane-
RESKARCHKS IN SCIENCE.  XXVU

mometer on Mr. Osier's construction at Inverness, to connect
these Observations witli others already established there.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That a Committee, consisting of Major Sabine and Sir J.
Herschel, be requested to provide two Actinometers, for Ob-
servations on the intensity of Solar Radiation, to be made by
Professor Agassiz, at considerable heights in the Alps, and that
the sum of 10/. be placed at the disposal of the Committee for

the purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That the sum of 75/. be placed at the disposal of Sir D.

Brewster, for the purpose of an Inquiry into the action of
Gaseous and other Media upon the Solar Spectrum.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

    That the Committee already appointed to superintend the
reduction of Lacaille's Stars, consisting of Sir J. Herschel,
the Astronomer Royal, and Mr. Henderson, be re-appointed;
and that the sum of 184/. 5s. (the balance of former grant) be
placed at the disposal of the Committee for the purpose.

    The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

 sociation.

    That a sum not exceeding 20/. be placed at the disposal of
Mr. Snow Harris, for repairing and observing Whewell's and
 Osier's Anemometers.

    That a sum of 35/. be placed at the disposal of Mr. Snow
 Harris, for defraying the expenses of the Hourly Register of
 the Barometer and Thermometer at Plymouth.

    That the sum of 20/. be placed at the disposal of Professor
Forbes, for Tabulating Experiments on Subterranean Tem-

 perature.

    That a Committee, consisting of Sir J. Herschel, Professor
Whewell, Dr. Peacock, Professor Lloyd, and Major Sabine, be
 appointed for conducting the co-operation of this Association
 in the system of simultaneous Magnetical and Meteorological

 Observations, and that a sum of 50/. be placed at their dis-

 posal.

    That a Committee, consisting of Major Sabine, Dr. R. Brown,
xxviii  --REPORT 1840.

Dr. Robinsoiij Sir J. Herschel, Professor Wheatstone, Sir D.
Brewster, and Mr. Owen, Professors Thomas Graham and

Miller, Sir W. Jardine, and Professor Robert Graham, be ap-

pointed to superintend the Translation and Publication of
Foreign Scientific Memoirs ; and that the sum of 100^. be
placed at the disposal of the Committee for the purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

    That Mr. Mallet be requested to continue his experiments on
 the Action of Salt and Fresh Water on Iron, &c., and that 50/.
 be placed at his disposal for that purpose.

    That a Committee, consisting of Dr. Prout, Dr. J. Thomson,
 Professor Owen, Professor Graham, and Dr. R. D. Thomson,
 be requested to undertake a series of Researches on the Che-
mistry and Physiology of Digestion, and the sum of 200/. to be
placed at the disposal of the above Committee for the purpose.

    The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

 sociation.

   That a Committee, consisting of Mr. Bryce, Mr. De la

Beche, and Major Portlock, be requested to continue their Re-

searches on the Mud of Rivers, and that the sum of 201. be

placed at the disposal of the Committee for that purpose.
   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

    That a Committee, consisting of the President of the Royal
Society, the President of the Geological Society, R. I. Mur-

chison, Esq., John Taylor, Esq., H. T. De la Beche, Esq., and

C. Vignoles, Esq. (with power to add to their number), be re-
quested to take measures for procuring coloured drawings of
Railway Sections before they are covered up ; 200/. to be

placed at their disposal for the purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That a Committee, consisting of the Marquis of Northamp-

ton, R. I. Murchison, Esq., and the Rev. W. Buckland, be re-

quested to enable M. Agassiz to collect materials for a Report
on the Fossil Fishes of Scotland, and particularly those of the
Old Red Sandstone ; 100/. to be placed at their disposal for

that purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation .
RESBARCHES IN SCIENCE.  XXIX

           That Captain Portloct be requested to institute a set of
       Experiments on the Temperature of Mines in Ireland, and that
       the sum of 10^. be placed at the disposal of Captain Portlock
        for the purpose.

          The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

         sociation.

          That a Committee, consisting of Lord Greenock, Mr. Milne,
       Professor Forbes, Mr. Paterson, Captain Portlock, and Mr.
        Bryce, be requested to Register the shocks of Earthquakes in
       Scotland and Ireland, and that the sum of 20/. be placed at the
       disposal of the Committee for that purpose.

          The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

         sociation.

          That Professor Johnston and Mr. Jeffreys be a Committee
       to repeat Mr. Jeffreys 's experiments on the Solution of Silica in
      water of a high temperature, and that the sum of 25/. be placed
       at the disposal of the Committee for the purpose.

          The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

         sociation.

          That Professor Henslow be requested to continue his Re-
       searches on the Preservation of Animal and Vegetable Sub-
      stances, and that the sum of 6/., being the unexpended portion
       of the former grant, be placed at the disposal of the Committee.

          The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

         sociation.

          That the Committee already appointed for the purpose of
      preparing Maps for the illustration of the Geographical Distri-
      bution of Animals and Plants, have the sum of 251. placed at
       their disposal for the completion of their arrangements.

          That the Committee already appointed for the purpose of in-
       vestigating, by means of the dredge, the Marine Zoology of
       Britain, be requested to continue their researches, and that the
      sum of 50/. be placed at the disposal of the Committee for

        the purpose.

          The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

         sociation.

          That a Committee, consisting of Sir William Jardine, Mr.

ISelby, Mr. Yarrell, and Dr. Lankester, be requested to super-
      intend the application of the sum of 50/. towards the augmenta-
      tion of our knowledge of the Anoplura Britannice.

          That a Committee, consisting of Dr. Lankester, Dr. Arnott,
--XXX REPORT 1840.

Dr. Greville, and Dr. Fleming, be requested to draw up a
Report on the Plants and Animals existing in natural Thermal
Springs and Mineral Waters, and in solutions artificially pre-
pared, and that the sum of 61. be placed at the disposal of the
above-mentioned Committee for the purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That a Committee, consisting of Mr. Hugh Strickland, Mr.

Babington, and Professor Lindley, be requested to institute a
series of experiments with a view to determine the longest
period during which the Seeds of Plants can retain their vege-
tative powers, the species or families of Plants in which these
powers are of the longest duration, and the circumstances most
favourable for their preservation, and that the sum of 10/. be
placed at the disposal of the Committee for the purpose.

   The Report to be presented to the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That the Committee already appointed for preparing a series

of questions on the Human Race, be requested to complete and

distribute the questions, and that the sum of 15/. be placed at
the disposal of the Committee for the purpose of printing and

distributing the queries.

   The Report of the Committee to be pi'esented at the next
meeting of the Association.

   That the Committee already appointed for conducting Ex-
periments on Acrid Poisons be requested to continue their
labours, and that the sum of 25/. be placed at the disposal of

Dr. Roupell for the purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That the Committee already appointed for Improvements in
Acoustic Instruments be requested to continue their labours,
and that the sum of 251. be placed at the disposal of Dr. Yel-
loly for the purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That the Committee already appointed for the investigation
of the Communication between Veins and Absorbents be re-
quested to continue their labours, and that the sum of 25/. be
placed at the disposal of Dr. Roget for the purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.
RESEARCHES IN SCIENCE.  XXXI

   That a Committee, consisting of Sir Charles Lemon, Mr.
Porter, Mr. Hallam, Colonel Sykes, and Mr. Heywood, be re-
quested to encourage Inquiries into the actual state of Educa-
tion in Great Britain, considered merely as to numerical ana-
lysis, and that the sum of lOOZ. be placed at the disposal of the
above-named Committee for the purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

sociation.

   That a Committee, consisting of Colonel Sykes, Lord San-
don, Mr. Porter, Mr. Heywood, Dr. Alison, Dr. Cowan, Mr.
Chadwick, and Mr. Watt, be requested to inquire into Vital
Statistics, and that the sum of lOOl. be placed at the disposal
of the Committee for the purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

 sociation.

    That a Committee, consisting of Professor Johnston, Mr.
Wharton, Mr. Wilson, Mr. William Murray, Mr. Chas. Baird,

Mr. Thomas Edington, jun., Mr. De la Beche, and Mr. D.

Milne, be requested to inquire into the Mining Statistics of the
British Coal Fields, and that the sum of 25/. be placed at the
disposal of the Committee for the purpose.

    The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

 sociation.

    That a Committee, consisting of Mr. John Enys, Mr. John
 Taylor, Mr. Fairbairn, Mr. Hodgkinson, Mr. Simpson, and Mr.
 Scott Russell, be requested to obtain a set of Experiments on

 the Temperature of maximum effect in the Condensers of Steam
 Engines, and that the sum of 25/. be placed at their disposal

 for the purpose.

    The Report to be presented at the next meeting of the As-

  sociation.

     That a Committee, consisting of Sir John Robison and Sir
 Thomas Brisbane, be requested to procure, and to hold at the
 disposal of the Association, a set of Roberts's (of Paris) Mea-
 surers of short intervals of Time, to be employ'ed, in the first
 instance, in completing the Experiments on Waves and on the
 Forms of Vessels ; and that the sum of 30/. be placed at their

  disposal for the purpose.

     The instruments to be presented at the next meeting of the

  Association.

     That a Committee, consisting of Professor Moseley, Mr.
 Enys, and Mr. Hodgkinson, be requested to procure the dyna-
XXxii                  --REPORT 1840.

mometric apparatus of Mr. Poncelet, and to obtain a series of
Experiments on the duty of Steam Engines by means of that
apparatus ; the sum of 100^. to be placed at their disposal for

that purpose.

   The apparatus to be presented at the next meeting of the

Association.

   That the Committee already appointed on the Forms of
Vessels, be requested to complete their experiments ; the sum

of 100/. to be placed at their disposal for that purpose.

   The Report to be presented at the next meeting cf the As-

sociation.

Synopsis of Sums appropriated to Scientijic Objects hy the
             General Committee at the Glasgow Meeting.

                          Section A.

Hourly Meteorological Observations at Kingussie       £ s. d.

and Inverness                                          85
                                                      50
Tide Discussions : Leith                              50
                                                      20
Tide Discussions : Bristol                           100
                                                      50
...Mountain Barometer and Thermometer
                                                     15000
Reduction of Meteorological Observations . . .
                                                     150
Nomenclature of Stars                                 40
                                                      60
Stars in Histoire C4leste ,
                                                      1000
British Association Catalogue of Stars . . . .
                                                       75
Reduction of Anemometrical Observations              284 5

....Erection of Anemometer at Inverness               35
                                                 ..   20

Two Actinometers                                      20
                                                       50
Action of Gases on Light

Lacaille's Stars

...Meteorological Observations at Plymouth

Anemometer at Plymouth

Tabulation of Experiments on Subterranean Tem-

perature

Magnetic Co-operation

                                     Section B.          £1149 5

Scientific Memoirs                                              100
Action of Water on Iron                                         50
Chemistry and Physiology of Digestion
                                                 . . . 200

                                                     £350
                          SYNOPSIS.                                                                        xxxiii

                         Section C.

Mud in Rivers                                                    ^                                   £20

Railway Sections                                                                                     200
                                                                                                     100
Fishes of Old Red Sandstone                                                                      .'
                                                                                                       10
Subterranean Temperature in Ireland  ....                                                              20
Earthquake Registration                                                                                25

Solution of Silica in Water at High Temperatures

                                                                                                     £375

                         Section D.

Preservation of Animal and Vegetable Substances                                                        6
Skeleton Maps                                                                                        25
                                                                                                     50
Marine Zoology
                                                                                                     560 00
Anoplura Britannias
                                                                                                     1000
....Plants and Animals in Mineral Waters
                                                                                                     15
Vegetative power of Seeds

Races of Men

                                                                                                     £162

                         Section E.

Acrid Poisons                        '.                                                              25
Acoustic Instruments                                                                                 25
Veins and Absorbents                           ...                                                   25

                         Section F.                                                                  £75

Statistics of Education                                                                               100
Vital Statistics                                                                                      lOo o
Mining Statistics
                                                                                                       25

                                                                 £225

                         Section G.

Temperature of maximum condensation of Steam                                                          25
                                                                                                      30
Roberts' Chronometers                                                                                100

Dynamometric Instruments                                     ."                                      100
Forms of Vessels
                                     !
                                     ! '.

                                                                 £255

Total of Money Grants . . . £2591 5

1840.                     c
XXxiv  REPORT 1840.

     Extracts from Resolutions of the General Committee.

  Committees and individuals, to whom j^rants of money for

scientific purposes have been entrusted, are required to present
to each following meeting of the Association a Report of the
progress which has been made ; with a statement of the sums
which have been expended, and the balance which remains dis-

posable on each grant.
    Grants of pecuniary aid for scientific purposes from the

funds of the Association expire at the ensuing meeting, unless
it shall appear by a Report that the Recommendations have
been acted on, or a continuation of them be ordered by the

General Committee.

   In each Committee, the Member first named is the person
entitled to call on the Treasurer, John Taylor, Esq., 2, Duke
Street, Adelphi, London, for such portion of the sum granted

as may from time to time be required.
    In grants of money to Committees, the Association does not

contemplate the payment of personal expenses to the Members.
    In all cases where additional grants of money are made for

the continuation of Researches at the cost of the Association,

the sum named shall be deemed to include the specified balance
which may remain unpaid on the former grant for the same

 object.

  On Thursday evening, September l7th, the President, the
Most Noble the Marquis of Breadalbane, took the Chair in

the Theatre. Mr. Murchison read the Address of the General

Secretaries (see next page).

  On Wednesday, at 3 p.m., the Concluding General
Meeting of the Association took place in the Theatre, when
an account of the Proceedings of the General Commit-

tee was read by Major Sabine.
                ADDRESS

                                                     BY

  RODERICK IMPEY MURCHISON, F.R.S., F.G.S.

                                                AND

          MAJOR EDWARD SABINE, V.P.R.S.

 IN entering upon the duty assigned to us, we heartily congratulate

 our associates on this our second assembly in Scotland. As on our
 first visit we were sustained by the intellectual force of the metropolis
 of this kingdom, so now, by visiting the chief mart of Scottish com-
 merce, and an ancient seat of learning, we hope to double the numbers

 of our northern auxiliaries.
     Supported by a fresh accession of the property and intelligence of

 this land, we are now led on by a noble Marquis, who, disdaining not
 the fields we try to win, may be cited as the first Highland chieftain
 who, proclaiming that knowledge is power, is proud to place himself
at the head of the clans of science.

   If such be our chief, what is our chosen ground ?-- raised through

the industry and genius of her sons, to a pinnacle of commercial gran-
deur, well can this city estimate her obligations to science ! Happily
as she is placed, and surrounded as she is by earth's fairest gifts, she
feels how much her progress depends upon an acquaintance with the
true structure of the rich deposits which form her subsoil; and great

as they are, she clearly sees that her manufactures may at a moment
take a new flight by new mechanical discoveries. For she it is, you
all know, who nurtured the man whose genius has changed the tide of
human interests, by calling into active energy a power which (as

wielded by him), in abridging time and space, has doubled the value
of human life, and has established for his memory a lasting claim on
the gratitude of the civilized world. The names of Watt and Glasgow
are united in imperishable records !

   In such a city, then, surrounded by such recollections, encouraged
                                                       c2
by an illustrious and time-honoured university, and fostered by the
ancient leaders of the people, may we not augur that this Meeting of
the British Association shall rival the most useful of our previous as-
semblies, and exhibit undoubted proofs of the increasing prosperity of

the British Association ?

   Not attempting an analysis of the general advance of science in the
year that has passed since our meeting at Birmingham, we shall re-

strict ourselves, on the present occasion, to a brief review of what the

British Association has directly effected in that interval of time, as re-

corded in the last published volume of our Transactions. From this
straight path of our duty we shall only deviate in offering a few gene-
ral remarks on subjects intimately connected with the well-being and

dignity of our Institution.

   One of the most important perhaps the most important service to

-- --science which it is the peculiar duty of the Association to confer, is
--that which arises from its relation to the Government, the right

which it claims to make known the wants of science, and to demand for
them that aid which it is beyond the power of any scientific body to
bestow. In the fulfilment of this important and responsible duty, the
Association has continued to act upon the principle already laid down
in the Address of the General Secretaries at the meeting at Newcastle
in 1838, namely, to seek the aid of Government in no case of doubtful
or minor importance ; and to seek it only when the resources of indi-
viduals, or of individual bodies, shall have proved unequal to the de-
mand. The caution which it has observed in this respect has been
eminently displayed in the part which it has taken with reference to
the Antarctic expedition, and to the fixed magnetical observatories.
It abstained from recommending the former to the Government until
it had called for, and obtained from Major Sabine, by whom the im-
portance of such an expedition was first urged, a report in which that
importance was placed beyond all doubt ; and it withheld from urging
 the latter, although its necessity was fully felt by some of its own
members, until the letter of Baron Humboldt to the Duke of Sussex
 gave authority and force to its recommendation.

    The delay which has in consequence occurred, has been productive

 of signal benefit to each branch of this great twofold undertaking.
 Since the time alluded to, our views of the objects of investigation in
 terrestrial magnetism have been greatly enlarged, at the same time
that they have become more distinct. Major Sabine's memoir on the
Intensity of Terrestrial Magnetism has served to point out the most
interesting portions of the surface of the globe, as respects the distri-
bution of the magnetic force, and has indicated, in the clearest manner,
what still remained for observation to perform ; and the beautiful
theory of M. Gauss, which has been partly built upon the data af-

--forded by the same memoir, while it has assigned the most probable

configuration of the magnetic lines of declination, inclination, and

--intensity, has done the same service with respect to all the three

elements.

    In another point of view, also, delay has proved of great value to
both branches of the undertaking, but more especially to the fixed ob-
servatories. Our means of instrumental research have, since the time
of their first projection, received great improvements, as well in their
adequacy to the objects of inquiry, as in their precision ; and finally,

--the two great lines of inquiry the research of the distribution of Ter-
--restrial Magnetism on the earth's surface, and the investigation of
--its variations, secular, periodic, and irregular, have been permitted

to proceed pari passu.

    Last of all, the prudent caution, and vigilant care, which the two
great scientific bodies, the Royal Society and the British Association,
have exhibited, both in the origin and progress of the undertaking,
have naturally inspired the Government with confidence ; and while on
the one hand science has not hesitated to demand of the country all
that was requisite to give completeness to a great design, so on the
other, the Government of the country has not hesitated to yield, with
a liberal and unsparing hand, every request the importance of which
was so well guaranteed.

     But while we thus enumerate the benefits which have resulted to

magnetical science from the delay, it must be also acknowledged that

something has been lost also, not to science, but to British glory. Al-

though terrestrial magnetism stood forward as the prominent object

of the Antarctic expedition, yet it was also destined to advance our

knowledge of the "physique du globe," in all its branches, and especially

in that of geography. Had the project of an Antarctic expedition

been acceded to when it was first proposed, viz. at the meeting of the

British Association, in Dublin, in 1835, there can be no reasonable

doubt, that a discovery of coast, which by its extent may almost be de-

signated as that of a Southern Continent, situated in the very region to

which its eftbru were to have been chiefly directed.must have fallen to

its  lot              and  the  flag  of England  been  once  more  the  first  to  wave  over
                   ;

an unknown land. But while, as Britons, we mourn over the loss of

a prize which it well became Britain and British seamen to have made

their own, it is our part too as Britons, as well as men of science, to

hail the great discovery--one of the very few great geographical dis-
--coveries which remained unmade ; and to congratulate those by

 whom it has been achieved, those whom we are proud to acknowledge
 as fellow-labourers, and who have proved themselves in this instance

 our successful rivals in an honourable and generous emulation.
    The caution which has characterized the British Association in the

 origination of this great undertaking, has been followed up by the
 Royal Society in the manner in which it has planned the details, and in

 the vigilant care with which it has watched over the execution. Of

 the success which has attended this portion of the work, the strongest
 proof has been already given in the unhesitating adoption of the same

 scheme of observation by many of the continental observers, and in the

 wide extension which it has already received in other quarters of the
 globe. All that yet remains is to provide for the speedy publication
of the results. The enormous mass of observations which will be
gathered in, in the course of three years, by the observatories esta-
blished under British auspices, and by the Antarctic expedition, will

render this part of the task one of great expense and labour. To
meet the former, we must again look to the Government, and to the
East India Company, who will certainly not fail to present the result
of their munificence to the world in an accessible form. The latter
can only be overcome by a well -organized system. The planning of

this system, will, of course, be one of the first duties of the Royal
Society ; and it is important that it should be so arranged, that while
every facility in the way of reduction may be given to those who shall
hereafter engage in the theoretical discussion of the observations,
care is taken at the same time that the data are presented entire, with-
out mutilation or abridgement. The Council of the Royal Society,
will, doubtless, be greatly assisted in this duty by the eminent indivi-
dual who has had in every way so large a share in the formation of
these widely scattered magnetic establishments, and whose own obser-
vatory, founded by the munificence of the Dublin University, has
nearly completed a twelve months' magnetic observations on that en-
larged and complete system of which it set the first example.

   In referring, as we have done, to those most valuable services which
the Royal Society have rendered, and are continuing to render, in di-
recting and superintending the details of this great undertaking, in
both its branches, it is right that, on the part of the British Association,
we should express the cordial satisfaction and delight with which we
have witnessed their exertions, united with our own in this common
cause ; nor should we omit to recognize how much this desirable con-
currence has been promoted by the influence of the noble President of
the Royal Society, the Marquis of Northampton, whom, as on so many
--former occasions, we have the pleasure of seeing amongst us, one

 of our warmest supporters and most active members-
    In the volume of our Transactions now under notice, is contained the

 memorial presented to Lord Melbourne by the Committee of the
 British Association, appointed to represent to Her Majesty's Govern-
 ment the recommendations of the Association on the subject of Ter-
 restrial Magnetism. This memorial is one of many services which
 have been rendered to our cause by Sir John Herschel, whose name,
 whose influence, and whose exertions, since our meeting two years
 since at Newcastle, have largely contributed to place the subject
 where it now stands. The devoted labour of other of our members
 has long been given to an object which they have had deeply at heart,
 viz. the advancement of the science of terrestrial magnetism ; but the
 sacrifice which Sir John Herschel has made of time, diverted from the
 great work, in which his ardent love of astronomy, his own personal
fame, and his father's memory are all deeply concerned, the more ur-
 gently demands from our justice a grateful mention, because the
 science of magnetism had no claim on him, beyond the interest felt in

every branch of science, by one to whom no part of its wide field is

strange, and the regard which a national undertaking such as this de-
served, from the person who occupies his distinguished station amongst
 the leaders of British science.

    The advancement of human knowledge, which may be reckoned

upon as the certain consequence of the Antarctic expedition (should
Providence crown it with success), and of the arrangements connected
with it, is of so extensive a nature, and of such incalculable importance,
that no juster title to real and lasting glory than it may be expected
to confer, has been earned by any country at any period of time; no-
thing has ever been attempted by England more worthy of the place

which she occupies in the scale of nations. When much which now

appears of magnitude in the eyes of politicians has passed into insig-
nificance, the fruits of this undertaking will distinguish the age which
gave it birth, and, engraved on the durable records of science, will for
ever reflect honour on the scientific bodies which planned and promoted

it, and on the Government which, with so much liberality, has carried

it into eff^ect.

   Were the value of this Association, Gentlemen, to be measured only
by the part which it has taken in suggesting and urging this one ob-
ject, there might here be enough to satisfy the doubts of those who
question its utility. To overlook such acts as these, and the power of
public usefulness which they indicate, to scrutinize with microscopic
xl

view the minute defects incidental to every numerous assemblage of
men, to watch with critical fastidiousness the taste of every word

which might be uttered by individuals amongst us, instead of casting a

master's eye over the work which has been done, and is doing, at our

meetings, is no mark of superior discernment and comprehensive wis-

dom, but is evidence rather of a confinement to narrow views, and an

indulgence of vain and ignoble passions.

 --But to proceed with our useful efforts, one of the principal ob-

jects of our Annual Volumes, is the publication in the most authentic

form of the results of special researches, undertaken by the request,

and prosecuted in many instances at the cost, of the Association. It

is a trite remark, that if a man of talent has but fair play, he will soon

Wesecure to himself his due place in public estimation.  fully admit

the truth of this in many instances, and above all wliere the points of
research are connected with commerce and the useful arts ; but many
also are the subtile threads of knowledge, which, destined at some
future day to be woven into the great web in which all the sciences are

knit together, are yet not appreciable to the vulgar eye, and if simply

submitted to public judgment, would too often meet with silent neglect.

Numberless, we say, are the subjects (and if your Association exceeds

a centenary, still more numerous will they be) with which the retired

and skilful man may wish to grapple, and still be deterred by his want
of opportunity or of means. Then is it that, adopting the vveil-balanced
recommendations of the men in whose capacity and rectitude you con-

fide, you step forward with your aids, and bring about these recondite

researches, the result of which, in the volume under our notice, we now

proceed to consider.

   The first of these inquiries to which we advert, you called for at the

hands of Professor Owen, upon "British Fossil Reptiles," one of the

branches of Natural History, on a correct knowledge of which the

development of geology is intimately dependent.
   The merits of the author selected for this inquiry are now widely

recognized, and he has, with justice, been approved as the worthy suc-

cessor of John Hunter, that illustrious Scotchman who laid the founda-

tion of comparative anatomy in the British isles. That this science is

now taking a fresh spring, would, we are persuaded, be the opinion of

Cuvier himself, could that eminent man view the progress which our

young countryman is making towards the completion of the temple of

which the French naturalist was the great architect. It is therefore a

pleasing reflection, that when we solicited Professor Owen to work

out this subject, we did not follow in the wake of Europe's praise, but
                        xli

led the way (as this Association ought always to do), in drawing

forth the man of genius and of worth ; and the value of our choice has

been since stamped by the approval of the French Institute.

If Englishmen* first perceived something of the natural affinities of

Palaeosaurians, it was reserved for Cuvier to complete all such preli-

minary labour. The publication of his splendid chapters on the os-

teology of the crocodile and other reptiles, drew new attention and

more intelligent scrutiny to these remains ; and it ought to be a sub-

ject of honest pride to us to reflect, that the most interesting fruits of the

researches of that great anatomist were early gathered by the English

palasontologists, Clift and Hume. One of our leadersf, whose report on

geology ornaments the volumes of this Association, formed the genus

Plesiosaurus, on an enlarged view of the relation subsisting between

the ancient and modern forms of reptile life ; while shortly after Buck-

land established the genus Megalosaurus, and Mantell, Iguanodon and

Hylceosaurus, worthy rivals of the Geo-Sauri and Moso-Sauri of Cu-

vier. The other Englishmen who have best toiled in this field, are

De la Beche, Hawkins, and Sir Philip Egerton.

Yet although this report is on British reptiles, we are fully alive to

the great progress which this department has made, and is making, on

the Continent, through the labours of Count Miinster, Jager, and

Hermann Von Meyer. The last-mentioned naturalist has been for

some time preparing a series of exquisite drawings of very many forms

unknown to us in England, most of which have been detected in the

" Muschelkalk," a formation not hitherto discovered in the British isles.

Yet despite of all that had been accomplished in our own country or

elsewhere. Professor Owen has thrown a new light of classification on

this subject, founded on many newly discovered peculiarities of osse-

ous structure, and has vastly augmented our acquaintance with new

forms, by describing sixteen species o{ Plesiosauri, three of which only

had been recognisably described by other writers ; and ten species of
Ichthyosauri, five of which are new to science. Such results were not

to be obtained without  much labour                                                          and  previous to drawing up his
                                                                                          ;

report, Professor Owen had visited the principal depositories of Ena-

liosauri described by foreign writers, as well as most of the public and

private collections of Britain. This, the first part of Mr. Owen's re-

port, concludes with a general review of the geological relations and

extent of the strata through which he has traced the remains of British

Enaliosauri. The materials which he has collected for the second and

concluding portion of his report on the terrestrial and crocodilean

* Stukeley.                                                                                       f Conybeare.
                                                                                xlii

  Sauria, the Chelonia, Ophidian, and Batrachian reptiles, are equally
  numerous, and the results of these researches will be laid before the
  Association at our next meeting. Deeply impressed as we are with
  the value of this report, we cannot conclude a notice of it, without

 again alluding to its origin, in the words of Professor Owen himself.

  " I could not," says he, " have ventured to have proposed to myself
  the British Fossil Reptilia as a subject of continuous and systematic
  research, without the aid and encouragement which the British As-

 sociation has liberally granted to me for that purpose."
     Mr. Edward Forbes, whose labours in detecting the difference of

 species and varieties among the existing marine testacea of our shores,
  have been most praiseworthy, has on this occasion given us a valuable
 report on the pulmoniferous moUusca of the British isles. The varia-

  tions in the distribution of the species in this class of animals, are
 shown by him to depend both upon climate and upon soil, the structure

 of the country (or geological conditions) having quite as much share

 in such varied distribution, as the greatest diversity of temperature.

 The Association has also to thank the author for most useful tables,
 which show the distribution of the pulmoniferous mollusca in our is-
 lands, and their relations to those of Europe generally.

    One of the most interesting fruits of modern experimental research is
 the knowledge of the fact, that electrical currents are in continual cir-
 culation below the surface of the earth. Whether these currents, so

 powerful in developing magnetical and chemical phaenomena, are con-
 fined to mineral veins and particular arrangements of metal and rock,
 or generally capable of detection by refined apparatus well applied, ap-
peared a question of sufficient importance to deserve at least a trial on

the part of the Association. Our present volume records the result of
such a trial on the ancient and very regularly stratified rocks of Cum-
berland, consistincr of limestone, sandstone, shale, and coal, so super-
imposed in many repetitions as to resemble not a little the common

arrangement of a voltaic pile. -Varied experiments, with a galvano-
meter of considerable delicacy, failed, however, to detect, in these
seemingly favourable circumstances, any electrical current.

   The extensive and rapidly increasing applications of iron to public
and private structures of all kinds in which durability of material is a
first requisite, have made it highly desirable topossess accurate informa-
tion respecting the nature of the chemical forces which eflfect the de-
struction of this hard and apparently intractable metal. The preser-
vation of iron from oxidation and corrosion is indeed an object of para-
mount importance in civil engineering. The Association was, there-
fore, anxious to direct inquiry to this subject, and gladly availed itself
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;

                                                                              xliii

of the assistance of Mr. Mallet, a gentleman peculiarly qualified for
such investigations, both from his knowledge as a chemist, and from

his opportunities of observation as a practical engineer. An extensive

series of experiments has accordingly been instituted by him, with the
support of the Association, on the action of sea and river water, in dif-
ferent circumstances as to purity and temperature, upon a large number
of specimens of both cast and wrought iron of different kinds. These
experiments are still in progress, and the effects are observed from
time to time. They will afford valuable data for the engineer, and form
the principal object of the inquiry ; but a period of a few years will
be required for its completion. In the mean time, Mr. Mallet has fur-
nished a report on the present state of our knowledge of the subject,
drawn from various published sources, and from his own extensive ob-
servations. In this report he examines very fully the general condi-
tions of the oxidation of iron, and how this operation is greatly pro-
moted, although modified in its results, by sea water ; also in what
manner the tendency to corrosion is affected by the composition, the
grain, porosity, and other mechanical properties of the different com-
mercial varieties of iron. The influence of minute quantities of other
metals, in imparting durability to iron, is also considered. Mr. Mal-
let devotes much attention to the consequences of the galvanic asso-
ciation of different metals with iron, a subject of recent interest from
the applications of zinc and other metals to protect iron, which are

at present agitated. He concludes this, his first report, by recommend-

ing a series of inquiries, ten in number, which will supply the desiderata
immediately required by the engineer and by the chemist.

   We have next to notice a report by Professor Powell, on the present

state of our knowledge of refractive indices for the standard rays of the
solar spectrum in different media. The difficulty which the fact of
 the dispersion of light has offered to the universal application of the
undulatory theory, has been in a great measure removed by the ana-
lysis of Cauchy and others, who have considered the distances of the
 undulatory particles as quantities comparable to the length of a wave
 velocities of propagation of the different rays of the spectrum are
 made to depend upon the length of wave which constitutes a ray of a
 given colour, and upon certain constants proper to the medium ; these
 constants being obtained from observations on refractive indices for
 certain definite rays (or dark lines) of the spectrum, the refrangibility
 of any other definite ray (whose wave-lengtli has been ascertained by
 examining an interference-spectrum) becomes known, and may be
 compared with observation as a test of theory ; such experiments have
 been made by Frauenhofer, Rudberg, and Professor Powell, who has
xliv

given a tabular view of the various results, without, however, insti"
tuting the comparison between theory and observation, which it would
be desirable to extend further than has yet been done. It would be
important also to elucidate the disturbing effect of temperature, which

prevents even existing observations from being rigorously com-

parable.

   The calculations respecting the tides, which have been prosecuted
by the aid of the Association ever since its institution, have been con-
tinued this year by Mr. Bunt, under the directions of Mr. VVhewell.
These calculations have now reached such a point, that the mathemati-

cian, instead of being, as at the beginning of this period, content with

the first rude approximations, is now struggling to obtain the last de-

gree of accuracy.

   The country in which we are now assembled, has always been con-

spicuous for attention to meteorology, a branch of physical science, in
which the British Association, with its power of combining the efforts

of many observers in distant quarters of the globe, may hope to be

especially useful.

   In Scotland, Leslie opened a new train of inquiry, by examining the

earth's temperature at different depths ; and his successor in the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh, is now directing, at the request of the Associa-
tion, a large and complete coui'se of experiments on that interesting
subject. Framed in conformity with the plans adopted for similar ob-
jects by Arago and Quetelet, these researches of Professor Forbes
contain also the means of determining the power of conducting heat,

which different sorts of rock possess ; and may thus throw light on
some of those peculiarities in the distribution of temperature at greater
depths below the surface, which have become known by experience,

but are not explained by theory.
   In Scotland, Sir David Brewster was the first to obtain an hourly

meteorological journal for a series of years, and to draw from that fer-

tile source new and important deductions, which have had a powerful

Howinfluence on the progress of scientific meteorology.  gratifying

to receive, through the same hands, after the lapse of nearly 15 years
anadditional contribution of the same kind, and from the same country ;
but embracing new conditions, on a new line of operations, in order to
obtain new results ! By the observations now in progress at Inverness

and at Kingussie, the influence of elevation in modifying the laws,

which have been found to govern the hourly distribution of heat near

the level of the sea, may be discovered, and thus a great addition be
made to the experimental results, for which science has long been

grateful to the distinguished philosopher we have named, and which
have been described as " the highest value to meteorology, and as the
only channel through which any specific practical information can be
obtained in this most interesting department of physics."

   This is no ordinary praise. It is the just tribute of one who is
worthy to offer it ; one, who at the call of the British Association, has
conducted at Plymouth a still more extensive series of similar obser-
vations, and has added to them hourly comparisons of the temperature
and moisture of the air, and an hourly record of barometric oscillations.
Mr. Snow Harris has presented in a few pages of our last report, the
precious results of (70,000) observations, and thus rendered them

immediately available in the foundations of accurate meteorology.

The documents thus patiently collected, are, however, not yet ex-
hausted in value ; they may be again and again called into the court of
science, and made to yield testimony to other, and as yet, unsuspected
 truths. They must not be lost. Shall we lay them by in manuscript
 among other unconsulted records of the past labours of men, or by un-
 dertaking their publication, do justice to our workmen, and establish a
 new claim on the imitation of the present, and the gratitude of future
 days ? This question is of serious import. Already, stimulated by
 success in thermometric registration, we have set to work on a more
 perplexing problem ; we have resolved to bind even the wandering
 winds in the magic of numbers. While we speak, the beautiful engines
 of our Whewells and Osiers are tracing at every instant of time, the
 displacements of the atmosphere at Cambridge, at Plymouth, at Bir-
 mingham, in Edinburgh, in Canada, in St. Helena, and at the Cape of
 Good Hope ; and ere long we may hope to view associated in one dia-
 gram, the simultaneous movements of the air over Europe, America,
 Africa, India, and Australia, recorded with instruments which we have
 chosen, by men whom we have set to work.

     Amongst the causes which tend to retard the progress of science,
 few, perhaps, operate more widely than the impediment to a free and
 rapid communication of thought and of experiments, occasioned by
  difference of language. It appeared to the British Association, that
  this impediment might in some degree be removed, as far as regards
  our own country, by procuring, and causing to be published, transla-
  tions of foreign scientific memoirs judiciously selected. Accordingly
  at eacli of the meetings at Newcastle and Birmingham a grant was
  placed at the disposal of a committee appointed to carry this purpose
  into effect. Aided by several contributions which have been gratui-
  tously presented to them, the committee have been enabled in the two
  last years, to publish translations of fourteen memoirs on subjects of
                              xlvi

prominent interest and importance in the mathematical and physical

sciences, bearing the names of some of the most eminent of the con-

tinental philosophers.

   In concluding this imperfect review of our recent proceedings, we

are led to observe, that in two essential respects the British Association

differs from all the annual scientific meetings of the Continent; no one

of which has printed Transactions or employed money in aiding special

Weresearches.  also differ from them in the communications which,

in the name of the representatives of science assembled from all parts

of the United Kingdom, we feel ourselves authorized to make to our

Government, on subjects connected with the scientific character of

Onthe nation.  our first visit to Scotland, for example, we felt it to

be an opprobrium, that this enlightened kingdom should, in one essen-
tial feature of civilization, be still behind many of the continental states;
and we prepared an address to his late Majesty's Government, urging

the necessity for the construction, without delay, of a map of Scotland,

founded on the trigonometrical survey. Representations to the same

effect have since been made by the Royal Society of Scotland, and

by the Highland Society, and the subject has now engaged that atten-

tion, which will, we trust, soon procure for this country the first sheets

of a large and complete map.

   Should it then be asked, why are the men of highest station happy to

--associate and mingle with us in official duties ? why have the heads

of the noble houses of Fitzwilliam, Lansdowne*, Northampton, Bur-

lington, Northumberland, and Breadalbane, alternated in presiding over

us, with our Bucklands, our Sedgwicks, our Brisbanes, our Lloyds, and

--our Harcourts? why indeed, on this very occasion, has Argyll himself,

overlooking the claims due to his high position, and his ancient lineage,

come forward to act with us, and even to serve in a subordinate office ?
may we not reply, that it is, we believe, a .consequence of the just ajj-
preciation on the part of these patriotic and enlightened noblemen, of
the beneficial influences which this Association exercises in so many
ways on the sources of the nation's power and honour ?

   If we have hitherto dwelt almost exclusively on the value of our

transactions, researches, recommendations, and the good application
of our finances, let it not, however, be supposed, that we are not also

   *The Marquis of Lansdowne, who had accepted the office (1836), was prevented

from attending by deep domestic affliction, and the Marquis of Northampton cheer-
fully supplied his place.
                                                                    xlvii

alive to the advantages which flow from the social intercourse of these
meetings, by bringing together, into friendly communion, from distant
parts, those who are struggling on in advancing experimental science.
This principle of union (which we are proud to have borrowed from
our German brethren) has indeed been hitherto found to work so well
amongst our own countrymen, that we cannot but doubly recognize its
value when we see assembled so many distinguished persons from
foreign countries. In the presence of these eminent men*, we forbear
to allude to individual distinctions, conscious that any brief attempt of
our own would fall far short of a true estimate of merits, the high
order of which is known to every cultivator of science. Well, how-

ever, may we rejoice in having drawn such spirits to our Isle ; valuable,
we trust, may be the comparisons we shall make between the steps
which the sciences are making in their countries and in our own.

   That advantages, indeed, of no mean order arise from such social
intercourse, is a feeling now so prevalent, that foreign national associa-
tions for the promotion of natural knowledge, have rapidly increased.
Germany, France, and Italy have their annual Assemblies, and our
allies of the Northern States hold their sittings beyond the Baltic.
In all this there is doubtless much good, but an occasional more exten-

sive intercoui'se of a similar nature, to be repeated at certain intervals,
is greatly to be desired.

    It has therefore appeared to us (and we say it after consultation with
many of our continental friends, who equally feel the disadvantage),
that the formation of a general congress of science might be promoted
at this meeting, which, not interfering with any assemblies yet fixed
upon, or even contemplated, may be so arranged as to permit the at-
tendance of the officers and active members of each national scientific

institution.

    Should the British Association take the first step in proposing a
measure of this kind by soliciting the illustrious Humboldt to act
as President, we are sure that scientific men of all nations would

gladly unite in offering this homage to a man whose life and fortune
have been spent in their cause, whose voice has been so instrumental
in awakening Europe to the inquiry into the laws of terrestrial mag-
netism, and whose ardent search after nature's truths has triumphed
over the Andes and the Altai.

    If such be your suggestion, then will a fresh laurel be added to the
wreath to this city. She who, through the power bequeathed to her by

                                               * Encke, Link, Jacobi, &c.
                                                                       xlviii

her illustrious offspring, conveys with rapid transit her inventions and
her produce to the remotest lands, well can she estimate the value of
an union of men whose lahours can but tend to cement the bonds of
general peace. In such a body the British representatives would, we
trust, form no inconspicuous band ; and with minds strengthened by
the infusion of fresh knowledge, they would, on re-assembling for our
own national ends, the better sustain the permanent and successful
career of the British Association,
         REPORTS

THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

Report on the recent progress of discovery relative to Radiant
   Heaty supplementary to a former Report on the same sub-

  ject inserted in the \st volume of the Reports of the British

  Association for the Advancement of Science. By the Rev.
  Baden Powkll, M.A., F.R.S., F.R.Ast.S., F.G.S., Savilian

   Professor of Geometry in the University of Oxford.

JjLAVING been one of those whoat the first institution of the

British Association were applied to, to prepare reports on the

state and progress of the different branches of science, and ha-

ving in consequence laid before the Association at the Oxford

meeting in 1832 such a review of the subject of Radiant Heat,

I have felt peculiar satisfaction in being again honoured by a

request from the Council to furnish a second report supplement-

ary to the former, embracing the progress of knowledge in that

department from the period to which the first report extends,

up to the present time.

Such a supplementary account has been rendered peculiarly

necessary, from the great number and high importance of the

results which have been arrived at by several eminent experi-

menters in the interval which has elapsed : and though much

is still required to be done before we attain complete and satis-

factory grounds for an unexceptionable theory of radiant heat,

yet the discoveries recently made have at least tended greatly

to modify all our previous conceptions, and to enable us to refer

large classes of the phsenomena to something like a simple and

common principle.

In my former Report I divided the subject under various heads,

derived from what appeared, in the existing state of our know-

VOL. IX. 1840.           B
                    --

--2 REPORT 1840.

ledge, well-marked distinctions between several kinds of effects

ascribed to radiant heat. The more recent discoA^eries have in
a great degree so changed our views of the subject, that these
divisions cannot with any advantage or convenience be adhered
to. One grand principle of arrangement, however, has been
newly supplied in the capital discovery of the polarization of
heat ; so that all the researches we have to describe will be conve-

--niently classed under two heads, as they relate first, to radiant

heat in its ordinary or unpolarized state ; and secondly, to its

polarized condition.

         Division I. Unpolarized Heat.

         Transmission and Refraction of Heat : Melloni.

Since the period to which my former report extends, various

notices have from time to time been given to the British Associa-

tion relative to the more important discoveries connected with

Myradiant heat.     former report includes a statement of some

of the first researches of M. Melloni. At the Cambidge meet-

ing, in 1833, Prof. Forbes gave some account of the further

investigations in which M. Melloni was then engaged, including

a brief abstract by M. Melloni himself of the chief results he

had then obtained*. The full details were subsequently embo-

died in his several memoirs.

   In the earlier part of these researches, M. Melloni had found

that the quantity of calorific rays which traverses a screen, is

proportional to the temperature of the source : but the difference

constantly diminishes as the thickness of the screen is less, until

with very thin laminae it is insensible.

This proves that the resistance to the passage of heat is not

exerted at the surface, but in the interior of the mass.

Witli the solar raj^s, he observed that with various thicknesses

of sulphate of lime, water and acids, the increase of interception,

owing to increased thickness, is greater for the less refrangible

rays of the spectrum.

   With terrestrial sources he found that a plate of glass, 2 mm.

in thickness, stops, out of 100 rays, from flame 45, from copper

at 950° cent, (incandescent) 70} from boiling mercury 92, from

boiling water 100.

Comparing the transmissive powers of a great number of

substances in a crystallized state, he concluded that the diather-

maneity for the rays of a lamp was proportional to their refrac-

tive powers ; but in uncrystallized bodies no such law could be

traced.

                    * See Tliird Report, p. 381-2.
        REPORT ON RADI.^NT HEAT.                                    3

It was in the course of these researches that the author made

the important discovery of the singular property possessed by

Rock Salt, viz. that it is ahnost entirely permeable to heat even
from non-luminous sources. He found its transmissive power six

or eight times greater than that of an equal thickness of alum,

which had nearly the same transparency and refractive power.

He also discovered that (unlike other diathermanous media) it

is equally diathermanous to all species of heat, i. e. to heat from

sources of all degrees of luminosity or obscurity; or that it

transmits in every case an equal proportion of the heat incident.

  Thus he found a plate of 7 mm. ('28 inch) in thickness trans-

mits about 92 out of 100 rays, whether from flame, red-hot iron,

Awater at 212°, or at 120° Fahrenheit.  plate 1 inch thick gave

a similar constant ratio.

   M. Melloni's " Memoir on the Free Transmission of Radiant

Heat through Solid and Liquid Bodies," was presented to the
Academy of Sciences at Paris, Feb. 4, 1833, and published in

the Ann. de Chimie, No. liii. p. 1 ; a translation of it is given in
Taylor's Scientific Memoirs, Part I.

The author commences with a slight sketch of the researches

of previous experimenters, but omits to notice any distinctions

between the characters of the heat from different sources, or the

different kinds of heat from one and the same source, when lu-

minous, especially as indicated by my experiments published in

the Phil. Trans, for 1825.

   He then proceeds to some " general considerations on free

transmission of caloric through bodies, and the manner of mea-

suring it by means of the thermo-multiplier." This, in fact, con-

stitutes a supplementary and more enlarged portion of his for-

mer researches. He goes into extensive details on the precau-

tions necessary to be used in such investigations ; especially for
guarding against the interference of secondary radiation : as

this changes with the change of place of the screen, he thus al-

lows for its effects. He also gives some general observations

on the use of the galvanometer, and the correct estimation of the

forces acting upon it.
   The next subject of inquiry is the effect due to " the polish,

thickness, and nature of the screens." The source of heat being

a lamp, screens were employed of glass rendered of different de-

grees of opacity by grinding, &c. ; and the effects by transmis-

sion through them were found to be in proportion to the trans-

parency, or that the heat follows the same proportion as the

light.

   The effect of liquids between glass plates was then tried ; and
more rays were found to be absorbed in proportion to the increase

        B2
    -- --;

4'  REPORT -- 1840.

of thickness. Different numbers of glass screens were also em-
ployed in combination ; the same conclusion also held good.

   The results with a numerous series of screens of various me-
dia, solid and liquid, were then tried, and are stated in a series

of tables :                                                 of
   Table I. Various kinds of uncoloured glass.
   Table II. Liquids : to give a general sketch, the order

transmission was as follows, beginning with the greatest :
                                Carburet of silver.

    Chlorides.

    Oils.

    Acids.

    Water.

   Table III. Crystallized bodies, transparent and opake ; the

--results follow no relation to transparency: the following is the

general order:

                           Rock salt.

    Various crystals.

                            Alum.

                 --Sulphate of copper no effect.

   Table IV. Coloured glasses. Red and violet transmitted

--most yellow, green and blue, least-- heat.
   The author concludes, in general (the source being a lamp),

that the diathermancy is not proportional to the transparency
and makes some general remarks on these results as related to

those of Seebeck on prismatic dispersion.

  A supplement to the last paper was presented by the same
author to the Academy, April 21, 1834, entitled "New Re-

searches on the immediate Transmission of Radiant Heat

through different Solid and Liquid Bodies." It is published hi

the Ann. de Chimie, Iv. 337, and translated in Taylor's Scien-

tific Memoirs, Part I., p. 39.
   The author first investigates "the modifications which calo-

rific transmission undergoes in consequence of the radiating

source being changed."

  AHe employs four sources of heat. 1. Locatelli lamp. 2.

Incandescent platina. 3. Copper heated by flame to about 7-^0°

Fahrenheit. 4. Hot water in a blackened copper vessel. The

heat from each of these sources was first compared as transmit-

ted through plates of glass of different thicknesses, from '07

millims. to 8 millims. The results are given in a table, from

which it appears that with copper and hot water the diminution

of effect is rapid, with an increase of thickness in the screen; with

Awater it is nothing beyond a thickness of '5 mm.  second ta-

ble gives results for about 40 solid media of different kinds, of
                REPORT ON RADIANT HKAT.                3

the same thickness ; most of them were wholly impervious to
deirk heat ; the most remarkable exceptions being fluate of lime

and rock salt.

In another table are the results with black glass and black

mica ; these substances, though diathermanous to the lamp and
incandescent platina, are wholly impervious to the rays from

hot water, and nearly so to those from heated copper.

The discover}^ of the entire diathermancy of rock salt has

been before referred to, and has furnished the means of prose-

cuting the author's yet more remarkable researches on the Re-

fraction OF Heat.

TothisimportantpointM.Mellonidevotes apcrtion of the same

memoir. After a sketch of previous attempts to establish this

property, he describes his successful experiment by concentra-

ting to the focus of a rock-salt lens the rays of dark heat from
Ahot copper and hot water.
                            similar lens of alian produced

no effect ; this proves that the effect is not due to the mere heat-

ing of the central part of the lens.

   He next advances to the refraction of heat by a rock-salt

prism ; describing an apparatus for the purpose. That the ef-
fect is not due to secondary radiation, is shown by turning the

prism on its axis into a different position, when no effect is

produced.

   He then discusses the " properties of the calorific rays imme-

diately transmitted by different bodies." Under this head are

detailed one of the most remarkable species of effects which the

whole range of the subject presents.

The raj's of the lamp were thrown upon screens of different

substances in such a manner, that either by changing the di-

stance, or by concentration with a mirror, or a lens of rock salt,

the effect transmitted from all the screens was of a certain con-

stant amount. This constant radiation was then intercepted

by a plate of alum, and it was found that very different propor-

tions of heat xvere transmitted by the alum in the different cases.

This very singular result is established by numerous detailed

experiments, of which a tabular statement is given, and the au-

"Methor states it in the following terms :  calorific rays issuing

from the diaphanous screens are therefore of different qualities^
and possess, if tve may use the term, the diathermancy peculiar

to each of the substances through which they have passed."

   He next investigates the effects of different colours in glass

on the absorption of heat. He infers in general that the colour-

ing matter diminishes the power of transmission, and examines

the question, does it stop only rays of a definite refrangibility

analogous to what happens in the absorption of light?
--6 RKPORT 1840.

    With this view (following a similar mode of operation to that

 adopted in the last instance) he used successively glasses of
 different colours, for each of which the distance of the source
 was varied till a standard effect (about 40° deviation of the
 needle) was produced on the galvanometer. In this position, in
 each case, a plate of sulphate of lime was then interposed, and
 diminished the deviation to about 18° for all the coloured glasses

 except green, in which case it was to about 8°. When alum

 was substituted the deviations were reduced in the first case to
 8°, in the second to l^-G. Hence he conchules that all the co-
 loured glasses, except green, produce no " elective action" on
 heat; green glass, on the contrary, transmits rays more easily
 stopped than the others.

     Connecting this with his other inference, that rays are
 stopped in proportion to their refrangibility, he instituted

another series of experiments to put this to the test. The
 sources of heat compared were an argand lamp and incandescent
platiiuim, the rays of heat from the former being the more
refrangible. Tlie quantities of heat from the lamp and the
metal transmitted by the green glass were nearly equal ; by all
the others, nearly in the ratio of 2 to 1. Hence he infers that
green glass is more diathermanous for rays of less refrangibility.

    Again, the rays transmitted by citric acid and some other
substances, are those only of the greatest refrangibility. They
should, therefore, be the least transmissible by green glass.
This was found to be the case. Of 100 rays passed through

citric acid, all the other glasses transmitted various preparations,
from 89 to 28, while green glass transmitted only from 6 to 2.

    Without the citric acid, the rays from incandescent platinum
were more copiously transmitted by the green glass than by the

others.

   The M^hole of the rays of low refrangibility emitted by the
platinum, and for which alone the green glass is transparent,
had been stopped by the interposition of the plate of citric
acid, which had, as it were, sifted it free from these rays.

    Hence the author concludes, that " green glass is the only
kind which jiossesses a colouration /or heat {if tee may use
the exjnession), the others acting upon it only as more or less
transparent glass of uniform tint does apon light."

   In a subsequent part of the memoir, M. Melloni gives a

tabular view of the effects observed in the same manner, of the
constant radiations emitted from six different substances, each
intercepted successively by 24 minerals and 10 coloured
glasses ; from which it appears that the transmission is very
different, according to the nature of the first medium.
REPORT ON RADIANT HKAT.  J'

   He afterwards describes an experiment with the solar rays

transmitted by a green gkiss, and then intercepted by other
media. They pass copiously through rock salt, but feebly
through alum. Hence he concludes, that there are arnong the
solar rays some luhich resemble those of terrestrial heat ; and
in general, that " the differences observed between solar and
terrestrial heat, as to their properties of trans7nission, are
therefore to be attributed merely to the mixture in di^'erent
proportions of these several species of rays."

   In a note to this memoir, M. Melloni refers to my original

experiment (Phil. Trans. 1825), in which the action of the rays
on surfaces is observed in connexion with their transmissi-

bility.

   He confirms the accuracy of my result, by a careful repe-

tition of the experiment with the thermo-multiplier, but makes
no reference to the conclusion I had drawn, viz. the co-
existence of two distinct sorts of heat in the radiation from
luminous sources, one of which is the same as that from dark

sources. He explains the result by supposing the transmitted

rays to acquire, in and by the act of transmission through the
glass screen, new properties in their relation to the surfaces on
which they fall, i. e. to the degree of absorption they undergo
respectively on a black and a white surface.

   He extends the investigation by a table of results of the same

kind with a series of screens, both transparent, and of various
degrees of opacity. The ratio of the effects on the black and
white surfaces is nearer to equality as the screen is more

opake.

   On this subject there appears a short paper by M. Melloni

in the London and Edhiburgh Journal of Science, vol. vii.
p. 475 ; to which I replied in the same journal, Jan. 1836.

   While referring to my own experiments, I may be allowed to

add, that in Dr. Thomson's Treatise on Heat, &c., first edition,

the bearing of my investigation was incorrectly represented ; and

accordingly I pointed this out in the London and Edinburgh

Journal of Science, Nov. 1830.
   In the second edition of Dr. Thomson's work, which has

lately appeared, the author omits all mention of the subject

whatever.

         Transmission and Refraction of Heat : Forbes.

   The subjects of transmission and refraction of heat were taken
up by Prof. Forbes ; and Melloni's experiments repeated and
extended by him ; the details being given in the first and part
of the second sections of his first Memoir " on the Refraction
--8 REIORT 1840.

and Polarization of Heat," read to the Royal Society of Edin-
burgh, Jan. 5th and 19th, 1835, and published in their Trans-
actions, vol. xiii. ; also in the London and Edinburgh Journal

of Science, vol. vi.

   The first section contains an account of various experiments
with the thermo-multiplier. The principal object was to vei'ify
the several points already stated, and especially to determine
the degree of accuracy of the instrument. From a comparison

of its sensibility with that of air-thermometers, the author
concludes that 1° of deviation of the needle corresponds to an
effect indicated by about j^th of a centigrade degree. Without
increasing the dimensions of the instrument, by which its sen-
sibility would be impaired, he has been ena})led, by the adapta-
tion of a small telescope, readily to measure y^th of its degrees ;
 that is, about j^o^h of a centigrade degree.

    One of the most interesting points to which the author
directed his attention, was the possibility of detecting heat in
the moon's rays. These rays, concentrated by a polyzonal lens

 of 32 inches diameter, and acting on the thermo-multiplier,
 gave no indication of any effect ; so that Prof. Forbes con-
 siders it certain that, if there be any, it must be less than

 ^oo'oooth of a centigrade degree.

    He repeated Melloni's experiment of the refraction of heat

 hy a rock-salt prism, and was enabled to obtain some approxi-
 mate quantitative results, giving the index of refraction for
 heat in this substance, which was a little less than that for

 light.

     In the course of his second section he describes fui'ther
 experiments relative to the question discussed by Melloni, of
 the separation of the effects due to heat and light, especially
 the peculiarity (before mentioned) attending green light : he

--tried flames variously coloured with salts giving red, yellow,

 green, and blue light ; but found the proportions of rays trans-
 mitted by alum, glass, and rock salt to be nearly constant for
 each substance.

    To this part of the subject Prof. Forbes again directed his
 attention, in a later series of experiments, in which he has
 obtained numerical results of the highest value. These are

 detailed in the last part of his third series of Researches on
 Heat, read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, April 16,
  1838, and published in the Transactions of that body, vol. xiv.

 To the earlier portion of this memoir we shall refer, under

  another division of this report.

     The third section relates to the Index of refraction for heat
 of different kinds, as compared with that for light in the same
           ----

           REPORT ON RADIANT HEAT.                                             i*

medium. The method of observation adopted is indirect, turn-

ing upon the determination of the critical angle of total inter-
nal reflexion. This was ascertained in a rock-salt prism, having
two angles of 40°, and one of 100°. The sentient surface of

the pile is so placed with regard to the prism, that it continually
receives rays coming from the source of heat, after undergoing

two refractions and one reflexion, whatever be the angle of

incidence, which is effected by a very simple but ingenious

mechanical construction. Every kind of precaution to avoid

error was adopted. And in this way the author obtained a
series of indices " for the mean quality of the heat most abun-

dantly contained in the rays obtained from various sources."

These values are given in a table, and are professedly but ap-

proximate. Prof. Forbes has, however, subsequently favoured

me with an unpublished communication, in which he states,
that while the numbers may be regarded as relatively correct,

in order to become absolutely so, they must all be reduced by

about "05. This will give the corrected series of results as

follows :

           Soource      <·  HTjeat4..  Index of refraction for
                                               ^^^^ g^j^_
                    of

Locatelli lamp                         1*521
                                       1'548
....Do. transmitted through alum       1-537
                 ....-glass

                                       opake glass . . 1*543

Incandescent platina                   opake mica . . 1'533
                                                                        1*522

Do. transmitted by glass               1*538

                            opake mica . . . 1*534

Brass at 700°                          1*518

Do. transmitted by clear mica          . . . 1*527
Mercury at 450°                                        1*522

Mean luminous rays                     1*552

   From the experiments described in this section, the follow-

ing general conclusions are deduced :

   1. The mean quality, or that of the more abundant propor-
tion of the heat from different sources, varies within narrow

limits of refrangibility.

   2. These limits are very narrow indeed, where the direct
heat of any source is employed.

   3. All interposed media (including those impermeable to
light), so far as tried, ?'aise the index of refraction.

   4. All the refrangibilities are inferior to that of the mean

luminous rays.
10 REPORT~1840.

   5. The limits of dispersion are open to further inquiry; but
the dispersion in the case of sources of low temperature ap-
pears to be smaller than in that from luminous sources.

                        Reflexion of Heat : Melloni.

  A short paper, by M. Melloni, entitled "Note on the Reflexion

of Heat," was read to the Royal Academy of Sciences, Nov. 2,
1835, and published in the Ann. de Chim. ix. 402, of which a
translation appears in Taylor's Sci. Memoirs, Part III. p. 383.

   After referring to the experiments of Leslie, to show that the
reflexion of heat depends materially on the texture, polish, &c.
of the reflecting surfaces, he proceeds to consider what
takes place in diathermanous substances, as in rock salt ; where,
there being no absorption, the difference of the heat trans-
mitted gives the quantity reflected at the first and second sur-

-- --faces. With other media as glass, rock crystal, &c. very

thin plates exercise no sensible absorption : hence heat, after
traversing a thick plate, being intercepted by a very thin plate,
the loss which this occasions is due solely to the two reflexions.
These considerations aff'ord the means of estimating the inten-
sities of reflected heat from different substances ; and the
author, in conclusion, gives a comparative statement of the
reflexions from rock crystal and copper.

      Analogies of Light and Heat : Melloni and Forbes.

   M. Melloni's *' Observations and Experiments on the Theory

of the identity of the Agents which produce Light and Heat,"
were read to the Academy of Sciences, Dec. 21, 1835, pub-
lished in the Ann. de Chimie, No. 50, p. 418, and translated
in Taylor's Scientific Memoirs, Part III. p. 388.

   In this paper the author combats the views of M. Ampere,
who had proposed some ingenious speculations for explaining,

on the theory of undulations, the identity of light and heat,
the difference of effect being dependent solely on the different
wave-lengths ; those producing heat being supposed longer
than those giving rise to light. Athermanous media, such as
v/ater, intercept tlie longer waves, but not the shorter. Thus
the aqueous humour of the eye prevents the retina from being
affected by heat as well as light.

   The author admits that many phasnomena may be sufficiently

accounted for by the mere supposition of the difference of
wave-lengths; but he mentions some experiments in which he
thinks decisively that this Avill not hold good.

   The spectrum formed by a rock-salt prism gives the maxi-

mum of heat considerably beyond the red end. On intei-posing
REPORT ON RADIANT HBAT,                                11

water of increasing thickness, the maximum successively occurs

Ain the red, and thence upwards to the green.  similar effect

is produced by colourless glasses ; but with coloured glasses,
whilst the luminous spectrum is variously absorbed and altered,

the place of the maximum of heat remains unaltered, and the

decrease from it quite regular.

Another experiment consists in interposing a diaphanous

body, which absorbs all the calorific, but only a part of the

luminous rays. On using in this way a peculiar species of

green glass coloured by oxide of copper, the greenish light
transmitted " exhibits no calorific action capable of being ren-

dered perceptible by the most delicate thermoscopes, even ivhen

it is so concentrated by lenses as to rival the direct rays of the

swt in brilliancy."

   On these points Prof. Forbes has made some remarks in the

London and Edinburgh Journal of Science, March, 1836.

Such experiments as these, he justly observes, and indeed

many more simple, clearly show that heat is not light, but

nothing more. It is a question, then, what is the point really

aimed at in these speculations. The author agrees with Mel-
loni in the result, " that one and the same undulation does not

invariably impress the senses of sight and feeling at once. The

--great difficulty is this to account for the equal refrangibility

of two waves having different properties."

   New Phcenomena of Trans?nission : Melloni and Forbes.

    It appears by the Comptes Re?idus, that on September 2nd,
1839, M. Arago communicated to the Academy of Sciences a

letter by M. Melloni, containing some new and highly interest-
ing experiments on the transmission of radiant heat. He found

that rock salt acquires, by being smoked, the power of transmit-
ting most easily heat of low temperature, or of that kind which
is stopped in the greatest proportion by glass, alum, and (ac-
cording to his view) all other substances.

   Upon this point, Prof. Forbes was led to some further con-
siderations, and thence to fresh series of researches " On the

effect of the mechanical Textures of Screens on the immediate
Transmission of Radiant Heat," an account of which he com-
municated to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, Dec. 16, 1839.

   Upon the above-mentioned result of Melloni, Prof. Forbes
remarks, that according to the conclusions indicated in his own

Researches (third series), Melloni's view of the interception of
heat of low temperature by all substances alike, is equivalent to
saying that substances in general allow only the more refrangi-

ble rays to pass, or that while rock salt presents the analogy of

white glass, by transmitting all rays in equal proportions, every
                                               --

12 REPORT 1840.

other substance hitherto examined acts on the calorific rays, as

violet or blue glass does on light, absorbing the raj's of least

refrangibility, and transmitting only the others. And to this

rule Melloni now makes out the first exception, or the first ana-

logue of red glass, to be rock salt, having its surface smoked.

  Now Prof. Forbes, in his third series, had also pointed out

another substance having the same property, viz. mica split by

heat. In March, 183S, he had established, by repeated experi-

ments, that the previous transmission of heat through glass,

far from rendering it less easily absorbable by mica in this

state, had a contrary effect ; and also that heat of low tempera-

ture, wholly unaccompanied by light, was transmitted almost as

freely as that from a lamp previously passed through glass.

   Mica not laminated possesses no such property ; hence the
effect is due to the peculiar mechanical condition of the sub-

stance : and hence it occurred to the author, that the effect of

smoking the rock salt was owing merely to a mechanical change

in the surface ; he therefore proceeded to try the effects of sur-

faces altered by mechanical means.

The surface of rock salt being roughened by sand-paper, it

transmitted non-luminous heat more copiously than luminous.

Mica similarly scratched showed the same result.

This effect is not attributable to differences in the proportions

of heat reflected, for in this respect, at a polished surface, all

kinds of heat  are alike, as  he  had  before  shown                            whilst by
                                                                             ;

dii-ect experiment, he found that, at least for the higher angles

of incidence, reflexion is most copious from rough surfaces for

heat of low temperature, or the same kind which is most freely

transmitted proving incontestably, that the stifling action of
                                               ;

rough surfaces is the true cause of the inequality.

That there is a real modification of the heat in passing through

a roughened surface, as well as through laminated mica, and the

smoky film, appears from some direct experiments on heat sifted

by these different media ; which, when transmitted by any one

of these, is found in a fitter state to pass through each of the

others ; and this modification is the more perceptible as the cha-
racter of the heat is more removed from that which these media

transmit more readily ; that is, as the temperature of the source
is higher. The following results were stated :

Heat from lamp through                             Rays out of 1 00
     smoked rock salt.
                                                      transmitted.

Direct                        ,                                                 36

Previously sifted by another plate of smoked rock salt. 44

               do. do. laminated mica · 44

               do. do. rouirhened salt . 404
                   --

                   REPORT ON RADIANT HEAT.      13

The author then proceeded to try the effect ofJine iviregaiue

and fine gratings of cotton thread ; but no difference could be de-
tected corresponding to the different kinds of heat ; in every case

the interception was proportioned to the fineness of the gauze.

  When fine poivders were strewed between plates of rock-salt,

or fine lines were ruled upon the surface, or the surface tar-

nished by mere exposure to the air, the easier transmission of

heat of low temperature was rendered apparent.

These effects the author considers as evidently pointing to

phoenomena in heat, resembling diffraction and j}eriodic co-

lours in light.

Such v\ as the general sketch of his researches which Prof.

Forbes gave at the period above-mentioned. Subsequently (up

to March 1840) he continued engaged on the same subjects,

and on May 15, 1840, laid before the council of the Royal So-

ciety, Edinburgh, a more extended account of the entire inves-

tigations, which appears in vol. xv. Part I. of their Transac-

"Ations, under the title of  Fourth Series of Researches on

Heat." Some remarks by M. Melloni appear in the Comptes

Rendus, March 30, 1840, on the same subject.

For obtaining a general view of these results, the main point

to be kept in sight is the relation which the transmissibility of

each sort of heat appears to bear to its refrangibility ; and hence
the analogy of diathermanous media, which transmit the less re-

frangible heat, to transparent media, which transmit the red

rays of light, the transmission of the more refrangible heat being

analogous to that of violet light.

   Upon this important point Prof. Forbes enlarges in the in-

troductory part of his memoir ; he justly observes that such a

generalization carries us forward a step, by teaching us to refer

to the quality of refrangibility certain pi-operties of heat, which

before were connected only with certain vague characters in the

nature of the source whence it was derived. Among other
things, we find, what was long suspected, but what Melloni first

conclusively proved, that it does not essentially depend on the

presence or absence of light. This refers to his singular dis-

covery of the change produced by the intervention of certain

screens.

Heat from a7iy source, if it admit of transmission at all

through glass, alum, or water, will ultimatelj^ have the character

of glass-heat, alum-heat, or water-heat, just as light from the

sun, or from a candle, becomes red, blue, or green, by trans-

mission through glasses of those colours.

The author gives, as an illustration, the following scale of

different kinds of heat, in the order of refrangibility, beginning

with the lowest :
                   --

--14 REPORT 1840.

1. Heat from ice.

2. the hand.

3. boiling water.

    4. a vesselof mercuryunderitsboilingtemperature.

  --5> metal smoked; wholly non-luminous in the

dark, heated by an alcohol-lamp behind it.
   6. Heat from incandescent platina (over a spirit-lamp).
   7- an oil-lamp (direct).

   8. Oil-lamp heat transmitted by common mica.

 9. glass (argand lamp).
10. citric acid.
11. alum.

12.                ice.

    Melloni having shown that a portion of the heat from a lumi-
nous source is transmitted through certain screens, which are
wholly opake to light, it became natural to inquire vvhether the
rays so passed possessed the properties of heat from dark sources.
This he found to be partly the case, and partly not.

   The direct test of examining the refrangibility of the heat-
rays issuing from the screen occurred to Prof. Forbes, who found
that opake glass and mica act as clear glass and mica do in ele-
vating the mean refrangibility of the transinittcd heat, an ac-
tion analogous to that of yelloiv glass upon light. (See 3rd

Series, Art. 73, 81, &c.)

   But in all this there was nothing exactly equivalent to the
action of red glass ; this, however, was discovered by Melloni,
by the happy suggestion of covering the surface of rock salt
with smoke.

    These remarks introduce more clearly the main object of
Prof. Forbes in following up the inquiry. In the pi-esent paper
the details of many series of experiments are given, and the
more precise results now established may be stated as follows :

   I. The peculiar character of the film of smoke on the surface of

--adiathermanous medium, analogous to redness in glass for light,

was found to be possessed by 1. The simple powder of char-
coal. 2. Some other dull earthy powders. 3. Surfaces simply

dull, or devoid of polish. 4. Surfaces irregularly furrowed, as
with emery or sand-paper. 5. Polished surfaces, on which fine

distinct lines have been drawn. 6. Transparent mica, when
mechanically laminated, which, as a continuous medium, pos-

sesses opposite properties.

    II. All kinds of heat (i. e. of all refrangibilities) seem affect-
ed indifferently by the following media :

   1. The thinnest leaf-gold, which is i?nj)ervioiis to any kind of

heat.

2. Fine metallic gratings, which transmit all kinds of heat
--

REPORT ON RADIANT HEAT.                           15

in a proportion probably exactly that of the areas of their inter-

stices.

   3. Thread gratings.
   4. Most crystalline bodies in a state of powder, in which case
they approximate to a condition of opacity for heat.
   III. The following substances, in addition to those before
known, transmit most heat of high temperature or high refran-

gibility, analogous to violet light :

   1. Several pure metallic powders. 2. Rock salt, in powder,
and many other powders. 3. Animal membrane.

   IV. Heat of low temperature is most regularly reflected at
imperfectly polished surfaces. It is also, as has been shown
above, most regularly transmitted. These facts are in them-
selves very remarkable, and especially so with reference to the
theory of heat, and its analogies to that of light, particularly
with respect to absorption. Some of these considerations, which
bear on the undulatory doctrine, are noticed by the author in

§ 24.

   The curious question relative to the analogies of the action

of gratings, &c., to the parallel cases in the interference of

light, has been recently illustrated by some mathematical in-
vestigations by Professor Kelland ; and the autlior concludes his
memoir with some highly ingenious and interesting suggestions
for further inquiry bearing on these topics.

Radiation of Heat : Hudson.

At the meeting of the British Association, 1835, Dr. Hudson,

of Dublin, communicated some researches on radiant heat, of

which notices appear in the Report of that Meeting (p. 163, and

AProceedings of Sections, p. 9.) ·  paper by the same author on

the subject is printed also in the London and Edinburgh Jour-

nal of Science, vol. viii. p. 109.

   In the paper last mentioned, besides making some critical re-

marks on the results of Melloni and others, the author describes

a very simple and effective mode of arranging the apparatus for

experiments on diathermancy with the thermo-multiplier, so as

completely to exclude the influence of secondary radiation. The

source of heat is a canister of hot water, which can be so placed

in two diff'erent positions that it is exactly at the same distance,

and presents the same surface ; but in one case the pile receives

the heat both direct and secondary ; in the other only the se-

condary, derived from the heating of the screen.

In his communication to the British Association the same

author examines principally certain questions bearing on the

supposed radiation of cold, and the theory of Leslie. These
                                       --

IG REPORT 1840.

were peifonned by a diiferential thermometer, and a concave
reflector, with a hollow back, so that the mirror itself could be
heated to any required point, by filling the hollow with hot
water. The source of heat was a canister of water, with one

surface varnished, another metallic.

   The main results were as follows :
   1. The mirror being at the temperature of the air, and the
canister cooled below if, the varnished side produced a greater
cooling effect on the focal bulb than the plain, in the same ratio
as that in which it produced a greater heating effect when the

canister was heated above the air.

2. The mirror being heated to 200° Fahrenheit, and the ca-

nister at the temperature of the air, both bulbs were so placed as

to bo equally affected by the heat of  the  mirror                            when the ca-
                                                                           ;

nister displayed a cooling effect, the varnished side being the

most efficacious.
   3. Again, with the same conditions, except that the canister

was heated 10° or 12° above the air, it was placed at different
distances ; at near distances it showed a cooling effect ; at a cer-
tain point this ceased, and beyond it, it began to produce a slight

heating effect.

   4. Some attempts were made to try the effects while the bulb
was kept cool by evaporation ; the canister being also cooled
below the air, the cooling of the bulb was increased beyond
what took place when the canister was at the temperature of

the air. These experiments were confessedly imperfect, from

the difficulty of regulating the evaporation.

   The author considers them as favourable to the theory of the
radiation of cold; he also refers to them as in some degree con-

firmatory of Leslie's view of pulsation.

   The most remarkable result is that of Case 2 ; it seems to
prove that a mirror, when heated, will still reflect rays of heat,
thrown upon it from a source of much lower temperature.

   The results are viewed by the author as supporting the theory

of the radiation of cold. I believe the doctrines of that theory

may in all cases be equally well expressed in other language, in
conformity with the view to which I referred in my former re-

port, p. 262.

   Dr. Hudson has speculated with much ingenuity on another

point of great interest., the different radiating powers of different

surfaces. Understanding by the surface a certain physical
thickness, he conceives the radiating poiver to depend on the
caj)acity for heat of the substance of the lamina, which seems
perfectly conformable to the general law of the equilibrium of

temperature.
                                         REPORT OX RADIANT HEAT.  I/

Iiifluence ofsurface and colour 07i Radiation : Stark and Bache.

The influence of the colour of a surface on its powers for

absorbing and radiating heat, is a question which has long

attracted notice, and has often been involved in no small con-

fusion, from false analogies. The sun's rays, and, in general,

what is called luminous heat, are absorbed b)' surfaces {cccteris

paribus) in proportion to the darkness of their colours ; but it
has been too hastily assumed that the same would hold good

with non-luminous heat, and still more groundlessly, that the

colour would influence the radiating power of the surface ; the

texture of the surface, however, is known to exert a powerful

myinfluence. These distinctions are fully insisted on in          former

report.

Since that period, however, the subject has been taken up by

Dr. Stark, who, in an elaborate paper in the Phil. Trans, for
1833, details a number of ingenious experiments, which he con-

ceives support the doctrine of the influence of colour, not only on

the absorption of dark heat, but even on odours, miasma, &c.
   The object of the present report is not controversial ; I will

therefore merely state, that I discussed in detail Dr. Stark's

reasonings, in a paper published in the Edinburgh New Philo-

sophical Journal, October, 1834, where, though allowing the

value and accuracy of the experiments, I have expressed my

objections to the inferences made from them.

   It appears in general that the texture and nature of the sur-
face most unquestionably exert a great influence. Now, where-

ever there is a difierence in the colour, there must be either a

difi'erence in the mechanical structure of the surface, or some

new matter added or abstracted. When therefore we consider

the changes which thus occur, we cannot infer that the effect
is not owing to these instead of to colour as such. The ques-
tion, however, is a highly curious one, and worthy the most

accurate investigation.

Having in some measure called attention to it in my former

report, it was with no small gratification that I found the sub-

ject had excited interest not only in this country, but also in

America                                  and to Professor Bache (since appointed principal of
                                      ;

Girard College) we owe by far the most extensive and valuable

series of experiments on this important but difficult point of

inquiry : they are given at length in the Journal of the Franklin

Institute, November, 1835.

The notices of these experiments which had been pub-

lished in this country, not appearing to convey adequate

notions of their nature or value, I endeavoured to bring them

VOL. IX. 1840.                           c
--18 REPORT 1840.

more prominently forward by some remarks in the Physical

Section of the British Association at Liverpool in 1837*. In my

former report I had thrown out some suggestions both as to the
want of such a series of experiments, and as to the fundamental
difficulty arising from the variety of causes which must influence
the results ; but more especially the difi^erences of thickness
in the coatings, which in the ordinary iiiode of operating could
not be estimated, yet must greatly modify the effects.

    With reference to the necessity of equalizing the coatings,
Mr. Bache refers to an important observation of Leslie, viz.
that radiation takes place not merely from the actual surface,
but from a certain depth, or lamina of the surface, the thickness
of which is quite appreciable in good radiators, and differs for

different substances.

    Proceeding upon this fact, the author justly observes, that
" the radiating powers of substances would not be rightly com-
pared by equalizing their thicknesses upon a given surface, nor
by equalizing their weight ; but by ascertaining for each sub-
stance that thickness beyond ivhich radiation does not take

place."
    It is then on the original application of this fundamental

idea that his whole series of experiments is conducted.

   Upon this principle the first object was to obtain some data as

to thicknesses of different pigments necessary to be employed.
   The method adopted throughout was to employ tin cylinders

of the same size, filled with hot water, and having thermome-
ters inserted through a hole in the top ; Avhile their surfaces
were coated with the different substances under trial. The ra-
diation was estimated by the observed rates of cooling.

   To find the critical thickness of the coating just spoken of,
the time of cooling a certain number of degrees was accurately

observed, first with a thin coating, then with an additional
layer of the pigment, and so on, until it was found that addi-
tional thickness did not increase the rate of radiation, but
began to diminish it ; thus each coating was adjusted precisely

to that thickness at which it produced its maximum effect.

   Every precaution to ensure accuracy appears to have been most
diligently taken, and several series of preliminary experiments
are recorded for the purpose of ascertaining the limits within

Awhich the precision of the results may be relied on. standard

cylinder, coated with aurum musivum (as being found not
liable to tarnish or alteration), was used in all the experiments,
and the effect of each coating compared with this under similar

circumstances.

                    · See Report, 1837. Sectional Proceedings, p. 20.
                RfiPORT OX RADIANT HEAT.             19

   The results of different sets of experiments are given in the
tabular form, and apply to coatings of a great variety of sub-
stances differing in their chemical nature, as well as in rough-
ness, texture and colour. The following table is extracted as

fully exhibiting the general result of all the experiments ; the
substances being arranged in the order of their radiating powers,
beginning with the highest.

Nature of Coating.       Colour.           Surface.

Litmus blue.                      Blue.
                                  Blue.
Prussian blue.                                 Rough.
                           Greenish blue.
^Amnion, sulphate                              Rough.
                         Brovniish black.
of copper.            J                     fNot shining, but
                                Black.
Peroxide of manga-i                        \ uniform.
                               Brown.
        nese.         J                        Not smooth.
India ink.                      Black.
                                             r Streaked:
Bichromate of potash.         Crimson.                                  fe.

India ink.                      White.      \smooth streaks.
                                               Smooth.
Alkanet.                        Black.
                                  Blue.    /Not shining, but
Carb. of lead in oil
                                White.     \ uniform.
of lavender.          }        White.
                                            /"Smooth, not
Sulphuret of lead.                      _
                                           \ shining.
Alkanet blue.             Dingy white.
                                              Rough.
Carb. magnesia.                   Red.        Smooth.
                         White bluish.        Medium.
Carb. lead in gum.                            Smooth.
                               Brown.         Rough.
Carb. of lime.                             {Smooth, in
                                 Blue.
Vermilion.                   Crimson.               streaks.
                               Orange.
Sulph. baryta.                                Smooth.
                                White.        Smooth.
Golden sulphuret of                           Smooth.
                                  Black.      Medium.
antimony.             }
                                 Yellow.   {Not shining,
Indigo.
                             Olive green.         but uniform.
Cochineal.                                    Smooth.
                                Yellow.       Smooth, in
Red lead.
                                                   streaks.
Sulph. baryta.
                                              Smooth.
Plumbago.

Chrom. lead.

Gamboge.

Bisulphuret of tin.

                         V2
--20 REPORT 1840.

    It thus distinctly appears, that through so extensive and
varied a range of differences in the state of the radiating sur-
face, no determinate relation subsists between the radiating
power, and either darkness of colour, or any other distinctive
character of the coating employed ; not even its roughness or

smoothness.

Rejmlsive Power of Heat : Powell.

Closely connected with the radiation of heat is its property of

exerting or exciting a repulsive force between particles or masses

of luatter at small though sensible distances.

Such a property was first announced by Libri in     1824                      and
                                                                           ;

was further examined by Fresnel {Ann. de Chirn., xxix. 57.

107.) and Saigey {Bull. Meth., xi. 167.), but their results seem

to have been open to some doubt.

A new interest attached to the subject from the reference

made to this property by Prof. Forbes (in a paper read to the

Royal Society of Edinburgh, March, 1833, and since published

in their Transactions, vol. xii.) in explanation of certain vibra-

tions of heated metals first observed by Mr. Trevelyan.

  A paper from me was read to the Royal Society, June 19,1 834,

and printed in the Philosophical Transactions, 1 834, Part II.

containing an account of experiments on a different principle

from any of tlie preceding, which appeared to furnish a deci-

sive proof of the fact of repulsion.

   The essential principle is the employment of the colours of

thin plates, as ?i measure oi\he separation produced between two

surfaces, by the repulsive action of heat applied to one of them.

I also made observations on several particulars attending the
mode of action, both in that paper, and in a communication to

the British Association at the Edinburgh meeting*.

                      Formation of Ice : Farquharson.

  An interesting case, in which the principles of the theory of

radiant heat are related to the explanation of natural phaenomena,
occurs in the instance of the formation of ice exclusively at the
surface of still water, but occasionally at the bottom of running
water. This point excited attention some years ago, and was par-
tially discussed by Mr. Knight in the Philosophical Transactions,
1816. Mr. MacKeevor and Mr. Eisdale subsequently investi-

gated the theory, and M. Arago gave a discussion of the whole
question in the Annuaire, 1833, and in the Edinburgh New Phi-

losophical Journal, vol. xv. p. 128 ; lastly, a highly curious paper
appeared in the Philosophical Transactions for 1835, Part II.

     * See Report, 1834, p. 549, and Dr. Thomson's Records of Science.
        --

        REPORT ON RADIANT HEAT.                      21

" On the ice formed under peculiar circumstances at the bottom

of running water", by the Rev. J. Farquharson, F.R.S. of Al-
ford, Aberdeenshire. In tliis paper tlie author details various
new and highly interesting particulars as to the mode of the
formation of the spongy masses of spiculae of ice at the bottom
of certain rivers in his neighbourhood, and the peculiar cir-

cumstances under which alone it is formed. He examines acutely

the several explanations which have been suggested, which he
shows are all insufficient to explain the ivhole of the circum -

stances, and then proceeds to suggest his own theory, which is
grounded essentially on the assumption that the radiation of

heat from substances at the bottom goes on throtigh the ivater
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

and partly also on the supposed greater radiation from dark-
coloured surfaces. Neither of these assumptions, it appears to
me, are admissible ; the former especially is directly at variance

with the experiments of Melloni. Some suggestions at least

towards a theory not open to these objections, are given ))y an
anonymous writer in the Magazine of Popular Science, vol. i.

p. 157.

                   Division II. Polarized Heat.

        Polarization of Heat : Forbes.

   The original statement by Berard, of the polarization of heat

by reflexion, and the attempts to verify it, are mentioned in my

former report*. In 1833, Melloni tried to repeat the experiment

with tourmalines, but unsuccessfullyf.

   In 1834, Nobili attempted it by reflexion, employing the
thermo-multiplier, but without success J. The disbelief in such
a result, at least wiih dark heat, seems now to have prevailed
generally. Mrs. Somerville, in the second edition of her " Con-
nexion of the Sciences " (in 1833), speaks of it as altogether
without experimental proof.

   Prof. Forbes took up the inquiry in November, 1834; and in
his first memoir, already referred to in Section 2, announced his
complete success, after having in the first instance failed from
the influence of secondary radiation, which disguised the real

eff'ect.

   (1.) He proved distinctly the stoppage of a considerable pro-

portion of heat when the tourmalines were crossed, not only
with a lamp, but with brass heated below luminosity.

   (2.) In the third section of the same memoir, he details his

* British Association Report, vol. i. pp. 262. 276.

t Second Memoir, Ann. de Ckim. 55. Taylor's Scientific Memoirs, Part I.

p. 59.  + Biblioth. Univ., Sept. 1834.
                                    --

22 REPORT 1840.

researches on the polarization of heat by refraction and re-

flexion. In the former he employed piles of mica, and

through these, found even dark heat very freely transmitted at

the polarizing angle. Without (in this stage of the inquiry)

aiming at quantitative results, he found in general that the pro-

portion of heat polarized varied with the source in the following

order, begining with the highest :

                  Argand lamp.

                  Locatelli lamp.

                  Spirit lamp.

                  Incandescent platina.

                  Hot brass, about 700° Fahrenheit.

                  Mercury, 500° in crucible.

                  Water under 200°.

   (3.) The polarization of heat by reflexion at the surface of a
pile of plates of mica was also established ; and with regard to

the reflexion from glass, Prof. Forbes has also remarked, that

from the known proportions of heat reflected, the quantity,
even at the maximum which would reach the thermoscope after

two reflexions, would be so extremelj^ small, that no difference

of effect in the two rectangular positions could really have been

perceptible in the form of the experiment adopted by Berard.

    (4.) In the fourth section the author enters on the modifications
which polarized heat undergoes by the intervention of crystal-

lized plates between the polarizing and analysing parts of the

apparatus ; an inquiry suggested by the obvious analogy in the
case of light. In the crossed position, when polarized heat is

stopped (if the analogy hold good), the intervention of a plate

of double refracting crystal would restore the effect. This

apparently paradoxical result was fully verified with plates of

mica, and subsequently with selenite and other substances, not

only in the case of luminous sources, but even with water be-

low the boiling temperature. Of 157 experiments with three

different mica plates, only one gave a neutral and one a negative

result. Of these 157, 92 were made with heat below luminosity.

   The apparent paradox was increased by the circumstance
that a thin plate of mica which " depolarized" but feebly

seemed to stop more heat than a thick plate which depolarized

more completely.

The main fact was ascertained for the first time on Decem-

ber 16, 1834. The Professor justly censures the use of the
term "depolarize," and suggests " (//polarize" as preferable.

(5.) From the result thus unequivocally established, a train

Weof highly curious consequences follow.      have hence, as

direct corollaries, the double refraction of the rays of heat by
                         ;

REPORT ON RADIANT HEAT.  23

 the mica, and their interference according to the same laws as
 those of light. Hence also follow the constancy of the sum

 of the intensities of the rays in the rectangular positions, or
 their complementary character, agreeably to the formulas of
 Fresnel for light. This again involves their retardation, ac-
 cording to the well-known principles of the undulatory theory

                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;

and hence from Fresnel's formulas we are assured theoretically
of the existence of circular and elliptic polarization in the rays
of heat, under the appropriate conditions : we have thus also
the means of deducing the length of a wave of heat.

    The whole of this most important series of investigations
was completed between November ] 834 and January 1835, and
their originality and priority are thus placed beyond dispute.
The main practical improvement (which led to all the rest of
the discoveries) was the employment of the piles of mica for
polarizing the heat. In the summer of 1835, Prof. Forbes was
at Paris ; and finding both M. Biot and M. Melloni sceptical
as to his results, he exhibited them with mica piles, which he
himself prepared on the occasion, and which he left in M. Mel-

loni's hands.

    In these experiments the utmost care was taken to guard
against all the sources of fallacy from secondary radiation, &c.
but as Prof. Forbes observed, these always tended to disguise

and not to exaggerate the results. One consideration of this

kind arising from the mere mathematical question of the dif-
ferent amovmt of heat which might be radiated from one pile to
the other in the two rectangular positions (regarded merely as
a mathematical problem), was proposed by myself at the Dublin
meeting of the British Association, 1835, but was completely
shown to be inapplicable as a practical objection by Prof.Forbes,
in a short paper in the London and Edinburgh Journal of Sci-
ence, November, 1835 ; and further by direct experiment de-
scribed in the same Journal for March, 1836.

     Circular and Elliptical Polarisation of Heat : Forbes.

   On the 1st of Feb. 1836, Prof. Forbes announced to the Royal

Society of Edinburgh, that he had that day succeeded in esta-
blishing the circular polarisation of heat, even when unaccom-
panied by light, by direct experiment. It has been already
noticed, that theoretically this would follow from the laws of
depolarization. But in the present instance. Prof. Forbes, fol-
lowing up the analogies of Fresnel with regard to the internal
reflexion of light, found the very same thing verified with heat
by similar internal reflexion in a rhomb of rock salt, where the
--24 REPORT 1840.

plane of reflexion is inclined 45° to the plane of primitive

polarization.

   A short notice of this discovery appears in a paper by the

author, in the London and Edinburgh Journal of Science,
March, 1836, in which he also states the inference from the
same considerations, that the waves are of the same Jcind as
those of light, viz. formed by transverse vibrations.

    In a paper reported in the Proceedings of the Royal Society
of Edinburgh, March 21, 18.36, and printed along with the
second series of Prof. Forbes's Researches in the London and
Edinburgh Journal of Science, vol. xii., that philosopher de-
scribes some additional results which he has obtained respect-

--ing the polarization of heat. These are briefly as follows :

    1st. Heat polarized in any plane, and then reflected from the
surface of a refracting medium, changes its plane of polariza-
tion in a manner similar to what obtains in light ; that is, the
plane is on one side of the plane of reflexion up to the maxi--

mum polarizing angle, and on the other side after passing that

limit. This mode of determining the polarizing angle off'ers
some advantages ov^er the more direct methods.

   2ndly. Metals polarize heat very feebly by reflexion. Yet
the eff"ect is perceptible, and increases, through a considerable
range of incidences, but it does not seem to attain a maxi-

mum ; in this respect it seems to agree with what Sir D.

Brewster has remarked in light, viz. that the maximum is

greatest for the least refrangible rays, heat being less refrangible

than light.
   3rdly. Heat polarized in a plane inclined 45° to the plane of

reflexion at silver, has its nature changed, as in light, and pre-
sents the conditions of elliptic polarization, though the ellipse

is much more elongated.
   4thly. Two reflexions from silver increase the polarizing

effect of metals, and an increased tendency to circular polariza-
tion under the conditions of the last case. The effect increases

with the obliquity of incidence.
   All these results have been verified in the case of obscure as

well as luminous sources of heat.

   On the 15th Feb. 1836, the Keith prize was awarded to

Prof. Forbes by the Royal Society of Edinburgh ; the Vice-
President, Dr. Hope, stating, in the course of a most able
address delivered on the occasion, that several members of the
council, as well as himself, had personally witnessed the satis-
factory verification of the main facts announced, before the

medal was adjudged.
--

    REPORT ON RADIANT HEAT.  25

      Polarization of Heat from different sources: Melloni.

   M. Melloni's first memoir " On the Polarization of Heat," was
read to the Academy of Sciences in Jan. 1836; it appears in

the Ann. de Chim. Ixi. April, 1836 ; and is translated in Tay-
lor's Scientific Memoirs, Part II. p. 325.

   The author commences with a fair review of the previous in-

vestigations on the subject, admitting Prof. Forbes's discovery,
but remarking the very small amount of the effect in the case

of obscure heat.

   He adopts the supposition, that " the different temperatures

of the calorific rays are to radiant heat what the different
colours of the luminous rays are to light." The latter, he
observes, are all equally polarizable, and thus he is led to regard

the difference of polurizability in the rays of heat as rather
apparent than real. His object then, in this memoir, is to
examine the question of the reality of the polarization of heat,
and of the equality of the effect in different sorts of heat.

   After some considerations on the general nature of the appa-
ratus to be employed, and overcoming the difficulty arising
from the small total intensity of the rays, by concentrating them
by means of a rock-salt lens, he proceeds to detail his several
series of experiments, the results of which he gives in the
form of tables :

    Table I. gives the different indices of polarization obtained
with nine sorts of tourmalines of different colour, the source of
heat being a locatelli lamp.

   He then tried the experiment, taking that pair of tourmalines

which gave the greatest effect in the last set, with plates of
various substances interposed between the lamp and the appa-
ratus. Of these, opake black glass rendered the effect nearly
insensible ; other solids and liquids of various degrees of trans-
parency produced effects of different magnitude.

    In Table II. these results are registered, and the properties of
the media, in this respect, were found to follow the same pro-
portion as their diathermancy.

   The author considers the difference of the tourmalines in this
respect as referrible to the same cause.

   Table III. gives similar results with another pair of tourma-
lines, in which case the proportions are found to differ.

   In Table IV. are given the indices of polarization with four
different pairs of tourmalines, each employed with different
sources of heat ; viz. the locatelli lamp, argand lamp, incan-
descent platina, and copper at 400°. The effect in the latter
case was very small.
26 REPORT 1840.

    In recapitulating his views, the author refers to the unequal
ahsorption of the two pencils in different tourmalines, as cau-
 sing the differences observed.

  A further paper by the same author, on Tourmaline, &c., in

the Ann. de Chim., April, 1836, displays much ingenuity, but

nothing of peculiar novelty or fundamental importance.

   From the Comptes Rendus, 1836, i. 194, it appears, that
on the 15th Feb. 1836, M. Arago communicated to the Aca-
demy of Sciences a letter from Prof. Forbes, announcing his

discovery of the circular polarization of heat of the rock-salt
rhomb.

   At the next meeting of the same body (Feb. 22), MM. Biot

and Melloni stated, that in following up Prof. Forbes's experi-
ment, they had found that quarts possessed the scijne "rotative"
quality for heat as for light.

   Dr. Thomson, in the second edition of his Treatise on Heat,
&c. (1840), while giving an outline of the discoveries of Forbes
and Melloni, has by no means clearly distinguished the share
borne by each of those philosophers in the investigation. In
particular, with respect to the fact of polarization, he has not
given Prof. Forbes the credit so unquestionably due to him for

the priority of the discovery. He observes (p. 139), " In the

earlier experiments of Melloni, he did not find that the rays of
heat were polarized when passed through the tourmaline. But
he afterwards found that this conclusion was hasty, and that

the tourmaline polarizes heat as well as light. The truth of
this statement is shown very clearly by Prof. Forbes. They
also polarized heat by plates of mica, and also by reflexion," &c.

   These expressions certainly assign the priority to Melloni, as
well as an equal share in the subsequent results ; both of which

we have seen are greatly at variance with the truth.

                          Further Researches : Forbes.

   Prof. Forbes's second series of Researches on Heat was read

to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, May 2, 1836, and printed

both in the Edinburgh Transactions, vol. xiii., and in the London
and Edinburgh Journal of Science, vol. xii. 1838.

   The author remarks at the outset, that in his former memoir
he had confined himself to the establishment of the general
facts of the polarization and rfipolarization of heat, without pre-
tending to accurate quantitative results ; he now proceeds, there-
fore, to a more detailed investigation of the subject, with a view
to more precise numerical determinations.

   The first section relates to the methods of observation em-
ployed, and the examination of the values of the degrees of the
--

REPORT ON RADIANT HEAT.                   27

galvanometer, which, for the most part, do not indicate equal

increments of force. Two tables are given. By the first, the

statical deviations of the needle are reduced, so as to be mea-
sures of the force producing them ; by the second, the dynami-
cal effect, or arc, moved over by the initial disturbing action, is

reduced to the final or statical effect, and thence to the true

measure of heat. Several peculiarities attendant on the use of

the galvanometer are likewise discussed.

In section 2, the observations formerly published on the

polarizing action of tourmaline are confirmed, including the

case where heat, entirely unaccompanied by light, was em-

ployed. In this case, the author allows, the greatest difficulty

was to be encountered.
   The third section treats of the laws of the polarization of

heat by refraction or transmission. Prof. Forbes expressly

observes, that his former results were not held out as numeri-

cally precise ; and with reference to Melloni's conclusion, " that

all kinds of heat are equally polarizable at the same incidence,"

he confirms his former view of the incorrectness of this infer-
ence by a great number of experiments, which show that the
heat from non-luminous sources is less polarizable by a given

plate of mica, at a given angle of incidence, than that accom-
panied by light.

   These experiments were performed with plates of mica, pre-
pared in a way discovered by himself, to which reference is
made (though without describing the process), in a paper before
quoted in the London and Edinburgh Journal of Science, March,
1836. The method consists in applying sudden heat to a thick
plate of mica, which splits into an infinity of extremely thin

films, so thin as to be incapable of retaining heat ; these form
polarizing piles of great energy. With one pair of such plates
the author obtained the following per centages of heat stopped,
when the planes of refraction of the two plates were in the
rectangular position :

              Source of Heat.     Rays out of 100 Polarized.
                                              72 to 74
Argand lamp                                   72
Incandescent platina                         63
Brass about 700°
Do. with glass screen                         72
Mercury in crucible at 410°    48. . .
Boiling water
                                             44

   These observations were repeatedly made, and verified by
others with other pairs of plates. The results agree with the
analogy of light ; those lowest in the scale being the cases of

the least refrangible rays.
             --

28 REPORT 1840.

In the fourth section the law of polarization by reflexion is

Adiscussed.  number of reflecting surfaces were tried, and

split mica was preferred. The amount of polarization by re-

flexion at a given angle, is shown to vary with the source of

heat ; and it is probable that the kinds of heat do not rank in
the same order when the angle is changed. This is the case

with light. The change of the plane of polarization by subse-

quent reflexion, is similar to that which occurs when light is

used.

The circular polarization of heat by total internal reflexion,

is discussed in the fifth section. This, as before remarked, is

a phftnomenon really produced in the experiments on dipolari-

zation, if the mica be of a suitable thickness. The direct ex-

periment with rhombs of rock salt, has been already mentioned

also. The author here gives a detailed account of them, and

the laws of the phcenomena deducible, in which the precise

analogy with those of light is preserved.

Equal Polarizability of Heat from different sources :

                                         Melloni.

   Melloni's second memoir on the Polarization of Heat appears

to be foimded on the second part of his communication to the
Royal Academy of Sciences in January, 1836. It is printed in
the Atm. de Chitn. Ixv. May, 1837, and the translation in Tay-
lor's Scientific Memoirs, Part VI.

   The principal points of these extensive researches may be

reduced to the following heads :
   (1.) Referring to Prof. Forbes's Researches, first series, Mel-

loni contends that the difi^erences of polarizability in the heat
from different sources there exhibited, are in fact due to differ-
ences of secondary radiation from the heating of the mica piles,
and subsequently appeals to Forbes's second series, in which he

conceives the approach to equality is much nearer, as this
source of error was more avoided.

   At lower temperatures of the source, he observes, that mica
transmits less heat in pi'oportion, and therefore absorbs more :
thus the secondary radiation is greater, and the apparent dif-
ference in the two positions, or index of polarization, is less.

   (2.) He remarks, that Prof. Forbes had found the heat from a

dark source, after transmission through glass, to become as po-
larizable as that from incandescent platina; whereas he considers

that the glass plate absorbed the greater part of those rays
which otherwise would have heated the piles, and that thus the
apparent polarization was increased.

    (3.) Melloni describes his apparatus, and the precautions for
--

REPORT ON RADIANT HEAT.  29

avoiding secondary radiation, ^c, employing piles of sjjUt
mica, and throwing parallel rays on them by means of a rock-

salt lens, having its principal focus at the source of heat.

   He then enters upon the details of his results, in several

series, with piles of different numbers of laminae, and at dif-

ferent inclinations to the axis (the source of heat being a lamp),

giving in each case the calorific transmissions in the rectangular

positions, or proportions of heat polarized. These are com-
prised in a series of eight tables, from which the author derives

the following conclusions :

   I. The proportion of heat polarized increases as the inclina-

tion of the piles is diminished.

   II. It attains a maximum at a certain inclination.
   III. This inclination is greater as the number of laminae is

increased.

   He points out the close agreement of these results with the

phaenomena of light according to Brewster and Blot.
   (4.) The author pursues a further series of experiments on

polarization by reflexion, and arrives at the conclusion that the
angle of complete polarization by reflexion is very nearly the
same for light and for heat.

    (5.) If any diathermanous substance be interposed between
the luminous source and the piles, the index of polarization
does not vary with the substance employed.

   This, he contends, proves that the nature of the heat does
not alter its polarizability.

   But also from direct experiment with the radiations from
different sources, he makes the same inference, employing, in-
stead of a lamp, incandescent platina, metal heated to 400°, or
boiling water, with the same results of uniform polarizability.

   He maintains that the difference of polarizability by refrac-

tion, arising from the different refrangibility of the rays of heat,
is too minute to be sensible.

   And for all experiments on obscure heat he proposes to sub-

stitute as the source a black glass heated by flame.

   (6.) On the depolarization he refers to Forbes's experiments, in

which he contends the difference in the rectangular position is
very small, but nearly equal with different sources.

   He repeats the experiment, with black glass interposed, and
finds the effects much greater, and nearly equal in the different

cases.

   He endeavours to explain Forbes's result of the difference

with dift'erent sources, by secondary radiation.
   Further, by the same method (of interposing a black glass),

he finds the equal depolarizability of every kind of heat.
      --

30 REPORT 1840.

    In an attempt to pursue the analogy of the tints of depolar-
ized light, he acknowledges a failure, and thence considers the
interference of calorific rays as not yet proved.

   Upon these investigations the following remarks may be

offered :

   Under the first head, it should be recollected that Prof.
Forbes's first memoir, was avowedly only directed to ascertain
general facts, not numerical values ; while, with regard to the
more precise results of the second memoir, it would appear from
the details there given, that the secondary radiation could not
affect the residts. The screen between the source and the piles
was removed only during the few seconds required for observing
the first or impulsive arc of vibration, the time of which was
·wholly insufficient for the conduction of heat ; besides, such an
effect was disproved by direct experiment, as mentioned above

(p. 23).

   Of the second point, we shall presently have to notice a com-
plete investigation by Prof. Forbes.

   As to the third, with this construction, the heat absorbed by
the mica was very trifling ; but by the more improved process
since used by Prof. Forbes, (p. 27), we have seen this source of
error is wholly got rid of. The employment of a pencil of
parallel rays does not seem, upon consideration, materially to

increase the intensity.

   The fourth point is no more than what had been already

established by Prof. Forbes.

   With respect to the fifth head (including the most important
part of these researches), it must be observed, that the differ-
ences in the nature of the heat obtained by the intervention of
diathermanous substances, are not the same as those between heat
from luminous and dark sources. And further, in the experi-
ments mentioned with radiations from different sources, no

numerical results are stated. On this point we shall presently

notice some more detailed researches of Prof. Forbes.
   The sixth point, on the subject of depolarization, is confess-

edly one of the most delicate in the whole inquiry ; but for the
same reasons as before, the effect of secondary radiation cannot
be referred to as capable of having produced the differences

observed.

     Unequal Polarizability of Heat from different sources :

                                                 Forbes.

    Prof. Forbes's third series of Researches of Heat appears in
vol. xiv. of the Edinburgh Transactions, having been read before
 the Royal Society of Edinburgh, April 16, 1838. It is also
           --

               RETORT OX RADIAN'T HEAT.                 SI

printed in the London and Edinburgh Journal of Science,

vol. xiii.

    In the first section the author discusses the variable polariza-

bility of the different kinds of heat. The establishment of this
fact was his object in one portion of his second memoir. But
these investigations having been objected to by some, and oppo-
site results (as we have seen) obtained by Melloni, the author

now repeated the inquiiy with every precaution. He rendered

the rays parallel by a rock-salt lens, as Melloni had done, and
operated at a sufficient distance from the pile : still the differ-
ences in the rectangular positions, when different sorts of heat
were employed, were as unequal as formerly. '

    Having varied the experiments in every possible way, he still
comes to the same conclusion as before, and gives the following

results :

                     Source of Heat.  Rays out of 100 Polarized.
                                                 78
Argand lamp

Locatelli do                             75 to 77

Incandescent platina                     74 to 76

               with glass screen 80 to 82

Alcohol flame                            78

Brass at 700°                            66-6

Do. with mica screen                                80
Mercury in crucible at 450°
                                      ... 48

Boiling water                            44

   Melloni' s opposite result of apparent uniform polarizability,
the author then shows must necessarily arise from the use of
mica piles, consisting of a number of distinct plates super-
posed. Such a thickness of mica modifies heat from dark

sources in such a way as to give the portion which it trans-
mits the same character as to polarizability as luminous heat.
Whereas Mr. Forbes's results were obtained by the use of mica
split by heat (as before described), which includes so many sur-

faces within a very small thickness, that the polarized heat ia

comparatively unaltered in its character. He shows directly,

that these piles transmit heat from a lamp sifted by glass, and
from brass at 700°j in nearly equal proportions, while mica
·016 inch thick transmits five times less of the latter than of

the former.

   The second section relates to the dipolarization of heat.
Pursuing the methods given in the first series, the author ascer-
tained the proportion of heat dipoJarized by five different thick-
nesses of mica. From the numerical results thus obtained, he

deduces the value of the expression in Fresnel's formula, for
--32 REPORT 1840.

the retardation divided by the wave-length, either of which
quantities being assumed, the other becomes known.

    In pursuing this calculation, the author finds, that if the

numerator (or difl^erence of paths) be assumed to be the same
as in light, the length of a wave of heat would result three

times as great as that for red light.

   Upon this he is led into some important considerations bear-

ing on the theory of undulations as applicable to heat.
   Almost exactly similar numerical results were obtained for

the heat from an argand lamp, from incandescent platina, and
from brass heated to 700°.

   At the Anniversary Meeting of the Royal Society of London,
Nov. 30, 1838, the Rumford Medal was adjudged to Prof. Forbes,
" for bis discoveries and investigations of the polarization and
double refraction of heat." And in tlie report of the council
announcing the award, a brief but appropriate testimony is

given to the value of these researches.

                  Intensity of Reflected Heat : Forbes.

   On March 18, 1839, Prof. Forbes communicated some re-

marks to the Royal Society of Edinburgh on the Intensity of
Reflected Light and Heat.

   The theoretical law for the intensity of reflected light, ori-

ginally proposed by Fresnel, has been confirmed on quite difi"ar-
ent grounds by the mathematical investigations of Mr. Green
and Prof. Kelland. Yet scarcely any attempt has been made
toward its verification by direct experiment, except in the cri-
tical cases for polarized light originally assumed as the basis of
the formula, and a few intermediate photometrical determina-

tions by M. Arago. The uncertainty attending all photometry,

led Prof. Forbes to conceive (about the end of 1837) that pei'-
haps some confirmation might be obtained by ascertaining the
law which prevails with respect to the intensities of heat in the
corresponding cases ; an analogy which seemed extremely pro-
bable from the facts already ascertained, relative to the change
of polarization, &c., before noticed.

   In December, 1837, he made some first attempts, which were
not altogether satisfactory. In the following winter he resumed
the subject, and by a suitable apparatus for measuring the angles
of incidence, he endeavoured to measure the intensity of heat
reflected from surfaces of glass, steel and silver ; and though the

results can hardly be yet considered completely accurate, yet in
the case of glass the approximation to Fresnel's law is closer
than any as yet exhibited hy photometrical observations : while
HKPORT ON RADIANT HEAT.              33

the observations accord much better with the law of Fresnel
than with that deduced by Mr. Potter. In the instance of me-
tals, Prof. Forbes considers Mr. Potter's discovery verified, that

the reflexion is less intense at hig!;er angles of incidence : he has
not yet been able to verify Prof. Maccullagh's itiference, that it
has a n)inimura before reaching 90° ; and lastly, he observes that

the quantity of heat reflected from metals is so much greater
than Mr. Potter's estimate for light, as to lead him to suspect

that all that gentleman's photometric ratios are too small ; this
would nearly account for their deviations from Fresnel's law.

He has also made some attempts for verifying that law by ob-

servations on heat polarized in opposite planes.
   Mr. Potter, it is well known, mainly founds his objections to

the undulatory theory on the discrepancy between Fresnel's law
for the intensities of reflected light and his own photometrical

determinations. He has therefore naturally been led into some

controversial remarks on Prof. Forbes's results in a paper in the
London and Edinburgh Journal of Science, to which Prof.
Forbes has replied.

    Considering that the whole inquiry is as yet confessedly in
an incomplete state, any further observations upon it in this

place would be premature.

                      Co7iclusion.

In thus reviewing the different points of inquiry which liave

been of late pursued relative to radiant heat, and the several

important discoveries with which that research has been re-

warded, I have for the most part preserved, under each head, the

chronological order.

The progress of dii^covery is here, I trust, too clearly marked

to allow any real ground for these questions as to priority and

originality, which have given rise to so much unhappy contro-

versy between rival philosophers ; or to the less open, but

equally lamentable manifestations of jealousy, in ambiguous ex-

pressions of claims, into which men of science have been some-
times betrayed. The dispassionate reviewer of the history of dis-

covery at once best avoids all such controversial topics, and ful-
fils the demands of critical justice, by a simple but careful

statement of facts.

In the present instance it appears to me that the share of cre-

dit due to the distinguished parties respectively, who have co-

operated to introduce the discoveries above reported, is suffi-

ciently well-marked, and certainly ample enough in each in-

stance to confer the highest celebrity on those who have borne

the chief portion of the labour.

VOL. IX. 1840.                    D
--34 REPORT 1840.

To the continental philosophers belongs the first invention of

the instrument, without whose aid none of these investigations

could have been accomplished ; while all tlie earliest and most im-

portant discoveries of the varying diathermancy of substances
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;

the knowledge of the singular constitution of rock-salt, (which

has placed a new instrument in the hands of the experi-

menter) ; and the capital fact, disclosed by means of it, the re-
fraction of heat from dark sources ; together with the very sin-
gular phaenomena of the changes in the nature of heat, by trans-

mission  through  certain  substances                                              the  remarkable  effect  of
                                                                                ;

smoked rock salt ; the circularly polarizing power of quartz for

--heat; all these important discoveries (besides others of minor

value) are imperishably associated witli the name of Melloni.

Our own countiy as fairly andincontestably boasts, besides im-
provements in the apparatus and methods, many important re-

sults connected with the transmission of heat, accurate measures

of its refraction, together with some indication of phtenomena

analogous to those of diffraction. In addition to these, the

sole and undisputed credit of first unequivocally establishing the

grand facts of the polarization of heat, even from non-luminous

sources, by transmission through mica, through tourmaline and

by reflexion ; together with the peculiar and invaluable property
of mica split by sudden heating (a fact holding a parallel rank

with that of the diathermancy of rock salt) ; the dipolarization

of heat; its consequent double refraction and interference; its

circular and elliptic polarization ; its length of wave, and the

production of that wave by transverse vibrations ; the confirma-
tion of the circular polarization by the rock-salt rhomb, and

the peculiar eftects of metallic reflexion ; these constitute the

unquestionable claims of Prof. Forbes.

On the main point in controversy between these two philoso-

phers, the equal or unequal polarizability of heat from different

sources, I have endeavoured to place the facts and arguments

clearly before the reader ; but must confess my own conviction

to be in favour of the unequal ratio of polarizability in the radi-

ations from luminous and from obscure sources, while in some

instances the apparently opposite results seem distinctly traced

to known causes, and in others the equalization of the effects ·

appears to depend on some of those modifications which the in-

tervention of screens produces in the nature of the rays of heat.

The very remarkable class of phaenomena just referred to, is

perhaps of all the recent discoveries that which seems most sin-

gular and anomalous : that the same ray should acquire an entire

change of property and nature by and in the act of simply pass-

ing through certain media, seems little in accordance with any
                                                          ;

             REPORT ON RADIANT HKAT.                      35

conception we can form of such radiation. Is this^ we may asU, a

real change of constitution, or is it a separation or analysis of

the ray into its components ?
   I have elsewhere remarked, that the terms " luminous" and

" dark" heat are of somewhat barbarous appearance ; and the

objection is more than etymological, especially as we now find

the luminosity of the source is not the essential characteristic

of the qualities of the rays. And again, in the compound radia-

tion from Imiiinous sources, there is included a considerable poi'-
tion of " dark" heat as disclosed by its relation to surfaces in

absorption.

   The relations of heat to surfaces in absorption, and in the cor-
responding inverse effects of radiation, are among the most im-

portant portions of the subject ; and I have in consequence been
desirous to draw particular attention to the very valuable inves-

tigations of President Bache.

   The properties vvhich characterize the different species of heat

(as we have seen) have been most remarkably developed, and

Aprincipally studied, in the phaenomena of transmission.  wide

field is open to the experimenter in connecting these properties

with those belonging to the conditions of surface which produce

the absorptive powers of bodies for different species of heat
and these again with those which mark the differences in con-

ductive power, and perhaps also capacity for heat.
   With regard to the establishment of a theory of the nature

of radiant heat, we have seen that the hypothesis of undulations

certainly supplies a clue to a vast range of phaenomena, especially

those connected with polarization.

   The question of the identity of the heating and illuminating
radiations seems clearly negatived by many experiments, if we
mean it to apply in the sense of one physical agent. But if we

refer to the possibility of accounting for the different effects by
sets of undulations of the same aetherial medium differing in

their wave-lengths, this probably presents fewer difficulties than
any hypothesis of peculiar heat.

  We may perhaps suppose some other element besides the

wave-length to enter into the explanation : or while we find that
the heating effect is due to waves of greater length, it may also

be true that the intensity or accumulation of waves, which is
necessary for producing the sensation of light, follows a very

different and much higher ratio than that requisite for producing
heat ; and that this latter effect may be produced in the highest

intensity by longer waves of the same aetherial medium, but not

sufficiently accumulated to impress our visual organs.

   The difference in the polarizability of heat from different
                                           D2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;

36 REPORT-- 1640.

sources is not explained by the slight difference of refrangibility
and Prof. Forbes is of opinion that we must in consequence
look for its solution to a mechanical theory of heat in some re-
spects at least different from that of light. It is even a ques-

tion of some difficulty, why any portion of the heat should not

be subject to the law of polarization which the rest obeys, unless
we suppose the heating effect to be of so complex a nature, that
some part of it only is properly due to rays analogous to those
of light, while the other part of the effect is produced by a mode

of action altogether different.

   To any such questions, however, we are hardly yet in a condi-
tion to give a satisfactory answer ; but among the numerous
points open to inquiry, I have dwelt more particularly on those
which appear to me pre-eminently to require more extended in-
vestigation before we can hope to obtain materials for construct-

ing any substantial and unexceptionable theory.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ·

                                               37

Supplementary Report on Meteorology. By James D. Forbes,

   Esq., F.R.S. Sec. R.S. Ed., Professor of Natural Philo-
   sophy in the University of Edinburgh.

     [A Summary of the Contents will be found at the end of this Report.]

1. The present Report on Meteorology is intended to be sup-

plementary to a former one on the same subject, drawn up by

me eight years ago, and printed in the Second Report of the

British Association.

   2. It was in the contemplation of those persons who assisted
in organizing the Association at York in 1831, that the reports

--on the progress of science should be GSiGni\al\Y progressive,

that the same authors, or others, should be engaged to continue
from time to time their sketch of the ever-varying point of
view which each science presents, not merely with the intention
of registering something like a compendious history of facts,
but likewise of philosophizing in some degree upon the new

--character which, during the elapsed period, science may have

assumed, of indicating the success, or not less instructive

failures which may have occurred in attempts to carry forward

our knowledge in the lines of direction indicated in previous
reports, as the most hopeful or important, and of calling atten-
tion to new fields of discovery, new instruments of research, or

the collateral suggestions which may often be derived from the

progress of the affiliated sciences.

  My3. aim in the following report will be--^^r^^, to sketch

the broad features of the science as it stands ; secondly, to give
the bibliography of the subject within a definite period of years

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;

and thirdly, to point out the more conspicuous deficiencies of
our knowledge, and the kind of observation, experiment or rea-

soning by which these blanks may be supplied. In fulfilling

this last and responsible duty, the reporter does not lay himself
open to the charge which has sometimes been very needlessly

--preferred, that he is only attempting to stimidate where there

is more than energy enough, that the tide of science is in such
full flow, that any external or partial impulse does no more
than propagate a local disturbance ; that the grand prime-

-- --movers, the wants, ambition, and restless curiosity of men,

would act just as strongly, without assistance or direction, in
--38 REPORT 1840.

urging the mighty mass steadily forward in its regulated
course ; and that at the same height precisely, and at its ap-
pointed hour, will its proud waves be stayed. Let us remem-
ber that, even admitting the sufficiency of labourers and of
enterprize, it is necessary that this power should receive a use-

ful direction, that it may not be wasted by misapplication, en-
feebled by diffusion, and degraded to unworthy ends. He who
points out distinctly where energy may be usefully applied,

-- --who concentrates scattered and disunited forces, who holds

up continually to view the demands of science as worthy of in-
dividual pursuit and national encouragement, in opposition to
the popular call for the bare quantum of information gleaned

--from desultory experience, which may penuriously supply the

exigency of the moment, he it is who contributes to the ulti-
mate economy of mental labour, to the advancement of sub-
stantial knowledge, and, it may be, to i*aise the intellectual cha-

racter of his country.

    4. Impressed with these views of the possible utility of re-
ports, such as those which the British Association has from
time to time required of its members, I attempt the task of

continuing my report with more reluctance than I felt in com-
mencing it; and, lest more may be expected than I am at all

prepared to fulfil, I will premise, that I shall feel myself at
liberty to select, for fuller illustrations, those departments of

the widely ramified science of meteorology on which T may
have some matured suggestions to offer, without in the least

degree inferring a depreciation of those topics which the limits,

both of time and space, to which I am confined, prevent me

from dwelling upon in equal detail.
    5. It is not proposed, then, in this report, to supply nearly

all the deficiencies which, I am very sensible, exist in the pre-

vious one, nor yet to enter at length upon subjects which in it
were comparatively untouched, but rather to select such topics
as bear most upon general principles, and afford room for prac-
tical suggestions giving, as far as may be, a bibliography of

                                                                     ;

meteorological science in its wider acceptation, particularly
during the last eight years.

   6. And here I would acknowledge the useful suggestions

and information which I have received from the excellent Ger-

man edition of my former report, translated and most materi-

ally amplified by Mahlmann*, in which many involuntary omis-

sions have been ably supplied, and subjects purposely passed

   * Abriss einer GescMchte der neuern Fortschi-itte unci i/es gegenwiirtigen

Ziistandes der Meteorologle, &c. iibersetzt und erganzt von W. Mahlmann.

Berlin, Liuleritz, 1836, pp. 248.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.  39

 over with little notice, copiously illustrated. To this work
 (which is to such a degree original, that I may be allowed to
recommend it,) I shall frequently be indebted in the course of

 these pages.

    7. The useful Repertorium (or Analytical Index to Scientific
Literature) of Fechner,has been succeeded by the ably-conducted
 work of Dove and Moser, under the same title, in which it is
proposed, somewhat after the manner of the British Association

 Reports, to analyse the various publications connected with

 physical science, so as to present, in a cycle of five or six

 years, a digest of all that has appeared on each subject in the
preceding period. The third volume of Dove's Repertoriimv'^,
which has lately appeared, contains a valuable analysis of works
 on one portion of meteorology.

    8. To Professor Kanitz of Halle, beyond all comparison the
most devoted meteorologist of the present day, we are indebted

for the most laborious systematic compilation which has yet ap-
peared upon the subjectf ; a compilation, however, which in-

cludes many important contributions and generalizations of his
own, and which is as much distinguished by copious references
to the works of all who have preceded him, as many works of
the English and French schools are by the total omission of
such literary justice. In the first volume we have the subject
of Temperature generally discussed, and that of Wind and of
Rain. In the second, is the most complete collection of facts

anywhere to be found, on the laws of diurnal and annual
changes of temperature, on isothermal lines, and the proper
temperature of the globe, followed by a chapter on barometric
oscillations, and another on atmospheric electricity. The third
volume is chiefly devoted to optical meteorology and terrestrial
magnetism. This is the only work we have which can pro-
perly be considered as a system of meteorology (with the ex-
ception, perhaps, of the article Meteorology in the Encyclopaedia
Metropolitana, mentioned in the former report).

   9. The attempt to systematize and direct meteorological ob-
servations within the last eight years, is in nothing better shown
than in the various " Instructions for Observers," which have
appeared during that time from various and very influential
sources. Some of the special contents of these instruments we
shall have occasion to notice, as well as the spirit which they
are likely to impress upon future systems of observation, and

  &* Berlin, Veit Co., 1839, 8vo.

 --\ Lehrhuch der Meteorologie, Svo. 3 Bande, 1831 1836. The same au-

thor has more lately published Experimental Physics, and Lectures on Meteor-

ology.
                                              --

                                                                                         .

--40 REPORT 1840.

on national undertakings ; in the mean time we may enumerate

the principal ones by tlieir titles.
    I. Instructions pour faire des Observations Meteorologiques

et Magn^tiques, par A. T. Kupffer. St. Petersbourg, 1836,
8vo, pp. 77' Chiefly instrumental details ; including, however,
a theory of the wet bulb hygrometer.

    II. Instructions for making and registering Meteorological
Observations in Southern Africa. Drawn up under the direc-
tion of Sir John Herschel*.

    III. Instructions pour le Voyage de la Bonite ; Physique

du Globe, par M. Arago, Comptes Rendus de I'Academie des

Sciences de Paris, I. 380. Annuaire du Bureau des Longi-
tudes, 1836.

    IV. Instructions pour I'Expedition d'Algerie, 1838. Par le

meme, Comptes Rendus, VII. 206.
    V. Report of the Committee of Physics and Meteorology

of the Royal Society, on the Objects of Scientific Inquiry in
those Sciences ; drawn up for the Antarctic Expedition of 1839.
Instructions for making Meteorological Observations, pp. 53
 79 ; with an appendix of Tables.

    10. But of all periodical literature, the work which gives the

 fairest representation of the progress of physical science north

 of the Alps, is Poggendorff's Annalen der P/ii/sik, which, even
 as a bibliographical compendium, is invaluable. In the nu-
 merous volumes of this admirably edited work, are to be found
 the best papers published on meteorology, and all the kindred
 sciences, whether in Germany, France, or Britain. The edi-
 torial skill and impartiality with which this work is conducted,
 render it most deserving of support in every country ; whilst
 the high scientific standard, according to which articles are ad-
 mitted or selected, is highly creditable to Germany ; where
 alone, perhaps, in Europe, so learned a work would find ade-

 quate supportf

    11. I regret very much that, from the difficulty of procuring

      · These instructions, printed by the South African Institution, have, I be-
  lieve, been republished in the Journal of the Royal Geographical Society. See
  also Instructions for Observation, and Suggestions for iVIeteorological Inquiry,
  in the first volume of the Transactions of the Meteorological Society of Lon-
  don, 8vo.

     f M. Poggendorff, not satisfied with translating the best foreign memoirs of

  the day (to facilitate which he has recently added an annual supplementary
  part), has, on various occasions, published, for the first time in German, older
  memoirs, of considerable length and difficult}', for the purpose of presenting his
  readers with a complete view of the progress of any science, without searching
  further than his own pages. Thus, he has lately translated Fresnel's Memoir
  on Diffraction, and Sir James Hall's papers on the Consolidation of Strata.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                             41

amwith the least regularity the periodical literature of Italy, I

unable to present any connected view of what has lately been
effected in that country for lueteorological science. The obser-
vations of Sig. Cacciatore, of Palermo, on a uniform system of
standards for meteorological observations*, are among the few

that have come to my knowledge. Let us hope that the re-

cently founded Association of Italian Philosophers Avill do
something towards supplying the want of information under
which we labour of the actual progress of science in that

country f.

   12. Since the last Report on Meteorology, Mr. Luke Howard

has published a second greatly enlarged edition of his Climate
of London!, which deserves to be considered, not as a mere
journal of observations, but in some degree as a systematic

veork. Professor Stevelly, of Belfast, promises an elementary

treatise, the first in our language. M. Quetelet, of Brussels,

has published a full account of the history of Meteorology in

the Pays Bas§, to which, hoM'ever, his own contributions are
by far the most important.

    13. This might appear the natural place for eniunerating

the public establishments lately founded for cultivating

(amongst ^ther things) the practical part of meteorology.

When, however, we shall have considered a little minutely the
condition of the science in its several branches, we shall be bet-

ter able to appreciate their value, and suggest measures for

their extension, (See Suggestions at the close of this Report.)

    14. I proceed now to the different departments of meteor-

ology, nearly in the order in which they were discussed in my
former report||. I have already stated (4.) why I shall hold

myself at liberty to enlarge more upon some topics than others,
or even restrict myself occadonally to a mere enumeration of

· De reditjendis Ohservationihus Meteorologicis. Panormi, 1832.

t In the JBibliotheque Vniverselle de Geneve, is generally to be found a fuller

notice of Italian papers than in other journals published north of the Alps.

This practice might, with advantage, be yet further extended.

mySince this was written, I made it  particular business, during a visit to

London, to search for Italian Scientific Journals. In none of the public libra-
ries where I made application, as most likely to obtain such works, could I

find that Italian Journals are regularly subscribed for or received ! A. new
Tuscan Scientific Journal is recently announced, with the names of Amici and

Savi amongst the editors.

    I 3 vols. 8vo, Lond. 1833.
    § Aper^u Historique des Observations de Meteorologie, faites en Belgiqne
jusqu'd cejour, 4to, Bruxelles, 1834.

   II I take this opportunity of returning my thanks generally for the commu-

nication of valuable meteorological papers, in a detached form, from the respect-

ive authors, which, for the most part, will be found cited in the following pages.
                 ----

--42 REPORT 1840.

memoirs, which may assist the researches of others, and en-
able them to draw their own conclusions.

                              I. Temperature.

    15. Meteorology may, in some sense, be considered as a
mere branch of the science of heat in its widest application.
Were our globe and atmosphere in a uniform state with re-
gard to heat, and not subjected, by astronomical and cosmical
laws, to perpetual and material changes in the distribution of
temperature in its solid, fluid, and gaseous parts, the simplest
considerations would suffice for the solulioia of the few pro-
blems which could then be called meteorological.

     16. It is to the different inclination of the solar rays, that

we trace the effect of climate varying with latitude, and of cli-

mate varying with season. It is to the unequal absorption and
radiation of heat by seas and continents, that we ascribe the
curious inflections of the isothermal lines, and the characters
of moderate and excessive climates. It is to the combination
of these causes with the rotation of the globe, that we attribute
all the phainomena of wind, from the steady monotony of the
Trades, to the capricious changes of higher latitudes, the Tor-
nados of America, and the Typhoon of the Chinese seas. It is
to the mechanical transport of great masses of air due to
change of temperature and consequent expansion, that we look
for the explanation of most of the irregular, and several of the
periodical barometi'ic fluctuations. Lastly, it is to the varying
conditions of temperature proper to the day and night, to one sea-
son and another, in high latitudes and low, that we look for prin-
ciples to guide us in the difficult, but important determination of
the hygrometric elements of our atmosphere, the ceaseless mo-
difications of that fluctuating ocean of vapour which floats in-
dependent of, and unobstructed by, the permanently elastic
envelope of our globe, which (though comparatively unheeded
by us) is subject to all the variations of pressure and tempera-

ture of the common atmosphere, but through limits far wider,

and to changes of physical condition, which the other, from its
permanent character, never presents.

   17. If we choose, then, to consider the grand meteorological
problem for a moment synthetically, instead of analytically
T mean, by regarding the known causes which influence cli-
mate, and applying to these the laws of distribution and com-

munication of heat, which are deduced from laboratory experi-
ments, and from the first data or experimental axioms of that

--science, we have, at least, the advantage of perceiving the

magnitude, interest, and definitivencss of the problems with
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.  43

which meteorology, in the philosophical sense of the term, is

conversant. Those who limit themselves to a few daily mecha-
nical observations of the barometer and thermometer, or who

even apply the results of these simple, but (if well conducted)

important observations, are little aware that the science they

cultivate is capable of giving definite answers to questions

which might seem further removed from human apprehension

than even the problems of physical astronomy, such as the con-
dition of the interior of our globe witli respect to temperature,--
and in some degree its history as regards periods of geological

--convulsion, the whole measure of solar heat received by our

--globe in a given time, the condition of the highest, and for ever

--inaccessible parts of our atmosphere, the temperature which

reigns in the vast regions of space, remote from the influence of
any planet or satellite, however small, whose presence and pro-

--per heat would 5'et influence such an experiment ; these are

amongst the great cosmical problems which we do not mean to

say have been solved, but which there is little reason to doubt
that we are in the fair way of one day being able to solve by

instruments such as we now possess, with the aid of theoretical
investigations identical in kind with many which have been

completely mastered.

   18. Of Instruments, those which are most called for are such

as acquaint us with certain physical constants, or approximate
constants, which determine for our globe and its atmosphere
the particular application of the general laws of the Conduc-

tion and Radiation of Heat. Of theoretical Investigations,
wo require such as shall solve with sufficient generality the
problems with which we have to deal, but stripped of those
exuberant claims to mathematical precision which cramp their
application and discourage those who know how far we are

from even the chance of ever attaining to a degree of accu-
racy which such niceties pre- suppose. The theoretical in-
vestigations of most use, then, are those which, taking the pro-
blem in a general way, show exactly upon what arbitrary con-
stants the determination (for instance) of the climateric condition

of any point of the globe at any moment depends. This is a

task of no small difficulty, even in the simplest form in which it
can be put.

    19. It infers a knowledge (1) of the fundamental laws or
axioms of the science of heat (such as the law of expansion,
variation of specific heat with densitj^, conduction, radiation).
(2) Of all the physical circumstances which can possibly influence
the temperature of our globe, that is, the communication of heat
to, or abstraction from it (I mean their existence, not their de-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;

--44 REPORT 1840.

termination), such as solar radiation, the pi'oper heat of the earth,
the proper heat of the atmosphere, the proper heat of space.
(3) Supposing these preliminaries rightly assigned, next comes

the arduous mathematical investigation of the way in which the
unknown constants which represent these various energetic
sources of modification, enter into the final expression of atmo-

spheric temperature, or whatever be the particular problem under
consideration. (4) For the determination of the constants
(which are supposed to be reduced to the least number of inde-
pendent elements), the analyst is further bound to mould his
formulae into such a shape as to insulate a certain number of the

constants in such a way that they may be determined by direct

physical experiment ; whence the others not so determinable

may be inferred by the principle of exclusion, which assigns the
difterence between the sum of effects due to causes already esti-

mated, and the observed effect, to a remaining cause (such as
the temperature of space) M'hich does not admit of such direct

estimation.

   20. The duty of the experimentalist is thus clearly defined.
Perhaps the most important observations which man can make
for furthering the theory of the universe, are such as no general
sagacity, no patient attention to mere facts as they are presented m
in the course of nature, could possibly have indicated. And it 1
is the most satisfactory and encouraging proof that such a syn-
thetic mode of treating the problem is not an injurious or an
illusory one, when we find many concurrent observations set on
foot in the way which theory has indicated, leading under vary-
ing circumstances to a common result. Such instances are not
uncommon, and will fall to be noticed hereafter*.

    21. It is plain, then, that there ai*e three departments of sci-
ence which must go hand in hand to perfect a mixed science
like that of meteorology. Fh'st, the experimental philoso-
pher must advise generally on the experimental axioms, and on
the modifications which they are to receive in order to allow for
causes which yet do not admit of nice numerical estimation
he must further be fully persuaded that no energetic cause of
modification has been left out of account ; for in so delicate an
inquiry, where the principle of exclusion is to be acted upon,
enormous errors would result from any oversight in this stage

    * Such, for instance, as tlie geometrical diminution of the range of animal
temperature beneath the sui-face of the ground, as we descend in arithmetical
pro£;ression : the uniform retardation of epoch in the same circumstances, and
perhaps we might have added a few years ago, the agreement of several different
methods of approximation to the actual temperature of space. See former Re-
port, p. 203, and Mahlmann's Translation, p. 14.
         SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.      45

of the process. Secondly, the mathematician requires the ut-

most resources of his analysis to ohtain in a definite and tangi-

ble form the resultant action (we will suppose that tempera-

ture is the question) of all the heating and cooling influences

upon a certain point, whose coordinates are given (including

elevation in the atmosphere, or depression below the surface),

and at a particular instant of time. And in this investigation

he will, as we have said, chieflj' show his skill in the precision

which he gives to his results, the judgement with which he intro-

duces needful approximations at that stage of the investigation

which shall tend most to simplicitj^, and in the exhibition of his
results in forms adapted to experimental verification. Then

follows the duty, in the third place, of the observer, or practical

meteorologist, which is to follow the indications which theory
assigns for the determination of data, and for which the me-

thods will be indicated by a competent knowledge of experi-

mental philosophy, and even by prolonged tentative researches in

the laboratory. It is not unoften the provoking result of the

labour expended by the two first sections of investigators, that

the whole problem is found to turn upon certain quantities,

whose nature is perfectly well understood, but vi^hich are,

and threaten for ever to remain perfectly unknown. I need

hardly stop to point out that such a threefold division of labour

is to be found in many other sciences, and notably at present in

Athat of magnetism.  right appreciation of the steps leading

to the solution of such complex mixed problems, which in fact

involve a whole science, is the first step to their solution 5 and
we commonly find that this is performed by the appearance of

some master mind, capable of seizing the question in all its ex-

--tent and under every one of these forms depending on a ver-

satility of mental endowment of no common order. This is

what Newton did for the science of gravitation, what is now

being done by the union of many for the science of optics, and

what Gauss has pre-eminently done for the science of mag-

netism.

22. It will conduce to clearness if it is understood, that so far

as possible, in what follows, we shall keep in view these different

aspects of meteorological science ; and combining, as on a for-

mer occasion, the bibliography with the general detail, I shall

proceed to the different parts of the science of Temperature

somewhat in the order adopted in the last report.
         ..

--46 REPORT 1840.

                                  A. Thermometers^'^'

 --23. Fixed Points. Legrandf has studied once more the

vexed subject of the rise of the thevmometric zero point. He

finds that the pressure of air has no influence, thus confirming

the observations of Bellani ; the molecular change in the form of

the bulb is therefore the remaining cause, and this is confirmed

by finding that it depends on the nature of the glass ; not oc-

Nowcurring (according to the author) in Crystal.  if by Crystal

is meant, as I believe to be the case, Flint Glass, this obser-

vation is at variance Avith that of other observers, flint glass

being generally used for thermometers in this country. Since

writing the last report, I have myself found the following dis-

placement of zero in thermometers all warranted standards by

--the following makers Trough ton andSimms(tvvo), Adie, Crich-

--ton, Collardeau :

+ + +0°-56,
+0°-33,  0°-41, -F- 0°-54,              0°-35, Fahrenheit.

  24. Correction of Scale. When the points are fixed and
the thermometer graduated, the degrees may be examined by

the method of BesselJ. Rudberg has proposed another founded

on similar principles§, and I have given an account of a method

employed by myself, and attended, I think, with considerable

practical advantages, in the introduction to a paper on the Tem-

perature of Hot Springs
                                                                                                                                                    II
   25. Every one must have noticed the difficulty of reading ther-

mometers quickly and correctly when the tube projects much

in front of the scale, owing to an evident error of parallax, which

Ait requires some experience to avoid.  particularly ingenious

method of correcting it has been communicated to me by M.

Valz, the eminent astronomer of Marseilles, which though un-

published, I trust he will forgive me for mentioning. By plun-

ging two- thirds of the diameter of the tube into the material of

the scale so that the plane on which graduation is made is ad-

vanced in front of the mercurial column to the amount of one-

third of the radius of the tube, it may be shown that the error

of refraction will exactly correct the error of parallax.

   26. For self-registering thermometers for maximum tempe-

ratures, such as are now in demand for experiments on deep Arte-

sian Wells, we have the overflowing principle of Cavendish and

   * See last Report, p. 208. Mahlmann, p. 25.
   t Comptes Rcndus (Paris), iv. 173.
    X Berzeliua, Jahreshericht, xv. 70, quoted in Poggendorff's Annalen, xxxvii.
376.
    § See a full illustration of Bessel's metliod in Kupffev's " Instructions," p. 5.

        Philosophical Transactions, 1836, p. 571.

            II
SUPPLEMENTARY RKPORT ON METEOROLOGY,                                     47

Magnus* revived by Walferdin, and his instruments are usually
employed in Parisf. The overflovving principle has been used
(in the same way as in Wollaston's thermo-metrical barometer)
for constructing a thermometer sensible to small change of ani-
mal heat by Dr. Marshall HallJ. Jurgenson, the chronometer-
maker of Copenhagen, has proposed a clock for estimating the
mean temperature of limited periods, in which the compensation
shall be inverted, and the natural effect of temperature on the
rate of an uncompensated clock exaggerated§.

   27. Several other methods or new applications of known

principles have been proposed for the measure of temperature
besides that of expansion commonly emplojred. The extensive
introduction of the thermo-electric pile of Nobiliand Melloni, in

delicate researches on radiant heat, has suggested the use of the

same principle in other cases. Indeed it seems peculiai'ly

adapted for ascertaining the condition of inaccessible points in

respect of temperature. M. Peltier, of Paris, I believe, first pro-

posed the application of long wires of heterogeneous metals to

ascertain at a distance the temperature of their point of junction,

however distant. The method is briefly this : suppose two
wires of copper and iron respectively, and of equal lengths, laid
side by side and soldered at each end. Let one of the wires be
cut, and a galvanometer introduced into the open circuit thus
made. It is well known that the galvanometer needle will not

stand at zero under these circumstances, unless both solderings

have a common temperature. As the temperature of one ex-
ceeds or falls belovv that of the other, the index will move in one

or other direction, and in a well-constructed instrument the de-
viations will be almost exactly as the variations of temperature

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           {|.

Thus, one junction of the wires being plunged in water of known
temperature, and the positive or negative deviation of the galva-
nometer being known and converted into thermometric degrees,
the temperature of the other soldering (which may be inaccess-
ible and removed to a considerable distance) becomes known.
This very ingenious arrangement was shown to me in June,
1835, by M. Peltier, whose acquaintance I owe to the attention
of M. Elie de Beaumont.

   28. The application of the thermo-electro-magnetic princi-
ple becomes easy in very many cases. It has been proposed for
pyrometers by M. Pouillet, who has compared the march of such

· First Report, p. 209.         f Compies Rendus (Paris), ii. 505, 619.

X British Association Reports.

§ Comj^tes Rendus, iW. \^2. Compare First Report, p. 213.

  I am aware that this position has been controverted,  I am satisfied, how-

II

ever, of its general truth from careful experiments.
48 RKPORT-- 1840.

an instrument at high temperatures with that of an air pyrome-

ter*, and at very low temperatures obtained by means of M.

Thilorier's happy discovery of the solidification of carbonic acid
with air and alcoholf.

  29. MM. Becquerel and Breschet have employed the same

method for the determination of the temperature of water at

great depths by sinking the experimental junction of the wires.

As may be supposed, however, in such cases, great attention is
requisite to prevent the slightest chemical action, which would
develope its proper current. They made their observations on
the Lake of Geneva|.

   30. The same ingenious experimenters have applied this me-
thod of measuring temperature to the living animal fibre, by
thrusting a compound needle into the muscular tissue, and with
very curious results §. M. Dutrochet has lately applied the
same method to ascertain the proper temperature of plants, a
yet far more difficult inquiry ||. His experiments have been

fully corroborated by MM. Van Beek and Bergsma^,

   31. I have applied M. Peltier's apparatus for the very obvious

purpose of checking the zero point of thermometers sunk in the
ground to such a depth that their scale can never be re-examined.
For this purpose, along with a thermometer 24 French feet
long**, I sunk a thermo-electric pair of iron and copper, com-

pletely defended in all its length with a casing impervious to

water, and its indications have been generally satisfactory. I

had hoped that, by the use of wires of sufficient thickness, the
thermo-electric current might be communicated from great

depths. From experiments which I have made, I am inclined
to think that their use must be very much limited in this respect,

on account of the rapidity with which the energy of the circuit

* Cotnptes Rendus (Paris), iii. 782.

    f Ibid, i. 513. Professor Muiicke, of Heidelberg, has investigated with
great care the law of dilatation of alcohol, and the result gives for ordinary

atmospkeric temperalures, a value very sensibly different from the mean dilata-

tion commonly received from Dalton's experiments. He has also given the

-- --result of several series of observations on other fluids, and given formulae of ex-

pansion for each. Petersburg Transactions Paper read oth Sept. 1834. M.

Rudberg has re-examined the expansibility of dry air and gases (Poggendorfl's

Annalen), and he finds an expansion of only -364 or '365 between freezing and

boiling water instead of ·375, as was given ver)' nearly both by ]")alton and Gay

Lussac. The scientific world will, no doubt, hesitate a little to adopt the new

determination of this important element, even with all possible respect for M.

Rudberg's known skill as an experimentalist.

X Bibliotheque Universelle, Nuuiel/e Serie,vii. 173 (1837).

§ Comptes Rendus (Paris), i. 28, iii. 771.

   Ibid, viii. C95, 741, 907. ix. G13. Temp, of Insects, ix. 81.

II

·[[ Ibid, ix. 328,  ' ** See below. Art. (9G.)
       SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.  49

diminishes with the length of the conducting wire. Some ad-
vantage is undoubtedly gained by using two or three pairs,
acting simultaneously, instead of one. Wherever distant com-

parisons are intended, it is of great consequence to have a
standard thermo-electric combination, by which any change in

the sensibility of the galvanometer may be tested.

  A32. method of determining the temperature and pressure

of the atmosphere depending on very different principles, has

lately been proposed by M. Arago*. It depends on the known

optical principle, that if a pencil of light radiating from a small
and distant source be divided into two parts, and one of these
be in the least degree retarded more than the other, coloured
fringes will appear when the two pencils are re-united and suf-
fered to fall upon a screen or received on an eye-piece. If by any
arrangement, whether of reflexion or refraction, these bands
have been already formed, their breadth and aspect will be
changed by such a retardation of either component pencil.

Now air rai-efied, whether by heat, diminished pressure, ox the

intermixture of vapour, acts less energetically in retarding light ;
consequently a tube with glass ends, filled with such modified

air made to transmit one pencil, whilst the other passes through
a precisely similar tube of standard air, will exhibit by the pro-
duction of movement of the fringes very minute changes in its
physical condition. It remains to be shown, however, by what
mechanical adaptations M. Arago proposes to make this delicate

experiment susceptible of general application. This he pro-
poses to point out in a future memoir f.

   33. The comparison of ordinary thermometers with standards

is often a matter of great importance, and too little attended to.
The increasing demands of science require a proportionable in-

crease in the consistency of instrumental indications ; not so

much indeed for ascertaining the temperature, as in many other

experiments connected with the temperature of the ground,

rivers and hot springs. Travellers should seize every oppor-

tunity to verify the freezing points of their instruments, and this
is an easy matter ; but to compare thermometers at temperatures
above 100° F., is a practical problem of far greater difficulty than
is commonly imagined. Plunging them together in laboratory
vessels of hot water is a most unsatisfactory process, even if the

sensibilities of the instruments be pretty equal. If they are

very unlike, it is all but impossible, although the correction for

the gradual cooling of the medium becomes then a pretty mathe-
matical problem %. Where the investigation is an important one,

* Comptes Rendus (1840).     f Ibid.

X Fourier, Theorie de la Clialeur, p. 357, and Kelland's Theory of Heat, p. 84,

1840.                     E
--50 REPORT 1840.

or many instruments are to be compared, constant sources of

heat, natural or artificial, cannot be too carefully sought. Bark
pits, natural hot springs, even the waste hot-water of steam-
engines, and the boiling point of some liquids, such as alcohol,

may be usefully employed*.

                  B. Atmospheric Temperature^.

34. Under this head we consider the temperature of a given

spot at different times. These variations are diurnal, annual,

and those of long period.

A35. summary of valuable facts on this subject may be found
Wein 'K:&miz's MeteorologieX and Dove's Repertoriu)n§.
                                                            can

only point out a few general facts of especial importance.

36. The general practice in Germany of expressing periodic

changes of temperature by series of the form

T = A + B sin (^ + C) + D sin {2 x + E) + &c.,

where x is the hour angle, or the fraction of a year, is attended

with considerable advantages, especially for the purposes of in-
terpolation ; and if this has sometimes been carried perhaps too
far, yet the reductions are on the whole very superior to those

in use in this country.

   37. The value of hourly observations of temperature seems
now to be fully admitted, and the two-hourly meteorological
observations connected with the recent magnetic expeditions
fitted out by the English government, are likely to be of the
highest importance for science. In the mean time we may quote

the following important contributions, in addition to those spe-
cified in the former report. 1, Goldingham's hourly observa-
tions, three times a month at Madras ||. 2. Brandes's observa-

tions at Salzuflen (lat. 52° 3' N.), made every hour in the year
1828^. 3. The observations which, at the earnest suggestion
of the Meteorological Committee of the British Association at
its first meeting at York, have been so ably and zealously car-
ried on hourly for seven complete years, under the direction of
Mr. Snow Harris at Plymouth. The means have been regularly

· I have found by the most careful experiments that the temperature of the

vapour of impure alcohol remains surprisingly steady, which was before re-

marked by Hugi {Alpenreise, Solothurn, 1830), but it is not the same with

aetlier. There are some interesting experiments on the constancy of the tem-

perature of vapour from saline solutions in the late volumes of PoggendorfF's

Annalen, especially by Rudberg, xxxiv. 527.

t See former Report, p. 210. Mahlmann, p. 31.  % Vol. iii. p. 342.

^ Vol. ii. p. 1.    Madras Observatory Papers, calculated by Dove.

                  II

% Archiv der Pharmacie, Reihe ii. Bd. xi. 1, quoted in Poggendorff, xli. 635,

and PoggendorfF's Remarks, xli. 630. Compare Comptes Rendus (Paris), i. 204,

and Dove's Repertorium, iii, 345.
SUPPL.KMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.  51

calculated and communicated to the Association in two reports

Aon the subject*. 4.  most interesting series of observations

made every two hours in the inhospitable regions of Nova Zem-

bla, has been published by M. von Baer of St. Petersburgh, to
whom I am indebted for a copy of his papers f. Some of his

results we will immediately mention. 5. Dr. Richardson has

undertaken the most laborious but most useful task of reducing

into order, and into their mean results, the extensive series

of two- hourly observations made in various years in the arctic

regions of America by the expeditions of Parry and Franklin;}:.

This has also been partially done by M. von Baer, in the me-

moirs last-cited, so that we have in some measure a more com-

plete meteorological knowledge of the climate of these desolate

regions than we can be said to possess of that of our own coun-

try. Dr. Richardson has carefully compared his diurnal curves
with those of Leith and Plymouth, and we find the constancy

of the interval between the hours of mean temperature § here
remarkably reproduced, and also in a remarkable manner, Brew-

ster's law of the correspondence of the mean temperature of two
hours of the same name for the whole year with the mean tem-
perature of the year||. The latter fact comes out exceedingly

well also from the tropical observations of M. Freycinet^, and

from the table of Brandes already referred to**.

38. All these observations go a long way towards the il-

lustration of those general laws of climate which may be con-
sidered in some measure independent of local causes. It is not
easy perhaps to conceive a more violent contrast of climate than

the continental one of arctic America, and the insular one of
Plymouth. It were undoubtedly to be desired, however, that

these observations were extended to tropical regions ; and the
expeditions recently fitted out to St. Helena, the Cape of Good

    * British Association, Fifth Report, p. 181 ; Eighth Report, p. 26.

   t Ueber das CUma von Nowaja-Semlja und die Mittlere Temperatur insbe-
sondere; Ueber den Jdhrlichen Gang der Temperatur in Nowaja-Semlja. Von
K. E. V. Ba.er.-^Bulletin de I'Acad. Imp. de St. Petersbourg, t. ii. No. 19,

    X Journal of the Royal Geographical Society, 1839.

    § See First Report, p. 211.

   II Richardson, p. 39. From a communication made by Mr. Harris at Bir-
mingham in 1839, it appears that hourly observations have been made at Phi-
ladelphia (United States) and in Ceylon ; but the results are not published.

   \ Poisson, TMorie de la Chaleur, p. 465.
   ** To these may now be added two sets of hourly observations in Inverness-
shire, made at the expense of the British Association under the direction of
Sir D. Brewster. From the comnnmication made by that gentleman to the
Meeting of the Association in 1840, since this report was written, it appears,

that in these observations also, the constancy of the interval between the hours
of mean temperature mentioned in the text, is well preserved.

                                          K2
                  -- --3 ;

52 REPORT 1840.

Hope, and the possessions of the East India Company, will

doubtless ere long afford this information*.

39. The interesting tables of Von Baer and Richardson illus-

trate most remarkably the different progress of solar heat in

arctic and temperate latitudes. The maximum daily range

which occurs in the end of July at Padua, and exceeds 9° cent.,
occurs in March in Boothia (North America), and at Felsen Bay
(Nova Zenibla), in April f, the values being about 7° cent. At
Leith the range is nearly uniform from April to July, and does

not reach 6° cent., a proof of a temperate or insular climate.

When the sun is always below the horizon, the diurnal curve is, as

may be supposed, very uncertain, and wavering. In winter in

Nova Zembla there is a sensible increase of temperature towards

midnight, at both stations | ; and something of the same kind is
visible in several of Dr. Richardson's winter curves.

   40. The dependence of the form of the annual curve upon

the insular or continental character of a locality, does not need

here to be insisted on. But it is interesting to observe the

contrast between the climates of arctic Asia and arctic Ame-

rica, both so rigorous, yet so unlike :

The mean temp, of Nova Zembla is ie«F.   Of Fort Franklin 17-6
Mean temp, three summer months .'36-5
                                                --,, 50-4
     --,, three winter months                                              17'8

                                                                  ,,

Nova Zembla, therefore, is a climate of wi-etched mediocrity
one of the most dreary in the known world ; the summer tem-

perature scarcely rises above the freezing point ! whilst arctic

America enjoys a European warmth for at least some weeks.
The warmest month at Nova Zembla (August) has a temperature
(39° F.) less than that of January in Shetland. The warmest

month at Fort Franklin reaches 52°, or almost that of July in

Shetland. The extremes are not less surprisingly different :

Extreme heat at Nova Zembla 49° F.       At Fort Franklin 80° F.
                                                   ,, -58§
cold  ,, -53§

      Range  102                              138

   * Since this report was written, I had the satisfaction of seeing, at the Tenth
Meeting of the British Association, the admirable observations of Mr. Calde-
cott, at Trevandrum, in lat. 8° 30' N., which it may be hoped will soon be
published. They are on the thermometer, barometer, and hygrometer, made

hourly for three years.

   \ The reason, of course, being, that as the sun approaches perpetual appa-
rition, the daily variation diminishes. There is an approximation to this at

Leith.

  --+ Von Baer, Tdglicher Gang., p. 9.

   § The extreme of 53 appears to be a very uncommon one at Nova Zembla,
much more so than --58 in North America. Captain Back observed so great

--a cold as 70°.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.  53

Enonnous as both these ranges are, we cannot but observe that

the Asiatic extreme warmth does not approach within 30° of
the American one ! and yet the mean temperature of both sta-

tions is nearly alike.

   41. The determination of the diurnal curve of temperature
and its variations may be almost called complete, in comparison

with that of the annual curve, which, notwithstanding, is a

matter in some respects of still more important concern. Even
the mean tempei-ature of a place, at any period, is very difficult

to fix, owing to the great discrepancies of successive seasons.
Thus 29 years, from 1806 to 1834, during which comparable
observations have been statedly made at the Observatory at
Paris, give a mean of 10°*822 cent., with a variation between
one year and another from 12°'10c. in 1822, to 9°-35c. in 1829,
the difference being almost 5° of Fahrenheit*. It is evident

that many years must be required to fix even this comparatively
simple datum ; how much more to determine the form of the

annual curve which, in every region, is doubtless characterized
by peculiar inflections !

   42. The study of the annual curve is very much retarded by
the want of simple, permanent, and comparable meteorological

observations. These, which require little expense and little time,
pre-suppose, from the extent of years over which they nmst
extend, a kind of co-operation to which too little attention has
been directed. The Paris observations are perhaps the only
ones to which we can look with any degree of confidence in

this respect, even for the comparatively short period of thirty

years. Professor Brandes, of Breslau, has, with praiseworthy
industry, collected and reduced a vast number of observations,
continued at various stations for eight, ten, or more years, and
has compared them and projected the annual curves, which he

obtains by finding the mean temperature of successive periods of
five daysf. The chief stations are Petersburg, Stockholm, Cux-
haven, Zwanenburg, London, Mannheim, Vienna, St. Gotthard,
La Rochelle, and Rome. In these curves, imperfect as they are,
are well shown the peculiarities of insular and continental
climates, and those of plains and mountains. Some points of
agreement may probably be found in all, for which sufficient
reasons may be assigned ; such as the more rapid increase of
temperature than its decline, which applies equally to the diur-
nal curve. This is, I conceive, chiefly owing to two causes,

    * Poisson, Theorie de la Chaleur, p. 463.

   t Beitrdge zur Witterungskunde, von H. W. Brandes. 8vo. 1820. Unter-
nuchungen iiber den niittleren Gang der Warme-Aenderungen durchs ganze

Jahr.
--54 REPORT 1840.

which I will simply indicate : first, that by its nature the
absorption of heat due to direct radiation from the sun must go
on more rapidly than the dissipation of it by cooling ; and

secondly, that some influence may be attributed to the different

distribution of vapour during the rise and decline of tempera-

ture.

   43. Owing to these causes, thermometric curves, if they can

be assimilated to symmetric geometrical curves at all, such as
parabolas, must be regarded as having their axes oblique and

not vertical. An erect parabola cannot even, generally speak-
ing, be employed for finding the maximum with exactness on

this account. But, in point of fact, no one parabola can repre-
sent all the parts of the thermometric curves which, in their
least complicated forms, approach more nearly to the curve of

sines.

   44. From the tables of Brandes and others, we may infer

the probability of discovering special inflections of the annual

curve which characterize particular regions of the globe. The
European curves point, for instance, with great distinctness to
a check in the progressive rise of temperature, owing to the
increasing power of the sun, which occurs almost invariably in
the middle of February. This inflection of the annual curve,
which in Eui'ope always bends it towards horizontality, and
sometimes produces distinctly a second minimum in March, is
a circumstance which has attracted too little attention, and as

an indication of other general inflections deserves notice. This

circumstance has lately been insisted on by M. Erman, in a
letter to M. Arago*, who ascribes it, I think, with unwarrant-

able boldness, to the interception of the solar rays by the j)as-

sage of the meteors of November between the earth and sun !

I believe that it can be very easily accounted for, as occurring

in Europe (which is all we know at present), by the periodic

easterly winds of spring, caused by an unequal effect of tem-

perature which we shall presently notice, and which almost

invariably set in for a time at that season, bringing masses of
cold air, from the continental regions of Europe and Asia, to
the western shores f.

    · Comptes Rendus (Paris), x. 21. (1840.)
   f Since these pages were written, I have received from Prof. Dove of Ber-
lin his elaborate Memoir " on the non-periodic changes of the Distribution of
Temperature on the Earth's Surface," in which he has collected the most com-
plete series existing of authentic observations of monthly mean temperature
for fifty-nine stations. One of his conclusions is remarkable, viz. that when a
large portion of the earth's surface is taken into view, the apparent irregularities
of particular seasons counteract one another, so as to give no countenance to
the idea, that more heat falls on the earth generally one year than another.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOKOLOGy.                         55

          C. Isothermal Lines*.

We45. will despatch very quickly what is to be said on the

very important subject of climatology, because no material

step whatever has been made since the publication of the last

Areport.  considerable number of detached observations, of

various degrees of merit, on the mean annual and monthly

temperatures of many points of the earth's surface, have no
doubt been added, and a list of many of these monographs may

be found in Dove's Repertoriumf, and in the Transactions of

the Meteorological Society. M. Kamtz has performed the use~

ful labour of amassing all the trustworthy observations of mean

temperature which he could discover, and presenting the monthly

means, in the second volume of his Meteorology. The German

translation by Mahlmann of my former report, embraces figures

on different projections of the isothermal and isogeothermal

lines. Both of these, especially the last, require still the greatest

attention, even to give an approximation to truth ; but we have

not yet obtained the roughest sketch of the variations which

these lines undergo with change of season ; in other words, of

the isocheimal and isotheral lines | ; yet these are of the greatest
practical importance. The distribution of animal and vegetable

life materially depends on them ; the boundary of some plants

being determined by the minimum winter temperature, and the

advantageous cultivation of most by the extreme heat of sum-

mer ; the limits of the vine, iiiaize, and olive depend on these

circumstances ; and the region of barley so exactly coincides
with the isotheral line, that (according to Wahlenberg) barley

ripens wherever the mean temperature of ninety consecutive

days rises to 48° Fahr.

46. Professor Dove has not inaptly compared the annual

variations of the form of the great system of isothermal lines to

those which the Lemniscates formed in some biaxal crystals

seen by polarized light undergo by changes of temperature§.

47. These variations (to which we would particularly direct the

efforts of meteorologists) are the more important, because, as

we have already seen in treating of the form of the annual

curve, places may have the same mean temperature, and yet

their climates may have no real resemblance whatsoever (as

when we compare the climates of Nova Zembla and Fort

Franklin in North America, and those of Unst in Shetland and

Copenhagen) ; and these characters may depend in a good
measure upon local circumstances. Those who ai-gue about

* Last Report, p. 214, &c. Mahlmann, p. 45.  t '"· 266.
                                             § L'Institut, No. 32.5.
J Last Report, p. 218.
--56 REPORT 1840,

the constancy or inconstancy of climates from ancient times to
the present*, would do well to recollect that their criteria are
almost all drawn either from extreme temperatures, or from the
facts of botanical geographj?^, neither of which give true indi-

cations of the mean annual temperature of a climate.
   48. From various remote regions we continue to receive in-

teresting reports of the mean temperature, which seem gene-
rally to be more carefully and consistently made than in stations
of easier access. It is indeed surprising, in how few points of
the civilized parts of Europe the mean temperature can be said
to be known with any degree of exactness, to which the verifi-

Wecation of thermometers is an indispensable preliminary.

may mention, as particularly interesting amongst observations

in the most inhospitable regions of the globe, the observations
at NovaZemblaf, Dr. Richardson's reduction of those of Parry
and Franklin, the observations of Beechey, Ross, and Back, in

their respective voyages, the last of whom observed the greatest

natural cold yet registered |; Kupffer and Brewster § on the
temperatures observed on the north-west coast of America, and

Arago upon similar observations by Macloughlin ||. Mr. Web-

ster has given a list of extreme winters observed in North

America ^ ; and Dr. Daubeny some observations on the climate

of that coimtry** ; Mr. Trevelyan has reprinted his paper on

the Climate and Vegetation of Farve, with additions ff.

  We49. have already observed, that it appears, by a reference

to the Paris Tables, that a long series of years of observation

is required to obtain with certainty the mean temperature of a
place J|. It is probable that the temperature of the ground is not
liable to so great fluctuation, and therefore that kind of obser-
vation should be made wherever practicable. This does not, how-

ever, supersede the necessity of long-continued meteorological

observations with verified instruments made under proper pre-
cautions ; and we hope to see the Plymouth observations, and
those conducted at the various magnetic stations fixed upon by

* See on this interesting subject Arago, Anmiaire, 1834; Schouw on the

Climate of Italy (Ed. Phil. Journal, July 1840), and an anonymous paper in

the Phil. Mag.. Aug. 1840.

t Supra Art'., 37--40.             + Ibid.

§ Phil. Mag., 3rd Series, i. 427.  || Comptes Rendus (Paris), i. 266.

^ Silliman's Journal, xxviii. 183. The valuable Meteorological Reports from

the State of New York are still continued, and, through the kindness of Dr.

Romeyn Beck, I have received them down to 1837.

** Brit. Assoc, Eighth Rep., Sect. p. 29.        -f-f 4to. Florence, 1837.

XX The longest extant series of meteorological observations worthy of any

ronfidence is probably that atBei-lin, printed in Dove's paper on Non-periodic

Variations of Temperature (Berlin, 1840). It extends from 1719 to 1839 ; the

greatest annual temperature was 9'''69 R. in 1756 : the least 4°-38 R. in 1740.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                  57

the British government, continued for a series of years on this

account. M. Boussingault has remarked, that at the Equator
the mean temperature of any place may be found at any time of

the year, and at any hour of the day, by digging a pit in a
shady spot a foot deep, and observing the temperature at the
bottom of it*. M. Poisson considers this result as conform-
able to theory f. It is, at all events, a most convenient fact,
and adds one to the many encouragements which nature affords
to the prosecution of meteorology in tropical regions, where

hitherto it has been most neglected.
   50. The improvement of our knowledge of terrestrial tempe-

rature is a most important branch of science. It may be doubted

whether it has hitherto been cultivated in the right way, and
whether local and minor anomalies have not been allowed to

conceal the general laws which we should first seek to attain.

It is quite certain, that the causes producing the inflexions of
the isothermal lines are of the most irregular and unmathe-
matical character, such as the boundaries of coasts and the like.

Still we think that the time may not be far distant when we
shall have isothermal charts as superior to those now existing,
as Gauss's magnetic charts, deduced by skilful artifices from a

limited number of good observations, are to those of Halley in

the last century.

D. Decrease of Temperature ivith HeightX-

51. Part of what properly belongs to this head will be more

conveniently treated of in considering the general question of

the temperature of the globe and its appendages.

52. There is little doubt that the decrement of temperature

is not uniform, but slower as we ascend. It is to this, pro-

bably, that we are to ascribe the greater values of the height

due to 1° of decrement in equatorial than in temperate climates:

thus, Boussingault found 26° c. of decrement for 4800 metres

of ascent in the tropics, or . . . 1° c. for 184 met.

Col. Sykes, in India, on a height of

8500 ft., finds 1° F. for 332 ft. of

ascent §, or                          l^c. ,, 182 ,,

Whilst Saussure's mean value in the

Alps is                               l°c. ,, 154 ,,

Eschmann on the Rigi . . . l°c. ,, 151 ,,

* Ann. de Chim. liii. Annuaire, 1 836, p. 263.

+ Theorie de la Chaleur, p. 508, &c.
I See First Report, p. 218, and Mahlmann, p. 53.

§ British Association, Fourth Report, p. 568.
--58 REPORT 1840.

    M. Boblaye in Greece . . . Pc. for 150 met.
    38 observations collected by Ramond l°c. ,, 164*7 ,,
   And for Gay Lussac's aerostat alone l°c. ,, 184 ,,
as we might expect, from its great elevation*.

   We53. have reason to believe, that in high latitudes the

decrement is less rapid than in low ones; and M. Aragof has

 called particular attention to cases in which an actual inversion
 of the usual law occurs in the latitude of Spitzbergenif, and on
Arthur's Seat, near Edinburgh, during extreme cold§.

    54. The decrement of temperature in the atmosphere, with

 reference to its constitution, has been considered in a lengthened

series of papers, of which we cannot attempt an analysis, by
M. Biot, lately published in the Comjites Rendus de V Academie
des Sciences de Paris, and in the Connaissance des Terns.

    55. It has been considered in a more restricted point of view
by Prof. Challis||, who has deduced from the properties of air,
with regard to specific heat, a fall of 1° Fahr. for 186 feet,
which is about a half too rapid. Mr. Lubbock, on the other
hand, proceeding a jjosteriori from Gay Lussac's aerostat, has
generalized the connexion of temperature and pressure so as to

find the height of the atmosphere^.

   56. Any attempt, however, to connect the temperature and

density of the atmosphere by laws such as regulate a laboratory

experiment, must fail, in consequence of the incompleteness of
the data. The increased specific heat of rarefied air is by no

means the only cause of the diminished temperature of the
higher regions of the atmosphere**. The higher the stratum,
the more transcalent the medium which separates it from the

planetary spaces, and therefore the freer will be the radiation in

   * To convert metres for 1° cent, into English feet for 1° Fahr., use the con-

stant factor 1-8227 [log. 0'26072].
    f Comptes Rendus, vii. 206.
    X Observed by Captains Sabine and Foster.
    § Observed by Dr. Lind, 31 Jan. 1776. Phil. Trans. 1777.
       Cambridge Transactions, vol. vi.

              II

   % On the Heat of Vapours, p. 21. Lond. 1840.
   ** On the specific Heat of Gases, see Dr. Apjohn's experiment by the use of

the moist bulb hygrometer, (Brit. Assoc, Sixth Rep., Sect. Proceedings, p. 33,)

and .Suerman's Thesis, De Calore fluidorum elasticorum specifico, 4to. Trag.

1836, for which I was indebted to tjfie ever-ready kindness of our late associate
Dr. Moll. In these essays we find a new proof of the inexhaustible ingenuity
by which philosophers have endeavoured to make amends for the practical dif-
ficulties of the direct problem : it is curious to see one and the same question
treated, now by the aid of the calorimetei-, now by observing the tone of an
oi'gan-pipe, and now by a dew-point experiment! Unfortunately, we cannot
add that these varioiis methods give the desired concordance of result. Re-
gnault's are the latest experiments on the specific heat of simple^bodies. Ann.

de Chim. Ixxiii. I. (1840.J
                                                                                                                                                ;

          SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                                                                                              59

that direction. Besides, the atmosphere is no doubt a medium
of that description, which permits solar radiation to pass much

more freely than heat which has combined with the materials of

the globe at a low temperature ; hence the surface of the globe

may be considered as a true accumulating source of heat, the

further we recede from which the greater will be the cold*.

  A57. just apprehension of these circumstances will serve to

explain the modifications of this phajnomenon, as well as the

phaenomenon itself. This I have lately endeavoured to do, and

to show the accordance of the theory with facts f. It is known,
from experiment, that the decrement of temperature is most

rapid in spring, and least so in autumn. This appears, both

from the reduced observations on the Pentland Hills, near

Edinburgh, alluded to in my last Report (p. 219), and from

those on a great scale, conducted so long at Geneva and the

Great St. Bernard J. I have shown that this arises from the
following peculiarities of the annual curves at two stations at

different elevations                                                                  (1 .) the curve at the upper or colder station
                                                                                   ;

stands wholly below that at the warmer one. Hence were these

two curves similar, and their epochs the same, the difference

would be constant. But (2.) the rcaige at the upper station is
less than that at the lower one ; hence the summer difference of
temperatures is on the whole greater than the winter difference,
which we know to be the fact§. (3.) The maxima above occur
later than those below, so that the whole colder and flatter

curve is shifted to the right hand, and hence the epoch of

maximum difference precedes the epoch of maximum tempera-

ture, according to a law which I have investigated in the paper

referred to.

58. The diurnal curves correspond to the annual curves in

the two first particulars, but not in the last. I have attempted

to explain the cause of this difference, and to show that, in

point of fact, the epoch of the diurnal curve at the higher

station is (up to a certain height at least) accelerated upon the

lower one instead of the reverse, and that consequently a re-

tardation of the maximum difference upon the maximum tem-

Aperature occurs, which is really the case||.                                                    clear apprehen-

sion of the progress of temperature in the atmosphere and

* See on this subject Fourier, Mem. de I'Academie des Sciences, torn. vii.

Ann.  de  Chim. xxvii.  155                                                           Saussure,  Voyages dans les Alpes, 4to, torn. ii.  §  932,
                                            ;

&c. ; Kamtz, Lehrhuch, ii. 128; Pouillet, Comptes Rendus, vii. 49.

   t Edinburgh Transactions, xiv. 489 (1840) ; and Jameson's Journal,
October 1840.

X Dove's Kepertorium, iii. 337.
§ See First Report, p. 219. Kamtz, Lehrhuch, ii. 140.

II Saussure, Voyages, iv. § 2050. Kamtz in Poggendorff, xxvii. 345.
60 REPORT 1840.

earth leads to itiany interesting and important practical con-

clusions, upon which we cannot now dwell.
   59. Whilst we admit the phfenonienon of the decrease of

temperature with height to be the normal one, and other cases
exceptions, we must not omit to mention an important class of
real exceptions, which deserve particular study.

   60. The superior radiating power of Earth to Air is the

cause of the seemingly preternatural depression of the tempera-
ture of the ground in clear evenings observed by Six, Wilson,
and Pictet, and so well applied by Wells to the theory of
dew. It is evident, that under the circumstances which favour
the development of the cause (viz. Radiation), the effect must
extend more or less above the surface ; and, consequently, up
to a certain point the temperature will increase with height.
This question has lately been treated of in an interesting paper

--by Prof. Marcet*, who has arrived at the following con-

clusions: 1. It is a constant phsenonienon about the time of
sunset, except in the case of violent winds. 2. It attains a

maximum immediately after sunset. 3. The increase of tem-

perature with height extends to 100 or 110 feet at the most.

4. It is most conspicuous when the ground is covered with

snow.
    61. This leads us directly to the important subject of

         E. Radiation f,

whether solar or terrestrial ; in its bearings, perhaps, the most

important and interesting at present connected with Meteoro-

Welogy.  speak now principally of instruments and primary

results ; in the next section, of conclusions to be drawn from

them in connexion with great cosmical questions.

62. The earth acts by absorbing radiant heat from the sun

and (perhaps) other heavenly bodies ; and it radiates it again

according to new laws towards space. Each of these effects, and

the modifications which circumstances introduce into them, may

be made the subject of separate experiment.

63. Since a thermometer with a blackened ball absorbs more

solar heat than a bright or transparent one, it was natural to

suppose that the difference of indication of two such instru-

ments might be considered as a measure (at least a relative

indication of the force) of solar radiation. The stationary dif-

   · Memoires de la Societe de Physique, &c. de Geneve, torn. viii. (1838).
   t See First Report, p. 222 ; Malilmann, p. 64. I think it unnecessary to say
anything of the progress of our knowledge of Primary Physical Laws of Radia-
tion, because that is to be made the subject of a special report by Professor

Powell.
        SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOOy.                                                                     61

ference of such instruments was therefore observed by Lam-

bert*, Leslie t, and others.

64. It is plain, however, that this indication can only be con-

sidered to be comparable with itself so long as all external cir-

cumstances besides solar radiation remain the same. This

Saussure well showed by one of his admirable experiments t,

in which, by properly defending the thermometer from wind and

common radiation, he raised its temperature in the sun to 190°
Fahr. Sir John Herschel first pointed out that the momentary

effect of the sun and other combined causes, in affecting the
temperature of a thermometer, diminished by the momentary

effect of those other causes acting separately, is the true relative

measure of the force of the sun's rays. The first notice I have

met with substantiating Sir John Herschel's claim to the ap-

plication of this principle (which has since been rather un-

scrupulously adopted abroad with a slight change of form),

is in a paper by the late Dr. Ritchie, in the Edinburgh Journal

of Science for 1825 §, where he gives an extract from a letter of

Sir John Herschel, who, in a few words, sufficiently describes the

instrument and its principle. Full instructions for its use have

lately  been  printed  by  the  Royal  Society                                            5  it  is  called  an  ac-
                                                                                      ||

tinometer.

   65. The actinometer scale is an arbitrary one, obtained by
direct comparison of one instrument with another; and so satis-

factory is this kind of observation, that, from direct experiment,

I am satisfied that the value of the actinometric degrees may be

obtained within y^oth of the amount of solar radiation. It is
very singular, that Sir John Leslie, with his marked sagacity,
should not have perceived that his mode of graduating photo-

meters, by first converting them into hygrometers^, is radically
erroneous ; and accordingly I have found that, when his instru-
ments are compared, after being constructed with the utmost
care, they do not even approach to agreement except at 0°,

unless they are of the same dimension, and in every respect

 similar; but absolute identity in size, material, and arrange-

ment, it is beyond the power of art to obtain. Careful experi-
ments, which I have likewise made with this elegant instrument

under different skies and in different climates, compel me to

 conclude, that though in certain very uniform circumstances

its relative indications may be really of value, yet in a wider

· PyromUrie, p. 158. 4to. Berlin, 1779.

+ Essay on Heat. Lond. 1804.             t Voyages dans les Alpes, § 932.

§ Vol. iii. p. 107.

   Report of Committee of Physics, &c. 1840, p. 61.

II

4 Essay on Heat, p. 421.
--62 REPORT 1840.

point of view they do not even afford the slightest approxima-

tion to the truth.
    66. It does not, however, follow that the indications of the

photometer are of no value, or that observations with it should
be discontinued. There are some constant peculiarities in its
action, so remarkable, as to suggest very interesting investiga-
tions. The effect of the reflected light of the sky is always
exceedingly intense ; so much so, as to give rise to the most

paradoxical effects with regard to the intensity of solar radia-

tion, if neglected. Thus I have found the whole effect of the
sun and sky in a bright April day in this country, when many
white clouds were present, not very inferior to that of the most
piercing sunshine of the most sultry day of the south of Europe,

unaccompanied by a single cloud. What would be the indica-
tions of the actinometer in these circumstances I am unable to
state. M. Kamtz found, on the sumi\)it of the Faulhorn, that

the direct solar effect on Leslie's photometer was equalled,
and often exceeded, by that of the diffuse atmospheric in-

fluence*.

   67. Sir John Herschel has lately proposed to render his scale
an absolute one, denoting by an actine " the intensity of solar
radiation, which, wholly absorbed at a vertical incidence, would
suffice to melt a sheet of ice one-millionth of a metre in thick-
ness in one minute f." With an actinometer, which marked

29°-5 as the maximum effect which he had obsei*ved in Europe,
Sir John Herschel found the solar radiation at the Cape of Good
Hope to attain 48°-75 of the same scale, the intensities being

in the exact proportion of those numbers J.

   68. M. Pouillet, of Paris, described, some years ago, an ap-

paratus for measuring solar radiation, in which the errors of other
statical contrivances were in a good measure avoided, by en-
closing the thermometer in an envelope maintained at 0° c, with
the exception of a small hole, which exactly admitted the direct
rays from the solar disc§. Since that time, however, he has
adopted Herschel's dynamical method, which he has applied to
a modification of the actinometer, which he terms a pyrhelio-
meter ; reserving (rather unfortunately I think) the term acti-
nometer, which was already so fitly appropriated, to a separate
apparatus for measuring nocturnal radiation. These instru-
ments and their applications are described in an ingenious and

interesting memoir read to the Academy of Sciences 9th July,

                * Lehrhuch, iii. 14.
                t PoggendorfF, xli. 559. Royal Society's Report, p. 67.
              + Comptes Rendus (Paris), iii. 506.
                § Elemefis de Physique, 1832, torn. ii. p. 703, fig. 356.
          SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                                                            63

1838, printed in the Comptes Rendus*, and also privately cir-

culated.

  A69. question of very great importance in meteorology, and

one of the first which radiation experiments were employed to

determine, is the proportion of incident solar heat which is
absorbed in its vertical passage through the atmosphere. In

the acute, learned, and original work of Lambert on Photo-

metry, published in 1760, (and now, I know not why, extremely

scarce,) this question is fully discussed ; formulfE are investi-

gated for the total loss of light at any altitude, according to an
assumed law of density, (which had already been done by Bou-
guert, who first suggested the method,) and from a comparison

of intensities at two elevations, the total loss in the atmosphere

by a vertical transit is ingeniously deduced];. From experi-
ments made at Coire with blackened thermometers, Lambert
deduced the loss of light or heat by a vertical transit through a

clear atmosphere to be about y%ths of that incident on the ex-
terior boundary §. Bouguer had estimated the loss of light at
only one half as much.

70.       Laplace                                               investigated the law of extinction of light in the
                                                            ||

atmosphere, and showed that it may be made to depend ap-

proximately on the measure of refraction at any angle, by a very

simple formula. He employed Bouguer's constant for OP of

zenith distance.

   71. Sir John Leslie made experiments on the principle of
Bouguer and Lambert, with his photometer placed in a position
which equalized as much as possible the coolhig causes, and
admitted the direct heat of the sun<^. The results are con-

tained in the article Climate, in the Encyclopaedia Britannica,
from which it appears that he estimates the loss of heat by
absorption at \t\\ of that vertically incident.

72. Professor Kamtz, who has done full justice to Leslie's ele-

* Memoire sur la Chaleur Solaire, sur les pouvoirs rayonnants et ahsorlanfs

de I'Air Atmospherique, et sur la Temperature de VEspace.-- Comptes Rendus                                '

vii. 24.

   t Traite d'Optique, &c. 4to. 1760, p. 306. Bouguer restricted his method
to a comparison of the intensity of hmar light at different elevations with wax

candles.

   X Lambert, Pkotometria, she de Mensura et gradihns           Luminis,  Colorim                         et
VmhrcB, p. 392, &c.                                                                                    '

   § Photometria, p. 397. Compare Pyrometria, § 283.
   II Micanique Celeste, iv. 282.

  1[ Sir John Leslie himself gives no account of the circumstances under which
the observations were made, but I learn from his assistant, that the photometer
was placed under the revolving dome of the Edinburgh Observatory, the slit
being turned towards the sun, and that it was observed very frequently at dif-

ferent hours.
                                                               --

--64 REPORT 1840.

gant instrument*, and who has endeavoured to separate from its

indications that part which is due to reflexion from the at-

mosphere, finds by it, that at the summit of the Faulhorn,

nearly 9000 feet above the sea, 30 per cent, of the vertical rays

are already lost. With Herschel's actinometer (calculating al-

ways observations at diff'erent elevations by Lambert's formula),

he obtains only 26 per cent, of loss at the Faulhorn, or 32 per

cent, at the level of the sea. This was in perfectly clear weather.

73. M. Pouillet, employing likewise Lambert's formulae, and

the modification of the actinometer already mentioned, finds, at

different seasons of the year, an absorption varying from 21 to

28 per cent., at a vertical incidence at Paris.

74. Saussure seems first to have thought of comparing directly

the intensity of solar heat at the top and bottom of a mountain,

and he contrived a heliothermometer for that purpose ; and by

experiments on the Cramont, to the south of Mont Blanc, he

actually proved the increased intensity of the solar rays as we

ascend, notwithstanding the diminution of temperature; un-

doubtedly a very remarkable experiment for the period f.
   75. In 1832, Sir John Herschel kindly pointed out this pro-

blem to my attention, and furnished me with two actinometers. I

had the rare, good fortune to obtain the aid of Prof. Kamtz in

making directly comparative experiments at the top and bottom

of a column of air 6500 feet high, of known density, tempera-

ture, and humidity, under the most unexceptionable circum-

Astances in point of weather.  provisional reduction of these

experiments has given me 29 per cent, for the vertical loss at

the level of the sea, a near agreement with the 32 per cent, in-

dependently determined by the method of Bouguer and Lam-

bert with the same instrument at the same time.
   76. Collecting these various results, we have for the absorp-

tion of incident solar heat traversing the atmosphere vertically

=in clear tveather, the following fractions (incident heat 1) :

Bouguer                                          '19

Lambert                                          "41

Leslie                                           -25

Kamtz                                            -32

Pouillett                                        -25

Kamtz and Forbes                                 '29

Mean                                             -285

Mean, omitting the two first . '277

* Lehrluch, iii. 10, &c.  f Saussure, Voijages, 4to. iii. 310, and note.

X It appears from the remark of M. Pouillet, p. 8 of his Memoir, that he

;70uld make the fraction even lower for a perfectly pure sky.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                                   65

    77- Another method of measuring, or at least comparing the
intensity of solar radiation^ would be by the use of photographic

paper*.

   78. The next problem which radiation experiments may be

expected to solve, is the quantity of heat actually received from
the sun in a year on the surface of the earth. According to
Pouillet's last estimate, this amounts to a quantity of heat

capable of melting 31 metres' thickness of ice all over the
globe f. Such estimates must be received with considerable

diffidence.

   79. The excess of heat received during the day is given off at
night, or rather there is a perpetual radiation of heat from the

globe towards the celestial spaces, which, granting the con-
stancy of climate from age to age, must exactly equal the quan-

tity of heat received. Observations of this kind may be made
in various ways. The simplest is by exposing a thermometer
to the aspect of the open sky, laying it on some freely radiating
substance, such as snow, wool, or swandown. In this manner

were conducted the experiments of Six, Wilson, and Wells.
Wells noticed a difference of two thermometers, one in air, the
other placed on swandown, amounting to 8*3 centigrade de-
grees J (15° E.). Boussingault, in his observations amidst the
Andes, has recorded a depi'ession of 6°"1 ; but the radiating
thermometer was laid simply on turf, the other was suspended in
the air at a height of 1*6 met. (5 ft. 4in.)§. His observations
were carried to a height of 4600 metres, where we should expect
the effect of nocturnal radiation to be gi*eatly increased, owing
to the excessive transparency of the atmosphere. The same

author mentions the curious fact, that to defend their crops
from the intensity of the nocturnal cold, the natives of South

America often make artificial clouds by means of smoke.
    80. Leslie applied his differential thermometer to the measure

of radiation by exposing one ball in the focus of a parabolic
mirror, which he then called an ethrioscope. The conduct of
systematic experiments of this kind is a matter of considerable

difficulty. The only continuous series with which I am ac-
quainted were made at Geneva during several years succeeding

1836, and published amongst the regular and excellent obser-

vations preserved in the Biblioth^que Universelle, a journal in

* See Hei-sche], Phil. Tvans. 1840, p. 46. "Description of an Actinograph

or self-registering PhotoD\eter for Meteorological purposes."

t Memoire sur la Clialeur Solaire, p. 9. His former estimate was 14 metres

only (see First Report, p. 222).

J Arago, Annuaire, 1836, p. 261. See also Annuaire, 1833, p. 214, &c.
§ Ann. de Chim. lii. 260.

VOL. IX. 1840.                    F
--66 REPORT 1840.

which, during its long existence, marked attention has been
given to the science of meteorology*. It does not appear,
from the writings of Sir John LesUe himself, that he had ever
obtained any very definite results by the use of the ethrio-
scopef. The action of the reflecting mirror seems not to be
fully understood, at least so M. Pouillet asserts it* I ^'^
unable, from experience, to verify his statement, which
leaves, however, some ambiguity. M. Pouillet employs
a vessel stuffed with swanskin {peau de a/gne), capable of
having its orifice directed at pleasure, and having a radiating

thermometer in its centre. By ascertaining the effect upon

this apparatus of a surface artificially maintained at a given

temperature, he deduces the mean radiating temperature of the
atmosphere considered as an indefinite concave. But this
brings us to general questions of great interest and importance.

      F. Proper Temjyerature of the Globe and of Space ^.

    81. I forbear to repeat what I have formerly said respecting
the proofs of the proper temperature of the interior of the earth.
I confine myself to a statement of the very important advances
since made, both in experimental researches and in the induc-

tion of laws.

   A82. fevv fundamental experiments are sufficient to maintain

Fourier's position, that the interior heat of the earth exercises

no perceptible influence on its present climate ; we are there-

fore left to consider the effects of heating and cooling influences
wholly external.

    83. The imperfect transparency of the atmosphere stops a not
inconsiderable share of the solar rays, which are therefore ex-
pended in heating it directly. But the major part reach the
surface, and their effect being there concentrated (whilst in
their transit through the atmosphere it is spread over a vast
mass of air), the effect is incomparably more intense than else-
where. The bounding surface of the earth (or ocean) and air is
therefore to be considered as a true source of heat. From
thence it is distributed progressively downwards by conduc-
tion ||, upwards by RADIATION and convection. The warmth

    * Bih. Univ., N. S., iii. 209, and subsequent volumes. Since the publication
of the formei" report, we have to regret the loss of the late amiable Sir. George
 Maurice, principal editor of that journal.

   f Articles Climate and Meteorology, Encyclopeedia Brilannica, New Edit.
    : Mem. Chal. Sol., p. 32.

    § First Report, p. 221 ; Mahlmann, p. 67, &c.
       Even in water. See the interesting and conclusive experiments by M.

                 II

 Despretz, Comptes Rendns, vii. 9.33.
SUPPLKMENTARY RKPORT ON METEOROLOGY.  67

of summer and the winter's cold are gradually propagated
both upwards and downwards j and, in either case, with a
 diminishing intensity according to known laws. The annual
curve of temperature in the ground is rapidly retarded and
flattened, until, at a moderate depth, (60 to 100 feet, depending
upon the conducting power and specific heat of the soil,) it

 sensibly coincides with a straight line, or the influence of
 seasons disappears ; and the same takes place in the atmosphere

at a great and unknown elevation.
    84. The general principles of the communication of heat have

 led to the conclusions, 1. that the annual range should diminish
 geometrically as the depths below the surface increase arith-
 metically; 2. that the retardation of epochs increases uniformly

 with the depth*.
    85. Both these conclusions of theory have been very satisfac-

torily verified by the experiments mentioned in the former re-

port f, and extended since. And what is still more important, the

 verification of these two simple laws includes the introduction

of certain constants, which may thus be determined d posteriori,

and the general solution of problems of terrestrial conduction

 obtained.

    86. Instead of merely citing the formulae in which the ex-
pressions of the constants of our globe and system are involved,
 and which are found to express approximately the thermo-
 metric conditions of the strata of our globe near enough to the

surface to be directly influenced by climateric changes, we will
 endeavour to trace, very generally, the kind of process by

 which mathematicians have attempted to reduce to law these
 most complicated and involved series of causes. In doing so
 we have a twofold object, which seems peculiarly congenial to

 the nature of such reports as the present ; first, to extricate
 from a chaos of symbols (which would deter most persons
 from even tracing the connection of the data assumed, with the
 results announced), such results as apply immediately to the

physical investigation ; and secondly, to consider how far the

 really fundamental conditions of the problem have, or have not,

 been sacrificed to render the mathematical investigation practi-

 cable at all.

    * See the original works on Heat of Fourier (particularly il/e»z. de I'Institut,
 1821-22, p. 163) and Poisson, the elementary work of Prof. Kelland, and the
 Report by Prof. Whewell, on the Mathematical Theory of Heat. British

 Association, Fifth Report.

    f- P. 221. The experiments on buried thermometers, near Edinburgh,
 were made in the grounds of Mr, Ferguson, of Raith, by his permission, but
 were suggested and directed by the late Sir John Leslie. See Whewell'e Re-
 port, p. 30 ; see also article Climate, Encyclopeedia Rritannica.

                                                      F2
                                                                      ;

68 RKPORT-- 1840.

87. The uork in which the rigorous comparison of theory with

experience in this most intricate inquiry has been most insisted

on, is that of M. Poisson, of whose mathematical attainments
it would be equally unnecessary and unbecoming in me to

speak ; any criticisms I have to offer will therefore be confined

to the second of the heads T have noticed above ; and to his

mywritings* I will chiefly confine        attention.

88. So far as the effect of solar heat is concerned, the a pri-

ori solution of the problem of the temperature of any part of the

--earth's surface may be thus imagined : (1.) The w/tole quantity

of sunshine which falls on any part of the earth's surface in

the course of a year is to be found, and also the law of its

variation of force at different seasons. (2.) The part of this
heat which becomes effecti^'e in heating the earth's crust is to

be found by multiplying the amount by a constant depending

upon the absorbent power of the surface. (3.) This quantity
of heat thus reduced is propagated towards the interior, accord-

ing to the laws of conduction, which again pre-suppose the

knowledge of two constants proper to each soil, namely, the

Conductivity and the Specific Heat.

   89. (1.) The measure of the quantity of sunshine received by
any place in a year, and its distribution at different seasons, has

been a favourite problem with mathematicians f. In ultimate
analysis, it depends of course on the astronomical elements

which affect the progress of the seasons, viz. the obliquity of

the ecliptic (7), the latitude of the place (/x), the excentricity of
the earth's orbit(a), and the longitude of the sun's perigee (ot);}:.

But there are also elements quite as important as any of these

the imperfect transparency of the air and its varying thickness,

owing to differences of obliquity of the transmitted rays, and

the condition of opacity depending on the weather. Neither of

these are insignificant, neither of them compensatory ; both
may be considered as functions of the hour-angle and fraction

of the year, and the second is besides subjected to the most

capricious changes. Yet of these elements theory has hitherto

taken no account, and consequently the expression for the

quantity of sunshine obtained, in terms of astronomical con-

stants, with so much labour, we must hold to be nearly useless

as a physical datum. It is vain to say, witli M. Poisson §,
" Les lois d'absorption de la chaleur solaire a travers I'at-

mosphere, les variations diurnes et annuelles sont egalement

* Theurie Mathcmatique de la Chaleur, 4to. Paris, 1835, chap. xii.    Sup-

plement, 4to, 1837, and Compfes Rendns, iv. 137.

f See a list in Kiimtz, Lehrhuch, i. 60.          5 Theorie, p. 475.
X In Poisson's Notation.
       .

          SUPPLEiMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.            69

inconnues, et Ton peut seulement supposer qu'elles sont peu

Weco7isid(frabies."  know, on the contrary, that they are so

considerable, that, estimating the loss of radiant heat by a

vertical passage through the atmosphere (76.) at only twenty-

five per cent., at an angle of elevation of 25° the force of the

solar rays would be reduced to a half, and at 5° to one-tiventieth

Wepart.   know, indeed, that the difference of the direct effect

of a vertical and a horizontal sun is due to this cause alone, exag-

gerated, of course, immensely by the variable meteorological

state of the atmosphere, which again is a function of the lati-

tude.

90. (2.) The receptive power of the surface is a datum which

we find it very difficult directly to determine, and which, since

the quantity of sunshine cannot (as we have seen) possibly be

directly computed, must be inextricably mixed up with it.   It

                                                           _

might be a question, whether, by covering a tolerably extensive

surface of soil, in vphich thermometers are inserted, with a com-

position of known superficial conductivity, this element might

not become known.
   91 (3.) The specific heat (e) and conductivity [k) of the soil are

also inextricably mixed up together in the analysis ; but either

becoming known, the other may be inferred from thermometric
observations carried below the surface. The specific heat seems
that best adapted for laboratory experiments ; M. Elie de Beau-
mont has assigned 0-5614 for the value of c (that for an equal

=hulk of water being 1)*, proper to the soil at the Observatory

of Paris.

   92. To obtain the conductivity of the soil a posteriori, it is for-

tunately not necessary that the preceding theoretical estimation

of the distribution of sunshine should be correct ; but there are
other estimates into which it essentially enters, and which iiiust

therefore be received with corresponding caution. To facilitate
reference to M. Poisson's work, I will show how the simple and
very satisfactory observation of maximum and minimum tempe-

rature of the earth's crust at given small depths (above the inva-

riable stratum) may be made to yield a knowledge of some of

the constants above referred to.

   93. Let the excess of annual maximum above annual minimum

temperature at a depth p be expressed by A^ ; then

          log Ap=^ A+ Bpf

A =^n which of course denotes the log. range when ^        or

    * Poisson, Supplement, p. 4.

 --f M. Quetelet puts under this form M. Poisson's equation. See the memoir

referred to below.
                                                                                                       --

--70 RKPORT 1840.

at the surface, and B determines the common ratio of the geo-

metrical progression according to which the range diminishes.

From observations with two thermometers at different depths,

A and B may be obtained a posteriori.

  94. Now when we consult M. Poisson's work, we find that his

equation(23.), page 497, which is equivalentto the preceding one,

is thus composed. The quantity A, on which the superficial

range depends, contains (1) astronomical constants of climate y,

ft,  a,  sy already mentioned                                                                          (2) a        temperature h  depending on
                                                                                             5

the mean force of the solar rays which have traversed the atmo-

sphere and entei-ed into combination with the earth's surface by

absorption at a given place*; (3) the constant of conductivity /c,
and of specific heat c.

     95. The co-efficient B, on which the rate of diminution of the

range depends, is fortunately a very simple quantity, involving

neither astronomicalconstants, nor those proper to the superficies.

It is, in fact, an absolute number multiplied ^y\/ -jT) ^"^ from

a knowledge of it (by observations with two or more thermonie-

ters) this quantity may be very readily and accurately deter-

mined ; and it affords the onljr unexceptionable manner of ascer-

taining the conductivity of the earth's crust on a large scale.

Observations to this effect have, from time to time, been made

by thermometers plunged more or less below the soil ; first, by

Ott  of Zurich,                                              in               l762t;           secondly, by Leslie near Edinburgh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;

thirdly, by Herrenschneider at Strasbourg^; fourthly, by Muncke

at Heidelberg§ ; fifthly, by Rudberg at Upsala ; sixthly, by

Arago at Paris ; seventhly, by Quetelet at Brussels. An ad-

   * Poisson, p. 480, where the definition of A is " Une temperature coiistante

proportionelle a I'intensite de la chaleur solaire, telle qu'elle est a la distance
moyenne de la terre au soleil et apres avoir traversee I'atmosphere pour avriver
au point O." It must not, however, be forgotten, that it includes s, a constant
of superficial absorption, and therefore varies from one point to another. See
Poisson, p. 500. The quantity k is one of the most troublesome clearly to ap-
prehend, and the dispersion (and sometimes permutation) of symbols throughout
so large a work contributes to the ambiguity. I will therefore add, that in the

value of/;,                                            pace  480,             namely,-;             :            :   --, £  is  a constant of absorp'^tion  for  a
                                                       '°                  '            ·" (A                       a-
                                                    '                                          -h      A|)

given soil, but which may vary with the incidence of the rays (p. 474) ; S is the

product of an element of surface, and a quantity of heat in the condition in

which the atmosphere has transmitted it (p. 475) ; X and Tvj denote the proper

Osuperficial radiating power of the point under consideration, and the cooling
Qeffect due to the contact of air (p. 349). The product of A by (see Art. 105,

note) measures the thermometric efficiency of the solar rays in raising the

climateric temperature of the spot (p. 518).

     t Lambert's Pyrometrie, p. 356.                                                                                + Imperfect ; only one thermometer.

     § Gives only the epochs.
        SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.  71

mirable abstract and analysis of all these observations has been
made by the last-named indefatigable observer, in a special me-
moir on the subject*, which we could hardly abridge without
transcribing, and will therefore state chiefly the results with

Arespect to the quantities and B mentioned above. The fol-

lowing are the principal results in a tabular form, it being un-
derstood that in most of these cases no correction has been ap-
plied for the temperature of the liquid in the stem of the ther-

mometer and betw^een the bulb and the surface of the ground.

Place.
72 KEPORT-- 1840.

been instituted at Bonn by Prof. Bischoff*, and at Freiburg in
Saxony by Prof. Reich f; but of these, so far as I am aware,

only impei'fect notices have yet appeared.

    9,9. The epochal retardations for the annual curves at the depth
of a few feet follow, generally speaking, a simple law, for they
are propagated uniformly downwards with a velocity which is

easily connected with the constants proper to the soil determined
from the range at two given deptlis, as just explained|. It must

not be concluded, however, that the epochs of earth-temperature

at the surface coincide with those of air- temperature in the ad-

joining stratum. The difference of epoch may be obtained in

terms of the conductivity and superficial characters of the solid
stratum§. But the complete expression for the epoch at any

depth in terms of the dates of maximum and minimum at some

other depth, and of the constants of conductivity and surface,
derived from two observed ranges, is so complex, that so far as
I know, no attempt has been made to verify IVI. Poisson's for-

mulae except in a single example by himself, taken from M.

Arago's observationsl|.
    100. It is a matter of some practical difficulty to find the

precise period of maximum and minimum temperature from ob-

servations at or near the surface, on account of the accidental
fluctuations which occur, especially near the time of minimum,
and which, even at a depth of three feet, produce in this climate
an uncertainty sometimes of a week or more.

    101. I have already stated, in the preceding table, the results

    * Wdrmck/ire von G. Bisclioff, 8vo, 1S37, pp. 100, 392, 507. Tlie observa-
tions were not made with long-tubed tliermometers having their scales above
ground, bnt by sinlcing bottles of water in wooden tubes to a certain depth,
drawing them up rapidly, and observing theiv temperature. The observations
were carried to a depth of .'36 feet.

    t Bischoff, ibid, p. 512.

  XX Poisson, p. 432. If be the range at a depth x, and X' at depth x', and

h the retardation of epoch due to the increased depth from x to x', tiie following

relation holds,

                               X'=Xe-"'^

m being a constant and e the base of Napier's logarithms.

     § Ibid.

      P. 502-3. The coincidence is not so remarkable as a cursory inspection

               II

--would suggest; there are not four coincidences but only two the data and

qucesita being reversed. The coincidence, such as it is, perliaps jU^'Ot'e* too much
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;

for M. Arago's observations are not corrected for the ttmperatiue of the stem
("afin de pouvoir faire usage des observations non corrigees que M. Arago
m'a commvmiquees, je supposevai que ces corrections soient pen considerables,"

p. 500) ; it is certain, however, that for the larger thermometers, where the
range is least, and the correction (jreatest, the epochs must be (perhaps most
materially) affected. The scientific world anxiously looks for the extended and

reduced observations of M. Arago.
   SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.  73

of different observations on the rate of progress of heat into the
soil, especially as depending on its geological character, a com-
pact sonorous sandstone transmitting heat at the rate of one
foot in four days, whilst in loose sand (the same ingredient) it
required 6'2 days. The following tables illustrate the varying
retardation and proportionate diminution of amplitude (or range)

at different depths*.

i
74 REPORT 1840.

opacity, and cloudy weather ; and even could this be accom-
plished, we should yet want data for knowing what portion of
the incident heat combines with the earth so as to affect the

climate. M. Pouillet, we have seen, has estimated the total

quantity of sunshine incident on our globe*, but this was irre-
spective of modifications of weather, and of the variable quantity

of sunshine in different latitudes.

   A104. practical a jjosteriori determination of this most im-

portant meteorological element of the total quantity of effective
solar heat, affecting the thermometric mean of any climate, has

been suggested by M. Poisson. It seems well established by

observations in the Caves at Paris, and by observations on the

temperature of the eai-th at Geneva, that the mean air-tempera-
ture and mean superficial earth-temperature agree at these
places, though their extremes differ both in amount and epoch.
If, then, we can by any means find the total effect of the solar
rays on the superficial earth stratum, we may assume that to

be the effect due to the direct action of the sun in raising the

temperature of the place.

   105. M. Poisson has accordingly attempted most ingeniously

to connect the climateric effect of the solar rays with the indica-

tions of thermometers sunk to small depths in the ground. From

Athe value of the superficial range (whose logarithm is in the

expression of art. 93.) one of its factors h may be discovered,
entering into combination with known or determinable quanti-
ties, and this quantity /* isf, for any given spot, a number pro-

portional to the direct climateric effect of the sun's rays A\hich

may be deduced from it;};. Now let us admit the mathematical

accuracy of this very intricate investigation, and the admissibility

    * Art. 78.                                        t See art. 94, note.  Notation,

   J The value of  A of art. 93, 94, is the following (in Poisson 's

page 497) :        --2bh     x --y(| sin ,«* sin 2 a Q),
                   log --r:

where cc, y, ft are astronomical constants already mentioned.
    his the constant of art. 94. riote.
    6 is a constant depending on the superficial character of the soil, and also on

         its conductivity.

  D is a function of b, of the specific heat of the soil, and of the longitude of the

         earth's perihelion.

  Q is a very complicated function of the astronomical constants which deter-

       mine the length of the day, and is one of a series of definite integi-als of

       which the succeeding terms are neglected.

ABy the combination of two observed values of B B-\- p (art. 93.) b and are

eliminated ; the above expression contains only // and known quantities (Poisson,

Qp. 499); and the product /t expresses (p. 518) the number of degrees by

which the annual mean temperature of the given place is affected by direct

solar radiation.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.  75

of the approximations of calculation*, still we find little reason

to trust implicitly to the results, however ingeniously obtained.

We have seen (6*9.) that the effective action of solar radiation

cannot be expressed simply by the quantity of heat which would

fall on a square foot of the earth's surface were the atmosphere

removed ; but the absorption is very great even in the clearest
weather, and therefore (even admitting a uniform distribution

of vapours over the whole year, so that their opacity need not

be considered as a function of the time) the quantity of solar

heat depends on the thickness of the atmosphere traversed, and

is therefore a function both of the hour angle and of the fraction

of a year. The integrals, therefore, expressing the discontinu-

ous quantity of sunshine, are wholly unadapted to the physical

conditions of the problem.

106. That h cannot thereby be rightly estimated, will appear

from this consideration : viz. that the whole effect of sunslnne

can only be deduced from the annual range at a given depth (or

at the surface) by the following reasoning. The winter-action

of the sun may (it is assumed) be compared d. priori with the

summer-action of the sun, and the excess of the latter action

determined ; but the Effect due to this Excess being observed

(viz. the annual range), the effect due to either of the constituent

actions (summer or winter) may be found, which gives the whole

climateric effect of the sun at anj- season, and hence its mean

Noweffect throughout the yearf.  in applying this principle,

it is clear that unless the a priori estimate of the sun's relative

radiation in summer and winter be made on correct principles,

a knowledge of the difference of effect due to the change of the

cause will not lead to a correct value of the cause. In point of

fact, a neglect of the absorption due to obliquity (not to mention

the enormous excess of cloudy weather in the winter half-year)

will inevitably lead to an under estimate of the proportion which

the summer radiation bears to the winter radiation, and (as the

difference between these effects is the quantity known) the value

   · So involved are these expressions, that the author himself has inadvertently
made use of two identical values of one quantity, this same h, and quoted the

coincidence as a proof of the accuracy of the formulae and observations (p.
503-4). This he admits in the Supplement, page 72.

  t This at least is my understanding of the principles of solving the problem.

The problem which Fourier has proposed {Mem. de Vlnstitut, v. 167, &c.) is
a much simpler and also a less important one, viz. to find the quantity of solar

heat alternately absorbed and emitted by the earth's surface in the course of a
year, which evidently does not include the permanent or mean heat derived
from the sun, and which is subject to no annual change, but which would be

dissipated were the sun extinguished.
76 REPORT 1840.

of the constituent effects will also be under estimated, or the
climateric effect of the sun will come out too small.

   107- Such, indeed, is almost certainly the case. The climateric
effect of the sun at Paris is estimated from the superficial range
of temperature (deduced by Poisson from Arago's experiments)
to be only 24° cent.*. Tiie mean temperature of Paris being
11° cent., there remains for the temperature which would re-

--main if the direct influence of the sun were removed, 18° c.

+or 9° Fahr., a result altogether improbable. Further, the

thickness of a sheet of ice over the whole globe which would be
melted by the entire annual action of the sun, would be, accord-
ing to Poisson, seven or eight metresf, whilst Pouillet supposes

it four times as great J.

   108. Fourier, in his remarkable Memoir on the Heat of the

Globe §, had clearly show-n that its superficial temperature

depends on three causes, which may be kept wholly distinct.
1. Solar heat. 2. Temperature of space. 3. Internal heat. To
these M. Poisson lias added Atmospheric Heat, which, however,

is merely that part of the solar heat absorbed by the atmosphere
and communicated secondarily to the earth, independent of that

received by direct radiation.
   109. Since the Report of Prof. Whewellon the Mathematical

Theory of Heat, to which we refer for what had been written
on these subjects at that time, several new contributions to

this interesting branch of science have been made, both theore-

tically and experimentally ; I allude particularly to the publica-
tion of Poisson's Theory of Heat, and Pouillet's Memoir before-

cited.

   1 10. Poisson's Theory of Atmosphkric Heat has met with a

very just criticism, in almost every part of which I entirely agree,

at the hands of Prof. Auguste de la Rive, of Geneva. His ob-

jections are so ably and clearly stated, that so far as they antici-

pate my own, it may be sufficient briefly to state them, and refer

Andto his article || for details.  first, as to the constitution of

the atmosphere: Poisson^, adopting the reasoning of Fourier**,

admits that the temperature of any part of tiie atmosphere must

be determined by the equality of the heat directly received from

the sun and indirectly from the earth, with that radiated abroad

* Poisson, p. 518.       + Foisson's Supplement, p. 7.

+ Memoiresur la Chaleur Solaire, p. 9. (See above, art. 78.)

§ Mhnoires de I'Institut, vii. 569; and Whewell's Report, in British Associa-

--tion, Fifth Report, p. 30.
       Bihliotlu'que Universelle,^ov. Dec., 1835.
11

'^ Thiorie, p. 448, &c.            ** Alim. de I'Institut. vii. 584, &c.
                                                                              --;

          SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                                77

in space, and in the adjacent atmospheric strata. Proceeding,
however, to the mechanical conditions of equilibrium*, he infers
that the temperature of the exterior part of the atmosphere

must be prodigiously low, in order that it may have a definite

termination, which condition of non-elasticity he calls liquefac-
tion f, a term, the impropriety of which will sufficiently appear

from the observations of M. de la Rive cited below J. It is quite
certain that an elastic atmosphere may be considered as rigor-

ously limited, even wholly irrespective of the diminution of elas-

ticity due to cold, and this without necessarily inferring an as-
sent to the molecular constitution, from which Dr. WoUaston
deduced the limitation as a necessary inference §. Hence, any
hypothesis of extreme cold required to produce mechanical equi-
librium in the higher parts of the atmosphere is devoid of sup-
port. As to the actual extent of the finite atmosphere, this is
a question on which experiments both direct and indirect leave
us much in the dark ; nor can the optical phsenomenaof twilight
be cited with much confidence in such a case, the reflective power
of rarefied air being a datum on which we want direct evi-

dence
                      ||.
   111. The effect of the atmosphere upon the temperature of the

globe, as treated of by M. Poisson, is twofold; namely, /irst,

the modification of solar heat, which after combination with the
air both radiates, and communicates heat by contact, to the earth
if the sun were extinguished, this heat would also vanish, al-

    * Theorie, p. 459.
   i Theorie, p. 459, and Supplement, note D. p. 60 ; Traite de Mecanique,

ii. 612.

   X " Nous ne pouvons admettre que cet etat du fluide soit analogue a I'etat
liquide, du moins si nous attachons au mot liquidele sens physique dans lequel
on I'entend communement, et par lequel on designe, par exemple, I'etat au-
quel une basse temperature et une forte compression amenent la plupart des
fluides elastiques. Si M. Poisson n'entend par liquide que cet etat des fluides
dans lequel la force elastique est disparu, ce n'est plus alors qu'une definition

matheiiiatique qui est bonne taut qu'on ne cherche pas a se vepresenter I'etat

physique du fluide. Tontefois observons que ce n'est pas ainsi qu'on definit
les liquidos pai-ceque I'etat liquide suppose non seulementl'absence de force

                                                            ;

elastique, mais de plus une attraction moleculaire plus ou moins grande entre
les particules du fluide, attraction qu'il nous est impossible d'admettre ici."

Bib. Univ., Nov. 1835.

§ Phil. Trans., 1822, p. 89. Abstracts, ii. 160, M. Biot appears to give the

credit of this remark to M. Poisson ; Comptes Rendus, vi. 395.

  See on this subject M. Blot's Memoirs ;  Comptes Rendus,  viii. 91  ;  ix.  1 74
                                                                                                   ;
II

Lamben'sWorks ; Lubbock on Heat and Vapours, 1 840 ; also Poisson, Supplement

a la Theorie de la Chaleur, note D, where the author investigates the equilibrium

of the atmosphere under certain conditions, but ends with these words: " il ne

s'agit danscette note, que d'un simple exemple de calcul, et vraisemblablement,

les hypotheses que nous avons ftiites pour le faciliter ne sont pas conformes a la

nature."
                                     --

78 REPORT-- 1840.

though for convenience it is distinguished from the dii'ect solar
heat measured by an actinometer ; secondly, the proper low
temperature of the higher atmosphere which is communicated

to the earth by radiation through the inferior strata. M. Pois-

son contents himself with supposing that these two causes neu-
tralize one another, or that the latter rather preponderates*,
for which he assigns, I think, no sufficient reason ; on the con-
trary, from what we have just stated (110.) of the action of the
atmosphere, which lets more heat enter than can directly escape,
we conceive that the heating effect of the atmosphere is essen-

 tially positive.

    112. M. Poisson having thus estimated the direct solar effect

on the climate of Paris at 24° cent., and the atmospheric in-
fluence as nothing relatively to the existing temperature, assigns
the temperature which remains, namely, 11°, the actual mean

=temperature of Paris, diminished by 24°, or-- 13° ( 8'6 Fahr.)

for the heat of space, or the temperature which our globe would

take were the sun permanently extinguished.
    113. This result must certainly be considered as a very start-

ling and improbable one. That the temperature which oin* globe
would take did the sun not heat at all should be actually higher

than the mean temperature of many points of its surface exposed

to the solar rays dnring a great part of the year, and nearly 8f)°

of Fahr. above a degree of natural cold actually observed f,

is a paradox to which M. Arago drew attention, and which M.
Poisson we think did not succeed in rendering plausible];. Fou-

rier was distinctly of opinion that the temperature of space must
be lower than the mean of any point of the earth's surface,
though he admits that local causes might produce a temporary
depression §. The only explanation, indeed, which it can admit

of, is that to which M. de la Rive has shown that Poisson's rea-

soning necessarily leads, viz. that the atmosphere is an inde-
pendent source of heat (or cold, Avhich is the same thing), a

                                                                                                                                                          \\

conclusion nowhere distinctly admitted by the author. Now

this conclusion surely will be veiy reluctantly adopted, seeing

that, even supposing the direct solar influence could be success-
fully estimated, the remaining temperature must be derived from

(what is called) the heat of space and the heat of the atmosphere.
Experiments are, I apprehend, totally wanting which can se-

· " La pavtie (namely, of the heat not directly received from the sun by any

part of the earth's surface) provenant de I'atmosphere ne nous est pas connue;

nous pouvons seulement presumer qu'elle est negative." Theorle, p. 520.

  --\ Viz. 70° Falir., by Captain Back.

\ Comptes Rendus (Paris), ii. .575.     Bib. Univ., Dec. 1835.
§ Mem. de l' Instil ut, vii. 582.
                                     ||
                                                                 ;

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                             79

parate these two united effects ; their relation and absolute in-
tensities are therefore, we presume, yet unknown ; nor can we
understand how it is possible that the higher strata of the at-
mosphere can remain permanently colder than the strata be-
neath and the sky above them, without admitting a paradox of
the same kind with a mechanical perpetual motion.

   114. I am aware that M.Pouillet, in his memoir so often cited,
has been led to the same conclusion with M. Poisson respecting

the low temperature of the aerial coating of the globe, and has
actually computed the depression of temperature which might

exist in various hypothetical cases. Until, however, M. Pouillet

can exhibit an experiment in which so paradoxical a result is

actually attained, I am inclined to think that we must consider

it as at variance with the fundamental laws of heat as at present

received. M. Pouillet has made many ingenious experiments

with his instrument designed to measure nocturnal radiation

and (since the cooling effect of the sky may always be assimi-

lated to that of a hollow sphere having a determinate tempera-

ture) he has, I believe for the first time, endeavoured to translate

into numerical language the indications of his instrument by
actually exposing it to the radiating action of surfaces of low
temperature, which would have the same effect, whatever be their
distance, and that effect being known in thermometric degrees

on his instrument, the equivalent temperature of the vault of
heaven, or what he calls zenithal temperature, becomes known
too. All this is very ingenious and clear, and such determina-

tions of zenithal temperatures will certainly one day be of great
value. But the difficulty is to separate this temperature into

that due to the atmosphere, and that due to the temperature of
space. As already stated, we are not satisfied that such a sepa-

ration has been, or at present can be effected ; and the great

variations of the assigned temperatures of space strengthen this

--doubt; forwhilst Fourier and Swanberg make it 40°c.*,Valz,
-- --45°t, Poisson makes it 13°|, and Pouillet between 115°

and- 175° §.

    115. Fourier was the first who distinctly introduced the idea
 of the proper temperature of space, as well as the first who endea-
voured to assign to it a value. Our ideas about an absolute zero

   * See last Report, p. 203, and Fourier, Mem. de I'Institut, vii. p. 598. The
grounds on which Fourier's estimate is made, nowhere exactly appear; Her-

schel considers his published statements unsatisfactory (Geol. Trans. III. 297);

yet it appears that M. Fourier himself was strongly persuaded of the truth of

his estimate, which he thought was not erroneous to the amount of 8° or 10°

cent. (Arago's Eloge de Fourier, p. 55.)     J Theorie, p. 520.
   "t" Mahlmann, p. 14, note.
   § Mimoire sur la Chaleur Solaire, p. 38.
--80 REPORT 1840.

of tempcratAU-e, far from getting clearer, are perhaps now more

unfixed than ever ; and what would be the result of a condition of
which we can form no very definite physical conception (a body

placed in an envelope deprived of heat), it is perhaps too bold to

conjecture. But that the planetary spaces are not exactly in

Athis condition, is not improbable.    body (be it a thermometer

or a planet) placed in space may take a temperature, by contact,

from a fluid by which it is surrounded, or by radiation from

distant stars (being shaded from the sun) ; the latter, we under-

stand to be the meaning usually assigned bj'^ philosophers to the

term Temperature of Space*. This influence may change from

age to age, and be variable in different regions of the globe, de-

pending on their exposure. M. Poisson supposes that the in-

crease of temperature with depth in the earth indicates the effect

of an at-one-period-more-intense stellar radiation, and con-

sequently that it does not necessarily extend beneath a depth
which the epoch of the oscillations of external influence would

determine. This is no doubt perfectly unanswerable, as a mat-

ter of bare possibility ; but it seems hardly worth maintaining
an opinion which a million of years will scarcely show to be

feasible or the reversef.

We116.  have formerly stated |, that Fourier had arrived at the

conclusion that the flux of heat from the interior to the surface

of the globe did not raise the temperature of the latter above

jLth of a centigrade degree §, or would melt annually a stratum

of ice :f\^th of an English inch in thickness ; and in this estimate

Poisson nearly coincides 1| . The influence of internal heat is

quite irrespective of any theory as to the state of the nucleus,

and depends only on the rate of increase as we descend, a cir-

cumstance which M. de la Rive seems to have overlooked in

Weurging his objections against Poisson's theory.             proceed to

state some important additions which have been made to our

knowledge of facts respecting the thermometric condition of

the accessible part of the earth's crust.

· See an interesting notice by Sir J. F. W. Herscliel, read to the Roj-al

Astronomical Society, 10 Jan. 1840; Atheneeum, Feb. 1.5; where, as well as

in a paper in the third voUime of the Geological Transactions, New Series,

on Astronomical Causes affecting Geological Theories, are some important sug-

gestions on these intricate subjects.

   f On the subject of the thermometric state of the globe, see a popular article
by M. Arago {Annuaire, 1834), and the JEIoge of Fourier, by the same author.

In the Annales de Chimie, a few years since, Libri has given some results as to

the rate of cooling, and the contraction of the earth's crust, within historic
times, chiefly with a view to the supposed explanation which it affords of certain

geological phsenomena.       § Mem. de I'Institut, vii. 590.

    X Last Keport, p. 221.
       TMorie, &c., p. 424.

             II
                                                                               --

      SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OX METEOROLOGY.                                               81

We117.       have no reason to admit any sensible change in the

mean temperature of the superficial part of the globe ; at least

we are rather disposed to attribute the manifest elevation of

temperature observed during twenty years, in the observations in

the caverns under the Observatory at Paris, to some permanent

alteration in the instrument than to a change of temperature of

the earth, a point which we hope the French astronomers will

take pains to ascertain. The observations from 1817 to 1835

being divided into four series, give the following results :

ll°-730         11°-801           ll°-857                                      ll°-950*

118.  The mean of 35 2 observations is           11*834                        the mean tem-
                                                                            ;

perature of the air at Paris is 10*822 f; the difference is to

be attributed to the increase of terrestrial heat for 28 metres

of descent.

119. Observations on borings, and overflowing or Artesian

wells, have been perhaps more unexceptionable of late years

Wethan at any former period.      shall give such indications as

to record the chief facts observed. Amongst the best obser-

vations are those made by MM. De la Rive and Marcet in a

boring near Geneva J, under the most unexceptionable circum-
stances, which agree extremely well in indicating a uniform

increase of heat at the rate of 1° cent, for 32-55 metres of de-

scent, or 59 feet for 1° Fahr. The whole depth was 255 metres.

  A120. list of Artesian wells and their temperatures has been

given by M. Arago, in the Annuaire for 1835 ; and by Pois-
son, on the same authority, in his Theory of Heat§ ; whence

he has deduced (from fifteen Artesian wells in France, all above

20 metres deep) an increase of 1° cent, for 25-46 metres of

descent (46 feet for 1° Fahr.). There appears in these, as well
as the Geneva and Paris observations, a remarkable coincidence

between the superficial ground-temperature and the observed

air-temperature ||.

   121. From the comparison of a number of observations, M.

Kupffer^ deduces an increase of 25*37 metres for \.° Reaumur^

or 20-30 m. for 1° cent., or 37 feet for 1° Fahr.

  A122. well at Magdeburg gives 1° Reawnur for 100 feet,

or 44 feet for 1° Fahr.**, according to Professor Magnus, the

inventor of an improved thermometer for such observations.

· Poisson, Theorie de la Chaleur, p. 414.        \ Ibid, p. 467.

X Mem. de la Soc. de Phys. de Geneve, torn. vi.  § P. 420.

   It is by no means necessary to infer, however, that this is a general fact.

II

Prof. Reich's observations, for example, at Freiberg, indicate an excess of 1° c.

in the earth-temperature above the air-temperature. Beoh. iiber die Temp, des

Gesteins, &c., p. 134.         ** Ibid., xl. 139. See also xxxviii. 593.

   H Poggendorff, xxxii. 284.

VOL. IX. 1840.                 G
                        ----                                          ;

--82 REPORT 1840.

A123. very deep experimental bore has been sunk at La

Grenelle, near Paris. The latest report* (Aug. 1839) gives a

temperature of 27°"5 cent, at a depth of 281 metres, which

would infer an increase of about 1° cent, for 16^ metres (the su-

perficial temperature being under 1 1°), a result hardly probablef

and as the depth of the bore then was between 400 and 500

metres, either the depth of observation has been misstated, or

the temperature was raised by water flowing from the bottom.

124. The following are the depths of the most remarkable

Artesian  wells  at  present  known  ^t:

                     '^                                 French feet.

La Grenelle, Paris (June 1839)                             1436-1

Neu Salzwerk, near Minden (Sept. 1839) . . . 1434*8

Temperature of brine, 18°*5 R.

Nowe Brzesko, Poland (1838)                                1403-8
                                                           1646-5 §
....Cessingen, Luxembourg (April 1839)

125. Perhaps the most interesting, and certainly the most

singular observations, on subterranean temperature, are those

on the frozen soil of Siberia. At Jakouzk, in lat. 62°, where the
mean temperature is --6° Reaum. =18*5 Fahr. (accompanied

with such a i-igour of climate, that viercury has been knoivn

to remain frozen for three consecutive months \\), the heat of
summer thaws the soil to an extreme depth of only three feet^.

To search for a permanent spring is a matter of great difficulty.

A well has been dug to the depth of nearly 400 English feet,

with the following most remarkable results as to the tempera-

ture of the ground** :

          Surface                         -- 6°- Reaumur.

                                  -. . .  5 -5
          ...77 English feet
                                          .--4-0
          119 ,,
          382 ,, .... - -5

* Comptes Rendus (Paris), ix. 218.

\ Thisi'esult is altogether at variance with that formerly published {Comptes

Rendus, vi. 505), where it appears that at a depth of 400 metres the tem-

perature was 23°-5 c, giving an increase of l°c. for .3I"5 metres, in which also

Asome other springs near Paris very nearly coincide.    still later observation

MM.confirms this remark. On the \Hth August, 1840,      Arago and Walferdin

obtained a temperature nf 26°' 43 c. at 505 metres, giving 32'3 metres for 1° c.

{Coviptes Rendus, 2 Nov., 1840.)

   I PoggendorfF, xlviii. 382. Notices of some other Artesian wells, Pogg.,
xxix. 362. For an account of two Artesian brine springs at Kissengen, see

my paper in Jameson's Journal, April 1839.

§ It has lately been stated, that the observations of temperature in this Ar-

tesian well, at the depths of 1 SO, 230, 280, and 337 metres, give a coincident

result of 1° c. for 13 metres of descent, or more than twice as rapid an increase

as that usually observed. (L'lnstitut, 1840, No. 340.)

   Erman, Comptes Rendus (Paris), vi. 502.

  II

^ Bischoff, Wdrmelehre, p. 137.
** Erman, ut sup. See also Von Haer, in Brit. Assoc, Eighth Rep., Sect. p. 96.
                                                     --

            SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                                                                                                 83

From which it appears that we have a progressive increase of
temperature in the frozen soil, which, at a depth of about 400

feet, will give a temperature just freezing. The augmentation
would appear to be more rapid than usual, or 1° R. for 60 or
70 English feet.

   126. Of observations in mines we have a most important and
extensive series by Professor Reich, of Freiberg*, made under
the most favourable circumstances, and with every assurance
of their accuracy. They extend to a depth of above 900 feet,
and the result of the combination of the whole is an increase of

1" cent, for 41-84 metres, or 1° Fahr. for 76 English feet, with a
probable error of only 1-3 7th partf.

   127. Professor Phillips found, in the Monkwearmouth coal-
pit, an increase of 25o Fahr. for 1484 feet of descent, or 1° Fahr.

for 59-36 English feetj. The same gentleman has given valuable

instructions for conducting such observations §.

   128. Mr. Fox gives 1° Fahr. for 48 or 50 feet as the results of

his experiments in Cornwall                                                                                Mr. Henwood agrees with Mr.
                                                                                                      ||.

Fox in finding a difference in the progression of heat in slate

(killas) and granite, and gives the following summary of his

experiments :
                                                *f[

            95 observations in slate 1° F. for 39 feet.
            39 ,, granite ,, 41-4

This difference, Mr. Fox thinks, is probably attributable to

the action of the mechanical structure of the' rocks, in admit-
ting superficial water**.

_ * Beobacktungen iiher die Temperatur des Gesteins in verschiedenen Tiefen
in den Gruben des Sdchsischen ErzgeUrges in den Jahren 1830 bis 1832, von
*. Reich. 8vo. Freiberg, 1834.

j" ^·}^'^-                                                                                                 X Phil. Mag., Third Series, v. 4.51.

§ Bnt. Assoc, Sixth Rep., p. 291. || Ibid., Seventh Rep., p. 136, &c.

1[ Ibid., Seventh Rep., Sections, p. 36.

** ^t will be seen that these experiments have no analogy in their objects
with those made at Edinburgh on the influence of the material of the strata

"P°"J^'^e admission of solar beat, as Dove seems to suppose {Reperturium,

  A most important question, connected with earth-temperature, yet remains

to be decided. M. Kupffer maintains (see First Report, p. 224), that the super-
hcial temperature of the earth exceeds that of the air in high latitudes, and
tails short ot it between the tropics (as was long ago asserted by Von Buch and
others), and he has described Isogeothermal lines to express this fact. BischoflT
maintams the contrary {Wdrmelehre, p. 38, &c.), declaring that Kupfler's lines
coincide with those of Humboldt (Isothermal), and that the warmth of springs
in high latitudes arises solely from the depth at which they rise (p. 53), and he
quotes the observations made by Boussingault, one foot h&Xovf the surface (where
tie linds the temperature constant in tropical regions, and equal to the mean
air-temperature of the year, Ann. de Chimie, liii. 225), in support of the
assertion, that at the equator no difference of air- and earth-temperature exists

                                                  G2
                        --

--84 REPORT 1840.

129. Most intimately connected with the subject of subter-

ranean temperature is that of the temperature of springs, which

connects itself so remarkably with chemical, geological, and

meteorological considerations. It is impossible not to adopt

the idea, that the temperature of spring-water depends on the

depth whence it takes its origin, since we now know, beyond

any doubt, that up to a certain point at least, the heat of the
strata increases as we descend ; nor is there the slightest reason

to suppose that this progression undergoes any considerable
variation down to the (comparatively) moderate depth at which

water would boil, however much we may feel the necessity of

caution in inferring the actual condition of the earth's nucleus.

The subject is one of so much extent, that we must refer gene-

rally to the works which specifically treat of it, amongst which
that of Prof. Bischoff, of Bonn*, is the most important in our

present point of view. According to him, the temperature of a

spring is an index simply of the thermal condition of the
stratum whence it takes its origin, or at least derives its chief

heat.

  A130. very ingenious application of these principles has been

made by Prof. Kupffer, and he has illustrated them by an ap-

plication to observations of the temperature of two springs at
slightly different elevations, near Edinburgh, made at differ-

ent seasons of the yearf. By observing the annual range of
temperature of the spring, its depth is known by Fourier's

formula, the conductivity of the soil being assumed from

Leslie's experiments. The retardation of epochs is also an

Nowindex of the depth.  the actual difference of level of the

points of exit of the two springs being given, the difference of

temperature due to height above the sea is known. The actual

Very contrary results on the latter point, derived from springs, appear in M.
Arago's report on a recent French expedition, under command of Capt. Du-
Petit-Thouars {Annuaire, 1840, p. 296), from which the ground would seem to

be sometimes 4° cent, colder than the air. Nov. 1840.
    * Die Wdrmelehre des Innern misers Erdkorpers, 8vo. Leipzig, 1 837.

Some part of this work has been translated in the Edinburgh Philosophical
Journal. It consists of four parts, containing 27 chapters, and is full of re-

search and important information.
    t These observations, published anonymously in Prof. Jameson's Journal in

1828, were made by me. I have only lately found that they have been sub-
jected to an ingenious and searching analysis, first by Kamtz {Meteorologie,
ii. 190) afterwards by Kupffer (Poggendorff's ylnnalen, xxxii. 280), and
made to yield results which, in making them, I could not have contemplated.
This is one instance out of many, for the encouragement of young observers,
showing that observations conducted on system, carefully and perseveringly
made, and complete so far as they go, may afterwards prove of unexpected

importance.
--;

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGV.  85

difference of observed temperatures is not, however, the same,

because the one spring rose from a greater depth than the
other. The variation due to this cause then becomes apparent

and the difference of depth from which they rise being known,

the rate of increase is found by M. Kupffer to be 1° Fahr. for 41

English feet ; a process which must be admitted, at all events,

to be extremely ingenious. He has treated some of Wahlen-

berg's observations in a similar way*.

   131. On the subject of hot-spi-ings, or those which have a

temperature notably higher than that of the air, (though, as

Bischoff has well remarked, there is an insensible gradation,)

we cannot now enter; and this is the less to be regretted, as
Dr. Daubeny has already presented an ample report to the
British Association on the subjectf. M. Arago has published
some valuable remarks on the same subject, especially on the
curious phaenomena of the springs of Aix in Provence J. With
a view to direct the attention of naturalists to the secular and
annual changes of temperature in hot-springs, I have made
some very detailed investigations on this subject, which I have
published, as far as relates to those in the Pyrenees §. The
central heat theory would require these to be insensible, as
indeed they appear to be in the best known instances.

                      II. Atmospheric Pressure.

                                     A. JBaromeiers\\.

    132. The standard barometer of the Royal Society of London
has two tubes, one of flint, the other of crown glass, adapted to
a common cistern, with a view, it is believed, of ascertaining
whether any change in the capillary action occurs, depending
on the nature of the tube. The scale, according to Dr. Prout's

ingenious construction, is itself moveable, its zero coinciding

with a fine agate point, which terminates it, and which may be

brought into the nicest contact with the mercurial surface in

   * In Prof. K&mtz's Lehrbuch der Mefeorologie, ii. 186, &c., is much valu-
able information on the subject of sprinss; also in Dove's Repertorium,

iii. 310.

 --t British Association, Sixth Report, pp. 1 95.

   X Jnnuaire die Bureau des Longitudes, 1836, p. 265 ; see also M. Valz's com-

munication, Comptes Rendus, vol. x.

   § Phil. Trans. 1836. On the subject of hot springs, Osaun's work in 2 vols.
8vo. {Europas Heilquellen, Berlin, 1829), may be consulted in German, Ali-

bert's in French, and Gairdner's in English ; but the temperature observations
seldom afford more than a rude approximation to the truth.

   II See last Report, p. 225. Mahlmann, p. 77.
--86 REPORT 1840.

the cistern ; the vernier has a proper motion upon the scale,

in order to read off the height*.

   133. M. Kupffer has proposed a stationary harometer, in

which a siphon-tube stands alone, and quite detached from a
graduated column, along which a micrometer travels, and reads
off the diffei'ences of elevation of the two extremities of the

mercury f. M. Breithaupt has also proposed a plan somewhat
 similar J. It may very safely be affirmed, that the mechanical

 act of reading off the length of the column is already accom-
 plished with more accuracy than the otherwise imperfect nature

 of the instrument requires.

    134. Mr. Daniell reconmiends Newman's portable barome-

 ters, with correction for the capacity of the cistern, and such

 have been supplied to the Antarctic expedition §. Mr. Newman

 has adapted an ingenious cast-iron cistern to his instrument,
 which consists of two parts, one of which contains the super-
 fluous mercury during carriage, the other being always full ||.

     135. M. Bunten, of Paris, a most ingenious and excellent artist,
 has made a great improvement on Gay-Lussac's portable siphon-
 barometer, in which a chamber is left in the principal tube, in
 which any air which may have accidentally left the bend of the
 siphon is inevitably lodged, and may be expelled at leisure
 without injury to the vacuum. M. Bunten constructs these
  instruments himself with peculiar skill, and provides them with
  excellent portable wooden cases. The same artist has recently

  contrived a very ingenious, elegant, and simple cistern-baro-
  meter, with the graduation on the glass, and which can be made
  at so moderate a price as ought to supersede the rude instru-
  ments commonly purchased at twice the cost^.

      136. Greiner, of Berlin, a most excellent manufacturer of
  meteorological instruments of the most delicate kind, has con-

   structed a siphon- barometer, with the material advantage of
  confining the superfluous mercury (which by frequent shaking
  becomes oxidated), and yet in such a way, that the expansion

  by heat cannot possibly endanger the instrument**. His baro-
  meter, more cumbrous and more expensive than Bunten 's, is
  well adapted for nice observations, to be pursued for some time

   at a fixed station, whither the instrument has first to be con-

   veyed.

* See Mr. Baily's description, Phil. M^g., Third Series, xii. 204.

t Poggondoi-ff, xxvi. 446.             % Ibid., xxxiv. 30.
§ Royal Society, Instructions, p. 56.  || Brit. Assoc, 3rd Report, p. 417.

II The defect of this instrument in its present form, is the difficulty of access

of the air to the cistern.

** There is a descriptive pamphlet published at Berlin in 1 835.
.

   SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                   87

   137. Mr. Harris, of Plymouth, has had the merit of exe-
cuting, for the first time, perhaps, with accuracy, a wheel, or
circular index-barometer, a matter of very great importance as

well as difficulty, because it enables unlearned persons to read
off the height without the aid of a vernier ; and in fact to this

we owe the most valuable and unique series of hourly barome-

trical observations, to which we shall presently refer*.

138. Prof. Stevelly, of Belfast, has proposed a self- registering

barometer, on the principle of causing a moveable cistern con-

taining mercury to rise or fall by the weight of the fluid dis-
placed from a fixed barometer tube immersed in it. The tube

here may evidently be opaque, as of ironf.

  A139. water-barometer has been constructed and observed

in the Royal Society's Apartments (London). Some elaborate

comparisons of its indications with standard instruments will

be found in Mr. Hudson's paper J.

On140.  the still-agitated subject of capillarity, as affecting

barometric readings, I refer to some recent essays of Bessel,

Dulong, and Bohnenberger §.

   141 Of barometers acting on principles different from that of a

simple column of mercury, the so-called (not very appropriately)

differential barometer of Auguste, as improved by Kopp||, is

the most ingenious. Its principle, so far as it can be concisely

stated without a figure, is this : if air of any density whatever

be compressed into a given fraction, say fths of its natural bulk,

it will sustain a pressure equal to the atmospheric pressure, and

a certain fraction more, depending on the fraction denoting the

compression (in the supposed case its elasticity would be

balanced by the atmospheric pressure, and ^rd more). If, then,

this fraction of excess of pressure is known by experiment, the

whole pressure is inferred from a knowledge of the construction

of the instrument. Thus, instead of a column of 30 inches of
mercury being required, one of 15, 10, or any other number

may be used and multiplied by the constant factor. In Kopp's

Ainstrument, the experiment is very simply and neatly made.

glass chamber communicates freely with a vertical tube, which

is open to the air until mercury forced in from beneath cuts off

the communication : the pressure by which the mercury is in-

troduced being continued, the air in the chamber is condensed,

and the mercury rises in the vertical tube, so that its pressure,

together with that of the atmosphere, may balance the elas-

ticity of the air. The compression is continued until the air is

* British Association, Third Report, p. 414.

t Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy, 1836.

X Phil. Trans. 1832.     § Poggendorff, xxvi. 451.

   Poggendorfi; xl. 62.

II
                                              --3

--88 REPORT 1840.

observed to be condensed to a known fraction of its bulk, when
the length of the column of mercury is also a known fraction of

the total barometric column. I brought one of these instruments

to this country two years ago, but I have not yet made trial of it.
    142. Mr. Cooper has proposed a barometer acting by the

elasticity of the air in a floating vessel regulated by weights,
which constantly immerse it to the same depth*. The author
considers it capable of showing a difference of elevation of three
or four feet. It is intended that the apparatus should in every
case be employed at a constant temperature of 75°, to which it
is artificially brought : I conceive that tliis process is attended

with inevitable disadvantages.
    143. Sir John Robison has proposed to use tubes or long phials

containing air, immersed in water at the top of a hill, instead
of an air barometer or sympiezometer. The portion which be-
comes filled with water, when re-examined, would indicate the
previous rarefaction of the airf. In this and everj-^ similar case
the temperature of the included air is a matter of great uncer-
tainty, and prevents the possibility (as contemplated) of trust-

ing such instruments to inexperienced assistants.

         B. Mean Height of the Barometer.

    144. Several considerations would lead us to tlie inference,
that the mean pressure of the atmosphere at the level of the sea
should vary with the latitude ; but it is to experiment alone
that we can look for any indication of a law. Humboldt ap-
pears first to have remarked, that the height of the barometer
is lower at the equator than in temperate latitudes;}:; and,
excepting this fact, little more has been known until the late
excellent researches of Schouw§, though the partial observa-

tions of occasional navigators indicate this fact, as well as a very

considerable depression of the barometer towards the pole||.

145. M. Schouw's statement is the following:

                            Mean pressure at Level

                            Sea, in French Lines.
                                                 337 -- 7
Lat. 0° to 15" high temp, with a rainy season    338 -- 9
--,, 15
         30 very dry; rains rarely . . .         339 -- 7'5
--,, 30 45 temperate
--,, 45                                        337"5--
         65 cold and rainy

    * Philosophical Transactions, 1839, p. 425.

    f British Association, Eighth Report, Sections, p. 37. Brunner has de-
scribed an air-barometer, Poggendorff, xxxiv. 30.

    X Tableau Physique, p. 89, quoted by Kamtz.
   § Annales de Chimie, tome liii. (1833). See also Poggendorff, xxvi. 395.

       See the authorities cited in Plumboldt's Note to Arago, Comptes Rendus,

              II

ii. 570. Some valuable comparisons of barometers at different northern observa-
tories are to be found in a late number of the Comptes Rendus (1840. 2me

Semestre).
SUPPLEMBNTARV REPORT ON METEOROLOGY,  89

The maximum appears then to be about the 45th degree, and it

diminishes on either hand.

   146. The equatorial depression, and the maximum near the

40th degree of latitude, is indicated not only by Xh^Jixed annual
observations given in Schouw's paper, but also by progressive
observations made on board ship by Capt. Beechey*, Sir J.
Herschelf, Sir E. Ryan f, and Mr. MacHardyt ; the latter are
important, as showing that the same distribution prevails in the
southern hemisphere. Mr. MacHardy's observations in southern

    itudes give
                                         --

--90 REPORT 1840.

    150. There is no instrumental result to be received at all times

with more doubt than the absolute height of the barometer. I
have had occasion to compare many which have the character
of being standard instruments, and have found the most serious
inconsistencies. There are few points at which the mean press-
ure of the atmosphere can be said to be accurately known.
Even at Paris there is some little doubt* ; when reduced to
the level of the sea, it appears to be 760-85 millimetresf. From

seventeen years of very careful observations at Marseilles, it is

761-61 at 0°, and at the level of the sea J, clearly indicating

that Paris lies considerably to the N. of the maximum pressure
zone. It may be doubted whether we possess in this country
any satisfactory evidence of the mean height of the barometer

at the level of the sea§.

           C. Barometric Oscillations \\.

   151. The investigation, by Mr. Snow Harris, of the diurnal
atmospheric tide by means of hourly observations, continued at
Plymouth night and day for three years ^, has led to a very
satisfactory determination both of the epoch and amount. Ac-
cording to him, the maxima occur at 9§^ a.m., and at 10^ p.m.,
the minima at 4^^ a.m., and 3^^ p.m.; and the measures ap-

pear to be the following (approximately) :

        Rise from 4 a.m. to 10 a.m. . . -014 inch

        Fall ,, 10 A.M. to 3 p.m. . . -017 ,,
        Rise ,, 3 p.m. to 10 p.m. . . -021 ,,
        Fall ,, 10 P.M. to 4 A.M. . . -018 ,,

The maximum oscillation here appears to be between 3 p.m.
Myand 10 P.M., and amounts to 0*53 millimetres.
                                                 formula**

gives 0-60. Mr. Harris deduces 29-800 for the mean pressure

60 feet above the level of the sea, which agrees nearly with the

observations at Somerset House ; but there is some material

discrepancy in the observations of mea)i height for different

years.

* M. Bouvard gives 755'99mm. reduced to 0° c. from eleven years' obser-

vation at Paris ; M. Arago, 755-43 mm. from nine years' observation.

t Arao-o.    Kindly communicated to me by M. V'alz, of Marseilles.

           :!:

§ The Royal Society Observations since Nov. 1837 (see Phil. Mag., xii.

204), may one day afford this, but the period is as yet rather too short.

   Last Report, p. 229. Mahlmann, p. 89.

          I

^ The results were partly communicated to the British Association in 1839

(see Athenceum, lith Sept.). The following results, which are corrected for

iemperature and embrace three years, were communicated to me by Mr. Harris

himself. The agreement of the three years is very satisfactory, so far as the

form of the curves is concerned. See also British Association, Eighth Report,

P- 22.
   ** Edinburgh Transactions, vol. xii.
           SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                   91

   152. Mr. Caldecott, astronomer to the Rajah of Travancore,

has obligingly communicated to me the results of his observa-

tions in 80° 30' N. lat., where he finds the oscillation from 10 a.m.

=to 4 P.M. to be '109 English inches 2*77 millimetres, whilst

my formula gives 2-57. There appears to be some anomaly at

the Cape of Good Hope, if the reductions with which Sir John
Herschel has furnished me represent correctly the series of

observations made at the Royal Observatory there. From

58 months' observations (lat. 33° 56' S.), the oscillation is

·025 mm. = 0*64 mm. The formula would give 1*42 mm., or

more than twice as much ; a difference altogether improbable,

or else indicating some remarkable local anomaly.

   153. Colonel Sykes* finds the maximum atmospheric tide in

the East Indies (mean lat. 18i°, mean elevation 1800 feet), to

be between 9-10 a.m. and 4-5 p.m., and to amount to '107 inch

= 2*72 mm. by four years' observations. The formula gives

2"28 mm. Colonel Sykes finds the hours to be unmodified by
elevation, and to be the same as in Europe and America. He

has also shown such enormous irregularities in the results from

different parts of India, and even in the same place at different
times, as do not so much militate against any particular for-
mula, as they show the impossibility of any one formula

embracing such discordant conclusions f. Colonel Sykes has
shown that the supposed interruption of the atmospheric tide
during the prevalence of the monsoon has no existence^.

   154. Prof. Kamtz§ has made some interesting observations
on the variation of the atmosphei'ic tide with height|| in Switzer-
land, on the summits of the Faulhorn and Rigi, compared with
Zurich and Geneva. The hours are nearly the same in all

cases, 4 a.m., 10 a.m., 3 p.m., 9 p.m.

The mean oscillation at Zurich and Geneva  French Lines.
               ,, Faulhorn . . .           . 0*398
                                           , 0-119

* Philosophical Transactions, 1835.  f Ibid., p. 176.

X An account has been published (Proceedings of the Royal Society, May

21st, 1840), since this report was written, of valuable Observations on the

Barometei-, by Capt. Thomas, at Alten, in Finn-marken, in lat. 70° · from

mywhich it clearly appears that the barometric oscillation is there negative, as
formula would indicate that it ought to be. I am bound to apply to the

" Report" on Capt. Thomas's Observations piiblished as above, the remark

which I have made upon Colonel Sykes's paper, in the text, viz. that it is

scarcely philosophical to expect that any formula should coincide more nearly

with observations, than one year's observations do with another.

   § Poggendorff, xxvii. 345. See also Gautier on the Annual and Diurnal
Variations of the Atmospheric Tide. Bibl. Univ., N. S., xxiv. 124.

  II See former Report, p. 232, and my paper in Edinburgh Transactions,

vol. xii.
                      --;

--92 REPORT 1840.

Another series gives

Mean oscillation at Zurich                                    0-286
                ,, Rigi                                       0-105

The two results agree very closely in assigning a value of the
oscillation depending on the absolute pressure. M. Kamtz

thinks that the diminution with height is as the diminished

pressure, and may be expressed by s^^th of the change of

pressure. Thus, at the equator, the oscillation (according to
him) would cease at a height where the barometer falls to 115
lines, and afterwards, no doubt, would become negative, as I
have formerly shown. The observations cited by Col. Sykes*

confirm the general principle.

   155. The cause of the diminution of the diurnal tide with

--height is no doubt this : that the great vertical depth of air

wh^ch exists between Geneva and the Great St. Bernard, for
example, becoming heated by the action of the sun commencing

at the earth's surface, a portion of air is raised above the upper
station in the afternoon, which in the morning was heloiu it

consequently this produces a diurnal tide in the higher regions,

which has its maximum after the hottest part of the day, and

which therefore counteracts the true diurnal tide.

   156. On the subject of the lunar influence on the barometer,
we may refer, in the first place, to the popular article by M.
Arago, in the Annuuire for 1833 f; who gives the results of

Flaugergues, mentioned in our last report |, which give a de-

cided maximum at the last quarter, with which the observations

MM.of Boussingault and Rivero, at Santa Fe de Bogota,

agree. According to a late and complete reduction of the

Paris observations by M. Eugene Bouvard§, we have a first

maximum on the 8th day of the moon, and a second or j)ri7i-

cipal one on the 22nd day ; the j)rincipal minitnum on the

13th, and a second on the 27th day. Here, therefore, we have,

as above, a decided maximum about the last quarter. The

oscillation is 1-78 mm. Mr. Snow Harris has arrived at the

same  result  as  respects  the  principal  maximum which                               may
                                                                                   |i,

Weprobably be considered as established.    shall return to this

subject in treating of the fall of rain, and dependence of weather

on the lunar phases.

      D. Barometric Variation with Height^.

157. I will add a few observations on this subject, especially

· Phil. Trans. 1835, p. 176.     t P- 173.  | P. 234,

§ Correspondance de V Observatoire de Bruxelles, torn, viii,

    AthenEeum, Sept. 14th, 1839.

  II

^ Last Report, p. 236. Mahlmann, p. 119.
             --

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.   93

in correction or addition to those contained in my former

report.

   158. M. Bessel has given an Essay on the Theory of Baro-

metrical Measurements*.
   159. The important question of determining levels by obser-

vations of distant barometers, is materially affected by the now-
admitted difference of mean barometric pressures at different

localities ; and it also appears that, unless these observations
are steadily continued for considerable periods, they must be

liable to serious errors. Thus M. Galle (the assistant astrono-
mer at Berlin) has pointed out, in two interesting communica-

tions f, that in certain situations enormous errors of barometric
measurements arise at certain seasons, which he ascribes to the

influence of local winds. It is very plain, that if, from any
cause, the monthly variation of mean pressure of which we have
already spoken, follow one course at one station and another at
a second, the height deduced from any barometric formula will

also depend upon the season. This M. Galle has found to be

most remarkably the case between Katherinenburg and St.
Petersburg. The calculated difference of height varies with the

season, having a maximum in summer and minimum in winter;

it depends, in fact, on the Difference of Temperature of the two
stations. The height is greatest when the difference of tempe-
rature is least ; and wheji the difference of temperature changes
its usual sign, the height becomes greatly exaggerated. Thus
we have the following analogies :

DifF. Temp.      Katherinenburg above
--94 REPORT 1840.

the last Russian expedition, by whom the space between the

sea of Asov (communicating through the Black Sea and Medi-

terranean with the ocean), has been accurately levelled, and the

depression of the Caspian found to be real, but amounting to

only 81 '5 English feet*, instead of 334 feet, as formerly sup-

posed f. But what is interesting is, that the barometi*ical
observations made with the utmost care, and at multiplied

intermediate stations (one German mile apart), confirm the

older I'esults obtained by the same means. The very same

kind of anomaly as observed between Katheriiienburg and St.

Petersburg, occurs here, and even gives to the elevation of the

Sea of Asov a negative sign at certain seasons. The Sea of

Asov, though further south and lower than the Caspian, has a

climate 30° Fahr. colder in the middle of January;]:.

161. There seems to be very little doubt that the Dead Sea

lies also below the level of the ocean. The very discordant,

but almost simultaneous results, obtained by different travel-

lers §, lead us to admit the fact as pi'obable, and even to con-

jecture that the depression may be considerable.

162. M. Kamtz|| has given some very useful results as to

variations of computed height depending on the hour of the
day, which acts much in the way in which the season of the

year affects barometi-ical measurements. The maximum cal-
culated height occurs at noon, or soon after; the minimum, about

4 a.m. The effect is far greater than tlie atmospheric tide would
produce, amounting to 21--27 toises upon 1100 (the difference

of height of the Faulhorn and Zurich, or Geneva), and to 13
upon 700 (Rigi and Zurich). Hence it appears that Ramond's

rule of employing the noon observations for deducing heights

is not in this respect exactly,

We163.  do not of course propose to give any results of baro-

metrical measurements. The temperature of boiling water is

not unfrequently employed, but seldom with sufl&cient instru-

ments. It has several practical difficulties ; amongst others,

that of obtaining sufficient heat at great elevations, and in ex-

posed situations, to cause water to boil. M. Hugi, of Soleure,

in his enterprising Alpine excursions**, has used the boiling

point of alcohol with good effect. It may seem surprising that

this should be tolerably constant, but such I have assured

* Poggendorff, 1840, and Edin. Phil. Journal, July 1840.

t First Report, p. 239.          % See Galle, ut sup.

§ Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, 1840.

  Poggendorff, xxvii. 345, and Dove's Repertorium, vol. iii.

II

if On the influence of winds on barometrical measurements, see Brandes,

Beitriige, p. 216.
   ** Naturhistorische Alpenreise. 8vo. Solothurn, 1830.
             SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                         95

myself by experiment to be the fact. Hugi states (what is very

conceivable), that the boiling point of water anticipates the
barometric indications by some hours ; but he states (what is
more difficult to understand), that the boiling point of alcohol
harmonizes with the latter*.

             III. HuMIDITVf.

                                    A. Hygrometers.

   164. No new hygrometer has been introduced of late years,
so far as I am aware, at least no important novelty, but very

considerable progress has been made in the right interpretation

of results J.

   165. By far the completest historical treatise which I have seen

on hygrometry and hygrometers, is a learned thesis by Suer-
man (different from the one already cited), entitled " Commen-
tatio de dejiniendd quantitate Vaporis Aquei in Atmospherd,"
&c. §, which also contains good figures, and many pertinent

original criticisms.

   166. As hygrometry essentially turns upon a right knowledge
of the relations of heat and moisture, we may first observe, that
a considerable number of attempts have been made (without new
experiments) to express, by some simple formula, the relation
between the temperature and pressure of vapour. The only
experiments of any consequence that I am acquainted with are

those of the Fi*anklin Institute (America), conducted under the

superintendence of Prof. Bache||. They do not much surpass

10 atmospheres, and even there the difference is 6° Fahr. be-
tween them and M. Dulong's results, a difference which does not

seem to be satisfactorily accounted for. M. Dulong's formula

represents observations above 1 or 2 atmospheres better than
those below ; and there is reason to think that, whether from the

mode of conducting the experiments, or some other cause, there
is some solution of continuity in the law which expresses the
relation of density and pressure somewhere near the point arbi-

trarily called the boiling pointy.

· Naturhistorische Alpenreise, p. 16,

   f See last Report, p. 239, and Mahlmann, p. 129.
   X " Jam vero laetior campus arridet qiio recentiorum experimenta exponenda

veniunt, qui, de vaporis natura loiige certiores, multa simpliciorem tutioremque

--viam quam prsecedentes physici, ingredi potuerunt." Suerman, Commentatio,

§45.

§ 4to. Lugd. Bat. 1831, p. 123. For this, too, I was indebted to the late

Prof. Moll.

  Report on the Explosions of Steam Boilers.  Philadelphia, 1836, p. 76.

II

   1[ The formula which the American Committee adopt to represent their re-

= +sults is (for Force corresponding to Degrees of Fahrenheit) e (-00333 < 1)".
96 REPORT-- 1840.

167. Spasky* has taken the trouble to ascertain whether the

constants in Dulong's formula (viz. the factor of t and the ex-

ponent), might not be altered so as to represent the observations

better, but he has obtained a very insignificant change.

168. Egenf, writing on the same subject, criticises the different

formula, and gives one expressing the temperature in a series

of successive powers of logarithms of the force or pressure.

   169. Biott, Schmeddink§, and Roche ||, have all written on the
same subject recently, and proposed new formulae. Mr. Russell

has proposed to adopt a modification of Dalton's scale of tem-

perature, by which the elasticities may follow an accurately

geometrical progression^. Mr. Lubbock** has deduced, from

theoretical considerations, a formula sufficiently simple, and

which represents, with extraordinary fidelity, the observations

of the Commission of the Institute ; less accurately those of

Southern below 212°.

170. I mention these results as generally connected with the

subject; the actual range of hygrometric observations requires

such a formula to be used as shall best represent the elasticities

under 212°.

171. The formulae in use are (1.) that derived from the obser-

vations of Dalton    and Ure                             (2.)  that deduced  by Kamtz from his
                                                      ;

own observations tt ; (-^O the table calculated by Ivory's formula,

founded on Ure's experiments 5 it is that given in Uie second

edition of Daniell's Meteorological Essays, and adopted in the

Royal Society's Instructions for the Antarctic expedition. Of

these, Dalton's has best stood the test of time. Kamtz's is
recommended by Kupffer^tj hut is condemned by Egen§§,

Lloyd   II II,  and Apjohn. In the first place, let us turn for a

moment to the data of the problem.

172. The dew-point being obtained by the method of Dalton,

or that of Daniell, the quantity of vapour in the air, and the

ratio of the contained vapour to what might be contained in

* Poggendorff, xxx. 331.                                 = +Instead of e (1 0-7153 <)^ he finds

(1 -|- 719 ;)<-'987 for the elastic force, t being in cent, degrees.

+ Pogg. xxvii. 9.         X L'Jnstitut, No. 26, p. 222. Fogg. xxxi. 42.

§ Pogg. xxvii. 40.           Silliman's Journal, xxviii. 363.

                          II

% Proceedings, Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. i. p. 227.

** On the Heat of Vapours, p. 7. Lond. 1840.

   tt M. Kamtz's first work on the subject was published at Halle in 1826. In
the first volume of his Meteorology, p. 289, he has given an account of

original experiments on which his foi-mula is founded, which appears to differ

very sensibly from the results in common use. This formula has had its con-

stants more lately modified, as appears by M. Kupffer's citation of it. See

below.

XX Bulletin de I'Acad, de Si. Petershourg, tom. vi. No. 22.

§§ Pogg- xxvii. 25.            Proceedings, Royal Irish .Vcademy, 1810.

                          II II
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOCy.                                  9^

air under the circumstances* (which is the true expression for
dampness), is at once obtainable from a table which shows the

maximum force of vapour for each degree, and the number of
grains in one cubic foot of space. But unfortunately tlie ex-

periment is always a troublesome, sometimes an impracticable,
and sometimes a fallacious one. Mr. Harcourtf has pointed out
various mechanical circumstances which affect the appearance

of a film of dew. To reduce a hygrometric observation to an

observation simply, and not to an experiment, is the object of

the moist-bulb problem, in which the refrigeration of a wetted
surface becomes the index of the dryness. The theory is more

troublesome, but the observation has every requisite of sim-

plicity and consistency t-
    173. The moist-bulb problem was especially pointed out as

one deserving careful solution in the recommendations of the first
meeting of the British Association at York§, and they have

been responded to in more than one quarter, so that we may
now consider the moist-bulb problem as practically solved.

   174. Even at that time the solution had taken a simple and
exact form in Germany, and for the labours of Auguste||,
Bohnenberger^ and Kamtz**, the British Association can-
not probably claim any merit. The works of the two former

are, I am sorry to say, still as unknown to me (by actual in-
spection), as when I wrote my former report.

   175. A thermometer having a thin film of water surrounding

it will take a temperature depending on the following circum-

--stances : The air in contact (whether it move quickly or slowly)

gives to the film of water, which is converted into vapour suf-

ficient in quantity to saturate the space which the air occupies,
just enough of heat to vaporize that water, and the reduction

of temperature will be accordingly. Thus, if the air (or space)

be very dry, it will take up much vapour, but that vapour must
have combined with much heat in order to change its state from

water, and the temperature of the air in the (now) saturated

* When we speak of vapour contained in air, of course we are not to be

understood to infer any combination between them.

t Phil. Mag., .3rd Series, vii. 409, and British Association, Fifth Report,

Sections, p. 54.

   X This method was the invention of Dr. Hutton, of Edinburgh, which
M. KupfFerhas erroneously attributed to Auguste (Instructions, &c., p. 32), and

Mr. Prinsep to Leslie (Journal of Asiatic Society of Bengal, 1836, p. 399.).

§ Original edition, p. 49. These recommendations were drawn up by the

author of the present report.

       Uber die Fortschritte der Hygrometrie in der neuesten Zeit.  Berlin

             II

1830.

^ In the second volume of the Tubingen Nat. Hist. Society's Memoirs.

** Lehrhuch der Meteorologie, i.

VOL. IX. 1840.                 H
                 -- --; ;

98 REPORT-- 1810.

space is lowered accordingly. Further, it will be more lo^rered

if the air be rare, or the barometer low, because the air yields

less heat. All these circumstances may be taken into account,
and the elasticity of vapour existing in the air may yet be ex-

pressed by the following simple formula* :

                 = - m -e" fe'
                                {t t') ^^-=-^'

where t and t' are the readings of a dri/ and a luetted ther-

mometer    ;

e'    the  maximum  elasticity  of  vapour  corresponding  to  V
                                                                     ;

c" ,, ,, ,, to the

      dew-point

b the observed height of the barometer

B a standard barometric pressure (as 30 inches).

The concluding factor is usually small, and except at great

heights may be neglected.

176. Whene", the elasticity corresponding to the dew-point, is

found, the quantity of vapour existing in the atmosphere is known.

177- The chief value of a dew-point instrument is to enable

us to determine directly the value of w?, which the direct experi-

ments on the specific heat of air leave under some uncertainty.

   178. Conversely the specific heat of air maybe determined

from hygrometric observations. This has been done by Dr.

Apjohnf.

  m179. The value of manifestly depends upon the unit of elas-

ticity, and upon the imit of temperature.

180. Dr. Apjohn, of Dublin, whose attention was directed to

the subject by the suggestion of the Committee of the Associa-

mtion, has, in a series of interesting papers, tested the value of

in a variety of circumstances by his own experiments |, and by

those of others §. Assuming De la Roche and Berard's value

of the specific heat of air, he finds m, for English inches of

=mercury, and for Fahrenheit's degree, to be -^j '01149 : a

posteriori he has determined it

(1.) from experiments on the dew-point . . . '01151

(2.)          ,, on refrigeration in dry air . '0115011

   * This formula, employed by Augusta and Bohnenberger, coincides essen-
tially with that of Ivory (Phil. Mag.Tx. SO.), who first gave a proper theory of

mthe moistened bulb hygrometer. His value of is not far from the truth,

being J- for cent, degrees, or ' for Fahrenheit.

       Irish Trans., Phil. Mag., and Brit. Assoc, Sixth Report. See also Suer-

         ·f-

man's Thesis.

+Phil. Mag., 3rd Series, vii. 266. 470.     § Ibid., vi. 182.

      Prof. Lloyd has ingeniously made this set of experiments the means of

              II

testing the accuracy of the tables of the force of vapour, and he prefers Dalfon

and Ure's calculated by Anderson.-- Proceedings, Royal Irish Academy, 1840.
        SUPPLKMEN'TARV REPORT ON MBTEOROLOGY.                             99

(3.) from experiments on refrigeration in air once

saturated, then warmed                                '01140

nearly coincident with one another, and with the theoretical

determination.

    181. Bohnenberger* had already obtained a value sensibly
identical, which probably was not known to Dr. Apjohn at the

--time he made his experiments ; for English inches and Fahren-

heit degrees, he obtained

First, from 56 observations                           m = '0114

Afterwards, from 45, which he preferred .             '011398

   182. M. K'amtz, in a very valuable paper f on the results of his

extensive observations in Switzerland, has given his formula in
a slightly different form, but which indicates an almost precise
coincidence between theory and experiment, both for the case
where the thermometer is above freezing and below ; for in the

latter case equally the principle holds, only we must allow for

the latent heat absorbed in liquefying as well as vaporizing the

water. Including the barometric formula, M. Kamtz writes

the second term of the formula for the elasticity thus :

                   - --0*001004475 {t t') b,

b being the barometric height in French lines, the standard
barometric height 336 lines, by which the co-efficient (which is
for Reaumur's scale) has been already divided.

   183. The above expression is the theoretical one above 0° R.
The theoretical one below 0° R. is

                   - -0-0009375 {t t') b.

   184. These two numbers, deduced a posteriori from the Swiss

observations, give

AAbKo^v,,eo  no  t> /Faulhorn       .  .  '0010026    34 obs.
                 R.|Rigi.           .  .  -001002506  31 ,,
                           .

BTJe^lio^w^OnoRo.|fzF^aruilchhorn.  .  .  -000945014  15 ,,
                                    .  .  -0009995    11 ,,

from direct comparison with the dew-point.

185. I have given these numbers, that their coincidence may be

perceived. Again, to compare them with Apjohn's and others,
we may take those at the Faulhorn and reduce them to English

measures and a mean barometric pressure, when we shall

obtain

             m =Above 32° Fahr. . . .       -0118
             m =Below 32° Fahr. . . .
                                            -0112

        * Suerman, p. 88.                        f Poggendorff, xxx. 33.

                                       H2
--100 REPORT 1840.

186. M. Kupffer*, though he adopts Kamtz's table of elastici-

ties, after examinhig the experiments of Gay-Lussac, Bohnen-

berger, Auguste, and Erman, finally prefers this value of m,

Above 32°           m = -01135

almost coincident with that of Bohnenberger and Apjohn.

  A187. most elaborate paper has been published by Mr. Prin-

sep, of Calcutta, in the Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengalf,
on the wet-bulb problem, in continuation of the ingenious, but

rather obscure ones, alluded to in the former report, as having
been published in the " Gleanings of Science" j. Mr. Prinsep
states, that the notice taken of his former labours, in the First
Report of the British Association, had stimulated him to re-
sume the subject, and he has accordingly furnished us with a

great many valuable test-experiments, which can nowhere be
so well performed as in warm climates. Mr. Prinsep's ori-
ginal memoir will be consulted by those who wish to avail

themselves of his valuable researches for the improvement of
theory : it is not necessary to dwell upon those points where he

seems to us to be less explicit, or historically not quite exact;
and the great point is to be clearly satisfied that we have noiv ob-

tained a sufficient interpretation of the indications of the moist-

ened thermometer. When we find that Mr. Prinsep once more

coincides with Dr. Apjohn's numbers, only hesitating whether

to prefer -g-^ to -^j for the value of m, we are prepared to admit

that this problem is, practically speaking, completely resolved
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;

and this being the case, it is scarcely worth while to disentangle
the various imperfect steps by which so happy a consummation
has been attained, and the hj grometer rendered as commodious

and as accurate as the common thermometer §. The leading

--steps of the generalization are these : Hutton invented the

method ; Leslie revived and extended it, giving probably the
earliest, though an imperfect theory ; Gay-Lussac, by his ex-
cellent experiments and reasoning from them, completed the

theory, so far as perfectly dry air is concerned; Ivory ex-

   * Bullet'iii de l'Academie des Sciences de St. Petersbourg, vi. No. 22, for
which I am indebted to Major Sabine.

   t No. 55, .Inly, 1836.
   X The "Gleanings in Science" refei-red to in the original Report of the

British Association, had been lent to me by Sir D. Brewster, to whom they had

been sent. I afterwards communicated them to Dr. Apjohn.

   § In practice, I am inclined to prefer two separate thermometers to the dif-
ferential one of Leslie, which requires besides, the use of a common thermo-

meter, to take the temperature of the air. It seems preferable to have two

thermometei-s arranged in one pocket-case, and in the event of fracture a single
one may still be used. I have formerly adverted to the unnecessary introduc-

tion of the term psychrometer to e.xpress so simple a combination.
                                          --

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY. 101

tended the theory ; which was reduced to practice by Auguste
and Bohnenberger, who determined the constant with accuracy.
English observers have done little more than confirm the con-
clusions of our industrious Germanic neighbours ; nevertheless,
the experiments of Apjohn and Prinsep must ever be considered
as conclusively settling the value of the co-efficient near the
one extremity of the scale, as those of Kamtz have done for

the other.

   188. Of the papers of Dr. Hudson in the Philosophical Maga-
zine*, and of Mr. Meikle, and of an anonymous author, in the

Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal t, it is not necessary for
me to speak, on the grounds just stated. The experiments of

the latter have been compared with theory by Dr. Apjohn.

B. On the Distribution of Vapour in the Atmosphere.

  189. Now that we have got a simple and intelligible hygrome-

ter, we may hope to know more than we yet do respecting the

distribution of vapour in the atmosphere. Accurate experiments
are at present extremely rare ; a few of the most interesting

have been obtained by M. Kamtz. The greatest dryness he

has observed was on the 28th September, 1832, on the summit
of the Faulhorn, the barometer 247*4 French lines. At 9 a.m.
the temperature of the air was 6°-9 R., the moist thermometer
fell to 0°*1 R. The computed dryness is 9 per cent, of satura-
tion J. Clouds he has always found to be perfectly damp when
fully immersed in them, confirming the result of Saussure,

which has been called in question §.
    190. It has commonly been supposed that dryness increases

as we ascend yet it is also certain, that at a certain elevation
                                                           ;

clouds are more common than at any other. Accordingly,
Kamtz finds that, whilst in dry weather the higher regions are
drier than below, in damp weather the reverse is the case j he
finds that, if we consider the absolute elasticity of vapour at a
given place, there are two maxima and two minima daily ; but

if we consider the relative humidity, or proportion existing to
the capacity of saturation, there remains but a single maximum
of dampness at 4-5 a.m. (in June), and one minimum at

2 P.M.

    191. The absolute quantity of moisture existing in the air is
greatest at the equator, and diminishes towards the poles. M.

Kamtz, from the experiments of Beechey and others, gives the

following formula for the North Atlantic :
                                                                                                                ||

* Phil. Mag., 3rd Series, vii. viii. ix.  t xv. 273 ; xvii. 98. 330.
X PoggendorfF, xxx. 71.                   § Poggendorff, xxx. p. 53,

   Poggendorff, xxx. 59.

II
102 REPORT-- 1840.

  = +E^ 0-1370 8-9004 cos'' in French lines, where E^ is
                                                                                                                           <f>

the elasticity of vapour in lat. 0.

                       IV.-- Wind*.

192. The immediate cause of wind is the inequality of pneu-

matic pressm*e in the atmosphere, occasioned by differences

(permanent or variable) of temperature.

193. Of Permanent Differences, the most important is the

warmth of the equatorial regions compared to the polar. The

combination of this cause with the rotation of the earth is the

well-known cause of the trade winds ; and, we may add, of the

prevalent west winds in northern latitudes, as well as of the

counter currents observed at certain elevations.

 --194. Of Variable Differences of temperature there are very

many; as (1) the variable temperature of any spot, occasioned

by the  annual change  of position                                                                of the  sun             respecting it                                    (2)  a
                                                                                                                                                                        ;

similar variation for different hours of the day or night; (3) a

variation due to the continental and insular character of climate

affecting the annual temperature                                                                  curve                   (4)  a  similar                                  influ-
                                                                                                                       ;

ence of the solid or fluid, and more or less heat-absorbing, cha-

racter of the surface, in varying the distribution of temperature

during twenty- four hours                                                                         (5.) the variable            nature of surface
                                                                                               ;

depending on elevation, such as the presence of mountains,

which receive heat from and part with it to the adjacent plains,

according to different laws.

195. All these causes produce their peculiar and local effects,

which it may be sufficient to advert to in the most general way.

To the /irst cause is due the variation in the position of the
limit of the trade winds at different seasons. To the second,

the probable tendency of the warmth at the part of the earth's

surface, on which, in his diurnal course, the sun has just exer-

cised its greatest enei'gy, to attract the colder air from the parts

of the earth on whose horizon he is just appearing. To the
third, are attributable the very important effects of the mon-

soons, the local variations of the trades (as on the coast of

Africa and Mexico f), the prevalence of east winds in Europe
in spring, and many similar phaenomena. To the fourth, the

recurrence of land and sea breezes in all climates, especially

between the tropics. To the Jifth, the very remarkable but

little-noticed diurnal phaenomena of hill and valley breezes,

occurring with great regularity in mountainous countries having

a pretty vmiform climate (as in the South of Europe), and

   * See former Report, p. 246. Malilniann, p. 155.

   t See Capt. Hall's Fragments of Voyages and Travels, 2nd Series, ii., and
Daniell's Meteorological Essays, 2nd Edition.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                   103

which, especially in their connexion with moisture, have a most

important influence on climate.
   196. All these phfenomena deserve a more careful examination

than they have received, with a philosophical view of referring

them to their common cause. What has been done in this way
we will presently notice. But first, we will say something as

to means of investigation.

                                  A. Anemometers.

  197- In my former report I remarked, that if anything were to

be done in the way of anemometrical observations, it must be by

the use of self-registering instruments. Two such have been

invented, and pretty extensively used in this country.
   198. Mr. Whewell* has described an anemometer proceeding

on the ingenious principle, that the meteorological importance
of a wind blowing in a given direction is not to be estimated by
the number of days or hours that it blows in a given direction,
but by the compound ratio of the time and force. This he
endeavours to obtain by causing a pencil to describe a vertical
line with a velocity proportional to the nvunber of turns of a
vane with which it is connected, whilst at the same time the
pencil is carried round a cylindric surface by an apparatus like
that which guides a windmill, so as to point out the azimuth of
the wind. The length of line described by the pencil between
two given azimuths shows the integral effect of force and time
for that interval. The instrument has been worked with very
considerable success at Cambridge, under the directions of
Professors Whewell and Challist, at Plymouth by Mr. South-
wood J, at Edinburgh by Mr. Rankine§ and myself, and in

other places. From its construction (friction being the anta-

gonist force or regulator), perfect comparability cannot be ex-

pected.

    199. Mr. Osier, of Birmingham, has invented and constructed
an ingenious but complicated apparatus for measuring the force
and direction of the wind at any moment, and for keeping a re-

gister of these particulars in the absence of the observer . It
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ||

consists of a very powerful vane, which carries round the stalk
to which it is affixed ; this stalk terminating in a pinion, moves
a rack connected with a pencil, which describes upon paper the

* Cambridge Transactions, vol. vi. part ii.

f Britisli Association, 7th Report, Sections, p. 32, and Camb. Transactions.

X Ibid., 8th Report, p. 28.  § Edin. Trans, xiv. 359.

II British Association, 7th Report, Sections, p. 33, and " Description of a

Self-Registering Anemometer and Rain-Gauge." 4to. Birmingham, 1839,

with a plate. Some parts of the apparatus have been more lately modified.
--104 REPORT 1840.

variations in the direction of the wind, the paper being carried
uniformly along beneath the pencil by means of clockwork, so

that the pencil describes a Curve of Direction of the Wind. The
force is registered by means of a plate one foot square con-
nected with the vane-stalk by a jointed parallelogram ; which
plate is pressed against a spiral spring in such a manner as to
indicate the force of the wind by the antagonist force of the
spring in pounds. To indicate this upon the same sheet of
paper before mentioned, and with regard to time, a thread con-

nected with the pressure plate is conveyed through the axis of
the vane-stalk (which is hollow), and then turning over a

pulley, pulls a pencil up or down as the intensity increases or
diminishes, leaving an intelligible tracing on the paper, from
which the mean pressure may be tolerably estimated*. The
fall of rain is registered by a peculiar contrivance upon the
same sheet, so as to indicate its amount and distribution over
the twenty.four hours. The expense of the instrument and its
liability to derangement are the chief objections to it ; it is evi-
dent that so many objects cannot be gained without consider-
able complication f. One of these anemometers has been work-
ed for a considerable time at Birmingham, and another at Ply-
mouth J. One has just been established at Edinburgh, and
others, it is believed, have been sent to Ireland and America.

   200. Mr. R. Adie, of Liverpool, has contrived a statical wind-

gauge, in which the maximum pressure is pointed out. It is

on the principle of a gasometer with a moveable top, over
water, and the pressure of the wind is introduced by a tube
below. The pressure is indicated by a hand connected with an
axis, which is turned as the moveable top rises against a gra-

duated resistance §.

B. Phcenomena of Wind generally.

201. It is rather remarkable that of late years several persons

should independently have arrived at partial solutions of the

great and complicated problem of aerial currents, their distribu-

Ation and causes.  few of the simpler admitted facts have al-

   * As every instrument upon this construction must necessarily act by im-

pulsive starts, the statical gradation cannot possibly give the actual force of the

wind, but it is difficult to suggest a better measure.

   t This instrument is in every respect so much more complicated in its parts
and delicate in its adjustments than Mr. Whewell's anemometer, that it is
difficult to understand how the latter comes to be described in the Royal
Society's Instructions (p. 71.) as "more complex in its construction, and prac-
tically more liable to derangement."

   X See Reports of the Ninth Meeting of the British Association.
   § See a figure in Dr. Traill's article on Physical Geography, from the Ency-
clopcrdia Britannka, 8vo, p. 197.
SUPPLBMBNTARY REPORT ON METBOROLOGY.  105

ready been mentioned, which serve to explain the more formal
modifications of wind by a combination of the principles of

rarefaction by heat, and the mechanical rotation of the globe.
The particle of air, thus drawn toward the equatorial regions
by the rarefaction permanently produced there by the sun's
verticality, lags behind the parallel of latitude over which it
moves, having the velocity due to a higher latitude from which
it has come. That there must be a return current is not only

evident to common sense, but its existence is made evident by

the drift of clouds in the neighbourhood of the tropics, and by
observations at great elevations ; not to mention that the preva-
lent S. and S.W. winds of our latitudes appear to be nothing
else than portions of this superior return current, which, in this
stage of its progress, falls again to the surface of the earth, pos-
sessed of the excess of velocity of a more southern parallel.

   202. These doctrines are now generally held, but there have
been various attempts made to carry out the theory and to ge-

neralize the facts further, even as respects the apparently capri-
cious changes of wind in this most anomalous region of the
earth's surface. It even appears probable that our forefathers

knew more on this subject than is generally admitted now,
and the sagacious guesses of the seventeenth century may be

brought in supportof the jyroZ»a;6/e theoretical conjectures of the

 nnieteenth.

    203. Professor Dove, of Berlin, author of several original re-
searches in meteorology, optics, and magnetism, and editor of a

valuable scientific work of reference*, has published a series of
elaborate memoirs more or less connected with the theory of
windf, of which he has more lately published a compend J, but
whose labours on this subject seem to be little, if at all, known
 in this country. This perhaps is to be attributed to the want
of a perspicuous analysis of his views by some one who would
 undertake clearly to state, how far they are original and how
far combined from those of others, how far they are to be con-
 sidered hypothetical and how far founded upon demonstration.

We feel the want of some such guide in turning over Prof. Dove's

 three hundred and forty-four closely-printed pages, and also in

the writings of his countrymen who have acted as comnien-
tators§. I am by no means satisfied that T am so thoroughly
possessed of his views as to give all that Prof. Dove claims to

     * Repertorium, of which 3 volumes are published.

   A\ list of 14 memoirs contained in PoggendorfF's Annals between the

 llth and 36th vols, will be found in his " Untersuchungen," p. viii.

    X Meteorologische Untersuchungen, von H. W. Dove. Berlin, 1837. 8vo.

     § Fechner, in his iZepe/'ton'Mffi, vol. iii. ; ^a,ri\tz,'mh\s Meteorologie, i. 254;

 Muhlmann, in his enlarged Translation of my last Report, p. 155.
106 REPORT-- 1840.

establish, but in stating briefly what I understand to be his
fundamental positions, I shall at least have a better chance of

rendering myself understood, than if I confined myself to the
easier task of translating passages from the original works.

    204. Considering first the simple phsenomenon of the direc-
tion of the tvind, apart from all others, it appears for ages to
have been a belief that when the wind changes it does so in a
constant direction, which is that of the hands of a watch,
which for brevity we will call a Right-handed Rotation.

M. Dove contrasts, not unaptly, the two following passages,
one from Bacon, in the commencement of the l7th century,
the other from a French physical writer of the 19th. The
former says, " Si ventus se mutet conformiter ad luotum solis,

non revertitur plerumque aut si hoc facit fit ad breve tempug ;"

the latter, "On a cru remarquer que dans certains lieux les vents

se succedent dans un ordi*e determine ; mais ces observations
presentent encore trop d'incertitudes pour qu'il nous soit per-
mis de les discuter ici". The clear evidence which Dove pro-
duces of the opinion of observers of various countries during a
space of tvvo hundred years, that the more frequent and more per-
manent rotations of the windare right-handed (in this hemisphere),
give much support to his theory*. It is important to add, that
the pheenomena of the trade winds and monsoons enter as part
of the expression of his general law of rotation [das Drehimgs-

gezetz des Windes).
    205. It is very remarkable, from its connexion with a different

inquiry presently to be noticed, that in the Southern Hemisphere

the Law of Motation is inverted, the movement of direction is

Left-handed. In the Northern Hemisphere the order of winds is
                            S., W., N., E., S.

In the Southern Hemisphere,
                             S., E., N., W., S.

Of these circuits, the quadrants from S. to W. and N. to E.
in the Northern Hemisphere, and from N. to W. and S. to E.

in the Southern Hemisphere, are oftener traversed in an inverted
order than the opposite quadrants f.

   206. This, however, is only a small part of M. Dove's investi-

gation, for he aims at showing that this law of succession thus
determined, renders a certain order of meteorological phaeno-
mena of every kind indispensable, and he has laboured to assign

    * Meteorologische Utitersuchungen, p. 132. It is important to observe, that the

direction of rotation here mentioned has no reference to the rotatory movement
of the aerial particles themselves, which will be referred to in the next section.

    t Meteorologische Untersuclningen, p, 129. It is to be observed, that this

Law of Rotation especially applies to extra-tropical regions, where the mixture

of equatorial and polar currents is most complete.
                                     --

SUPPLEMENTAEY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY. 107

for each hemisphere an invariable concomitance of the meteor-
ological phasnomena of temperature, pressure, humidity and
rain for every direction of the wind. This research was

indeed by no means new. Von Buch had shown the depend-

ence of the barometer on the direction   of  the  wind                    even the
                                                                       ;

poets could distinguish the thermal and hygrometric charac-

ters of Boreas and Zephyr ; and it is easy to see that as far as

the characters of North and South go, these particulars must

be altered in the southern hemisphere. In my former report

I have shown, from the researches of the German meteorolo-

gists, that the mean direction of the wind for the whole year

depends on the climate*, and I might have added that the sea-

son exerts an important influence :

207. Thus at Berlin the mean direction of the wind is f

                                         Proportion of

                 E. to W. Winds. N. to S. Winds.

W.Winter S. 33°  . . . 100 : 137 · . . 100 : 190

W.Spring S. 73°  . . . 100 : 132 . . . 100 : 113

W.Summer N. 83°  . . . 100 : 277 . · . 100 : 85

Autumn S. 50° W. ... 100 : 160 . . . 100 : 167

Each season therefore has its predominant wind, as it has its

characteristic temperature, pressure and moisture. It is Prof.

Dove's object to prove that these follow as cause and effect, and

hence that any law affecting the succession of winds must affect

the succession of other meteorological pheenomena. It must

be owned that the following table of one year's observations at

Calcutta give a strong probability to the gejieral mutual de-

pendence of these pheenomena upon one another in those regions,

where atmospheric laws are usually exhibited with vast dis-

turbance, and therefore more correctly (at least in proportion to

the time that the observations have been continued).

Month.
108 REPORT 1840.

208. "Since 1827," says Prof. Dove, "I have published a series

of Memoirs in Poggendorff's Annals, in vrhich I have sought

to prove that the totality of the non- periodic meteorological

changes of our latitudes reduces itself to a fundamental phceno-

menon, which I have called the Law of Rotation of the Wind.

The fact of a regulated variation of the direction of the wind

(regebndssigen Ueberganges der verschiedenen JVindesrich-

tungen) observed centuries ago, yet often disputed, stood iso-

lated from the generally acknowledged, if not sufficiently proved,

influence of the winds' direction upon the pressure, tempera-

ture and humidity of the atmosphere. If, then, the so-called

Irregular Variations are nothing else than the transition or

passage of the barometrical, thermal and hygrometrical values

of the winds into one another, it is clear that the laws of these

variations can only be known by ascertaining the laws which

connect the mean variations of the wind's direction with the

distribution of pressure, temperature and moisture for the

different points of the compass*". Such nearly, in the author's

words, are the objects of his more laborious investigations; and

to the construction of a barometric compass-card, a ther-

mometric compass-card, and so forth, a series of memoirs is

devoted. When by this means any mean series of meteorolo-

gical changes becomes interpretable in terms of wind-azimuth,

it is easy to see that new checks may be obtained for the fun-

damental law of rotation.

209. To pursue the course of M. Dove's laborious research

Weis out of the question.    must content ourselves by gi-

ving a specimen of his conclusionsf. In the Northern hemi-

sphere

The Barometer falls  during  E.  S.E. and S.  winds                      passes
                                                                      ;

from falling to rising during S.W. and rises with W.,

N.W. and N. winds, and has its maximum rise with N.E.

wind.

The Thermometer rises with E., S.E. and S. winds ; has
   its maximum with S.W., and falls with W., N.W. and
   N. winds ; its minimum is N.E.

The Elasticity of Vapour increases with E., S.E. and S.
   M'inds ; has its maximum at S.W., and diminishes during

  the wind's progress by W. and N.W. to N. ; at N.E. it has

   a minimum.
210. What has now been stated for the Northern hemisphere

may be transferred to the Southern by changing N. into S.,
N. W. into S.W., &c., throughout.

211. These views of Dove have not been received altogether

* Untersuchungen (Pref.).        + Untersuchungen, p. 140.
          SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                                 109

without discussion. The mutual dependence of meteorological
phaenomena in a general way can hardly be disputed, but the

fundamental Law of Rotation has been denied by Schouw, who
has made this subject his particular study*. The subject now
attracts considerable attention in Germany f, and the indications

of anemometers, like Osier's, are well adapted to put it to the

test.

             C. Phcenomena of Storms^.

212. The ingenious observations of Franklin on the travelling

of storms opposite to the actual movement of the wind which

produced them, led to the supposition of local rarefactions

and the sudden rush of wind from all quarters to supply the va-

cuity. The enormous linear velocity of the aerial particles re-

quired to produce the observed effects, to which might be added

the difficulty of conceiving this propagation of disturbance to

continue for days together, and to pass over hundreds or thou-

sands of miles, with unabated intensity, led Colonel Capper to

suggest in 1801 §, that the velocity of the wind at any point was
chiefly due to the velocity of rotation of a vortex of fluid, com-

bined probably with a progressive motion. Pi-of. Mitchell, of

America, seems to have retrograded when he assigned to the

gyration  a  vertical  plane  of  motion                         but  he  was  speedily fol-
                                                            ||;

lowed by Redfield, who, doing all justice to those who preceded

him, established Colonel Capper's doctrine by a diligent appeal to

facts ^. Mr. Redfield has been fortunate also in having a Eu-

ropean fellow-labourer in the same field, who has been equally

candid in his acknowledgements of what he borrowed from Ame-

rica. Colonel Reid, in a handsome and elaborate work**, has

maintained the same views, and supported them by an examina-

   * See Kamtz, i., 257, and Pogg. xiv. 546. See also Schouw's extensive

--Essay on the Winds of Europe, " Beitrdge", &c., p. 1 115.

   t See Galle's papers on the Extension of Dove's Law to the Southern He-

misphere, Poggendorff, xxxi. 465 ; xxxviii. 472.

    X First Report, p. 248.
   $ In a work on the Monsoons and periodical winds, quoted by Redfield, Reid,
and others.

        Silliman's Journal, 1831, xix. 248.

              il

  ^ His first paper is in Silliman's Journal, 1831, xx. 17. There is a reply
to him by Mitchell in the same volume. See also London Nautical Magazine,
April, 1836, and Jan. 1839, and Silliman, xxx. 115.

   ** On the Law of Storms 8vo. London, 1838. An interesting review of this

work, and of the previous labours of Redfield, will be found in the Edinburgh
Review, Ixviii. 406, to which those readers who wish a popular compend of
the subject are referred. Since these pages were written, Prof. Dove has ex-
plicitly claimed the credit (Phil. Mag., Nov. 1840,) of having first in recent

--times asserted the revolving and progressive character of storms, and their op-

posite character in the two hemispheres. Compare Pogg. xiii. 596.
 110 REPORT-- 1840.

tion of the courses of many hurricanes recorded in ships' logs,
which he has projected on excellent chai'ts. The theory of
 Colonel Capper proposed for the storms of the eastern hemi-

 sphere is found to be not less applicable to the terrific tem-

pests of the West Indies, where these gyratory movements ap-
pear commonly to take their rise, invariably revolving from
right to left, which at the same time pi'ogress in a straight

 or curved path, usually occupying a space of from 100 to 500
miles in diameter. These rotatory movements commence in
tropical latitudes usually near the West India Islands ; they
move at first in a westerly and continually more northerly di-
rection, until they reach a latitude of about 30°, when they turn
rather abruptly tovvards the north-east. It is impossible not to
believe that the path of these storms is mainly determined by
the configuration of the American continent*.

    213. The fall of the barometer, especially near the central
parts of the storm, is accounted for by the action of centrifugal

force.

    214. It is very evident that the direction of the wind to a sta-
tionary observe!-, whilst one of these vortices is passing over
him, will vary in a manner depending on his position with respect
to the axis of the storm. If the centre pass rigorously over his
station, he will experience a gale first in one direction and then
in a directly opposite one, without any intermediate points of
the compass ; as an observer is stationed on one side of the axis
or the other, a little reflection will clearly show that the appa-
rent change in the wind's direction will follow opposite courses

in the one or other position. This and many other deductions
are fully made by Redfield and Reid ; we only mention it just
now in order to point out that this, at all events, must be con-

sidered an essential exception to Dove's law of rotation.
    215. There is, however, a remarkable analogy to Dove's law

in one respect, which is, that t/te direction of rotation of storms
is opposite in the two hemispheres, being right-handed in the
southern. This important fact was deduced by Redfield from
his hypothesis that storms are produced by the mingling and
collision of the superior equatorial stream with the polar stream
or trade winds. Colonel Reid has given great support to this
view by tracing some storms of the southern tropical regions.

   216. Not the least important and interesting part of this in-
quiry is the deduction of practical rules for steering out of in-

stead of into these vortices, an application distinctly pointed out
by Col. Capper as well as his successors ; but this does not con-
cern us at present.

                                * See Colonel Reid's Charts, iii., v., vii.
                            --

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                                 Ill

   217. The theory of Capper, Redfield, and Reid has not been
received Mdthout opposition. Mr. Espy*, in particular, advo-
cates the Franklinian doctrine of the progression of wind in radial
lines ; and he has received the powerful support of Prof. Bache,
of Philadelphia, who has described, in great detail, a tornado f

which occurred in New Brunswick in 1835, and from which he

finds no proof of rotation. Mr. Milne J has traced, I think
satisfactorilj'^, the rotatory character of two remarkable storms
which passed over the British Islands in November, 1838, ac-
companied with an extraordinary depression of the barometer

of a veiy local character. M. Arago is disposed to admit, that
there may be hurricanes of both characters, and, consequently,

observations irreconcileable with either hypothesis singly §.

               --V. Clouds Rain .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ||

   218. The theory of the suspension of clouds, one of the most
interesting in the whole range of meteorology, has received no
additions, nay, it can hardly be said to exist. That clouds con-
sist of distinct particles is vmdoubted, from optical phsenomena,
and from direct observation^; the error seems to be, to con-
sider these as so many independent molecules, whereas they are
no doubt connected by the most definite laws of force, and con-
stitute masses whose density has no necessary connexion with

that of their integrant parts. No one can observe the cha-

--racter of clouds for instance, the well- formed cauliflower-

* Journal, Franklin Institute, October, 1836. Not having been able to pro-

cure this journal, I cannot refer to the contents more particularly. Mi-. Espy

maintains a peculiar physical theory of storms, which, since this report was

--written, has been brought in several forms before the British public. See also

Silliman, xxxix. 120. Dr. Hare has published, in the American Philosophical

Transactions, and in Silliman's Journal (vol. xxxviii.), some papers respecting

tornadoes, in which he appears to assign to them an electrical cause. Major

Sabine has referred me to a clear and able analysis of the effects of the storm

of the 20th December, 1836, by Mr. I,oomis, in the first part of the 7th vol.

of the American Transactions (which had not reached Scotland when this

report was written), who appears to infer, in that particular case, a rotation

round a horizontal axis like that imagined by Mitchell. The paper is highly

worthy of consultation.

   t Trans. American Phil. Soc, v. 407. It seems rather singular, that the
name of tornado or whirlwind should be applied, by common consent, to a

storm not having the rotatory character. Mr. Redfield denies Mr. Espy's and

Prof. Bache's conclusions (Nautical Magazine, January, 1839, p. 6.). See also

the Report of the Newcastle (Eighth) Meeting of the British Association,

where Colonel Reid and Prof. Bache were present.

X Edinb. Trans., vol. xiv.      § Comptes Rendus (Paris), vii. 707.

II Former Report, p. 249. Mahlmann, p. 185.

   IT Since writing the former report, I have satisfied myself of the existence
and some of the phasnomena of Saussure's (so called) vesicular vapours.
              --

--112 REPORT 1S40.

--headed cumulus contrasted with the flaky cirrus without being

persuaded of the fact, that clouds are not unorganized assem-
blages of watery particles in a state of extreme division.

   219. With respect to the fall of rain, by far the most inter-

esting contribution to tliis part of meteorology, took its origin
at the rise of the British Association. Prof. Phillips, by his
careful experiments on the fall of rain at different elevations at
York, and his admirable deductions fi'om them, has (I think)

completely established the cause of the diminished fall of rain,

as we ascend in the atmosphere (vertically above the soil). M.

Boisgiraud ain^, of Toulouse*, was, I believe, the first in
recent timesf to maintain that this is due to the gathering of
the drop as it descends, chiefly in consequence of the cold
which it possesses, due to the height from which it lias fallen,
and also to the considerable dampness of the atmosphere at
such times. This, the experiments of Mr. Phillips and Mr.
Gray entirely confirm, and I think demonstrate J.

   220. For 12 months (1833-31) the fall of rain at York was

as follows :

Height above Ground.              Rain in Inches.
                      feet
                                        25-706
          44 ,,                         19-852
         213 ,,                         14-963

The diminution was, therefore, 41-8 per cent, for 213 feet.

                            22-8                   44

which is pretty nearly as the square root of the height. This

proportion does not hold for different seasons ; and though the

mformula      -v^ height, originally proposed by Mr. Phillips (m

being a function of the air-temperature), is a tolerable approxi-

mation, it does not appear to be an accurate one. Nor indeed

have we any reason to suppose that so simple a law should

express the effect, on the author's own hypothesis, since (ad-

mitting that the rain-drops have attained a terminal velocity)

the deposition on the drop must involve the size of the drop,

the dryness of the air, and the decrement of temperature in the

atmosphere in a very complicated manner §.

221. Admitting, however, for a moment, Mr. Phillips's ori-

    · Annales de Chimie, xxxiii. 417.
   t Prof. Bache, of Philadelphia, has claimed, with reason, for Dr. Franklin,

--the merit of first suggesting the explanation, so far as the imperfect science of

his time would fairly allow him to do. Journal, Franklin Institute, vol. xvii.

183G.
    X British Association, 3rd Report, p. 401 ; 4th Report, p. 560; 5th Report,

p. 171.

   § The optical phsenomena of the rainbow, to which we shall presently ad-
vert, confirm, in a remarkable manner, the increased size of drops in falling.

--See Arago ; Annuaire, 1836, p. 301.
          SUPPLEMKNTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                    113

ginal approximation, we think that he has fully made ont his
main point ; for he has shown* that the value of the co-efficient

m depends upon the dryness of the air, at least that it is very

nearly inversely as the mean daily range at any season, a datum

which, in a good degree, indicates the relative dryness ; altliough
without direct hygrometrical experiments the investigation must
be considered as incomplete. Mr. Phillips desires that these

experiments should be further pursued at points where three

rain stations, vertically above one another, can be procured,
and he has given instructions for making such observations f-

   222. Prof. Bache, of Philadelphia, has shown the very mate-

rial influence which the eddies of air surroundiug a station, such
as a tower or steeple, exert upon the fall of rain, depending on
the position of the gauge J. Mr. Phillips is at present engaged
in an ingenious series of experiments, to estimate and elimi-

nate these disturbances.

   223. An admirable list of rain-gauge experiments, in differ-

ent parts of the earth's surface, is given in Prof. Muncke's ar-

ticle on Rain, in Gehler's Physikalisches fForterbuch^, an

elaborate treatise, which appears to exhaust the literature of the

subject.

    224. It appears from the Report of the Birmingham Meeting

of  the  British  Association,     as  given  in  the  Athenaeum  journal
                                                                                              ||,

that doubt has been thrown upon the statement of the remark-

myable fall of rain cited in           former report^.    I was not pre-

sent at either of the discussions alluded to ; I therefore take this

opportunity of stating the authority upon which these very sur-

--prising falls of rain were admitted into my report authority

so ample, that, as a historian of science, I could not have
omitted them, improbable as they do most certainly appear.

   225. The fall of 30 inches of rain within 24 hours took place
at Genoa** on the 25th October, 1822. An assertion to this ef-

fect having appeared in a Genoese newspaper, the editors of the
Bibliothhque Universelle wrote immediately to make the ne-
cessary inquiries as to an observation so unprecedented. The

reply, which they obtained from M. Pagano, " observateur

exact," is given at length in this journalff, and is, I think, by

--no means the less satisfactory because it was obtained by the

most inartificial of rain-gauges : "Deux sceaux de bois, presque

cylindriques, dont I'un de vingt-quatre et I'autre de vingt-

    * British Association, Third Report, p. 410.

    t Ibid., .5th Rep., p. 178.        % Ibid., Eighth Report, Sections, p. 25.

    § Vol. vii. Part II. p. 1309. Leipzig, 1834.

    II 31st August, 1839, p. 658.             Ij P. 252.

    ** Not Geneva, as stated by a printer's oversight in the former report ; the

MS. was correct.

tt Vol. xxii., Partie Physique, p. 67.

VOL. IX. 1840.                         I
114 REPORT 1840.

six pouces de hauteur, qui m'avoient servi pour quelques expe-

riences sur la vendange etoient restes vides dans mon jardin.
La pluie de Vendredi 25 Octobre, n'avoient pas encore cesse
de tomber, que deja ils en etoient remplis." He tlien pi'oceeds
to state on what grounds he infers that 4 inches more of rain

fell after the largest vessel was filled, making a total of 30
French (32 English) inches, and then adds a statement of

several facts, to shov/ that the effects of this delnge in the

neighbourhood bore a proportion to the magnitude of the

cause. M. Arago, quoting the result, adds, " Ce resultat inoui

inspira des doutes a tons les meteorologistes ; ou soupfonnait

una erreur d'impression ; mais M. Pagano, observateur exact,

a ecrit aux redacteurs de la Blhliotheque Universelle, une lettre
qui met le fait hors de toute contestation'*."

   226. Fortunately, however, tliis local deluge (for it appears by

the letter of M. Pagano to have extended but a very short di-

stance), is nearly rivalled by a similar fact recorded in the South

of France by an experienced observer (who seems to have been

in the practice of measuring the fall of rain for twenty-tiiree

years at least), M. Tardy de la Brossy, of Joyeuse, Dep. de
I'Ardeche. M. Arago, who records the observation, and gives

--it the weight of his authority, does so in these words : " Le

9 Octobre, 1827, dans I'intervalle de vingt-deux heures, il est
tombe dans la menie ville de Joyeuse, 29 pouces 3 lignes d'eau

{vingt-neuf pouces, trois lignes) j'ecris le resultat en toutes
                                                                                                                                                                       ;

flettres afin qu'on ne croie j)as a une ante d'impi'essionf."
When I add that these two results, surprising, and perhaps

unexampled, as they are in the history of science, have, on

account of the testimony by which they are estabhshed, been

received not only in France I and Switzerland §, but in Ger-

many                                   and  England^,  I  conceive  that  they are       undoubtedly
                                   ||

entitled to stand pai-t of the history of meteorology**.

227. I proceed to add a notice of a few other remarkable falls

* Annales de Cliimie, xxvii. 207.                                  t Annales de Chimie, xxxvi. 414.

I By Arago and Pouillet (,P/ii/s. ii. 758.)-

§ By the Editors of the BibliotMque Universelle.

  By Muiicke (Gehler, vii.                                1240.),  Kamtz  (Meteorology,  i. 421.),  and

II

Mahlmann (Abriss. 200.).

^ EnctjcIopcBdia MtfropolUana, Art. Meteorology, p. 120.
** Mr. Espy has referred me to the fourth volume of Silliman's Journal for

an account of a shower hardly less surprising. At Catskill (U. S.), Mr. Dwight

ascertained that on the 26th July, 1819, between half-past 3 p.m. and 11 p.m.,

that is, in seven and a Italf hours, there fell into an empty barrel placed in an

Aopen space eighteen inches of water. tub \h\ inches deep, and nearly cylin-

drical, was filled before sunset. Since writing the above, another fact of the

same character has come to my knowledge. On the 2.5th Nov. 1826,

/A/;/y-//i/-ee inches of rain fell at Gibraltar within /«t'e«<//-s?a' hours. This in-

formation I received from Professor Jameson, who believes that he had it from

tlie late Col. Imrie.
              --;

              SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                       115

of rain, though there is nothing on record comparable to the two

preceding ones. Flaugergues, the eminent meteorologist of

Viviers, obtained, on the 6th September, 1801, 13 inches 2*3

lines (14| English inches) of rain in eighteen hours*. On the

20th Alay, 1827, there fell at Geneva 6 inches of rain in three

hours f. At Perth, on the 3rd August, 1829, there fell |ths of

an inch of rain in half an hour J. On the 22nd November,

1826, I observed, at Naples, a fall of y^ths of an inch of rain

and hail in thirty-seven minutes^.

228. Were the equatorial records of the fall of rain as minute

in respect of distribution as of total amount, we should doubt-

less have records of enormous falls within twenty-four hours.

None so recorded, that I am aware of, approach the results at

Genoa and Joyeuse. From the total quantities measured, it is

evident that the result, for particular days, must be enormous.

Don Antonio Lago observed, at San Luis Maranham (2i° S.

lat.) a fall of tiventy-three feet, 4 inches, 9*7 lines of I'ain in a

yearjl. Roussin states^ (his account is confirmed), that at

Cayenne (5° N. lat.) in February, 1820, there fell, in ten hours,

10"25 inches of rain; and between the 1st and 24th February,

twelve feet 7 inches. From observations in the Ghauts, it ap-

pears that in the eastern hemisphere, in lat 18° N., 302"21

inches of rain have been measured**, a quantity exceeding

that stated on the authority of Roussin, and which was once

considered almost incredible ; and of this quantity (25'2 English
feet) nearly 10 feet fell in the month of July alone.

229. I have formerly stated, that the fall of rain increases

on mountains ff ; and the following statement of Schubler, as to
the fall of rain at three stations, confirms the factJJ :

              Tubingen . .     Height.                 Depth of Rain§§.
              Schaichhof. .
              Alp Genkingen  1000 feet  .... 3572
                             1576 ,,    .... 3856
                             2400 ,,    .... 5513

* Bihliotheque Universelle, viii. 132, quoted in Gehler.

+ ^««. rfeCAi/n.,xxxvi.414. The mean ann?/a/rain at Geneva is only 30 inches.
X Edinburgh Journal of Science, New Series, iii. 368.
§ I do not know whether there exists a record of the fall of rain at Cler-

mont, on occasion of the catastrophe of the Vnlley of Royat, a few years ago

the amount, I presume, must have been very great, judging by the effects. M.

Quetelethas recorded a remarkable fall of rain in Belgium {Compies Rendus,

viii. 980.).                    Humboldt, quoted by Muncke.

                             II

If Silliman's Journal, iv. 375., quoted by Muncke.
** Communicated by Colonel Sykes, at the Ninth Meeting of the British

Association. Athenceum, p. 658. Prof. Stevelly's inference from these results
must, 1 presume, be erroneously reported.

tt Former Report, p. 251.               J+ In Gehler, vii. 1246.
§§ The unit of measure is not stated.

                             I2
116 REPORT 1840.

Boussingault finds a contrary result in the tropics * ; but this
fact admits of easy explanation, for the height to which they

were carried had already passed the region of maximum humi-

--dity, above which, no doubt, increased dryness occurs :

                                            Metres.            Inches.

Marmato . . . 1426                                   --171'2 154'4 in 2 different years.
Santa Fe de Bogota 2641
                                                               100-.3

   230. Boussingault also notices that, between the tropics, it
rains more in the night than in the day, which is the contrary
of the case in Europe f.

   231. Where M. Osier's self-registering gauge is employed, we
have the best means of determining the distribution of rain
and the intensity of showers.

   232. On the somevvhat vague subject of the moon's influence

on rain and weather, I must content myself with referring to
the recent Memoirs of AragoJ, Brandes§, Baumann||, Eisen-
lohr^, Howard**, Kamtzftj MarcetJ+, and Schubler§§.

VI.                    Atmospherical                 Electricity
                                                                                                      ||||.

   233. This subject has made scarcely any progress during the
last years. The experiments of Schubler are still the best we
possess. M. Arago has collected a number of important facts
respecting thunder-storms, and drawn conclusions from them,
for which we refer to his popular treatise ^^. Colladon, of
Geneva, has proposed to make observations on atmospherical

--· L'Instituf, No. 143.

t See also Schouw on the distribution of Rain. Edinburgh Philosopliical

Journal, July, 18.36.

    X Annuaire, 1833.

 --§ Ueher die Verschiedenen Formen der Wollcen, ihre Bildung, die Entste-

hung des Reg ens und Ilagels, ^c. Beitrage, p. 285.

       Unfersnchnngen iiber die Monatlicke Perioden in den Veranderungen

  --II

unserer Atmosphdre. Tubingen, 1832.

^ Poggendorff, XXX. 72; xxxv. 141.

** Proceedings of Royal Society, March, 1840.

tt Lehrbuch, iii. 411, &c.                           XX Bibliotheque Universelle, Fev. 1834.

 --§§ Einjluss des Mondes auf die Veranderungen unserer Atmosphdre. Leip-

zig, 1830. Kastner's Arcliiv, v. 169.

         See former Report, p. 252, and Mahlniann, p. 209, where the subject is

              II II

very fully treated. 1 beg again to disclaim any depreciation of the importance

of subjects like the present, over which I may pass very lightly, partly on

account of the extent of this report, but chiefly because of the difficulty of

establishing any general principles, and of offering any definite suggestions for

their advancement.

   f ^ Annuaire, 1838. Translated in the Edinburgh Philosophical Journal.
                                                                         ;

          SUPPLEMKNTARY REPORT ON METKOROLOGY.                           1 l7

electricity by means of a multiplier, but with what success we

have not heard*.

   234. On the subject of hail there is a curious paper by Lecoq,

founded on observations made in the neighbourhood of Cler-
mont, contained in the Comptes Mendus-f, and some observa-
tions by Beaumont, Buch, and Airy, and on the form of hail-
stones in the same work J.

                   VII. Metbors.

235. This subject has occupied by far too much attention

Aduring the last few years to be passed over in silence.    very

remarkable shower of falling stars attracting general attention

in many parts of the world on the night from the 12th to the
13th November, 1832, recalled the attention of philosophers to
the fact, that the same ?iig/)t of the year had, on several pre-

vious occasions, been similarly distinguished, and especially the

11 -12th November, 1799, when they were observed by Hum-

boldt and Bonpland§, as well as in Germany and in Green-

land ||.

   236. The year 1832 brought a very remarkable occurrence of
this kind on the night of the 12-13th November, which was ob-

served over the greater part of Europe, to the middle of Russia,

and in Arabia. I was at Geneva at the time, and heard much

next day of the appearance, which was such as to strike the
most heedless person ; but as it occurred very early in the morn-

ing, I did not see it. M. Gautier published an account of it^.
   237. This attracted attention to the date of the 12th Novem-

ber, and several confirmations were soon found of the (at least

occasional) periodicity of the meteor on that night. In 1831,
they had been observed by M. Berard on the coast of Spain**,

and also in Americaft- In 1822 they were seen at Potsdam

by M. Kloden; and some other remarkable appearances in No-

vember are also mentioned:]:^. But to return to the order of dates.

238. In 1833 was a brilliant apparition, especially in America,

always on the 12th November ; and these falling stars appeared

   * See on this subject the Instructions published by the Royal Society, p. 74
and Becquerel's Work, vol. iv., there referred to ; also Kauitz, Meteorvlogie,

ii. 389.

t Tom. i. p. 324.

X iv. 922. On the subject of Hail, see Fecliner's Repertorium, iii. 56.

§ Voyage, i. 519, quoted by Biot.   || Arago, Jnnuaire, 1836, p. 295.

^ Bibliotlieque Universelle, li. 189. See also Arago, Annuaire, 1836, p. 295.

Jameson's Journal, July, 1836. Poggendorff, xxix. 447.

** Annuaire, 1836, 295 note. See, too, Silliman, xxx. 386.

tt Silliman's Journal, xxvii. 419.  XX Poggendorff, xxxviii. 551.
--lib REPORT 1840.

to radiate from a point in the heavens near y Leonis. They
Avere visible from Mexico to Greenland*.

    239. In 1834, the phaenomenon was less indubitably marked,
for it scarcely appears to have been noticed in Europe ; and in
America, observers were divided as to its amounting to any-
thing unusual ; Prof. Olmsted, who was one of the first to sug-
gest the periodicity, maintaining that November, 1834, was
marked like the previous years f, and Prof. Bache denying it|.

    240. The year 1835 must be regarded as a very doubtful one
for the November meteors. Still it happens, by what must at

least be regarded as a singular coincidence, that a very large

meteor was seen in France by M. D'Aubenton, which exploded
in the department de I'Ain on the night of the 13th November,
and probably set fire to a cottage §. Sir John Herschel saw a
meteor as large as Venus at the Cape of Good Hope on the

14th, but none on the 13th ||.
   241. The apparition of November, 1836, was better marked.

The meteors were observed in America^. M. Arago, by ana-
lysing various careful observations in France, has shown that,

if not comparable to the showers of 1832 and 1833, they were
at least numerically above an average**. They were observed
in the Oural in lat. 60° ft, and their direction was from the

constellation LieoXX.

   242. It may be doubted whether, in 1837, there was any
very decided fall of meteors in November ; but I refer below to
the recorded observations §§. The weather was not generally

very favourable.

   243. November, 1838, was not more prolific. Scarcely any
notice was taken of the meteors in the Comptes Reiidus, and

the direct testimony of Quetelet, Herschel, and Benzenberg||||,
show that the phsenomenon was, to say the least, not well

marked. In America ^^I? it was scarcely, if at all, perceptible.

  244. In 1839, I am not aware that any very marked phse-

   * For 1833. See Silliman, xxv. 354 ; xxvi. 132; xxix. 376. Poggendorff,
xxxi. 159; xxxix. 114 (Greenland).

   t Silliman, xxix. 167.                          See also Clarke in Silliman,
   X Ibid., xxvii. 335 ; xxviii. 305 ; xxix. 383.
XXX. 369. Poggendorff, xxxiv. 129.

§ Comptes Rendua, i. 414.               Ibid., ii. 264.
"^ Silliman, xxx. 386.
                                         ||

                                   ** Comptes Rendus, iii. 629.

   ·ft Comptes Rendus, iv. 524. Xl See also Poggendoi-ff, xxxix. 353 ; xl. 484.
   §§ Olmsted in'Silliman, xxxiii. 379; Sir John Herschel, Transactions of the
Meteorological Society, i. 77 ; Arago, Comptes Rendus, v. 759 ; Observations

at Edinbvn-gh, Philosophical Magazine, Third Series, xii. 85.

     Bulletin de I'Acad. de Bruxelles, lSo8, p. 730.

||;|

iyi[ Olmsted in Silliman, xxxv. 368. A brilliant fall was seen at many places

on the 6th December.  See Herrick  in Silliman, xxxv. 361                                                                                                       xxxvi. 355.
                                                                                                                                                             ;
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                          119

nomeiion was observed. Under these circumstances, it is plain
that we must use the term periodicity, as appUed to these me-
teors, with caution. It is quite possible tliat some cause may
determine their recurrence in November in preference to other
seasons, and yet that the repetition may not be annual.

   245. It is well known that Chladui*, Brandesf, and Ben-

zenbergj, have devoted their attention for a long time to these

singular meteors; and it is perhaps surprising that we still
know so little respecting them. The November periodic me-

teor has of course given a fresh interest to these ; Biot has pub-
lished an astronomical theory §. Bessel has shown that it is

improbable that these meteors ever ascend\\. Erman has given
a meteorological hypothesis connected with them, which we
have before adverted to^; and Olmsted** and Wartmann ft

have likewise written memoirs on the hypothesis of their pe-

riodicity.

   246. But M. Quetelet, of Brussels, examining the records of

this subject, has classified the frequency of meteors at different

seasons of the yearJt \ '"id whilst he finds the middle of No-
vember the most prominent period, yet that from the 10th to
the 15th August is also well marked. This observation, com-
municated to the Brussels Academy 3rd December, 1836 §§,

was confirmed by M. Arago next year||||, and, I belitve, every

subsequent one^T[. In 1839 they appear to have been very

generally observed. M. Quetelet has quoted no less than six-
teen years in the present century down to 1837, in which the

August meteors have been specially noticed***.

* Feuermeteore. See Kiimtz, Meteorologie, Band iii.

t See an Abstract of his Researches, Silliman, xxviii. 95 ; and in Quetelet's

AnnnaJre for 1837.

   X He has published a new work, which I have not seen, " Die Sternschnup-

pen." Hambourg, 1839.

§ Comptes Rendus, ii'i. 6Go.        Poggendorff, xlvii. 525.

                                 II

^ See above (44), and Comptes Bendiis, x. 21.

** Silhman's 3 oxxvuai, passim.

ft Bihliotheqiie Universelle, N. S. ix. 373.
XX Catalogue des principales Apparitions d'Etoiles Jilantes. Mem. de I' Acad.

de ButxeUes.

§§ Bulletin de VAcad. de Bruxelles, December, 1836 and 1837, p. 79.
nil Comptes Rendus, v. 183. 347; Silliman, xxxiii. 133; Bulletin de VAcad.

de Bruxelles, 1838, p. 567.

^f Ibid., vii. 443. torn. ix. passim.
*** Bulletin, 1837, p. 379. M. Littrow, of Vienna, has observed the me-

teors of August, and states that their direction of motion is contrary to that of

the earth in its orbit, whilst those of November move parallel to it. {Atti
degli Scienzali Italiani, 1839, p. 19.). I learn, by letters from Sir John

 Herschel and M. Quetelet, that the meteors of August, 1840, have been ob-

.

 served both here and in America to radiate from a point near y Persei. Whilst
                                        --

--120 REPORT 1840.

                      VIII. Aurora Borealis*.

   247. I have little information on this subject to offer in addi-
tion to what was formerly given. It is to be regretted, that the
system of observation, vigorously commenced by the British
Association in 1833, and of which specimens are contained in
the report of the Cambridge Meeting, has not been pursued.

                                        IX. Optical Meteorology.

                                        A. Colour of the Sky ami Clouds.

   248. The blue colour of the sky has, from a very early
period, attracted attention. Leonardo da Vinci f? and many

succeeding writers, vaguely attributed it to a mixtiu'e of light

reflected trom the matter of the atmosphere with the darkness

of the celestial spaces beyond ; an opinion which Gothe has
revived J. Muncke§ has asserted that the blueness is a mere
ocular deception arising from the structure of the eye, but such

a doctrine can hardly now be seriously maintained ; and I have

elsewhere offered an explanation of his fundamental experi-
                                                             II

ment.

   249. Newton^ supposed that the blue of the sky is due to

very attenuated vapours producing the first tints of the scale of

the colours of thin plates. He further attributes the colours

of sunset and of clouds generally, as he had done those of most

natural bodies, to the vai-ying thickness of such vesicles**.

The latter opinion has been revived and illustrated by No-

biliff.

   250. Against this theory it may be urged, (1) that the sky

appears intensely blue at elevations and under circumstances

which forbid us to suppose that vapour can be present at all in

a watery or vesicular form (which Newton's statement di-

stinctly supposes), otherwise the hygrometer would attest its

existence                               (2) that with respect to  clouds,  were  they coloured
                                     ;

by the nature of their surfaces as a soap-bubble is, they would

present iridescent bands, and they would not partake, as we see

this sheet is passing through the press, I am enabled to add that no decided

meteoric appearance has been observed in Nov. 1840 at Paris, or in the West

of Europe generally.

See last Report, p. 254. Mahlmann, p. 230.

    Traite de la Peinture, quoted in Gehler's Worterbuch, art. Atmosphiire.

f-

\ Farbenlehre, i. 59, quoted by Humboldt.

§ Schweigger's Journal, xxx. 81 ; and Gehler, ut supra.

   Edinburgh Transactions, xiv. 381.                              % Optics, book ii., part iii., prop. 7.

II

*· Optics, ibid, prop. 5, end.

ft Bibliotheque Universelle, 1830, xliv. 337; and Taylor's Scientific Me-

moirs, vol. i.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                121

them do, of the general glow so common at sunset which is

communicated to all objects indifferently, and which ceases
when the sun leaves them in the shade ; and (3) that the colours
of clouds analj'sed by a prism by Sir D. Brewster* do not
appear to be composed as the colours of thin plates are.

   251. Mariotte asserted t that the proper colour of air is
bhie, just as he considers that of water to be green, and as
other bodies have peculiar tints. Bouguer revived this doc-

trine J, and added to it the consideration, that if air reflect
bine light it may be expected to transmit the complementary
colour as red (as is stated to be the case with sea-water), and

hence he explained the fiery colour of the horizontal sun, and
the tints of sunset. This opinion has been adopted by Euler§,

Leslie and many later writers, but especially by Brandes,
                         II,

who, in a most ingenious article in Gehler's Dictionary^, has
maintained its complete adequacy to the explanation of phae-

nomena.

    252. This theory must, I think, be considered imperfect
rather than erroneous. That the colour of pure air by reflexion is
blue, can, I think, hardly be doubted. But that the explanation

of the hues of sunset is incomplete, can be doubted by no one
who is unable to persuade himself, with Brandes, that the dif-
ference of intensity on different evenings is only an ocular

deception, or depends on the presence of clouds which receive

and repeat the colour.

    253. Something more is wanting, then, to the explanation,
and many acute writers have supposed that some impurity in
the air produces, by its absorptive action and variable quantity,
the phsenomena in question ; and several of these authors com-
pare the effect to that of opalescence in turbid fluids, which
generally transmit a ruddy beam. Under this head we class
Honoratus Fabri**, our countryman Thomas Melvillft, De-
laval|:J, Count Maistre§§, and Sir D. Brewster ||||. Of these
writers. Count Maistre is the only one who suggests that
watery vapour, under peculiar mechanical conditions, may be
 the source of the variable atmospheric hues^ " producing an

* Edinburgh Transactions, xii. 544. Compare EncyclopcRcUa Britannica,

art. Optics, p. 510.

t CEmwm, i. 299. Leide, 1717.           S65--I Traite d'Optiqite, -p.  8.

§ Letters, ii. 507.   || Encyclopadia Britannica, art. Meteorology.

1 Art. Abendriithe, vol. i. p. 4.

** Quoted by Eberhard. Rozier, i. 620.

t+ Edinburgli Pbysical and Literary Essays, p. 81.
XX Manchester Memoirs, First Series, ii. 214.

§§ Bibliotheque Universelle, November, 1832.

III! Edinburgh Transactions, xii. 530.
  122 REPORT-- 1840.

  effect analogous to that of the powder of calcined bones in

  opaline glass*."

     254. I have endeavoured to showf that the colorific property
 of watery vapour may not merely be gathered from induction,
  but demonstrated by direct experiment. Having first noticed

  that high-pressure steam, during a certain stage of condensa-

  tion, is coloured, and transmits orange-red light, I extended
  the observation to steam of low pressure. There seems no

  reason to doubt that the property of vapour, to be coloured in
 passing from its pure, elastic, colourless state to that com-
  monly called vesicular (such as it appears in clouds, or in
 issuing from the spout of a kettle), is a general one, and there-
  fore that great masses of vapour at any temperature under-

 going condensation must pass through the colorific stage. Now

 the development of the brightest atmospheric coloui-s is in-

 variably attended with change of temperature. And Forster,

 without the remotest reference to theorj-, has recorded that the
 sunset glow is contemporaneous icith the dew-point tempera-
 ture ; hence he argues that " some sudden change produced by

 the Jirst falling dew is the cause of the simultaneous change of
 colour in all the clouds then visible J". The application of this

 doctrine to atmospheric colours, as a prognostic of weather, is

--likewise evident and satisfactory §.
    255. Dry Fogs. Of atmospheric colours, which may be con-

 sidered imusual, the blood-red colour of dry fogs, which have
 occurred at various times over a vast extent of country, is
 amongst the most remarkable. It is hardly possible to believe
 that tiiey are not due to the accidental intermixture of foreign
 matter with the atmosphere. Remarkable fogs of this kind

    · Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, vol. xv. Count Maistre explains the
 colour of water by similar reasoning. He considers it blue for reflected, and

 yellowish orange for transmitted, light; and tlie green colour of the sea and
 some lakes he attributes to diffused particles which reflect a portion of the
 transmitted tint, and mingle with the blue. This is well confirmed by Davy's
 observations (Salmoiua, third edition, p. 317). Arago has very ingeniously
 applied the same reasoning to the ocean, showing that when calm it must be
 blue, but when ruffled, the waves, acting the part of prisms, refract to the eye
 some of the transmitted light from the interior, and it then appears green
 {Comptes Rendtts, 23rd July, 1838). Most authors have admitted the intrinsic
blue or green colour of pure water, as Newton (Optics, b. i. part ii. prop. 10),
Mariotte, and Euler. Humboldt seems doubtful {Voyage, 8vo, ii. 133.).

  --f " On the Colour of Steam under certain circumstances." " On the

Colours of the Atmosphere." Edinburgh Transactions, xiv. 371 ; Philoso-
phical Magazine, Third Series, xiv. 121,419; xv. 25; and Poggendoi'ft''s
Annalen.

    J Researches about Atmospheric Phaenomena, third edition, p. 87.
   § Those who wish for fuller details on the history of this part of the sub-

jeet, will find them in my papers above referred to.
        SUPPLKMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGV.                          123

occurred in 1783 and 1831 ; on both occasions they extended
from Europe to America 5 the fornjer lasted a month, and

--enveloped the highest Alpine summits *.
   256. Blue Sun, At the latter date (1831) the sim's disc was
seen of a blue or green colour in the South of Europe and in
America. This extraordinary phsenomenon we might be dis-
posed to attribute, with M. Aragof, to an ocular deception
arising from the intense contrasted orange of the fog, did we
not find that it has been repeatedly observed under circum-
stances to which this explanation would perhaps hardly apply.

M. Babinet, a skilful observer, has seen it twice himself |. He

accounts for it by Dr. Young's theory of mixed plates, in
which colour is produced by the interference of two pencils of
light which have passed through unequal thicknesses of a re-

tarding medium. This he supposes may be the case in the

atmosphere by the union of rays " which have passed through
vesicles of water or vapour with those which have passed

through air only." Now, though M. Babinet has ingeniously

imitated the effect by a thin film of mixed air and water placed
between two glasses, there is some difficulty in conceiving an
extended medium like the atmosphere, which should present an

--analogous constitution §.
   257. Secondary Sunset Tints. Many authors have described

the appearance of a revival of the sunset glow upon the sum-
 mits of lofty mountains long after apparent sunset, and ten or
 fifteen minutes after the tints which accompanied it have dis-
 appeared ||. The appearance in question was once noticed with
 extraordinary effect by the writer of this report, in the case of
the Jung Frau seen from the profound valley of Lauterbrun-
 nen, from which the sun had so long disappeared that it was
 almost nisjht below, whilst the upper half of the snowy moun-
 tain was illuminated by a delicate but intense red tint, like that

 of a glowing coal. Prof, de la Rive has offered as an explana-

· Annuaire, 1832, p. 244.  f Annuaire, p. 249.

+ Comptes Rendus, viii. 306. Sir U. Brewster communicated at Glasgow an

accoimt of this phaenomenon, observed by Dr. Harvey at Bermuda. See

Atheiiceum, 3rd October, 1840. The appearance referred to occurring on the

loth August, 1831, is evidently part of the same widely -extended appearance

quoted by M. Arago in the Annuaire for 1832. Dr. Harvey, however, does

--not appear to have observed the blueness of the sun's disc, but only that of

objects illuminated by it ; a circumstance, which, had it stood alone, might pro-

bably have been accounted for by the doctrine of accidental colours.

   § The phcsnomenon of the scintillation of the stars has lately engaged the
attention of M. Arago, who states {Comptes Rendus, 1840) that he has disco-

vered a complete explanation of it founded on the laws of the interference of

light.

   Germ. " Gliihen der Allien.'' See Brandes in Gchler, art. Almosphcire.

II
--124 REPORT 1840.

tion of this phaenomenon *, that it occurs when the air is ex-
tremely clear and highly charged with humidity (as we should

expect from (254.)), and that the rays which then reach the
mountain have undergone total internal reflexion in the higher

--and moister strata of the atmosphere.
   258. Aerial Shadows. ^We do not by this refer to shadows

of persons thrown on clouds surrounded by coloured glories, of

which we will afterwards speak, but of shadows of clouds and

other objects projected to a great distance in the air, and which

being rendered visible by its imperfect transparency, produce cer-
tain remarkable effects of perspective. The diverging rays so
often seen proceeding from the sun, when near setting, are of this

kind ; and the corresponding fact of rays (or clear intervals
between the shadovvs of clouds), which appear to converge to a

point diametrically opposite to the sun. This rarer phaeno-

menon we have twice seen ; once, combined with a rainbow, to
whose centre of course the rays were directed ; and lately, from
the summit of Goatfell in Arran, whence the rays appeared

directed to a point in the sea, and converging from all sides of

Wethe circumference.  chiefly mention the circumstance to

call attention to a curious and elaborate paper by Professor

Neckerf, of Geneva, who undertakes to prove that diverging

solar rays are sometimes produced by very distant mountains,

and that they thus picture forth, to inhabitants of our country,

spectral outlines of mountain- cliains in another, far removed

from direct vision.

  --259. Polarization of Sky-light. Sir D. Brewster appears

to have been the first to remark that the light of the blue sky

exhibits traces of polarization J. I apprehend that it must be

difiicult to assert that the blue rays are actually so polarized,

for the polarization of the white light, with which no doubt the

blue is diluted, would produce the effects observed. I do not,

however, doubt that such is the case.

   260. M. Arago determined the polarizing angle for air to be
45° nearly §, and the maximum polarization of the sky to be

90° from the sun's disc, the polarization being in a plane passing

through the ej^e and the sun. It is a singular fact, and one

difficult of explanation, that, proceeding to a greater distance

than 90° (in a vertical plane), the polarization diminishes, be-

comes zero, and reappears in a plane perpendicular to the

   * British Association, Seventh Report, Sections, p. 10. See too a paper by
Prof. Necker, of Geneva, Phil. Mag., 3rd series, i. 335.

   \ Annales de Ckimie, Fev. Mars, 1839, and Bibliotheque Universelle,

xxiii. 355.

   X Treatise on New Philosophical Instruments, p. 350. Edinburgh, 1813.

    § Biot, Traitc de Physique, iv. 289.
                                                5

STIPPLEMBNTARY REPORT ON METKOROLOGY.                                                                     125

former^. The distance of the neutral point from the sun varies
with atmospheric contingencies. The position of this neutral
point seems to have been at first inaccurately reported, for we

find English observers searching for it in the sun's neighbour-

hood, and not in the opposite quarter of the skyf. The
polariscojies of Arago and Savart, used for detecting the
minutest quantities of polarized light, are little known in this
country ; it is by their aid that the light of the moon is ascer-

tained to be slightly polarized.

   261. On the phasnomena of Mirage we have nothing new to

state. The phaenomena of Twilight and of Atmospherical Re-
fraction, although connected with Optical Meteorology, we

 shall also omit.

      B. The Rainbow.

262. There is no step in the progress of science more inter-

esting than that which calls in the aid of comparatively abs-

truse principles to explain the slighter outstanding variations

between theory and observation, which were overlooked in the

first unqualified satisfaction with which the announcement of a

simple general principle, harmonizing with every-day experi-

ence, is invariably received. Amongst such cases may be

reckoned the law of double refraction in crystals with tivo axes,

--Laplace's correction for the velocity of sound, and we may

now add, the phaenomena of the rainbow, so far as these were

not included in Newton's general explanation.

263. The diameter of the jt;r??nar?/ rainbow (caused by two

refractions with one intermediate reflexion), and of the secondary

(caused by two refractions and two reflexions), may be most
easily found by the formulae which M. Babinet has lately

given X for expressing the radii S, directly in terms of the re-
fractive index of water m, viz.

= -TF.or
  ,               ·           s.mo^--S  (4 nrf

the   primary,                          ^^ ^^^

--l^or
                                        S ?>2''+18m^-27
                                        -7-=
t,he                         ,·"2 87..
                                                                                                  /«"=*.
      secondary,                sni

   · See Peclet, Traife de Phyalqt/e, 4me edit. art. 1448. I am unable to
state whei-e M. Arago's original account of these experiments is to be found.

Compare Quetelet's Notes to Herschel on Light, French Translation, ii. 554.

   t Airy and Chevallier, Philosophical Magazine, N. S., iv. 312, 313. I must
add, however, that a very recent communication by M. Babinet to the French
Academy of Sciences (Compfes Rendus, 19th October, 1840) states the exist-
ence of a second neutral point, 20° or 30° distant from the sun.

   X Comptes Rendus, iv. 646. The demonstration is given in Peclet, 7'raite
de Physique, 4me edit. art. 1489.
--126 REPORT 1840.

                                          =4

Adopting with Newton * the index in -- , we obtain

....For the first                        42° 2'
                                         50° 59'.
For the second

   264. The comparison of these theoretical angles with obser-
vation is not so easy as might appear, depending (1) on the
doubt which i-ay of the red space we are to consider as the last
visible one in the rainbow, and (2) on the gradual shading off
depending on the sun's apparent diameter. There is reason to

think that the measures of tlie rainbow require revision ; but

we would rather place the fate of the theory upon other grounds.
   265. The first fact which Newton's theory did not embrace,

was the existence of supernumerary or spurious bows ; tvit/dn
the Inner, or Primary Rainbow, and without the Outer, or

--Secondary one. These were very accurately described by

Langwith in 1722 t, three internal rings of green and purple
(with traces of a fourth) associated with the primary rainbow.
The much rarer phaenomenon of the supernumerary exterior bows
of the secondary rainbow has been noticed by DicquemareJ
and Brewster §. The supernumeraries have the same order of
colours as the bows to which they belong, i. e. those within the
Primary have the Red exteriorly, those without the Secondary
the Red interiorly.

   266. Pemberton explained these spurious bows by the
                                                                                                                ||

^colours of thin plates ; and at a much later period Venturi

attempted to account for them by the deviation of the figure of
falling drops from sphericity. Such fallacious endeavours
show how cautiously we should receive explanations of such
phfenomena on the grounds of general plausibility. Tlie true
explanation had already been given by Dr. Young, who in pur-

suing his fertile discovery of interference, pointed out its appli-

cation to the rainbow in a manner so clear**, that it is surprising
how for thirty years, this, one of its happiest adaptations to
phaenomena, has been so generally overlooked.

   267- In the ordinary geometrical theory of the primary rain-

* Optics, book i. part ii. prop. 9.

   f Philosophical Transactions, 1723, quoted by Dr. Young. Dr. Young
cites Mariotte as the first who mentions supernumerary bows (Chromatics,

Encyc. Britt.),but without a reference.

   X Quoted by Young, Lectures, vol. ii. p. 316.                Bologna,  1814.
   § Edinburgh Journal of Science, vol. x. p. 1G3.

      Pliilosopliical Transactions, 1723, quoted by Dr. Young.

             II

  ^ Commentari sopra la Sloria et le Teorie dell Oltica.

Quoted by Dove and Kamtz (Meteor, iii. 165).

** Phil. Trans. ISOi. Read Nov. 21, 1803. Lectures, vol. i. 470; ii. 316.
            SUPPLEMENTARY RKPORT ON METEOROLOGY. 12/

bow, it is well understood that a limit of deviation, due to two
refractions and one reflexion of the sun's light within the drop
is a definite and impassible one. The illumination of the bow is

produced by the accumulation of rays near the limit of maximum

deviation ; an incidence a little greater or a little less than that
due to the limit will equally give a smaller deviation ; and as in
a shower there are assumed to be drops which shall send rays
to the eye in any given direction consistent with the relative
position of the observer and the sun, rays more or less approach-
ing to parallelism (therefore more or less densely luminous) will
reach the eye from drops placed so as to furnish rays at less
angles than that of extreme deviation. Confining our attention
to a single colour (the red, for instance, which is the outermost

in the primary rainbow), we should expect to find a red bow,

quite sharply terminated exteriorly, but shading off gradually,

though pretty rapidly, towards the interior. When we recollect,
too, that this reflexion within tlie angle of maximum deviation is

derived from rays which have fallen at a smaller as well as at a
greater angle of incidence than the critical one, and which

therefore emerge rigorously parallel, we are surprised at first

sight that the insulation of the colours in the successive arcs
should be as great as it appears to be.

   268. The doctrines of physical optics, as laid down by Dr.
Young, enable us to explain this satisfactorily ; for the very re-

duplication of the reflected light just alluded to (which a very

little reflection will show to be derived from opposite halves of
the drop, separated by the position of critical internal reflexion
for producing the maximum deviation) reminds us of the funda-
mental fact of interference, that annihilation as well as increase
of light may attend the union of rays proceeding in a common
direction, derived from a common source, but which have tra-

versed paths of diff'erent lengths. Whilst, then, near the critical
angle of reflexion the luminiferous waves necessarily reach the
eye in the same, or nearly the same phase, the rays derived from
a greater and a less incidence have (though they ultimately
coincide in direction) described paths whose difference will

soon amount to half an undulation, when their effects will be
mutually destructive. Thus by the principle of interference the
bow of any colour has its interior boundary far more sharply
defined than if such a cause (which is manifestly modified by

the size of the drop) had not existed*.

    * See Young's original paper, Pliil. Trans. 1804, where he estimates the pos-
sible breadth of the diffused zone of light, which otherwise would have shaded
off from the rainbow, at 25°.
--128 REPORT 1840.

   269. Thus, bixt for interference, we should have had but a
feeble and impure rainbow. But further, the same considerations
explain the supernumerary arcs : for it is evident, from what
has now been stated, that after destruction of light by opposi-

tion of phases has been produced, an equal additional retarda-
tion of the one ray upon the other will produce concurrence of
phase, and double light ; hence, as in all similar cases, a series of
luminous bands rapidly diminishing in breadth and h) intensity
will be formed with more or less vividness, depending upon
the brilliancy of the reflexion and the separation of the bands

(which again depends on the size of the drop). The distance
between the true and spurious bow gives the data (upon prin-
ciples which will be very readily conceived *) upon which the
diameter of the drops of rain may be calculated, which Dr.
Young finds to be between J^th and g^th of an inchf. By similar

principles it is found that the supernumeraries of the secondary

bow will be exterior to it and somewhat broader.
   270. The darkness of the space between the primary and

secondary bows is equally a consequence. of the common theory

and the corrected one it:. It is dark compared to the spaces
containing the diffused lights (what Dr. Young calls the double
lights, or duplicatures) corresponding to the respective bows.
This darkness was described by Descartes§. The light of the
primary and secondary bows||, and also of the supernumeraries

so far as observed^, is polarized in the place of reflexion.
   271. Mr. Airy has recentlj'^ investigated fully the intensity of

the light in the neighbourhood of a caustic formed by reflexion

    * Viz. for the obsei'ved deviation of the red ray in the spurious bow, find the
angles of incidence and reflexion within the drop for the two rays which com-
bine to produce it, and find the diflference of the paths of the rays which corre-
spond to this in terms of the radius of the drop. Reduce the difference of
patlis in water to that in air, and equating it to the length of a wave of red light,

find the radiu> of the drop. Dr. Young has indicated this process in his obscure
but able and comprehensive article Chromatics, in the Encyclopcedia Britannica,
with which Mr. Potter, who has recently written in support of Dr. Young's
views (Camb. Trans, vi. 141), appears not to have been acquainted.

        Pliilosophical Transactions, 1804, and Chromatics.

                 ·f-

    X It is, however, very impei-fectly or inaccurately explained in most popular
treatises. Mr. Ainger has given a very detailed account of it in the Journal
of the Royal Institution (Feb. 1831), in which he has added nothing material to
what was shown by Dr. Young ; nor has he adverted to the cause of the super-
numerary bows.

    § Brandes, art. Regenhogen, in Gehler, p. 1324. Kamtz, Mefeorologie, iii.
p. 158. It is very singular that neither of these authors seems to be aware of
the true theory of the rainbow, or of Dr. Young's writings on the subject.

        First observed by Biot. See Annales de Chimie, xxxix. 430.

                 II

     i[ Arago, jinnales de Chimie, ibid.
--

SUPPLEMEXTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                                       ] 29

 and refraction as in the rainbow*. Computing the intensities

 rigorously on the principles of the undulatory Theory of Light,
 he arrives by laborious numerical computations at the following

  results :

     1. The boundary of the caustic is not a mathematical line;
 but the light shades off with extreme rapidity.

    2. The radius of the primary bow does not coincide with the

 geometrical caustic deduced by the connnon theory. It lies

 within it at a distance depending on the size of the drops, and
 on the consequent separation of the interference fringes.

    3. To find the radius of the geometrical bow from observation,
"Add to the radius of the brightest observed bow i^ of the
 distance between it and the first supernumerary bow."

    4. Between the primary and the first supernumerary there is
 a space absolutely dark.

    272. As several of these results differ quantitatively from
those deducible by the simpler methods of Dr. Young, it is of
importance to verify them experimentally. For the reasons

already stated (264.), it is diflicult to obtain satisfactory compa-

rative measures from the natural rainbow. Much more deli-

cate observations are obtained by an ingenious experiment de-

vised by M. Babinet, of allowing a minute stream of water to

flow through an opening ^^j-th of an inch, or less, in diameter,
and observing the deviation of rays proceeding from a small

lumuious bodyf. In this way Professor Miller, of Cambridge,
has confirmed Mr. Airy's result as to the deviation of the prin-
cipal bow from the geometrical place of the causticj.

    273. The existence and positions of the supernumerary bows
and their dependence on the diameter of the refracting cylinder

of fluid (and likewise on its index of refraction), have been shown
by M. Babinet himself, who has observed no less than sixteen
interior, and nine exterior supernumeraries, by means of a
streamlet of water of the diameter above-mentioned §.

   274. With a comparatively large (y^ths of an inch) cylinder of
glass he obtained the usual theoretical dimensions of a bow for
the appropriate index of refraction. The supernumeraries were
excluded by the size of the cylinders ; but he obtained bows
caused not only by one and two internal reflexions, but three
and four, up to seven. These, the ternary, quaternary, &c.
rainbows have been long theoretically known, though rarely, if
ever, observed in nature. The ternary rainbow ought to occur

* Camb. Trans, vi. 379, The abstract in the Phil. Mag., Third Series, vol.

xu. p. 452, is inaccurate.                    f Comptes llendus, iv. 647.

   I Phil. Mag., Third Series, vol. xiii. p.  10.      This experiment was shown to
                                                   §  Comptes Rendus, ut sup.
me by Professor Challis.

VOL. IX. 1840.              K
                           --

--130 RKPORT 1840.

about 41° from the sun, but is generally stated * to be too faint

to be visible. Two observations by Bergmaini are the only
recorded ones I have met withf . Kamtz observed a ternary

bow amidst the spray of the falls of SchaffhausenJ.

We275.    have said that the appearance of supernumerary

bows indicates the presence of rain-drops below a certain size,

as well as of considerable uniformity of dimension. It is re-

markable that Langwith observed, more than a century ago, that
" this effect depends upon some property which the drops retain

whilst they are in the upper part of the air, but lose as they

come lower down and are more mixed with one another." M.

Arago seems inclined to suppose, on the authority of d'Abbadie

and the officers of the Venus §, that supernumerary bows are

rarer in equatorial climates than in ours. It should be recol-

lected, however, that Bouguer saw them in South America with

an unusual degree of vividness and separation ||. M. Arago has
recommended to the Academy of Sciences of Paris the execu-

tion of a good coloured view of the rainbow, as a guide to ob-

servers.

          C. Halos% and Parhelia.

   276. The apparent complication of the phaenomena of halos
and parhelia has given rise to a great deal of vague speculation
and loose though ingenious theory. Observations of facts have

been likewise wanting in precision. On these grounds, we

will endeavour very briefly to discuss that part of the sub-
ject which seems to have been most successfully dealt with, and
endeavour to refer the explanations which have been given, to their

proper authors; for so much has been written on the matter that
the same thing has been produced as new by various writers at

different times.

   277- What would first be desirable would be a clear state-
ment of what is to be considered a complete or normal example
of the compound display of halos and parhelia. The phaeno-
menon seen by Hevclius, at Danzig, 20th of February, 16'61**,

which has generally been considered as a characteristic exam-

ple, consisted principally of

* By Young and Babinet.

f Abhandlungen der Schwedischen Academie filr 1759, p. 234. Quoted by

Brandes.                                    + Lehrbuch, iii. 160.

5 Aimuaire, 1840, p. 305.  || Mem. de Paris, 1 757, p. GO, quoted by Kiimtz.

·[[ The halos now spoken of are the great halos of 22i° and 46° radius, and

have no reference to the small halos or coronas with which they are often con-

founded, but which have a distinct origin.

** Tt is figured in almost every work on the subject. See Huyghens's

Op- Reliqua, ii. 38, and Fraunhofer in Schumacher's Abhandlungen, Heft iii.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOUOLOGY.                                   131

    (1). Three halos round the *-un, having Radii of 22^°, 46°,
and 90° nearly. The two smaller circles are generally coloured,
the red being innermost. The circle of 90° is a rare appear-

ance *, and is colourless.

   A(2). horizontal circle passing through the sun in which the

parhelia or mock suns occur, usually at (or rather a little be-

yond) the points where the halos intersect the horizontal (or

parhelic) circle, and sometimes also in the point exactly opposite

to the sun (anthelion).
    (3). Arcs of circles with reversed curvatures, touching the ha-

los of 22 1^° and 46° at their highest and lowest points. Mock

suns sometimes appear also in the halos vertically above the

true sun.

   278. Even more complex phasnomena are occasionally re-
corded, as that observed at Petersburg, 29th of June, 1790, by
LoAvitzf. For a history of such appearances we must refer to
Brandes's article in Gehler's Dictionary, Kamtz's Meteorology,
the article Meteorology in the Encyclopaedia Metropolitana (with
an excellent plate), Fraunhofer's paper on the subject J, and to
Dr. Young's invaluable catalogue of references §. In the mean-
time we proceed to the theory of the fundamental appearances.

    279. In the 17th century Mariotte referred the halos of 22i°
to refraction through triangular prisms of ice. Minute icy

spiculas being conceived to float through the air, or rather to de-

scend slowly through it in all possible directions, a diffused re-

fracted light must be seen, as is actually the case when the air
is in this state ; but those prisms which chance to be in a po-
sition such as to refi-act the sun's image to the eye in the posi-
tion of minimum deviation, will (as in the rainbow, where the de-
viation is a maximum) affect the eye more intensely on account
of their parallelism and accumulation. The least deviated rays
(the red) Avill fall upon the eye at the smallest angle with the
sun, and consequently will form the smaller ring of the halo ||.

    280. Huyghens proposed a different theory^, which for a time

superseded that of Mariotte. He attributed the phaenomena

to refraction through spherical and cjdindrical particles of hail
having opake nuclei of determinate magnitudes. But the ar-

bitrary nature of his hypothesis is contradicted by the constancy

* In fact, the observation of Hevelius was unique in this respect until the

circle of 90° was recently witnessed by Erman (see Poggeiidorff's Annalen,

1840, xxxix. 255. note.).

t Figured by Young (Lectures, i., plate xxix. fig. 433) and by Kamtz.

X Schumacher's Astron. Alhandlungen, iii.     § Lectures, vol. ii.

   Mariotte, (Euvres, 1686, quoted by Young.

II

il Huyghens, Phil. Trans., 1670, and Opera Reliqua, ii. (Young).

                           K2
--132 URPORT 1840.

of the radii of the principal halos, which indica^^es a uniformity
of cause incompatible with Huyghens's assumption. The theory
of Huyghens is alluded to by Newton, though without any ex-
press approbation, at the close of his Theory of the Rainbow*;
and in another part of his Optics f the principle of refraction
through ice-prisms of 58° or 60° is distinctly stated as the pro-

bable cause oi halos of 22i°, which appears to have been New-
ton's own view, as he gives a reason for it (the oval form of some

halosj), and does not quote Mariotte.
    281. So little reason, then, is there for supporting Huyghens's

theory on the ground that it was maintained by Newton, as M.

Biot has done§, even since Mariotte's theory has been revived

by Young, who published it in the second volume of the Royal

Institution Joui-nal||, where he states that he had adopted

the principle before he knew of Mariotte's application of it
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;

and he had even inferred from it that the refractive index of

ice is less than that of water, a fact then doubted, but after-

wards confirmed by Dr. Wollaston^. M. Babinet has therefore
no ground for affirming** that M. Arago was the first to revive

Mariotte's explanation.

   282. The most obvious facts in support of Mariotte's theory

of icy prisms are,

   (1). That the imperfect crystals of ice which alone we can
obtain, have a tendency to rhombohedral crystallization, amongst
the forms of which are three- and six-sided prisms ; and the
minimum deviation of light through an ice-prism of 60° would

give the halo of 22i°.

   (2). The constancy of the effect gives a probability to a con-

stant cause, such as a crystalline angle.

   (3). The fact that halos occur most frequently in cold cli-
mates and after a sudden fall of temperature, when the moisture
of the air is evidently and palpably deposited in icy spiculfe or
hoar frost. In the excellent observations made in the United
States, the relation between the sudden fall of the thermometer
and the occurrence of halos is very clearly tracedff.

* Optics, book i. part ii. prop. 9.  t At the end of the second book.

   J It is rather singular that the same reason which was urged by Newton in
favour of the theory of refraction by ice-prisms, should be stated by Arago

{Aniiuaire, 1836, p. 303 ; 1840, p. 303) as an anomaly which, on that theory,
still requires explanation. It is plain that Newton had some theoretical opinion

on the subject which he has not explained, and according to which the upper

radius of the halo should be shorter than the lower.

§ Traite de Physique, iii. 476.                       See his Lectures, ii. 306.

^ Ibid.                                                                             ||

                                     ** Comptes Rendus, iv. 639.

   ·ff- Annual reports made to the legislature by the Regents of the Universities

of the State of New York.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                                 133

    (4). The important fact ascertained by M. Arago, that the

 light of halos is polarized by refraction and not by re-

 flexion*.

    283. But other evidences arise from the application of the
 same principles to the phenomena which accompany the first
halo, and many of which Mariotte pointed out so clearly as to
supersede much which has since been written on the subject.

    284. The halo of 46° maybe ascribed to two refractions with
the minimum deviation tl. rough two successive prisms of 63°,

or as Cavendisli supposes t, to the refracting angle of 90° formed
by perpendicular terminations of the ice-prism. Such termina-

tions, Dr. Young observes, are rather doubtful, and in his later

writings J he inclines to the doctrine of successive refraction
through two prisms. Fraunhofer § supposes pyramids with an-
gles of 88° to be the cause ; and he assigns as an explanation,
which appears to him perfectly satisfactory, of Hevelius's great

circle of 90°, the limiting angle of total reflexion in six-sided

--prisms, which is 89° 56'. Hence this circle is white.
    285. Parhelia. Mariotte accounted for this phcenomenon by
the preponderance of ice-prisms in a vertical direction (which

--he attributed to their being heavier at one end, Dr. Young,

more justly, to the resistance of the air ||), which therefore wi^li
form a brighter coloured image of the sun when the plane of re-

fraction is horizontal than in any other plane. Mariotte had
even the acuteness to see, that as the sun rose above the horizon,
the plane of refraction being no longer accurately horizontal in

order to reach the eye, the virtual refracting angle of these ver-
tical prisms would necessarily be increased, and the deviation
being greater, the parhelia would statid out beyond the limit of

the halo, a fact remarkably coinciding with experience. Thus
an officer of Sir Edward Parry's Expedition T[, observed par-
helia distant 24° 40' from the sun, the halo being at 22° 30'.
The parhelia are coloured, the red edge being nearest to the
sun

   286. The horizontal or parhelic circle is not accounted for
by Mariotte, because (he says) he had not an accurate descrip-
tion of it. His commentator. Dr. Young, ascribes the horizon-

* Bulletin Universel (Ferussac), 1825, Sci. Math. iii. 304.
t Young, ut supra.

mX See the article Chromatics in the Encyclopaedia Britannica. But the same
doctrine is stated  his earliest papers, to which nothing of any consequence

!'«<."has been added in elucidation of this subject, except M. Arago's important ob-
servation of the plane of polarization.

§ Schumacher's Ahhandlungen, iii. 77.

II Journal R. Inst, and Lectures, ii. 307 (1807).

H Quoted in art. Meteorology, Encyclopaedia Metropolitana, p. *169.
--134 REPORT 1840.

tal circle to " the reflexion or even the repeated refraction of

the vertical facets*", an explanation which seems entirely satis-

factory ; for though amorphous vertical fibres Avould produce the

same effect (as Fraunhofer showed), yet it is much more natu-

ral to ascribe the horizontal circle to the same cause with the

parhelia which occur within it, and which are, in fact, merely its

most notable points. Young attributes the mock suns occa-

sionally observed at an elongation of about 142° to two refrac-

tions and one reflexion in the same ice crystals f.
   287- Fraunhofer, in his Memoir already cited J, ascribes the

horizontal circle to the superposition of diffraction- spectra,

which produce an excessively elongated image of a body viewed

by reflexion from a striated surface, like that of glass smeared

with grease, and then cleaned by rubbing it in one direction,

when a whitish reflexion will take place perpendicular to the

Astreaks.     similar view has been given more lately by M. Ba-

binet§, who compares the horizontal reflexion to that observed

from fibrous crystals, such as topaz and gypsum.

 --288. Contact-arches^. The only remaining phfenomenon

which seems fairly accounted for, is that of inverted arcs of lu-

minous circles touching the halos, usually at their vertical dia-
meter and accompanied by a parhelion, so that Dr. Young de-
sci'ibes it as " a bright parhelion immediately over the sun, with

an appearance of wings or horns diverging upwards from the

parhelion^." This Dr. Young has ascribed with great inge-

nuity and probability to very short triangular prisms, which

from their flatness fall with their axes and refracting edges in

a horizontal position, so that the plane of refraction is vertical.

The abundance of such prisms (compared to those which fall

obliquely and form the halo) give rise to the vertical parhelia

(which Fraunhofer has, I think very unsatisfactorily, explained

by difiraction**). Horizontal prisms parallel to the former,

lying to the right or left of a vertical plane, passing through the

observer and the sun, will evidently refract the solar image in a

plane not perpendicular to the axis of the prism (because not

vertical), and for which the refracting angle being greater, the so-

lar image (formed always at the angle of minimum deviation,)

will appear more elevated as the obliquity of refraction is greater,
that is, as we proceed to the right or left from a line vertically
above the sun. Dr. Young has cojifirmed his view by actual cal-

culation ff.

* Lectures, i. 444.          f Chromatics, sect. ii.  % P- ST'.

§ Compies Reiulus ; lU sup.       || See art. 277. (3).

^i Lect. ii. 307. col. i. See the figure of Hevelius's halos, and others.

** Schumacher, ill supra, p. 78.  -f-i- Luct. ii. 308. col. i.
       --

       SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                                                                                                                                                                            135

289. Vertical lines passing through the sun and circles con-

taining the sun in their circumference have also been described.

The former seem to be independent of the existence of ice cry-

stals ; I shall therefore return to them presently. As to the lat-
ter, we can only state generally, tliat from the wonderful com-

plication which the figures of crystallized snow and hoar-frost

take, we can conceive circumstances adapted to almost every

degree of complication ; and such complication may be aptly
illustrated by the curious figures which Sir D. Brewster has

given of the wonderful variety of reflected figures observed at

the surfaces of disintegrated crystals*. The same ingenious

philosopher has illustrated the phaenomena of halos by observing

a distant light thi-ough alum crystallized rapidly on a plate of

glass f.

   290. M. Galle of the Berlin Observatory has lately published

an elaborate paper on the subject of halos and parhelia |, in
which he gives a minute account of those observed by himself

during nineteen months. Within this time he saw seventy-eight
halos of 22i° ; of which only two were sensibly elliptical ; and

he saw no halo of 46°. He afterwards gives at great length a

general view of the theory of refraction by ice-prisms.

A291.  remarkable parhelic appearance was observed by

Lambert at Wetzlei-, in 1838, in which there were two hori-

zontal circles at greater altitudes than the sun, but no?ie passing

through his disc. Besides the usual lateral parhelia there were

four others at the points of contact and intersection of the halos

of 22^°, and 46° with the horizontal circles §.

                           D. Coronce : Glories, 8fc.

   292. The coloured rings so frequently seen round the sun
and moon when thin clouds pass over their discs, are carefully
to be distinguished from true halos, as they may easily be, by
the following characteristics, which evidently point to a wholly-

different origin :

· Edin. Trans., vol. xiv. plate x., &c.

t Edin. Phil. Journal, viii. 394. This experiment, which has probably been

oftener quoted than repeated, I have more than once attempted without success.
    I ToggendoiS 's J7malen, 1840. xxxix. and 241.

§ L'lnstitut, No. 321, Fev. 1840. M. Moigno, who quotes this description

from Poggendorff's Annalen, claims for M. Babinet the theory of the parhelic

circle and vertical parhelia.  These are, however, both due to Young                                                                                                                                                   the only
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

addition which, so far as I know, M. Babinet has made, is the very just remark

that the horizontal circle will be brighter beyond the first lialo' than within

it, because in the latter case the illumination is derived from reflexion only,
by the vertical facete ; in the former from refraction likewise.
136 REPORT 1840.

   (1). They are much smaller, their radii (when several series

of their colours appear at once) being from 1° to 6°.
   (2). The radius of any ring is not constant at different times.
   (3). The red occupies the outer ring, instead of the inner one

as in the true halo.
   293. These coloured rings have a manifest analogy to those

which bear Nev\i;on's name ; and that great man, in his Optics*,
has given an explanation, which, translated into modern lan-
guage, would express the interference of the light reflected
from the different parts of the drop. In June, 1692, he ob-
served three rings or orders of colours round the sun of the
diameters of 5° or 6°, 9° 20' and 12°; on the 19th February,
1662 (so early had he begun to speculate on these subjects), be
had observed the two inner coronae round the moon to have di-
ameters of 3° and 5|°, little more than half the dimensions of

the others.

   294. The true explanation was unequivocally given by Young

in 1802, in his paper "On some cases of the production of

colours not hitherto describedf," amongst the consequences of

the fertile principle of interferences, though in a different way
from what Newton had imagined, or Jordan, who had attributed
these colours to the inflection of light. Young had practically
shown that the interposition of uniform striae or powder be-

tween the eye and a luminous object produces coloured images
of that object, depending for their position upon the dimensions
of such striae or powder ; and he had theoretically given that
beautiful explanation which was afterwards put in a more
popular form by Fresnel and Fraunhofer. Yet it is remarkable,

that the latter author (Fraunhofer), in describing the experi-
ments on which he grounds the very same explanation of co-

ronse, never mentions the name of YoungJ.

 --295. The explanation in effect amounts to this, that on

the wave-theory of light, a luminous point is seen only in
one direction, because the diverging wave produced propagates

from its surface at any moment impulses which, when they

reach the eye with any sensible obliquity, have their effect
compensated by the opposite displacements caused by the ad-

jacent portions of the wave. Bj' the interposition of particles,
opake or of a certain refractive power, and of nearly uniform
size, portions of ligiit become sensible in an oblique direction,
by the stoppage of the other poi'tions whose different length of
path wovdd have caused them to annihilate the action of the

* Book ii. part iv. obs. 13.  f Philosophical Transactions, 1802.

\ Entstekung der Hofe kleiner, Art. Schumacher, Astr. AbhandL, iii. 56.
.

   SUPPLEMBNTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                                                                                                                                              137

first. The angle of obliquity in which any light will reappear
must depend upon the size of the opake particles ; con-

sequently, such coloured rings as this cause produces will vary
with the size of the interposed globules of water or vapour, and
will generally be larger as these are smaller. This was the

principle of Dr. Young's Eriometer for measuring the diameter
of fibres and powders*. Thus Dr. Young has shownf, that a
Corona, 8° in diameter, corresponds to the existence of drops

(or spherules of any kind) -^y^j ^" diameter.
   296. As might be expected, this dimension varies with the

season. It appears, from the careful ohservations and compu-

tations of Prof. Kamtz:^, that the diameter of the spherules is
least in Maj^, being then -00054 French inch ; and greatest in

January, when it is -00107 inch. This is one of the most
certain data relative to the constitution of clouds. There seems
no doubt that these are the "Vesicles" observed by Saus-

sure§.

   297. The successive orders of colours recur at angular di-
stances, nearly, or exactly, in arithmetical progression from the

centre

     --II

   298. Glories. The well-known phsenomenon of coloured
rings surrounding the shadow of an observer thrown upon a
cloud, has an evident analogy with the preceding one ; and up
to a certain point, the same explanation may apply. But there
are peculiar difficulties connected with this appearance, which

seem to be yet imperfectly resolved.

299. Bouguer observed in South America his shadow thrown

on a cloud, and surrounded by coloured rings of 5° 20', 11°, and

17°, and a white ring of 67° in diameter^. Scoresby observed

at sea a similar phaenomenon on a thin stratum of fog. The

rings had radii of li° or 2°, 4° 45', 6° 30', and a whitish circle

Aextending from 36° 50' to 42°.                                                                                                          larger and still fainter circle

was once observed**. Professor Kamtz has seen on the Rigi

similar circles of radius 37° 27' on one occasion, and 42° 10' on

another, which he considers as true rainbows, very faintly
tinged with red outside, and with blue within. At the same

* Described in his Introduction to Medical Literature.

t Art. Chromatics, Encyc. Britt., Sect. xi.

X Lehrbuch der Meteorologie, iii. 102.                                                                                                   § See above, Art. (218) and note.

  Young. Compare Herschel on Light, Art. 701. Fraunhofer, quoted by

II

Kamtz, iii. 96. Babinet, Comptes Rendus, iv. 643.

% Memoires deVAcadimie des Sciences, 1744, 4to edit., p. 264. Each man

saw only his own shadow                                                                                                                  but the reason assigned is not very clear.  " Chacun
                                                                                                                                      ;

de nous vit son ombre projetee dessus (?'. e. on the cloud), et ne voyait que la

sienne, parceque le nuage n'offroit pas une surface unie."
    ** Kiimlz, iii. 108.
138 REPORT-- 1840.

station I have seen a single compound circle, of which the red
ring had a diameter of 18°; but when 1 entered the cloud on

the surface of which it had been formed, it contracted to about
10°. In the Jura Mountains I once perceived traces of a faint

ring of from 75° to 80° in diameter.*

   300. Accompanying the coloured rings, there is an appear-
ance of white light, more intense towards the centre (corre-
sponding to the prolongation of a line drawn through the sun
and the eye of the spectator), which would give evidently the
brightest illumination in the middle point, but for the shadow

of the observer's head, which, however, is wonderfully di-

minished by the nebulovis light.

   301. That crystals of ice should have anything to do with
these appearances, as conjectured by Bouguer and Scoresby,
is altogether incompatible with the circumstances under which
other observers have seen them. It is equally impossible to

refer these rings to the diffraction of the solar light falling

upon particles of vapour surrounding the observer's head, as
Fraunhofer supposed fj and reflected back to his eye from the
surface of the cloud ; for I have observed these rings distinctly

from a height of fifteen hundred feet above the cloudy screen,

under a brilliant sky. But the common theory of diffraction of

particles reflecting as well as stopjmig light, affords a plausible

Weaccount of some of the phsenomena.                                                                                    have only to suppose

the constituent materials of the cloud to be spherules (however
composed) of nearly equal size which reflect innumerable images

of the sun from their surfaces, backwards to the eye. Some of
t'lese must be placed at distances which shall re-inforce each
other's effect, and some which shall annihilate that effect; and

hence periodic colours will result, as in transmitted light (the

case of coronce).

302. This opinion is confirmed (1) by the order of colours

being that of diffraction                          rings                                                          (the  red outermost)                                          (2) by the
                                                                                                                                                                             ;

arithmetical progression of the diameters observed by Bouguer

and Scoresby                                       (3) by the curious fact noticed by myself, that
                                                ;

on immersion in the cloud the rings suddenly shrink in size

(due, no doubt, to an increase in the magnitude of the cloudy

particles in the interior)                                                                                        (4) from the comparison made by
                                                                                                               ;

Professor Kamtz, between the diameter of the Corona by

   * Ha5'garth, in the Manchester Memoirs (1st Series, iii.), gives rather an
unsatisfactory account of a glory which must have resemhled those seen by
Bouguer and others. The greatest faint circle at a distance from the smaller
ones, is distinctly shown in the bad plate which accompanies the paper.

    f Schumacher, Ahhandl., iii. 63.
      SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT Oti METEOROLOGY.                                                                     139

Transmission, and the Corona by Reflexion, the same stratum

of cloud forming both ; and he obtains in general a satisfactory

coincidence*                                               (5)  by the  curious    observation         of M. Babinetf,
                                                        ;

of similar rings formed round the shadow formed on the minute

particles of gunpowder which had been laid out to dry.

303. On the other hand, it is not consistent with what we

know of such phasnomena, that the third ring (for instance),

that having a diameter of 18'^, should be seen so vividly, and

sometimes to the exclusion of any other (for it is hardly likely

that so large a ring should be one of the first or second order).

The great rings of 67° to 84° in diameter, can scarcely be thus

explained.

   304. Dr. Young seems to have felt the full difficulty of the

subject of reflected glories ; and he has unfortvmately expressed
himself very obscurely upon it. In his earlier writings |, he
contented himself with referring them to the colours of thin

plates ; but afterwards he seems to have hesitated whether to
consider them as modifications of the corona (by diffraction), or
of the rainbow. In his article, " Chromatics §," he has given

a singularly perplexed theory, which we have read over many

times without clearly understanding ; the reasoning, however,

--appears to be this : Supposing a cloud to be formed of drops of

water, light, four times reflected within such drops, will furnish

rays which will unite in the same phase from both sides of the

drop, at a point diametrically opposite to the sun, whilst rays

(also four times reflected) ultimately coinciding in direction,

and which have undergone reflexion at smaller and greater

angles, will unite in different phases, the retardation being

nearly as the angular distance from the central point. It is
to these supernumerary bows of the fourth order, that he ap-

pears to attribute the inner circles, whose diameters were, in

the observation of Bouguer, 6°, 11°, and 17°.

305. Having found the size of the drops which would give,

by diffraction, rings of this description ||, he proceeds to find the

distribution of the colours of a primary rainbow formed by such

excessively minute drops (less than 40^00 inch). He assigns
to the first supernumerary red bow a radius of 24°, of which,

however, he makes no use. He then observes, that owing to the

minute size of the drops, the shading off of the primary colours

is very slow on the concave side, so that the red will sensibly oc-

cupy  a breadth                                            of   7^°,  the  violet  of  5i°             and  as the red and
                                                                                                    ;

* Meteorologie, iii. 111.                                                          f Coviptes Rendus, iv. 645.

X Lectures, ii. p. 645. col. i. § Encya. Britt., seventh edit., p. 638. col. i.

   Computed, however,                                           for a radius of 5° for the first ring ;     whereas, in

II

Bouguer's observation, the diameter was 5* 20'.
--140 REPORT 1840.

violet arcs are already 2° apart, they will overlap, and form a
whitish ring, whose radius will be that of the red ring of the
rainbow, or 42°, diminished by 7i°j leaving about 35° for the
radius of the whitish ring, agreeing sufficiently well with ob-

servation,

   306. I apprehend, however, that there are many difficulties

in this view of the subject. That light, four times reflected,
should have intensity enough to produce three or more coronae,
seems incredible. Again, the ring of 37° to 42° radius, ob-
served by Kamtz and Scoresby, with faint colours, seems to be
the rainbow itself, not the superposition of its faded colours,
for Dr. Young very obscurely hints'* as to the non-appearance
of the real bow. The reason of its variable magnitude and
faint colour is quite sufficiently explained by Mr. Airy's in-

vestigation (271.), in wliich the deviation of the maximum of in-
tensity from the geometrical caustic is shown to depend upon

the size of tlie drops, and that diminution of size diminishes the
radius of the bow, and likewise the sharpness of its definition,

though in every case (as it seems to us) the maximum next the
caustic must be most intense, and therefore the true bow can

never vanish so long as any of its subordinate features remain,

which Dr. Young seems to have thought possible. Finally,
Dr. Young, in another section of the paper so often referred

tot, adopts the theory of diffractitm as producing the lesser
glories, and calculates the size of the drops on that hypothesis,
which size is double that obtained on the other.

   307. Had not this discussion been already extended further
than persons more interested in meteorology than in physical
optics may think suitable, I should have dwelt at some length
upon certain curious phsenomena of shadows with luminous

borders, and certain vertical trains of light seen in connexion
with them, which seem not to have received the attention which
their theoretical importance demands. I will state very briefly

what may serve to instigate further inquiry.

    308. Standing on the tower of Carisbrook Castle with a friend

one calm hazy summer evening near sunset, I perceived glori-
fied shadows as from the Rigi, but without colours. So intense
was the concentration of rays opposite the sun, that the shadow
of the head of the observer was almost obliterated by the inten-
sity of the light which seemed to emanate from it. The shadow
of the body was fringed all round by a luminous but colourless
border. The shadow of another person standing a short way

        Chromatics, p. 635, col. i. ; p. 638, col. i.

   \ Chromatics, Sect. xi.
SUPTLEMENTARY RKPORT ON METEOROLOGY.  141

off presented to the first observer nothing peculiar. The hniii-
nous haze extended but a short way right and left, but in a ver-

tical direction it extended through a very considerable angle,

producing the very singular effect of a train of hazy light. The
same effects I have seen less perfectly in other localities, but
generally towards sunset, and only when a considerable space
intervened between the observer and his shadow.

   309. Similar phsenomena have been described by various ob-
servers, and variously accounted for*. The vertical train of
light which occasionally accompanies halos, has been explained

by the reflexion from the bases of vertical cxystalsf; but as it
is seen to occur in circumstances such as those mentioned in the
last paragraph, it must evidently be independent of the existence
of ice in the air. Fraunhofer has endeavoured to explain it on
principles of ditfraction|, and I conceive that it is most likely
to be explained on some such principle, taking into account the
abrupt variations of temperature which often take place near
the ground towards sunset, and which produce strata of air
very variously charged with moisture in various degrees of con-
densation, horizontally disposed, and partial reflexion in which
would undoubtedly tend to produce a diffuse vertical image, such
as we see on water slightly rippled, when looking across the
rippled surface. The main cause, however, of this expanded
vertical image appears to be, that by looking very obliquely

through a thin stratum of cloudy particles, their apparent di-
stances will be diminished by the obliquity, and their interstices
in the same proportion. Diffraction bands will, therefore, ex-
pand in the direction in which the particles are apparently
compressed. I have found that such pheenomena are accurately
reproduced by suftering soap- suds to dry upon a plate of glass,

and then looking at a flame ohliqnely through it : when viewed
perpendicularly neither colour nor diffused light appears in one
direction more than another.

   310. The occurrence of the anthelion itself, or luminous
point opposite the sun, is not of so easy explanation as some
writers seem to consider it ; and until it is fully understood, we
can hardly hope to explain all its modifications. The glory

   * See the observations of Hevelius, Derham and Young, qvioted in Young's
Lectures, ii. 303, as to the vertical train of light ; more lately by Mr. Christie,
British Association, 7th Report, Sections, p. 15. [Mr. Christie's original commu-
nication to the Meeting at Cambridge in 1833, contained in a letter to me,
appears to have fallen aside, and is neither published nor in my possession.]

   \ First by Young, also by Babinet (^Comptes Rendus,\y, 640), Galle (Pogg.
xxxix. 256), and others.

   X Schumacher, Jbhandl., iii. 82.
142 RKPOHT-- 1840,

observed round the head on dewy grass * is evidently referrible
to the reflexion from spherical drops at no great distance from
one another. The peculiar luminous fringes observed round
the ivhole shadow (308.), I have assured myself by many trials
to arise from no optical deception. There is a space close to

--the shadow, and following its boundary, more luminous than

the fully eidightened space beyond, a fact which it seems
not easy to explain. It appears to have no reference to the
nature of the body (as, whether it is bedewed or not) which
yields the shadow ; nor is it altogether dependent on the body
which acts as the recipient screen, but it depends chiefly, I ap-
prehend, on the condition of the strata of air very near the
ground. AVe must consider it, I suppose, as an effect of dif-
fraction, such as would, in point of fact, be seen where the
shadow of a body is thrown upon a screen by a single radiant
point at a certain distance ; in this case, however, it is not the
smallness of the luminous bodj'^, but the cluster of minute
globules which reflect small images of the sun that are the cause
of the difi"raction ; the efi^ect being to produce a luminous band,
succeeded hy a darker one whose contrast renders it more visi-
ble. The effect is no doubt enhanced by the indeterminateness
of the surface which reflects these little images. The shadow
is seen through the whole depth of the nearly invisible cloud,
and the bounding surface of light and shade will be most pro-
minently seen when the eye is in a position to follow its course

in the interior of the mist.

   311. The phsenomenon described by Professor Neckerf, of the
intense illumination of shrubs and trees forming the horizon
behind which the sun has just set, is, I conceive, a precisely
parallel fact; and M. BabinetJ has explained it in a similar
manner. But there is still something in this as an optical phse-
nomenon which seems to me to require further investigation.

    312. It should not be forgotten, with reference to the phaeno-

mena of clouds, that they have been treated by Young and others
on the hypothesis of their being composed of spherical droj)s of
water. Bouguer, Kamtz and Fraunhofer, maintain their vesi-
cular structure ; and the last-named author has in his Memoir,

so often cited, considered minutely the course of a ray of light

through a spherical watery shell. The great modification which
the common rainbow undergoes in a cloud, and the rarity of its

* Garthe, Ahhandhing iiber den Heiligenschein : quoted by Kamtz, iii. 106.

and other authorities there mentioned.

   f Philosophical Magazine, Third Series, i. 332, where two diagrams repre-
sent the fact very well, as I remember to have seen it under Professor Necker's

directions.                             J Comptes Rendus, iv. 644.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                      14.3

occurrence, seems, to say the least, to give some plausibility to

the latter opinion.

                               X. Suggestions.

    313. In conclusion of this report, I propose to offer a few
suggestions more definite than I have yet given for the advance-
ment of meteorological science. I have glanced at various ques-
tions which require elucidation, and which fall within the scope
of science in its present state ; but a'more systematic recapitula-
tion of some of these will place them more intelligibly before

the reader.

   314. It has long been matter of regret, that the labour which
every one knows is spent on meteorological inquiries, should be
so ill-directed ; but this it is easier to regret than to remedy. It
is discouraging to be obliged to declare that meteorological ob-
servations, to be of any value, are not so easy as is commonly
supposed, and that not only perseverance but intelligence is
generally speaking necessary to make such observations as are

useful to science. Many registers, however well kept and or-
ganized, are redundant ; many would be useful were the results
reduced and corrected ; many may have a local value, though

they do not greatly advance the general progress of science.
    315. For the sake of precision I will combine what I have to

say under three heads, (1) On Public Observatories, (2) On

 Private Sedentary Observations, (3) Suggestions to Travellers.

                              A. Public Observatories.

    316. It is of little use complaining of the past neglect of me-
teorological observations in astronomical observatories. Some
attempt is now being made to combine with them a system of
 meteorological observation, or what is better, to institute mag-
 netical, meteorological, and generally, physical observatories.
The vast sums of money which have been spent in doing over
 again what has been better done elsewhere in determining as-
tronomical data, might have almost created new sciences of ob-

 servation.

    317. The meteorological observations at Paris deserve par-
 ticular notice, as having been conducted upon a simple and re-
 gular system, for a considerable series of years. The barometer

--and thermometer (which, I believe, are kept in good order) are

 registered four times a day at 9 a.m., Noon, 3 p.m., 9 p.m.,
 hours evidently selected for the barometic oscillation*. At Brus-
 sels the barometer, thermometer, hair hygrometer, wind, and

* Published in the Annales de Chimie and Comptes Rendus.
    --

--144 RKPORT 1840.

state of sky, are registered at 9, Noon, 4, and 9*. At Marseilles

 a very elaborate register is kept every three hours (I believe) of

the day and night, under the watchful superintendence of M.
Valzf. At St. Petersburg and other stations of the Russian
empire, meteorological and magnetical observations are made

--eight times a day viz. at 8, 10 a.m., No(m, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 p.m.J

    318. Oljservations are regularly made at the Milanese Ob-

servatory, Palazzo Brera, at 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 21 liours astrono-

Wemical time, and are published in the Bihlioteca Italiana.

learn from an article in the Bihlioth(^que Universelle^, that ex-
tensive meteorological observations by Sig. Colla, at Parma, are
published, under the title of Giorniile y4stro)iomico. Farther,
it appears, that at the late meeting at Pisa, it was agreed, on the
motion of Sig. Antinori, to concert measures for contemporane-
ous and comparable observations throiigliout Italy ||.

   319. The observations conducted at the various academies of

the State of New York, and published annually liy the legislature,

are still continued on a uniform plan, and must be productive of
considerable benefit to science. Near tlie equator, at Trevan-
drum, in the East Indies, an admirable meteorological register is
kept, under the direction of Mr. Caldecott, astronomer to the
Rajah of Travancore. During his recent stay in this country,
Mr. Caldecott has made arra)igements for extending considerably
the range of his experiments and observations.

   320. The observatories fitted out under the direction of the
British Government and East India Companj', combine meteor-
ological with magnetic observations every two hours of the day
and night^. It is matter of regret (though it is to be hoped the
regret is a temporary one) that whilst these admirable means of
observation have been sent to both hemispheres, and to the
Antipodes,none have been established «^/jome**. I amnot aware
that there is a meteorological register which can be called au-

thentic (in respect of the three following qualifications) conduct-
ed in any part of the British Islands.

   321. The special objects of public observatories would seem

to be

   * Published in 4to by M. Quetelet.

    f Unfortunately it is not published.

   J Published under the direction of M. Kupffer.
   § For August 1840.

       Atti degli Scienzati Italiani, p. 30. Sig. Cacciatore's observations have

            II

been already referred to (U).
   ^ Forms of Register are prepared by the Royal Society.

   ** Since this was written I am glad to learn from Mr. Airy that arrangements

have been made, by which an authentic Meteorological Register will be com-
bined with the Astronomical and Magnetical Observations at Greenwich.
                                                                                                             ;:

           SUPPLKMiiNTARY REPORT ON MKTKOROLOQY.                                                                                                       145

(1).  To furnish standards of                                                                   comparison
                                                                                                                                               ;

(2). To establish the laws of phaenomena

(3). To fix secular, or normal data.

The second of these determinations may be made without the

first and  third, and conversely                                                                just as  in  magnetism                            one  set of
                                                                                             ;

instruments serve to measure variations of elements, which yet

are incapable of establishing the fundamental values of the ele-

ments themselves.

322. In respect to the First point, the instruments must not

only be originally good, but they must be preserved in constant

--repair, a matter requiring perpetual revision in the case of

meteorology. Access, under due regulation, should be permit-

ted to instrument makers and observers to have their instruments

compared with the standards*. That the instruments be ahso-

lutely as well as relatively correct^ is evidently essential to the

determination of the mean pressure at the level of the seat, the

--actual state of climate \vith respect to temperature, &c.
   323. Secondly. Thelaws of phsenomena can usually be only

made out by extended and minute observation, incompatible,
generally speaking, with private research. Laws of a certain de-

gree of generality have commonly a pretty wide domination, even

in a science apparently so capricious as meteorology. The in-
stance we have mentioned of the "homonymous hours" (37.),
representing the mean temperature of the day, is one of the kind

the constancy of the interval between the hours of mean tempe-

rature is another : the mean of diurnal extremes being nearly

the mean temperature of the day is a third : the nearly coincident

--hours of diurnal barometric variation is another : these, and

such laws deduced from sufficient data, clear the way for indi-

vidual exertion, and indeed form the only basis for really useful

Aefforts of the kind.          very small number of observatories

(comparatively), perhaps three or four in the extent of the Bri-

tish islands, would be sufficient to supply these important data.

The observations must be made ei-ery two hours at least, for

with less than this the diuriuil curve could not be properly drawn.

But such laborious observations would not require to be indefi-

nitely continued. Once place the meteorological observations on

a proper footing, by ten, or perhaps twenty years^ observation of

this kind, and the great difficulty is overcome : there is not a

chance of sec?//ar changes sensibly aff"ecting these laws; once

established, they are like the laws of the solar system.

   * As is done, for instance, at Paris.
   t The specific gravity of the mercury sliould be actually ascertained, and the
pressure might be stated in the corresponding height of a column of distilled

water at a fixed temperature.

1840.                                                                                           L
                                  --

146 REPORT 1840.

   324. Directions would thus be obtained for prosecuting, under
the most favourable circumstances, and at the least possible ex-
pense of labour, all inquiries as to local climate in observatories
of the second class, and by private individuals. In such ob-
servatories, observations might be made twice or thrice a-day,
and some even seldomer. The regular observations at public
observatories should include the following :

    Thermometer, barometer and moistened bulb hygrometer,
        at least every second hour.

   Wind may be registered by Whewell's and Osier's gauges.
   The state of the sky may be frequently noted.

    Rain by Osier's gauge ; other rain-gauges at three vertical

          stations.

   Temperature of the earth from the surface down to twenty-
       four French feet. The shorter thermometers must be ob-

        served at different hours of the day ; the longest once a
        week.
    Temperature of the earth at a considerable depth in caverns,
       wells, or Artesian bores. The thermometers (generally)
        should have their zero verified from time to time (twice a

          year).

    Solar radiation by the actinometer.
     Nocturnal radiation.
     Atmospheric electricity and the aurora borealis, with cor-

         responding magnetic observations.
     Falling stars, especially in August and November. Other

         occasional phaenomena, of course, will be recorded.
     Experiments, by means of balloons, on the decrement of

         temperature above the soil.

    325. It would not be too much to expect that the directors

 of the first class of observatories should be capable of forming a
 judgement on the great cosmical questions of meteorology (ad-
 verted to in the section of this report on terrestrial tempera-
 ture,) and of uniting theoretical and practical knowledge to the
 important end of obtaining tangible and useful solutions of
 these great problems. For this purpose, it would be necessary
  not only to institute observations, but experiments ; and, by

 the trial of many independent plans, to estimate the confidence
 due to the various methods in so delicate a research. By ascer-
 taining exactly \\\\?ii data may be obtained a posteriori, a definite
 problem may then be given to mathematicians to resolve; and we
  shall then know, and not till then, what investigations are to be

 --regarded as merely speculative, and what of any substantive value.
     326. Thirdly/. The laws of pheenomena being known by such

  a limited course of elaborate experiment as has been recom-
SUPPLBMENTARY REPORT ON METKOROLOGY. 147

mended, the next business connected with a public observa-

tory is to furnish the secular constants of meteorology, such as

the mean annual temperature, the mean annual pressure at the

level of the sea, the limits of variation of these, the mean ela-

sticity of vapour, the mean and total quantity of sunshine, the

mean direction and integral quantity of wind, and. similar

facts, for a given jjlace at a given time. These observa-

tions are of a less elaborate kind than the preceding ; but the

fate of all volunteer exjierrments shows, that to determine such

quantities with minute precision, is incompatible with any but

an official system of registration, which shall be conducted for

very many years on exactly the same system, with instruments

of the same kind, with unremitting attention not onlj' to the

fidelity of the observations, but to the jierfect repair and com-
parability of the instruments. Even should such a system not

be started on the very best possible plan, it is better that it

should continue uniform, than undergo perpetual change. If the

hours or locality be not the best possible, the diurnal laws being-

known, the result of any hour may be converted into a mean

result ; and as to locality, it is much more important to preserve

the consistency of results, than to avoid trifling disadvantages.

We327.  have seen that it requires very many years' observa-

tions to ascertain the mean climateric state of any point of the

earth's sui-face. In this country, for no one such point probably

is it accurately known. Let the instruments be the simplest, but

the best ; the observations, however few, perfectly regular ; and
we have a certainty that we are laying up valuable facts at least

for another generation, if not for the present one.

328. Instead of labouring to collect a multiplicity of imper-

fect registers, let us begin by laying the foundation of a rational

and accurate science. If we can but determine accurately the

secular elements of pressure and tempei'ature at a hundred well-

chosen points of the earth's surface, we shall do more than has

ever yet been done to draw a proper system of isothermal and

isobarometric lines, which shall hand down to posterity the

actual mean condition of our globe.

329. Observations must not only be made, but they must be

wholly reduced and printed, like the astronomical observations

conducted by Mr. Airy*. They must be ready to be applied to

the purposes of science, and synoptic tables of results widely

distributed. In the deduction of Laws from Results, much use-
less labour may be spared (and the remark is especially appli-

cable to private observers), by employing graphical projections

   * For this purpose excellent printed forms have been supplied to the Ant-

arctic expedition.

                                       l2
148 REPORT-- 1840.

instead of elaborate formulae of interpolation, a method which,

however valuable in itself, has been carried to excess by the

German meteorologists ; and the immense labour they have
spent in computing arbitrary constants might, in many cases,

have been better bestowed. Anything, however, is better than

no reduction at all. The engraving of such charts is well worth

dohig ; they often afford a check upon the accuracy of the ob-

servation, the value of the method, and the consistency of the

results, which no other mode of exhibition can possibly do.

330. I would notice the projection of observations on sub-

terranean temperature (96), as a signal instance of all the

advantages which I have mentioned. Where several simul-

taneous but independent observations are made, the comparison,

by projection, gives a moral certainty of the fidelity of the ob-

servations, whilst the coincidence of one year's observations

with another demonstrates the confidence due to the method of

investigation even more satisfactorily than the coincidence of

final results. Even in point of accuracy, the maxima and

minima cannot be so well determined by a parabolic interpola-

tion (as M. Quetelet has done), because the temperature-curves

invariably rise faster than they fall ; consequently, the oscu-

lating parabola has not its axis vertical, but inclined to the left

upwards ; and if a series of circular functions be used to ex-

press the observations, the computation becomes very laborious,

and perhaps the result is not more accurate than may be ob-
--Atained in a few minutes in the following way.
                                                  thin stiff

wire may, by a little practi<-e, be adapted so as to follow, in

a remarkable manner, the sinuosities of the temperature-curves :

by changing its form by pinching, then bending it elastically,

and varying the inclination of its symmetric axis with the verti-

cal, it is easy to lay it so over the curve*, as to satisfy the eye

that the inequalities on each side compensate one another.

331. Until national observatories shall be formed, it seems of

great consequence that the Plymouth Hourly Observations,

made at the expense of the Association, should hy no means

be discontinued; that the results, amply reduced, perhaps the

detailed observations, should be printed at their expense ; and

most particularly, that the condition of the instruments shall

be from time to time verified with the utmost care, in order to

render these determinations positively as well as relatively ac-

curate, for which I do not know whether there is at present

any suflicient security.

   · Or polygon; for in all cases, the actualpoints of observation should be joined
by straight lines. This suggestion I owe to Mr. Babbage, and I have found it

attended with great advantage.
--

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.  149

                            B. Sedentary Observations.

    332. Private individuals, fond of science, would find the
establishment of such systematic observatories as we have
recommended, to add great importance as well as interest to

their labours.

    333. Their business would then be like that of detailed sur-
veying after the great net-work of triangulation has been com-
pleted. The local meteorology of a country is often of great
practical as well as scientific importance, and the immense dif-
ference of climate frequently experienced within a few miles,
whilst it shows the embarrassing effect of local causes, and the
danger of drawing general conclusions from insulated or im-

perfect registers, is itself a curious subject of research.

   334. Ordinary thermometrical and barometrical registers may

be continued, as haa been usual, with additional attention to
the construction and repair of instruments, the choice of situa-
tion, and the choice of hours. In respect of the latter, 9 a.m.
and 9 p.m. are very convenient and fitting hours for thermo-

metric observations, to which may be added 3 or 4 p.m. for the
sake of the barometric oscillation. But it is one advantage of
systematic observation, such as was recommended in the last
section, that it will render available observations made else-
where at any hour or hours by a general principle of reduction
to the mean*. Self-registering instruments (thermometers,

rain-gauges, anemometers, and the like) are well adapted for
private observation from the little superintendence they require.

    335. I would, however, particularly urge the propriety of not
confining individual efforts to the mere multiplication of simple

registers. The same expenditure of time and money is appli-
cable to much more interesting purposes. Special series of
observations and experiments on one or more subjects, such as
the following, would be of very great interest indeed :

    1. The temperature of the soil at small depths. If the dif-
       ficulty of procuring long thermometers be an objection,
      water-bottles may be lowered to different depths in sepa-
       rate tubes of wood sunk in a well, which is then filled up
      with earth or sand, and the temperature may be noted by
      a common thermometer on pulling them up, the opening
       of the tubes being well stuffed with hay or woolf. (98.)

   * As was clearly pointed out by Sir D. Brewster, in discussing the Leith hourly
observations. It must be remembered that such reductions are correct only
within the limits of the region or climate for which they have been ascertained.

  t A not unimportant modification of these experiments might be made by

covering a certain space of the surface of the soil in which the thermometers
were sunk, with a composition of ascertained radiating and absorptive power.
150 BKPORT 1840.

2. Temperature of mines, galleries, deep wells, overflowing

or Artesian wells, rivers at various distances from their

   source and from glaciers ; the sea and lakes at difl'erent

   depths and seasons.

--+3. Modifications of temperature, or immediately above

   the surface of the soil at different hours and seasons. (60.)
4. Decrement of temperature at different heights, and the

modification of the annual and diurnal curves due to ele-

    vation. (51, 57.)

A5. comparison of the different instruments for measuring

 --solar radiation Leslie's, Cumming's, Herschel's, Pou-

illet's. (61, &c.)

6. Observations on nocturnal radiation in different states

of the atmosphere, and towards different regions of the

heavens (at the same angular elevation) ; comparison of

the ethrioscope (especially the effect of metallic reflectors

in increasing cold, questioned by Pouillet) ; Pouillet's

actinometer                                             the thermo-multiplier. (79, 80, 114.)
                                                     ;

7. The ascertainment, by barometric measurement, of the

elevation of a number of marlied points in the neighbour-

Ahood of the observer's residence.                      combination of such

local results would give the general configuration of a
country. The levelling (by the barometer) of the course

of rivers, and a few of the most elevated points of the in-

   tervening mountain-chains, is most useful*.
8. The relation of the boiling points of fluids, especially

water and alcohol, to the barometer, and the supposed

   anomalies mentioned by Hugi. (163.)
9. The curious anomalies in barometric measurements de-

pending on the difference of temperature of the two

stations (Lenz and Galle), and perhaps on the direction of

the wind. (159.) This is an important, and, in a favourable

    situation, not a difficult inquiry f.
10. Further comparisons of the dew-point and moist- bulb

hygrometer are not necessary. But careful observations

with the latter are highly desirable under all possible cir-

cumstances. The curves of annual and daily dryness

ought to be investigated, and the indications of the instru-
ment reduced, not by the computation of the corresjiond-
ing dew-point, but by ascertaining (from Apjohn's for-

   * See M. Guevin's very interesting Mesiires Barometriques dans les Alpes
Fran^aises, Avignon, 1829. An excellent specimen of what is here intended
is to be found in the Comte de RafTetot's barometric measurements in the

valley of Bareges. See Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, January, 1837.
   t Ramond's Memoires stir la Fornude Baromefrique cited in the former Re-

port may be consulted with advantage on this subject.
       SUPPLEMENTARV REPORT ON METKOHOLOGY.                                    151

mula, (175, 180)), the absolute and relative dryness of the

air, i.e. the tension of vapour and the ratio to saturation.

Experiments would still be desirable to ascertain the effect

of a current of air in modifying the indications of the
moistened thermometer.

11. To pursue experiments on rain-gauges at three stations

vertically above one another, (221) combined with hy-

grometric observations.

12. To deduce from phgenomena proofs of the revolving or

radiating character of storms, or of the existence of both

kinds*. (212, &c.)

13. To multiply observations upon meteors, especially in
   August and November. For this purpose, nothing more

is requisite than the combination of several intelligent

observers, who should select particular portions of the

heavens for observation, having acquired, by the aid of

a globe or planisphere a sufficient knowledge of the con-

stellations, and who, being each provided with chro-

nometers, should note, (1) the time of appearance; (2)
the duration of the meteor; (3) its magnitude and phy-

sical peculiarities                                                            (4) its direction and velocity of motion.
                                                                            ;

14. From what has been said on the subject of atmospheric

electricity, it will appear that almost everything remains

to be done on that subject ; he who proposes to enter on
the field must be prepared to cope with the difficulties of

original investigation.

15. Auroral phasnomena. The division of them into classes

   (if possible), of which probably the height, nature, and

  magnetic effects may be veiy different.
16. Many of the departments of optical meteorology are well

fitted for Sedentary Observation. See the particulars spe-
cified in the next section.

       C. Travelling Observations.

A336.  traveller is placed in circumstances so eminently fa-

vourable for arriving at just conclusions in meteorology and other

similarly-conditioned sciences, that he cannot be too frequently

reminded of the responsibility which attaches to his situation.

All men who have cultivated the valuable art of viewing intel-

ligently what passes around them, may arrive at important de-

ductions from the observations of the most monotonous and most

   · Observations of great value may be very simply made by noting the
periods of sudden rise of wind, and especially the times when its direction

changes most rapidhj, and the nature of the change. Barometrical observations
add to the value of these recorded facts.
--152 BtPORT 1840.

sedentary life ; but he whose choice or opportunity carries him
through many climates and varying circumstances, cannot too
zealously watch the occasion of discovering processes which
only a happy accident may reveal, and of profiting by the com-
parison and contrast of phtenomena. Every one knows how
indolence and indifference steal upon the mind long habituated
to a daily-shifting scene, and how apt opportunities are to be
lost through weariness or inattention. The traveller would do
well, therefore, to entertain some preliminary considerations as
to the sort of observation suited to his peculiar position. Sy-

stematic observations are, to a great extent, bej'ond his reach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

and regular meteorological journals, kept from day to day under
continually varying circumstances, are of much less value than

those made in one spot, so that such registers may very gene-

rally be abandoned, unless in the case of visiting peculiar or
little-known climates, where any sort of approximation to sj^-
stematic observation is valuable.

    .S37- There are, however, certain phaenomena which afford
such definite conclusions within the range of a few or even of
single observations, as ought especially to engage the traveller's

attention ; such, for instance, as

    1. The temperature of the superficial soil between the

        tropics, which, as already stated (128, note), is generally
        constant at one foot deep, and represents the annual mean.
        Intimately connected with this is the important general
        question whether the superficial earth temperature coincides
        generally with that of the air, which is yet undecided.

    2. The temperature of springs, deep wells, andmines. (1 17j&c.)
       The elevation of these above the sea should be determined
       barometrically or otherwise. Where several springs rise
        near one another, the temperature of several should be
       recorded. It does not by any means follow, that the
        largest springs always give the best results.

    3. Particular attention should be paid to those springs which
        appear to have a temperature above or below that of the
         air at the place. In the case of very hot springs it is very
       interesting to repeat the observation with the same ther-
       mometer or instruments which have been compared, in
        different seasons and years*. (131.)

    · Having been requested some j'ears ago to draw up instructions for obser-
ving springs, I may, in the hope of attracting additional attention to the subject,
introduce them here, not having been elsewhere published.

            HINTS FOR OBSERVATIONS OF THE TEMPERATURE OF HOT SPRINGS.

    The thermometer used in fixing the temperatures should be originally good,
and should besides have its freezing point verified occasionally by plunging it in
 melting snow. Fractions of degrees should be estimated at least to one-fourth,
            SUrPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                         153

4. Meteorological extremes have always a certain interest
   which makes them worthy of preservation, whether they be

if practicable, to one-tenth. If possible one person should note the results at

the instant that the other observes, and to avoid errors the observers should

then change places. The stem of the thermometer should be immersed in the

water,  so  that  the  whole  mercun'al  column  may  be  of  the  same  temperature                                                          it
                                                                                                                                           ;

should be kept there until the reading becomes quite stationary, and the read-

ing made whilst so immersed.

Hot springs are either uniuclosed, or applied to the supply of baths, &c.

In the former case great care must be taken in marking distinctly the locality,

as springs often occur so near to one another that confusion readily arises : the

hearings of any permanent objects near should be given, ?ir\d.t\\e popvlar name

of the spring, if it have one. If the spring be collected (as is usually the case)

from a number of imperceptible sources, the fact should be mentioned and

the hottest part taken. In the case of the supply of baths, too great care in

reaching the real sources cannot be enjoined. The servants of the baths are

often ignorant of the true springs, and are unable or unwilling (because they

are difficult of access) to point them out. When the real source cannot be

reached (from being underground or built up) the nearest bath cock should be

tried, having been first opened for some time, and the observer should record

the number of the cock, its distance from the spring, and the nature of the con-

duit, as well as give an eye-sketch of their relative positions. Where the wa-

ter is stopped in its passage by reservoirs, these .should be especially noticed, as

they render the observation of temperature of little value. Often the spring

rises over a great extent of surface into a \a.\gG piscina or public bath. In this

case the observation is generally unsatisfactory, but the temperature of different

points of the basin should be ascertained and the hottest recorded. If gas rises

it should be ascertained whether its temperature differs from that of the water.

The traveller should repeat his experiment on different days and at different

hours, and at as great an interval of time as his stay permits. As many springs

as possible (of those which ai'e really independent) should be observed, and to

prevent mistakes as to the independence and purity of the springs (for those

more esteemed are often mixed \\'\\h others of inferior quality) the best author-

ity (usually the resident physician) should at once be consulted. With a view

to comparison with former observers, changes in the management of the reser-

voirs, &c., should be inquired for, and their date noticed.

  No ordinary traveller can undertake an analysis of mineral water, but if the
spring be employed medicinally he may probably obtain some information

from the resident physician or druggist, which should be preserved (with the

authority). He may furthei-, after a little experience, judge (by taste and smell)

to what class of springs it is referible, as sulphureous, alkaline, saline, chaly-
beate or acidulous. The easier experiments which he might further make

would relate to the specific gravity of the water, and to the natiue of the gas

evolved, which is a very important question. There are cases in which it might

be desirable to preserve, well corked, a portion of the water for analysis, but such

are comparatively rare.

   Historical and other information may often be got from physicians and in-
telligent proprietors of baths. Such persons might sometimes be induced to
undertake observations every week or month on the precise variations of
temperature to which a spring is subject. Almost any thermometer would suf-

fice for this purpose, as only small variations are wanted, and the absolute error

might be found by comparison with the traveller's standard. But in all cases

the authority for every statement not directly verifed by the traveller himself
ought to be distinctly given.
                      ----

--154 REPORT 1840.

of atmospheric temperature, solar radiation, pressure, hu-

midity, fall of rain, force of wind, or electric tension.

5. Daily observations of the barometer are valuable, especially

in tropical regions, because there the calculation of heights

may at once be completely made without corresponding
observations. By these means a traveller's route across a
tract of country may be traced in section, and the value of
many of his local remarks greatly increased.

6. Observations continued even for a few days in the equa-

torial parts of the globe, suffice to determine approximately

the diurnal barometric fluctuation. (152, &c.) The hours

seem to be everywhere nearly the same.

7. Optical meteorological phsenoniena of all kinds admit of
   being peculiarly well studied, from the varying points of
   view in which the traveller is placed. The diameters of

rainbows, halos and coronee, observed with due accuracy,

Sind the abnormal phenomena which occasionally accom-

pany these appearances, are facts of which as yet we pos-

Wesess but a slender stock.  may specify the following

subjects of inquiry:

(a.) The colours of the sky, their optical composition, and

   connection with the hygrometric state of the air. (254.)

(Z».) The polarization of the clear sky, (observed with Sa-

vart's polariscope) the position of the neutral points, its

variations, and the cause of the inversion of the plane of

    polarization. (260.)

(c.) The diameter of the rainbow, and contemporaneous
   measures of the distance of the supernumerary bows from
   the primary. The distance between the Primary and

Secondary rainbow, measured from the brightest part of
the Red. [This last is an easy and important observa-
tion, especially if accompanied with a measure of the di-

stance of the red of the first supernumerary bow from

   the primary red.] (264, 271.)
{d.) The diameters (in different directions) of the Great

    Halos, (2S0) ; the condition with respect to polariza-
   tion of the parhelic circle, and other rarer appearances.

(e.) The phsenomena of glorified shadoivs, (298, &c.) in all
   their particulars ; and the state of polarization of the suc-
  cessive rings. To compare the diameters of the direct
   coronse and those by reflection formed in the same cloud,

338. The traveller on lofty mountains possesses peculiar faci-

lities for the following kinds of observation :

   8. The decrement of temperature in the atmosphere. (51.)
   9. The force of solar and nocturnal radiation at different
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.                              155

      heights. The effect of atmospheric radiation in the day-
       time, in clear and in cloudy weather. (72.)
   10. The impi-ovement of the theory and practice of baro-

       metric measurements,
   11. The dryness of the higher strata of the atmosphere. (190.)

   12. The formation of clouds, their s^mc^we and tempera-

       ture (this last point is one of very considerable interest,
       viz. to compare the temperature of the air within a cloud
       with that of the comparatively dry surromiding air).
   13. The formation of storms, especially thunder-storms, and
      the origin of hail. Perhaps no mountains in Europe are
       so well adapted for these observations as the middle and

       western Pyrenees.
   339. Besides these and similar observations which experience

will suggest, the traveller may often do something in the way

of recommending local researches to intelligent persons situated

on the spot. He may at once afford them the knoivledge (which

--is all that many require) how to make their efforts useful, the

stimulus to exertion by undertaking to turn their labours to

--good account, and the means by providing them with simple

instruments, or by comparing their instruments with his own.

                              Addition to Article 125.

  A paper by Dr. Richardson on the frozen soil of North Ame-

rica appears in Prof. Jameson's Journal, Jan. 1841.

                    Addition to Article 195, on Wind.

   Since this was written, Mr. Osier presented at the Meeting
of the British Association at Glasgow, perfectly satisfactory
proof of the close connection which subsists between the diur-
nal curve of Temperature and the Force of the Wind. The same
analogy appears to have been made out by Mr. Rutherford, at
Kingussie, in Inverness-shire (who has been engaged in hourly
observations under the direction of Sir D. Brewster), although,
not having an anemometei-, he has been unable to give to it the
precision of a law, as Mr. Osier has done.

                                 ERRATA.

Page 39, 2 lines from bottom, /or instrmnents wadT instructions.
        44, first line of note, /or animal read annual.
       137, line 9,/or 23^5 »'^«^ 2TO3' ^^^^-
                                                 .

                         CONTENTS

                                              OF THE

         SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON METEOROLOGY.

Art.     Introduction                                      Page
                                                              37
      1      Works of Reference.

15 L Temperature                                           42

23 A. Thermometers                                         46

34 B. Atmospheric Temperature                              50

45 C. Isothermal Lines                                     55

51 D. Decrease of Temperature with Height                  57

61 E. Radiation                                            60

81 F. Proper Temperature of the Globe and of Space . 66

         88, Solar Heat; 110, Atmospheric Heat; 114,

         Temperature of Space ; 117, Proper Heat of the

         Earth ; 129, Springs.

       n. Atmospheric Pressure.                             85
132 A. Barometers                                           88
144 B. Mean Height of the Barometer                         90
                                                            92
151 C. Barometric Oscillations
157 D. Barometric Variation with Height                     95
                                                           101
      HL Humidity.

164 A. Hygrometers
189 B. Distribution of Vapour in the Atmosphere

192 IV. Wind                                     .. 102
                                                       103
197 A. Anemometers                                    104
201 B. Phsenomena of Wind generally                    109
212 C. Phsenomena of Storms

218 V. Clouds--Rain                                        Ill

233 VI. Atmospherical Electricity                          116

235 VIL Meteors                                            117

247 VIIL Aurora Borealis                                   120

         IX. Optical Meteorology.

248      A. Colour of the Sky and Clouds                   120

262      255, Dry Fogs ; 256, Blue Sun ; 257, Secondary
276
292      Sunset Tints ; 258, Aerial Shadows ; 259, Polar-

         ization of Sky-light.

         B. The Rainbow                                    125

         C. Halos and Parhelia                             130

         D. Coronse, Glories, &c                           135

313      X. Suggestions                                    143
316             A. Public Observatories                    143
332              B. Sedentary Observations                 149
336              C. Travelling Observations                151
                                                                    ;

                                  157

Report on Professor JVhewelVs Anemometer, now in Operation

     at Plymouth. By Mr. Snow Harris, F.R.S., 8§c.

                         [With a Plate.]

Any one who has at all considered the nature and object of

Whevvell's Anemometer will readily admit of how great value

--to Meteorology the results of its indications must prove ; since

they put us in possession of a sort of figurative delineation of

the total amount of the aerial current in any direction ; and fi-

nally enable us to arrive at what Mr. Whewell has not unaptly

--termed an annual type of the winds for any given place : by

comparing the types of different places with each other, the

general annual movement of the atmosphere may be in some

degree ascertained.

The want of an instrument which could figure at once the di-

rection and proportionate velocity of a given current, so as to

obtain an integral result, has been long felt in Meteorology.

Common anemometers merely register the time of a given wind

from a certain point, and leave its velocity out of the question
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

and although others of a more improved kind register also its

pressure on a given area, yet there are none, so far as I know,

which give the complete and truly valuable result obtained from

Mr. Whewell's, viz. the total quantity or integi*al effect of the

wind at a given place.

Impressed with the great importance of such a result to Me-

teorology, I have frequently, since the Anemometer was entrusted

to mj' care, given attention to the difficulties in its practical

working, and have endeavoured to render it more easily ma-

nageable by ordinary observers. The objections hitherto made

to the use of this machine are not altogether without founda-

tion. They principally apply to the difficulty of obtaining in-

struments which may be taken as sufficiently comparable ; to

the want of constancy in the operation of the same instrument,

owing to  deterioration  in  the  wheel-work  from  various  causes
                                                                                    ]

to the liability of the machine to become damaged in storms

and to the difficulty of repair.

Mr. Southwood, who attended to the Register of the instru-

ment for some time, and who communicated the results at the

Meeting of the Association held at Liverpool, in 1837, made seve-

Weral valuable improvements in its construction.    have not until
--158 REPORT 1840.

very recently succeeded in correcting the defects attendant on

the working of the machine geiierall3\

The recent improvements, in effecting which the sum of 10/.

granted by the Association at its hist Meeting at Birmingham

has been expended, I now propose to describe ; and as no par-
ticular description of the Anemometer by drawings has ever yet
appeared in the Reports of tlie Association, it may not be amiss
to give an account of the whole as it now works, since I cannot

but think it entitled to considerable attention, and that it must

eventually come into general use in Meteorology.

For the carrying on these recent improvements, the scien-

tific woi"ld is indebted to Mr. Kerr of this town, on whose house
the machine is now at work, and who has kindly undertaken to

attend to the Register.

 --Plate I. AAA, tigs. 1 and 2. is a circular metallic plate, move-

able about an axis D, by the action of the wind on a vane V, fig.

A2. small windmill fly W, formed of brass planes and turned at

an angle of 5 degrees with a plane perpendicular to the direction

of the wind is fixed on this plate. The fly revolves by the action

of the wind, against which it is kept by the vane V, and gives

motion to an endless screw a ; this screw operating on a verti-
cal wheel b gives motion to a horizontal wheel rf, through the

intervention of a second endless screw, not seen in the figure,

and placed on its axis. This last wheel c is placed at the ex-

tremity of a long vertical axis M, figs. 1 and 2, upon this is cut

the thread of a fine screw carrying a nut M, figs. 3 and 10.

MThe nut supports a pencil p, figs. 10 and 3, which acts by

means of a balance weight q against a fixed cylindrical barrel

AD, fig. 3. The vertical axis of the plate moves by the action
Vof the wind on the vane through the centre of this barrel, as

in fig. 1, and thus l)y the revolution of the fly, and the action of

the vane in turning rovmd the plate, the pencil is caused to de-

scend and trace a line on various parts of the cylinder D, fig. 3.

There are 16 vertical lines painted on the barrel, corresponding

to 16 points of the compass, as in figs. 3 and 12; hence, whilst the

V Avane by turning the plate causes the pencil to apply itself

to that line coincident with the direction of the wind, the wind-
Wmill
       causes it to descend and trace a line proportionate to
--its velocity for a given time the motion of the fly being by the

toothed wheels and screws fig. 1, so reduced, that for 10,000

revolutions, the pencil only descends g^*^^ ^^ '^" inch. The

Dbarrel is varnished white, and readily receives the trace of the

pencil in a thick irregular line, the middle of which indicates

the mean direction and velocity of the wind.

  When the pencil has descended to the bottom, it must be
          ON MR. WHEWBLL S ANEMOMETER.                               159

again replaced at the top and the Register recommenced. The

Vvane consists of tvvo inclined planes as seen in figure 1, and

is placed so as to be nearly in the prolongation of the axis of the

fly. This arrangement has been found to preserve the direction

more completely and maintain the position of the fly in direct

opposition to the current. The wheel-work just described is

effectually defended from wet and other atmospheric damage

by means of a close cover C, fig. 4, fitted securely and closely

over it.

In the instrument hitherto in use, the registering apparatus

D, fig. 3, is placed within a small wood cover and the whole

exposed to the wind on the ridge of a house or other elevated

Weplace.  have found it, however, necessary to set the whole

up in a more commodious and permanent manner. A small

lantern of wood about 3 feet square and 4 feet high, within

which the registering apparatus is placed, fig. 3, has been

A Aerected on the top of a house, the circular plate          in figs. 1

and 2, being moveable over its svimmit and toward which it con-

verges. The vane and fly are thus freely exposed to the wind

whilst the registering apparatus descends within.

  AIn order to sustain the vertical axis upon which the plate

turns, a small beam BB, figs. 3 and 6, is placed across the

bottom of the chamber hollowed at E, fig. 3, in a half circle.

EThe hollowed part carries an iron ring R, figs. 3, 6 and 12, of
about 4 inches diameter fixed to the beam B by three arms.

Within this is a second ring of brass r, fig. 6, forming the nut

of a third ring H, fig. 7 and 12, which can be screwed within the
former and removed at pleasure bj'' means of a small forked lever

L, fig. 8. These rings preserve the position of the register
barrel D, fig. 3, and admit of the easy motion of the axis of

A --the plate in the following way : the lower extremity of the

barrel terminates  in  a  solid  cap of brass  1 1 1,  figs.  3 and  5
                                                                          ;
Rthis cap t fits within the rings r, fig. 6, and there is a stud

of brass s, fig. 5, projecting from it corresponding to a notch r,

fig. 6, in the fixed ring ; the position of the lines on the barrel

indicating the direction of the wind is hence determined. The

Rbarrel D, fig. 3, is passed up through the ring on the descend-

ing vertical axis of the plate D, figs. 2 and 9, until its solid ring
1 1, fig. 3, comes in place. It is then finally secured by screw-

ing up the fixing ring H, figs. 7 and 12. When the barrel is

thus secured, a screw N, figs. 3 and 5, carrying on its extremity a
polished centre, is screwed up through the bottom of the brass cap
of the barrel until it reaches the point of the vertical axis D, fig.

A9, of the metallic plate A, figs. 1 and 2. It is then finally

secured by a small nut N, figs.'s and 12, turned up with press-

ure against the under part of the cylinder so as to prevent
--IGO HE PORT 1810.

any shake. The pencil and descending nut in fig. .3 work about

Ethis fixed barrel by means of two supports  H, figs. 2, 3

and 9 attached above to the under part of the plate A, and

below to a horizontal clasp of brass P P, figs. S and 9. The

clasp freely encircles the barrel when closed, and has small
W Wfriction wheels
                    W, fig. 9, inserted in it ; the extremity

or point of the screw M, figs. 3 and 9. moved by the wind-

mill, turns upon this clasp, as at P, fig. 9 : this clasp is

shown in this figure open, by means of the joints at P P. This

arrangement enables the observer when the pencil has descended

Dfor any given time, to remove the fixed barrel and substitute

a similar one, on which the register is continued, whilst that

just removed is read off and transferred at the observer's leisure
and convenience. The process of tabulation becomes in this
way a very simple affair. The removal of the barrel and re-

placing of the pencil at the top of the scale is easily effected.

The nut N, figs. 3 and 5, is first removed and the screw within
withdrawn ; the brass ring H, fig. 7? is then unscrewed by

inserting the points of the bent lever L, fig. 8, into the small
holes of the ring seen in figs. 7? 3, and 12. Finally the barrel
is withdrawn from off the axis and another substituted as al-

ready described.

   The mechanism of the pencil is represented in fig. 10. In this

Mfigure represents the nut traversing the screw S S. This nut

is made in two parts and is held together by a steadying pin t(
and a clamp screw C. One of the standards of support E, tigs.

3 and 10, passes between this clasp and the steadying pin, by
which the pencil is faithfully steadied in the course of its de-
scent along the cylinder. There is a small projecting arm n on
one side of the nut, to which is attached by means of a centre

pin a curved piece o ; this piece is moveable about the pin car-
rying within the curve a small knob of brass v set within the

curve on an axis a. The pencil p and balance weight q are

attached to this knob v, and thus the pencil is gently pressed
against the cylinder as shown in fig. 3. The lower part of the
thread of the vertical rod s on which the nut travels is left

plain and smaller than the screw above, as seen at P, fig. 9, in
order to allow the nut to fall freely off; hence if the instrument

has run out at any time before attention is again given to it, da-

mage to the fly and wheel work above, by the resistance which

would otherwise ensue, is prevented. When the barrel has been

replaced we have merely to turn back the screw C, fig. 10, and
run the whole up to the head of the cylinder : again clamp the
imt, and the Anemometer continues to register on the barrel as

before.

   In order to measure and transfer the amount of wind, there is
ON MR. whewbll's anemometjsr.               161

a scale fig. 11, graduated into tenths of an inch, and termina-

ting in a concave rest G, adapted to the register barrel ; this

scale is applied accurately along the barrel on which the pencil

has registered the amount of wind, as shown in fig. 12. There

are two Psliding-pieces j^ on this scale ; these are set so as to

inclose the amount of wind in any given direction and the re-

sult read off on the scale. This may be also easily effected by a

fine pair of compasses and a common scale.

   The cover C, fig. 4, is so contrived as to be easily removed at

Aany time, being fixed on the plate by four small studs and a

clamp screw ; a small trap in the roof enables the observer to

inspect the wheel-work frequently, and occasionally apply a little

oil to the pivots. The action of the machine is hence preserved

in a sufficiently uniform state ; and I have little doubt that

the velocity of revolution of the fly may be fairly assumed as

proportional to that of the wind. The cover C has been found

to give the wheel-work the required protection, and the instru-

ment now in operation here is preserved so as to be quite con-

sistent with itself. It would not be at all difficult to construct

anemometers, which if attended to in this way would prove very

comparable with each other, especially if they were all made by

the same person, or according to the same proportions in every

respect; and if the respective rates of motion under the same cur-

rent were compared at first with a standard instrument, a fair

degree of accuracy must unavoidably be arrived at. The diffi-

culties in this respect are not greater than those incidental to any

other machine in which the effects of wheel-work and friction have

to be considered, as for instance in the rates of different chrono-

meters. If the diftereiit pivots were set in agates, and the point

of the steel axis of the fly allowed to turn against an agate

instead of bearing upon a shoulder, the instruments would main-

tain a very uniform action.

This valuable instrument being now effectively at work, I trust

at the next Meeting of the Association, to have completed a

graphical delineation of the integral amount of wind at this place

for a whole year without any intermission.

   The sum voted by the Association for the purposes of Osier's
Anemometer has been applied in completing the repairs and al-

terations found requisite ; in the expense of tabulating the re-

sults both of the instrument here and at Birmingham ; and to
other expenses incidental to the observations now in progress.

Mr. Osier will be prepared to lay some of the results before the

Physical Section of the Association.

The remaining sum entrusted to my care for carrying on the

original hourly series of Meteorological Observations here, has

VOL. IX. 1840.               M
--162 REPORT 1840.

been applied as usual in defraying the expense incurred on ac-
count of the Hourly Register of the Barometer, Thermometer,
&c. I have included the results of these Registers for the year

1839 in my last Report.

    Plymouth, September 10th, 1840.

                                                                   *
                                                                 16-3

 Report on " The Motions and Sounds of the Heart." By the

    London Committee of the British Association, for 1839-40.

The following Report consists of two distinct portions ; the

former consisting of experiments performed at King's College,
in 1839, by the London Committee for 1838-9; and the latter
detailing the experiments of the Committee for 1839-403 per-

formed at the Marylebone Infirmary in the present year. The

former series, performed in conjunction by Prof. Todd, Dr.
C. J. B. Wilhams and the Reporter, with occasional assist-
ance from Dr, Roget, were commenced but not completed,
owing to the difficulty of procuring subjects and other circum-

stances beyond the control of the Committee. No report of

those experiments was consequently presented at the Bir-
mingham meeting, or has yet been published ; and an account
of them is therefore now prefixed to the report of the proceed-
ings of the Committee for the current year.

   The experiments of 1838-9 were performed with the view

to determine the physical and pathological causes of certain
modifications of the motions and sounds of the heart that are
presented by disease ; a chief object being to ascertain how,
by mechanical and other irritations and by displacement of the
heart, murmurs could be produced ; how also by inflammation.
Whether for example, the pericarditic friction sounds de-
pend on deficient lubrication of the pericardium, or on vascu-

--lar turgescence, or are dependent solely on the effusion of

lymph ; how far also the natural sounds might be impaired by
interrupting the action of the valves in the living subject, or by
spontaneous or artificially excited abnormal action in the mus-

--cular parts of the cavities without structural lesion. Another

inquiry was this How far do the motions and sounds of the

heart in the lower animals correspond with those of the hu-

man subject; whether for example, in birds and other animals
that diflPer more or less from man in their cardiac anatomy,

there be not corresponding differences in the cardiac sounds

and motions ? To these questions the experiments for 1838-9

supply answers in most cases, which are satisfactory in the
opinion of the Committee to as great an extent as could be
calculated on from so limited a number of observations : they
feel however that the experiments were too few finally to

decide any point of much difficulty or importance, and that
                                                                                              --

--164 REPORT 1840.

further trials under more favourable circumstances are very

desirable. The experiments referred to are the following :

    --London Committee. Experiments for 1838-39.

                         Observation I.

--June 14th. Present, Doctors Roget, Todd, Williams and

Clend inning.

   Subject, an Ass, about three months old. Pulse about 60,
regular. At 8 o'clock a.m. a long fine needle with a silver ca-

nula was passed into the chest, at the left margin of the ster-

num between the ribs to the depth of two inches. The needle

exhibited motions corresponding to those of the heart. The

needle was withdrawn, and aqua ammonias diluted with four

or five parts of water was injected through the canula. The

pulsations of heart became immediately weak and very irre-

gular with intermissions.

10 o'clock. Heart's action natural. Pulse 77.

12 o'clock. Pulse 70, occasionally irregularly accelerated

for a few beats.

2 P.M. Still no abnormal sounds.

5 p.m. Pulse 78.

June 15th, 7 A.i\i. Pulse about 80.

At half-past 7, half an ounce more of solution of ammonia

was injected as before, after which pulsations weak and irre-

gular at first, but afterwards regular. Pulse 96, strong, with

clear sounds.

12 o'clock.       Pulse  72.  Sounds  natural  and  regular                                   first
                                                                                           ;

sound somewhat prolonged, with suspicion of murmur.

June 16th. Sounds strong. Pulse 56. Canula introduced

at the root of the xiphoid cartilage into the pericardium.

Some blood followed the needle. Then some strong solution of

salt was injected ; whence irregular accelerated action of the

heart.

   4 P.M. No murmur present. Both sounds distinct. Inter-

mission every fourth or fifth beat (Cg.).

   5 P.M. Pulse irregular. First sound double generally in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;

triplets, followed by intermission. The second sound being

absent in the weak strokes preceding the intermission but di-

stinct and loud at other times. Pulse 56, but variable (Wms.).

June 17th, 3 p.m. Pulse 56. Still occasionally retarded.

Both sounds now rough ; roughness most apparent about the

base of the left side, and scarcely audible in the carotids

(W. & T.).
  June 18th, 7 a.m. Dead; but yet warm. Much blood
ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.                                                                              165

escaped from subclavian vein on opening chest, and coagulated

Aafterwards.  mass of greenish-yellov? lymph in the media-

stinum. The cellular membrane highly vascular and easily torn.

Flakes of lymph on lower anterior left lung. External pericar-

dium marked with many straight vessels, and intermediate red

striae giving bright redness to the whole. Same in a slight

degree on the interior of the pericardium, which contained two

ounces of yellow serum. At base of heart most redness. Cel-

lular substance here somewhat infiltrated with serum ; whole

interior of surface of heart healthy, except some slight thick-

Aening and opacity of the mitral valve.                                                                              wound plugged with

lymph found on the anterior face of right ventricle.

                                                                                                    Observation II.

--June 19th. Subject, an Ass ten weeks old. Pulse 48, re-

gular and pi-etty strong. Animal weak. By pressing between

the fingers and thumb the cardiac region, the thumb being on

the third rib and left side, a loud blowing was excited with the

first sound, which ceased on removing the pressure. After se-

veral repetitions of this experiment a short filing sound heard

(by two members of the Committee) after the second sound,

the first being clear. On repeating the pressure more strongly

two murmurs were heard (by the same observers), one with the

first sound and continuing after it, and one with the second

sound (which was also weakened) and continuing after it.

After being fifteen minutes at liberty, the animal had a deep-

toned blowing with the first sound, which soon ceased, but the

murmur after the second sound continued.

June 20th, 8 a.m. Some murmur or filing after the second
Asound as before.
                                                                                                    long needle was passed two inches and a

half deep vertically to the fourth rib along the upper margin
Athree inches fi'om the sternum.
                                                                                                          strong double motion was

given to the needle, and a blowing, resembling a cooing, accom-

panied the first sound. The heart's action was increased

though the animal seemed faint.

   June 21st. Pulse 60. The needle again introduced three
inches. As before, the needle presented rhythmical movements

sternad and dorsad                                                                                  that  dorsad being slow and forcible, and
                                                                                                 ;

synchronous with the first sound ; that sternad being sudden,

like a fall back from gravitation, and accompanying the second
Asound.
         murmur of a blowing or whistling kind heard with

the systole and diastole also, the latter variously described by

different observers. Murmurs and sounds were variously al-

tered and impaired by pressing the needle flat in different di-

rections ; on withdrawing the needle, murmurs were heard with
                                                               ;

--166 REPORT 1840.

systole and diastole, described as rasping and filing, respect-

ively (W. and T.), the natural sounds being distinct. The

needle was introduced a second and third time ; after the third
withdrawal of the needle a loud creaking was heard with both

sounds by two obsei'vers, but no constant abnormal sound by

&the third ; the creaking was reported (W.          T.) to continue

some minutes, when the natural sounds returned, with only a

slight murmur with the second sound.

June 22nd. Animal dead, (7 a.m.) and cold. Considerable

effusion of bloody serum in right pleura and mediastinum

some ecchymoses and marks of perforation on left ventricle,

with corresponding mai'ks and changes on the pericardium.

Perforation three quarters of an inch below, and behind or

nearer to the apex than the semilunar valves. The needle had

transfixed the left ventricle, slightly wounding the mitral, and

penetrating the posterior wall. The anterior lamina of the

mitral had ecchymoses, and the posterior lamina was perforated

near the edge, with a small fibrinous excrescence on the valve.

The wound passed through the opposite posterior wall of left

ventricle, around which there was ecchymosis under the peri-

cardium.

The aortics were healthy.

                              Observation III.

--June 23rd. Subject, an Ass ten weeks old. Half-past 7
AA.M.
Pulse      60                 strong and distinct.  canula was introduced
                           ;

about an inch from the xiphoid cartilage and for about an inch

in depth, when a sound, first as of rubbing, afterwards as of

blowing, accompanied the latter part of the systole ; about an

ounce of strong brine was then injected, when the pulsations

became tumultuous and irregular, and the sounds obscure,

with loud gurgling (probably from injection of air).

3 P.M. Sounds obscure, but more distinct towards the base,

where a short creaking (Wms. and Tdd.) or blowing (Cg.) ac-

companied the first sound, which was not audible in the arte-

ries. Pulse irregular.

June 24th, 3 p.m. Pulse 90, and regular. Sounds more di-

stinct than yestei'day ; and towards the base of the heart,
accompanied by leather or parchment sound. Respiration la-

borious. Tender near the heart ; but eats well and is lively.

AJune 25th, 7 a.m.            loud parchment rubbing murmur with

each of the sounds, which otherwise were distinct and natural.

Pulse 80.

8 a.m. Jugular vein opened. Copious haemorrhage. Heart's

action became rapid, with slight rubbing sound ; soon however
                                  ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.  167

became slow and strong, with superficial loud grating or rough

sound ; and becoming gradually weaker, soon ceased. One
ounce of serum in left pleura. Two to three ounces in pericar-

dium. External pericardium exhibited several striated patches

of minute vessels. The cellular tissue was infiltrated with se-
rum, and the serous membrane was easily detached. No lymph

on the inner surface of the pericardium, but the heart was

completely coated with thin membraniform soft lymph, thick-

est at the septum, and near the base. On the anterior and po-

sterior surfaces numerous minute depressions or lacuna? were

seen in the lymph. The lymph was easily removed. On the left

ventricle near the apex was an oval space of an inch by an inch
and a half, of bright red patches, seeming partly vascular,

partly ecchymotic, about the middle of which was a punctured
wound and a clot in the muscular tissue beneath, and some

ecchymoses under the corresponding endocardium. The in-
terior of the heart healthy. The serum from the pericardium

after standing separated into crassamentum and liquid.

                                  Observation IV.

--June 23rd. Subject, a stout Ass two months old. Pulse

60-70                             strong, with sounds very loud.
                               ;

AQuarter to 4 p.m.                needle was introduced at the upper

edge of the fourth rib, three inches from the sternum, and one

inch deep. The heart's action was accelerated, with obscure

blowing with the systole.

The needle being withdrawn, the heart's action was slower,

with double creaking or leather sound, reported by two obser-

vers as accompanying both sounds, which became stronger after

a few minutes. Heart's action varying in regularity.

Quarter of an hour after. Leather sound at the site of the

puncture, not at all at the apex. Natural sounds there quite

distinct.

June 25th, 7 a.m. Both cardiac sounds loud, with sounds of

friction at the basis cordis.

June 26th, 7 a.m. Normal cardiac and friction sounds as
Abefore.
                                  long needle three times introduced in different di-

rections between the third and fourth ribs, and three to four

inches from the sternum, without any marked effect, except

sometimes on strongly depressing the handle towards the ster-

num, a blowing with first sound was heard, the second sounds

being normal (rubbing rather than blowing sound, Cg.).

   On first introducing the needle a scratching noise was some-

times heard with the systole, as if from the point hitching

against the heart's surfaces.
--168 REPORT 1840.

  A fine curved tenaculum about two inches in the curve, was

passed two to three inches from the sternum, behind the third
rib, with the point toward the spine ; and when at the greatest
depth, the handle was depressed toward the sternum, so as
to move the hook outwards toward the ribs ; a loud blowing
then attended the first sound, which was distinct ; the second
sound was wanting, when the handle was most depressed, and
obscure when the handle was somewhat raised, and restored to
full force when the hook was withdrawn.

   Half an hour after. The first sound was accompanied with

blowing between the first and third ribs, while a friction sound
accompanied the second sound (the Reporter called it alto-
gether //7C#zow sound, with both systole and diastole, but vary-
ing in hoarseness or roughness) ; it was faintly audible in the

carotids.

    Half-past 3 P.M. Still slight friction and blowing (roughness
 only of friction. Reporter) increased after the animal struggled.

The tenaculum was again introduced and manipulated as before;

 and again the second sound was stopped by drawing at the
 root of the arteries, and restored on releasing the hold ; the first
 sound being accompanied by a loud whizzing, and the hoarse
 or rubbing sound being indistinct if not absent.

   On withdrawing the hook, a transitory crackhng was heard ;

 on the introduction of the hook, the heart's action became tu-
 multuous and irregular, and on withdrawing it, very rapid.
 Pulse 112. Half-an-hour after, the pulse still 112, and the first
 sound accompanied by murmur.

    June 27th, quarter-past 7 a.m. Sounds as before; rough mur-

 mur as of friction, with first sound especially. The animal then

 pithed, and artificial breathing established and chest opened.
 Heart was acting vigorously, with the sounds distinct and

 normal.

                                    First Experiment.

    On introduchig a finger into the right auri-ventricular ori-

 fice, first sound was accompanied with a whizz, and wanted its
 flap at the beginning ; the whizz was accompanied by a thrill
 sensible to the finger introduced ; the whizz ceased and the
 systo:ic flap returned on removing the finger.

     This experiment was repeated several times with the like

 results.

                                  Second Experiment.

    The hook was introduced through the auricle with a view to
 hook up the tendons of the mitral valves, when the flap seemed

 impaired not suppressed, and the whizz was uncertain.
        ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.                                                      169

                                 Third Experiment.

  A finger placed on the auri-ventricular opening externally

experienced in the systole the same vibratory or jerking motion
as would in diastole be felt over the aortics ; and to the eye the
same motion was visible in the former during the first sound
at its commencement, as at the arterial openings during the
second sound (CgO.

                                 Fourth Experiment.

  A blunt bistoury was introduced into the auri-ventricular

opening through the auricle, and the tendons of the septal la-
mina of the mitral were cut partially, when \h.G.jlap of the first
sound was impaired but not destroyed.

   On examining the heart were found several marks of perfo-

ration of the large arteries, anteriorly to the valves, and perfo-
rations just at the opening of the coronary artery, but no valve
was wounded. There were ecchymoses at the external mouths
of the perforations, and attached to one wound was a clot with a

fibrinous peduncle. On the surface of the right ventricle cor-

responding to the infundibulum, the pericardium was injected
and roughened by lymph, with several scratches and punc-
tures ; the lymph was small in quantity and granular in appear-

Aance. wound in the septum was plugged with lymph, as were

all the flesh wounds in the interior of the heart.

               Observation V.

--June 29th. Subject, a Donkey three months old. Half-

Apast 7 A.M. Heart's action quite normal.                                                            tenaculum passed

four inches from the sternum between the third and fourth

ribs ; the handle having been lowered toward the spine, there

was a whizzing heard with the first sound ; but the second

sound was only a little weakened.

The whizz or blowing contined after the experiment with

the systole, and after the flap  of the valves                                                       but soon became
                                                                                                  ;

intermittent, and gradually disappeared.

AJune 30th.    fine canula was passed through the sternum

an inch from the xiphoid cartilage, and about twelve ounces of

warm water were injected ; the cardiac sounds became pre-

sently  apparently distant,  especially  toward the                                                  sternum                                      on
                                                                                                                                               ;

withdrawing the tube, the sounds were still distant with little

impulse, but were otherwise normal, except that occasionally

the systole was acompanied by blowing during embarrassed
Arespiration.
               tumour formed under the integuments of the

sternum, through which the cardiac sounds were very faintly
.heard, and without impulse.
170 REPORT--1840.

   Heart's action much accelerated.

    July 4th. Animal pithed, and artificial breathing established.

The experiments on the mitral valves then repeated. The left

auricle was inverted by the finger and the valves impeded or
kept asunder by thefinger, in the auri-ventricular opening, when
various murmurs accompanied or followed the first sound ; the
second sound being simply either much weakened or sup-
pressed ; and the normal sounds returned on the withdrawal
of the finger. This experiment was often repeated with similar

results.

  A finger being placed on the exterior circumference of the

mitral and aortic valves respectively at the same moment, simi-
lar jerking motions perceived in each ; at the closing of the
valves and evolutions of the two cardiac sounds, the finger,
when in the auri-ventricular opening, was sensible of something
like flapping, pushing and tension, as it were, in and by the
valves, and the supposed edge of the valve was felt tense in
systole; and, if divided by the point of the finger, the edges of
the opposite valves were thought to give a feeling of resistance
such as valvular tension must cause, supposing such tension to

occur. The first sound was protracted and dull, wanting the
sharply defined beginning such as a flap would give when the
valvular action was interrupted by the finger. The first sound
was obscure, but audible on extraction of the heart, when the

organ was irritated to contraction.

Observation VI.

-- NoJuly 3rd. Subject, a Turtle, weight 150 lbs.  distinct

pulsation could be heard externally. After decapitation and

removal of the callipee the heart was felt by one of the Com-

mittee, pulsating regularly, and two distinct sounds were

heard (Wms.), with an interval between ; the heart ceased

beating too soon to allow of the other member of the Com-

mittee (Cg.) making any satisfactory observation.

Observation VII.

Comparative Observation.

   The observations of the Committee on the motions and
sounds of the Heart had been previously made almost ex-

clusively on donkeys and dogs, animals whose cardiac struc-
ture and modes of action are generally known to agree with
those of the human subject. It was therefore thought very
desirable to extend their observations more widely over the

scale, as by such means it was thought some useful generaliza-
tion might be obtained, and the views of the Committee be at
                                                                        --

ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         171

the same time subjected to a new and interesting test, and, if

sound, fully confirmed, but if defective, corrected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and in any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;

event, that their future conclusions would be based on a

greater variety of facts and a more comprehensive induction.

The Committee therefore made arrangements for the purpose

of visiting the Zoological Gardens, and examining as many of

the animals there as could easily be approached by strangers

for the purposes of auscultation, &c. Before visiting the

gardens, the Committee met at the Hunterian Museum, for

the purpose of inspecting the preparations illustrative of the

physiology of the heai't that exist in that national collection,

and were obligingly assisted in their search by Mr. Owen,

Professor of Compai-ative Anatomy to the Royal College of

Surgeons. With the aid of the anatomical data collected at

the Royal College of Surgeons, the Committee there entered

at once on their examination of the living animals. Before

stating any pai'ticulars of our obsei'vations, it is proper to say

that, in our examination of the wilder animals, we were much

indebted to Mr. Youatt, the distinguished veterinary surgeon

of the establishment, without whose kind assistance it would

have been out of our power even to have attempted anything

in several instances. Even with Mr. Youatt's aid, we found

it extremely difficult, in many cases, to make satisfactory ob-

servations                                           so  that, in  but  a  portion  of the  subjects                                                                                                                                                                                            was  it
                                                  ;

found practicable for the whole of the Committee to verify

results to their satisfaction.

   The animals sufficiently examined by all are distinguished

--in the following enumeration : They are,

                                                         1. The Ostrich.
                                                         2. The Ourang-Outang.
                                                         3. The Leopard.
                                                         4. The Seal.
                                                         5. The Balearic Ci-ane.
                                                         6. The Common Crane.
                                                         7. The Brahmin Bull.
                                                         8. The Puma.
                                                         9. The Indian Antelope.

  Other animals examined to the satisfaction of some mem-

bers of the Committee, were

                                                     10. The Elephant.
                                                     11. The Dromedary.
                                                     12. The Antelope.
                                                     13. The Water Buffalo.
                                                     14. The Giraffe.
--172 REPORT 1840.

                  15. The Lion.
                   16. The Nylghau.
                   17. The Wapiti Deer.
                   18. The Hygena.

   In No. 1 (the Ostrich). The pulse at the heart was very
vigorous, and about 60 in the minute. The systolic, or first

sound, was long and obtuse : and the second, or diastolic sound,
was short, and rather obtuse.

   In No. 2 (the Ourang-Outang). The pulse was quick, and
the cardiac sounds and rhythm like those of the heart of a

child very exactly.

   In No. 3 (the Leopard). The pulse was 60. The first sound

normal, but the second rather indistinct, as compared with
the human standard.

   In No. 4 (the Seal). Pulse not materially different from
the human. First sound long and obtuse, second sound short

and clear.
    In No. 5 (the Balearic Crane). Pulse 130 to 140. Animal

phthisical. First sound long and obtuse, second sound in-

distinct.

   In No. 6 (the Common Crane). First sound short, and no

second sound heard.
    In No. 7 (the Brahmin Bull). Pulse 80. Animal phthisical.

First sound long and obtuse, second sound indistinct.
    In No. 8 (the Puma). Pulse 86. Animal sickly, probably

phthisical. Grating murmur with the first sound.
   In No. 9 (the Indian Antelope). Long obtuse first sound,

short flapping second sound.

    In No. 10 (the Elephant). Pulse 36. Long and obtuse first
sound, and relatively short and flapping second sound.

   In No. 11 (the Dromedary). Pulse 48. Long and obtuse

first sound, short second sound.

   In No. 12 (the Antelope). The first sound longer and

 duller, the second sound shorter and sharper.
    In No. 13 (the Water Buffalo). Pulse 60. Blowing murmur

 after the first sound, no second sound heard.
    In No. 14 (the Giraffe). Pulse 50. Second sound some-

times double.

    In No. 15 (the Lion). First sound long and obtuse, second
 sound short and flapping.

    In No. 16 (the Nylghau). First sound normal, second

 sound indistinct.
    In No. 17 (the Wapiti Deer). Pulse 60. First sound long

 and obtuse, second sound short and flapping.
:;

ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.  l73

   In No. 18 (the Hyaena). Long obtuse first sound, short

second sound.

   Some other animals were attempted, but without success
viz., the Dzagetai or Wild Ass, the Rhinoceros, the Cas-
sowary, and some others. As a general observation, the Com-
mittee may state, that wherever the two sounds of the heart

could be distinguished, the character of those sounds and the
rhythm of the heart's motions appeared to correspond with
those of the human heart, due allowance being made for dif-

ferences of size in the animals, differences of temperament,
and the circumstances of excitement or of disease under which

many of the animals laboured, when they were subjected to
auscultation, &c.

          Experiments of the Committee for 1839-40.

   In consequence of having been nominated to conduct the
experiments on the motions and sounds of the heart for the
current year, without being associated with any colleagues, I
thought it desirable to avail myself of the assistance of such of

my friends, including the other members of last year's Com-

mittee, as could attend, and I accordingly requested the co-
operation of a considerable number of gentlemen known to
the public ; of these, several were enabled to attend on numer-
ous occasions, and one of them, Dr. Boyd, on every occasion;
so that every observation and experiment has been participated
in or at least witnessed by one, or, in most instances, several
of the following gentlemen

                   Professor C. J. B. Williams.
                 George Gulliver, Esq., F.R.S.
                 John George Perry, Esq.
                 Dr. G. Hamilton Roe.
                 Dr. George Bun'ows.
                   Charles Cochrane, Esq.
                  Dr. Rutherford.
                   Francis Kiernan, Esq., F.R.S.
                   J. Liddell, Esq.
                  Francis Samwell, Esq.

                Dr. Edwin Harrison.
                 R. A. Stafford, Esq.
                  Benjamin Phillips, Esq., F.R.S.
                Dr. Robert Boyd

                                                                                                                                                   ;
--174 REPORT 1840.

and other gentlemen, private friends of the Reporter, and the
last four-named gentlemen his colleagues in the medical staff
of the St. Marylebone Infirmary.

   The experiments were performed in a convenient locality

immediately adjoining to the Marylebone Infirmary, and prin-
cipally on donkey colts of a few months old. In the latter
part of the series other animals, and especially dogs, were
used, partly for economy, and in order that the limited pecu-
niary resources of the Committee might not be prematurely
exhausted, and partly because certain experiments contem-
plated were expected to prove more easily and decisively
practicable on the larger heart of the ass than on any smaller,
such as that of the dog ; and that, in any event, it was de-
sirable to extend the range of observation, as far as practi-

cable, over the animal scale.

   The mode of preparation was in all cases nearly the same.

In almost every case sensibility was withdrawn as completely
as was practicable by one method or the other. In donkeys
we availed ourselves of the stupefying property of the woorara
poison, for a packet of which the Reporter had been indebted,

since 1838, to the kindness of Sir B. C. Brodie, Bart. The woo-

rara was brought into operation by injecting a couple of grains
of it, partly dissolved, partly suspended in water, into the exter-

nal jugular vein, as practised by Mr. Mayo in an experiment

of Dr. Hope's, and the injection was usually followed in a
very few minutes by complete insensibility. In the smaller
animals prussic acid was used in several instances; and in a few
cases the subject was stunned by a blow on the head. Artificial
breathing was used in every warm-blooded subject, by means
of a bellows and long flexible tube kept loose in the trachea.

The chest was opened nearly as directed by Galen*, and as

practised by former Committees ; five or six ribs were sepa-
rated from the sternum and broken near the articulations, and
bent back over the vertebrae. In every case, whether during
the preparation or subsequent observation, all convenient
means were used, as advised by Galenf, to prevent or lessen

haemorrhage, in order to avoid as much as possible the
anomalous modes of action attending extreme vascular deple-
tion, and to prolong the opportunities of observation and

experiment.

   The observations about to be detailed consist partly of
experiments in continuation of the inquiries of former Com-
mittees, and partly of experiments made with a view to decide

* De Admin. Anat. 1. vii. c. 12.  f Loc. cit.
--

ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.  I'JS

 several points in dispute amongst physiologists of authority,
which were not investigated by those Committees, and which
 seemed to the Reporter yet unsettled, and at the same time
important enough to call for direct experimental investiga-

tion. The following are the principal of those undecided

 questions :

    1. With respect to the rhythm of the motions of the auri-

cles and ventricles, several living distinguished physiological

writers appear to hold, that those cavities act in strict alterna-

tion with each other, and not continuously or in immediate

succession, the auricles being first always in systole and dia-
stole, and the ventricular actions being last before the Rest, as
described by Steno, Harvey, Lancisi, Haller, Senac, &c., and
by Hope, Williams, Carlisle, Pennock, and Moore, and other

 living authorities.

    2. With respect to the share in the circulation due to the
auricular systole, it has been held to be active and of much
importance, by Hervey, Senac, and others ; while several living

writers of great weight, adhering apparently to the views of
Galen, Vesalius, &c., seem disposed to refuse to the auricles
any very influential or positively important share in the cardiac

operations ; for examples I may cite Dr. Elliotson, Prof.
Bouillaud, Dr. Hope, Sir B. C. Brodie, &c.

   3. With respect to the shape and dimensions of the ven-
tricles in systole, it was held by Galen, Vesalius, Harvey,
&c., that the heart is shortened in diastole and lengthened in
systole; but the observations of Steno, Lower, Lancisi, Haller,
and others, gave currency to opposite views ; of late, however,
the ancient opinion has been revived, for example, by Prof.
Burdach and Prof. Bouillaud, as I understand their observa-
tions, and by Drs. Pennock and Moore, the latest experi-
mentalists on the subject that I know of, except my friends
and myself.

   4. With respect to the praecordial impulse, the great ma-

jority of physiologists, adhering unqualifiedly to the ancient
opinion advocated by Hippocrates and Galen amongst the
Greeks, and by Vesalius, Harvey, Lancisi, Senac, Haller,
Hunter, and almost all modern writers, ascribe the cardiac
pulsation to a blow or stroke (in the popular meaning of those
words) given by the heart's apex in systole to the ribs ; while,

in opposition to this view, may be cited the experiments of
several recent observers, and the arguments of Mr. Carlisle, of
Dr. Hope in his last edition, of Mr. Bryan*. Dr. Billing.

&c. &c.

   5. With respect to the diastole of the heart, it was held by

                                                      * Lancet, v. 29.
--176 REPORT 1840.

Galen and Vesalius to include a strong force of suction, by
which the venous current was much forwarded, and the auri-
cles were more or less emptied ; and this power of inhalation
or suction has been adopted by numerous living authorities,

ex. gr. Prof. Bouillaud, Dr. Hope and Dr. Copland, and has

even been extended to the auricular diastole, ex. gr. by Dr.

Alison and Dr. Elliotson. The exertion, however, of any such
force has been distinctly refused to the diastolic state by

Harvey, Lower, Senac, &c., and appears. Dr. Joy remarks, to
rest on no satisfactory experimental evidence whatsoever.

    6. In addition to active pulsations observed in certain ani-

mals in the veins (as in horses, rabbits, dogs, fowls, frogs, &c.),

there have been noted by several experimentalists, of whom it

is sufficient to name the great Haller, certain passive pulsa-

tions, viz. an abrupt diastole of the vein attending the first
part of the heart's systole or the auricular contraction, and an
abrupt systole of the vein attending the first part of the heart's
diastole on the dilatation of the auricle ; but the connexion
between the venous regurgitation and the auricular systole has
been doubted by several apparently, and even denied by Dr.

Elliotson.

   7. Reverting to the auricular functions, the systole of the
auricles has usually been regarded as unattended by any in-

trinsic sound. Dr. Hope denies that any such sound occurs,

and on mechanical grounds seems to affirm that it is not pos-
sible ; and Dr. Joy calls the auricular systole a " silent" act*.
Six months, probably, or more, however, before the Committee
for 1840 had even begun their experiments, Drs. Pennock and
Moore had, unknown to the Reporter and his friends, detected,
as they conceived, an auricular systolic sound, in a series of
very interesting experiments, of which an account is pub-
hshed in the American Journal of Medical Science, Part L.,

for February, 1840.

Some other often-agitated and still unsettled points have

appeared to the Reporter, in like manner, to stand in need of

further examination; ex. gr. 1. the sizes of the ventricles, &c.

with respect to each other ; 2. the production of sound by

certain  muscles,  while  vigorously  contracting                                                          3. the rhythm
                                                                                                        ;

of the cardiac and arterial pulses, &c. &c. Finding on all the

preceding points considerable differences of opinion, and per-

ceiving that, in many instances, the decision of highly-distin-

guished and leading physiological writers was at variance

with the best hitherto-recorded experiments and observations,

the Reporter found forced on his mind the conviction, that on

all or most of those points further data were wanting, and

                     Library of Practical Medicine.
                ;;

        ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.     l77

experiments less ambiguous and more pointed and conclusive.
Under such impressions, the Reporter felt himself at liberty, if
not positively called on, to advert to various questions above
alluded to, which had not been handled by former Committees,
provided that, by any unlooked-for good fortune, if not through
some new and happier experimental combinations, he should
succeed in eliciting pertinent and decisive facts. Acting on
such views, the Committee has put to the test of experiment,
to a greater or less extent, several of those questions, with
results now to be stated.

   It may be proper to state, that the instrument used in
auscultation was exclusively the flexible ear tube ; the wooden

stethoscope, comparatively inconvenient in almost all cases,

being found quite unsuited for such experiments.

                              Observation I.

--June 11th. Subject, a Donkey about ten weeks old and

sound in all respects. Phcenomena : Various spontaneous ir-

--regularities in the cardiac action and sounds -jerking upwards

--Sfc. of perijihery of inter-nal valves in systole ; appearances
--of auricles in action effect of valvular obstruction on first

sound. Heart, when exposed, acting strongly and quickly.

Second sound indistinct, and loud murmur with the first

sound.

S. 1 . On placing the finger on the outer periphery of the

mitral valves, an upward jerk and thrilling motion sensible,

similar to that observed over the arterial valves.

S. 2. At the moment of auricular systole, were noted a

dimpling of the appendix, and an abrupt contraction in all

its dimensions, and a sinking (as it were) downwards and in-

wards, followed by a gradual return to the state of promi-

nence and distention that characterize the auricular diastole.

Several times was observed a slight and partial active contrac-

tion of the auricle, followed by relaxation in the intervals of

full and complete auricular systole and diastole, as if from

transient spasmodic disturbance.

   S. 3. The second cardiac sound observed at intervals to
be for many minutes together wholly wanting, without obvious

cause ; no operation upon the mitral or other valves having

been hitherto attempted.

S. 4. The left auricle was inverted successively by the

finger and by a probe, so as to impede the action of the

mitral valves ; the finger was sensible, when placed in the

mitral orifice, of an abrupt though gentle concussion in the

systole of the ventricle, and (it seemed to me) as if it were

VOL. IX. 1840.                    N
        ;;                     ;

--178 REPORT 1840.

pushed by a cord or membrane stretched obliquely across the
passage, and brought suddenly to a state of tension ; and at
the same time the sensation of jerking upwards was much less
distinct when a finger was placed over the valve externally.
The probe also, when held loosely in the orifice (enveloped,
like the finger, in the inverted appendix of the auricle), was
felt and seen to be pushed back in each systole between the

fingers.

S. 5. At the moment of introducing the inverted appendix

into the internal opening, the sharp well-defined beginning

of the    first  or  systolic  sound  was  wanting  or  obscure                                     and
                                                                                                 ;

that sound seemed to several observers less abrupt and more

gradual in its development.

                                  Observation II.

 --June 13th. Subject, a stout Ass two to three months

old. PhcEnomena : Abnormal murmurs, without structural

--defect motions of the ventricle in systole, as apparent to the
-- --eye and hand same of the auricles ; rhythm of the motions
--of auricles and ventricles aurictdar hcemorrhage not sus-

pended in diastole, and augynented in systole of auricle.
    S. 1. Heart acting normally and vigorously before the in-

jection of woorara. Immediately after the operation was com-

pleted, a murmur was observed with the second or diastolic

sound, with a slow cardiac action ; the first or systolic sound

being normal.
    S. 2. In systole, motion first distinctly observed at the

fundus, especially on the right ventricle, where any phgeno-
mena about the arterial orifice are most easily observed in
 animals lying on the right side ; apex almost simultaneously
moved with fundus. These systolic motions in the ventricles
 were preceded by a dimpling and shrinking inwards and
 downwards of the auricular appendices, but by a very minute
 interval, so that the aui'icular motion seemed as it were but
 the first portion of a more extensive movement affecting the

 whole heart.
     S. 3. Before opening the pericardium, needles were passed

 horizontally through that organ without wounding the heart,
 and so that they lay exposed to the eye in their whole length,

--except the minute portion actually penetrating the pericar-

 dium, and over the following points, viz. over the auricle, over
 the periphery of the mitral orifice, and over the apex ; and

 observation was made through a roll of paper employed to
 limit the field of vision, and a succession of motions was di-
 stinctly noted ; first, about the fundus and insertions of the
           ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.  179

great arteries, and most strikingly over the appendices auri-

cularum, and thence propagated as it were toward the free

extremity of the heart, being perceived in the body of the

ventricles next after the fundus, and at the apex last, as if an

impulse in a compressed fluid, or a wave commencing about

the insertions of the arteries, had been propagated along the

heart from fundus to apex.

S. 4. After opening the pericardium, small triangular bits

of white card were applied so as to adhere to the left appen-

dix, fundus of left ventricle, middle of same cavity, and close

to the apex ; and observation was made, as in last experiment,

through rolled paper, and with like results (as in S. 3.).

   S. 5. And this seeming propagation of motion was per-

ceived next in another way, viz. by pressing gently on the

fundus and body of the ventricle and on the apex, by which

was elicited a sensation, or series of sensations, as of a pro-

gressive movement of an undulatory character directed from

fundus to apex, and resembling, to a considerable extent, that

given by a dropsical abdomen, or hydrocele, &c., when ap-

propriately percussed.

S. 6. During a very vigorous action of the auricles, and at

a somewhat advanced period of the observation, the shrinking

and dimpling, in its centre, of the appendix in its systole, was

likened by several observers to an effect either of suction or

of some traction exerted on the appendix from some point

about the auri-ventricular opening, more especially because it

seemed often separated in time from the ventricular tension,

roundness and impulse (^. e. systole) by a scarcely perceptible

interval.

S. 7. Toward the end of the observation, and during a

tolerably regular and vigorous action of the heart, the tip of

the left auricle was snipped off; after which the contractions

of the appendix became indistinct, those of the ventricle being

Onat first little affected.  the instant of cutting off the appen-

dix, a profuse flow of blood occurred in a stream slightly in-

creased by a jet during systole of the auricle, and continuous,

--and without any jet, during diastole.
  Note. The heart ceased to beat after about three quarters

of an hour of observation, owing to the inflating tube becom-

ing obstructed by a clot of blood which escaped timely detec-

tion ; it was quite healthy ; the ventricles appeared not to differ

in size.

                             N2
        ; ; ;;

--180 REPORT 1840.

        Observation III.

--June 22. Subject, a Donkey about six months old, in good

health. PhcEiiomena : Results of application of pressure in

--various ways to the ventricles rhythm and maimer of motions

--of fundus and apex in systole and diastole motions in the

--arteries and over the valvular orifces action of the sinuses in

-- --systole of auricles shortening of heart in systole ; effects

of wounding an auricle, 8fc. Sfc.
   S. 1. Callipers were applied to the ventricles, as if to take

the diameter of the heart. The legs of the calhpers before

use had been fastened together by an elastic chord of con-

siderable resisting power. In whichever direction the instru-

ment so prepared was made to embrace the ventricles, whether

exactly transversely or obhquely, the uniform result was, that
the legs of the instrument were separated with force, and re-

ceded from each other in each systole, and approached each

other in each diastole with depression of the part of the parietes

they pressed on ; which depression wholly disappeared in the

systole, giving place to an opposite state of the parts, or to a

state of convexity and apparent protrusion.

S. 2. The finger and thumb were then applied to opposite

sides of the ventricles, and were felt to be abruptly pushed

outwards in systole, and to approach each other in diastole, if

acted on even slightly by the flexor muscles, and with marked

depression of the parietes in diastole, during which no sense

of active resistance was experienced.

AS. S.  wooden stethoscope was then placed on the ven-

tricles, and kept erect by means of a roll of paper large

enough to give the instrument full freedom of motion ; and

the uniform result was, that wheresoever placed on the ventri-

cles, the stethoscope was heaved up with a jerk at each systole
(to the height of half an inch near the fundus), and subsided

at once in diastole, causing in the parietes a deep depression,
which was wholly removed by the systole, and succeeded by

an opposite shape of the surface.

S. 4. To the eye and hand the fundus appeared to become

round, hard, and elevated, and to give impulse somewhat

sooner than the apex, as if the systole was developed earlier

about the fundus than at the free extremity of the heart.

S. 5. To the fingers, during the systole of the ventricles, a

feeling was communicated, as of an undulation in a com-

pressed fluid, very distinct, and c^rected from fundus to apex,

and resembling sensations familiar to physicians in ascites, hy-

drocele, &c., when properly percussed and manipulated.

                                                                    I
; ;;                     ;; ;

ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.  181

   S. 6. On touching the arteries close to the heart a feeling,

as of efflux and reflux, was very distinct, especially in the
aorta, the foi'mer coinciding with the systole of the ventricles,
the latter with the diastole. At the same moment with the out-
ward current in the arteries, or during the ventricular systole,

--a peculiar jerking upwards of the periphery of the auri-ven-

tricular orifices, and a similar eccentric movement was ob-

served over the arterial openings during the reflux current or
andulation in the vessels, i. e. during ventricular diastole.

   S, 7. The sinuses of the auricles v/ere found by the touch

to contract vigorously, before the ventricles considerably, and

even before the shrinking, &c., or systole of the appendices.

   S. 8. Small three-triangular pieces of white card were made
to adhere to the fundus and apex cordis respectively, and ob-
servation was made through a roll of paper sufliciently large

to take in, at a convenient distance, both extremities of the
organ, and held so that each white object rested on a distinct
limb of the tube's mouth, and every change of distance be-

--tween the points dotted white was readily detectible, and the

uniform result was, that the apex approached the base in
systole and receded again in diastole, and the range of oscil-
lation seemed about ^vd of an inch.

   S. 9. While the heart still acted, but with much diminished
force, a cut was made in the right auricle and a copious flow

of blood obtained, having slight jets in the auricular systole,
and immediately before the ventricular hardening, elevation,

--&c., but being continuous during diastole.
   Note. The ventricles appeared not to differ in size on care-

--ful examination post mortem cordis.

        Observation IV.

--June 27. Subject, a stout Ass three to four weeks old.

Heart acted very vigorously until weakened by haemorrhage,

and continued to beat with considerable energy for two hours,

when it was extracted, still contracting. P/icenomena : Effects

--of various forms of pressure on the heart rhythm of cardiac
-- -- --and arterial pulses ventricular systole auricular ditto ;
-- --sound of auricular systole pulsation of cava auricular
--diastole spontaneous or incidental variations in cardiac

--sounds ; protrusion of septum into right ventricle in systole,
AS. 1.
        stethoscope loaded with 2 lbs. weight of shot in a

bag, was placed on the heart before opening the pericardium

(as in experiment 3 of last observation), and was raised at

each systole with a sudden heave or jerk, and with much
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

182 REPORT 1840.

force, and subsided immediately on the supervention of dia-
stole, causing a deep depression in the previously convex sur-
face of the ventricle. This experiment was repeated toward
the close of the observation, and after the heart had been ex-
posed for 1 hours and with like results in all respects.

   S. 2. The pulse of the femoral artery, being compared with

that of the heart, was found to follow the latter by a distinctly
perceptible interval, but one very minute.

   S. 3. To the eye the apex and fundus cordis approximated
to each other in systole, and receded in diastole. The motions

of those parts coincided to a great extent, but not entirely,
but rather as parts of a series of concatenated movements, of
which the former part was the profound undulation, harden-
ing and rounding of the fundus, and the latter part the
hardening, shortening, and slight elevation of the apex; be-
tween these successive appearances, no very distinct interval
they passed into each other by an undulatoi-y sort of motion,

commencing at the fundus, and passing with extreme rapidity

along the ventricles to the apex.
    S. 4. Threads were passed through the appendices of the

auricles, and being held tense, so as to impede the auricular
systole, were felt to be drawn downwards with much energy
immediately before the systole of the ventricles, the auricular
contraction being completed, while the ventricles were still
developing their systole.

   S. 5. Toward the close of the first hour of observation,
and while the heart in its different parts acted with much

energy, the auricles were observed for a time to contract with
a rhythm above double that of the ventricles (owing probably
to the irritation excited by passing the needle and thread
through the appendices, and pulling at them afterwards), and
a sound was detected resembling very much, except in volume,
the first or ventricular systolic sound, and accompanying the

auricular systole. The sound was short, rapid, obtuse, without

any jerking motion, and coincident exactly with the auricular
systole, and in number double (or rather more) the sound of
the ventricular systole. This sound was found to attend the
systole of the right auricle as well as that of the left, at a time
·when the action of the latter was too feeble to give sound.

   S. 6. The large pectoral veins, especially the cava, were

observed to pulsate with the auricular systole, something as
the arteries do with the ventricular, but comparatively very
feebly ; first came the diastole of the vein and then the systole,
and then the Rest, and the former followed immediately on
                                                              --

ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.                    183

the auricular systole, and the latter on the diastole of the

auricles, both in the inferior and superior cava ; no other

motion was noted in the veins.

S. 7. The diastole of the auricles was a gradual swelling

and enlargement of the visible parts of the cavities in all

directions, requiring for its completion as much time as several

systoles would do; and followed, on the instant of the full

distension of the appendices, by systole of the whole heart,

first in the auricle, and then instantly in the ventricles : during

its diastole, the auricle seemed to the eye to emerge, as it

were, from the sinus venosus, and to swell out from a state of

collapse, such as suction inwards toward the ventricle might

cause, if any such force as suction existed in the heart.

S. 8. In this, as in every observation, abnormal murmurs

were observed at various moments, viz. immediately on the in-
jection of the woorara, and at other times, but especially when

pressure was made, whether intentionally or otherwise, over

the orifices, exterior and interior, of the heart. Toward the

close of the observation, a loud musical sound was detected in

the pulmonary artery with the diastole- At various times, for

short spaces, the second sound of the heart was indistinct or

absent, or masked by murmurs, without obvious cause in most

instances, other than abnormal modes of action from irri-

tation, haemorrhage, &c., exclusively of known structural

changes. The first sound of the heart was often modified in

various ways, and attended by murmurs, but never was want-

ing so long as the heart acted with any energy. Toward the

close, however, when the ventricular systole had become slow

and gradual from quick and abrupt, the first sound was either

very feeble, or not distinguishable at all.

S. 9. The pulmonary artery was cut open ; after which the

Afirst sound was still heard, but rather obtuse.  finger was

then passed into the right ventricle, and the septum was felt

to project convexly into the cavity, and in each systolic effort

--to press against the finger.
   Note. Post mortem. One valve of the pulmonary orifice

was found slightly injured by a puncture made in the course

of experiments, in which the parietes cordis had been irritated

to abnormal action by means of a needle. Wherever the needle

penetrated into a cavity of the heart, there a clot was found,

or at least a coloured plug of lymph in the internal opening.
   Post mortem. The ventricles were found to be of the same

dimensions on careful examination.
-- --;

184 REPORT-- 1840.

                      Observations V. and VI.

--July 1st, 1840. In two observations, one on a Frog and a

second on a Rabbit, the following results were obtained :

   Rhythm : The first contraction after the pause or cardiac

diastole was observed in the vena cava, to which immediately

succeeded contraction of the sinus, and afterwards, immedi-

ately, of the appendix of the auricles                                                                                                                                                                                       to which latter, imme-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;

diately succeeded the ventricular systole ; and the diastole, or

--relaxation of each part, succeeded in like order, that of the

vein first ; then of the auricle, of which the appendix seemed

later in its diastole than the sinus or body ; then of the ven-

--tricles. Those motions were much slower than in the human

subject somewhere about fifty beats per minute. The series

of systoles above mentioned succeeded each other, so that at

a little distance they appeared collectively like an undulation

commencing at the cava, rather than a series of independent

actions. Systole of ventricle : In diastole the ventricle was

round, full, protuberant, and dark in colour ; but on the
supervention of systole changed rapidly in shape and colour,

from purple, becoming pale flesh colour, like veal ; and from
round and broad, becoming apparently narrower and more

conical and  depressed                                                     being obviously lessened in all dimen-
                                                                        ;

sions, but most strikingly in the transverse. The action of

the heart lasted for an hour or more with great regularity

the auricles acted for some time longer than the ventricle,

especially the right auricle.

                                 Observation VI.

   In the rabbit, the heart did not beat at any time very
vigorously or regularly, and ceased altogether after 20 to SJ5
minutes, although respiration was maintained by the bellows
with ease.

   The Rhythm : S. 1. The first motion after the Pause or

ventricular diastole was observed in the base of the auricles,
and on the right side in the expansion of the jugular and sub-
clavian veins, which in the rabbit, as Steno has noted, seemed
to replace the superior cava. This vessel, whose dimensions
were very large compared with the heart, and which wound
round the root of the heart in its way to the auricle from above
downwards, and from left to right, continued to pulsate for
some time after the ventricles had ceased, and even after the
adjoining auricle had been for some minutes inert. Nearly,
but not quite, at the same instant of time with the vein, the base
and then the apex of the auricle were seen to contract ; after
which (but not so quickly as might have been expected from
          ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.                                                185

other observations, owing probably to delay in the establish-

ment of artificial breathing) the ventricles entered into their

systole,  and  the diastole followed  in  like  order                               first,  the  venous
                                                                                 ;

expansion, next the base and appendix of the auricles, and last

of all the ventricle.

   S. 2. In the systole some change of colour was observed
in the ventricles, from darker to paler, and the same in the

auricles.

   S. 3. Toward the close of the observations, the auricles
acted much more frequently than the ventricles, and especially
the right auricle. In the ventricular systole the apex was
thought to move slightly outwards and to the left, or away

from the septum or central axis of the heart.

                                Observation VII.

 --July 2nd. Subject, a snake of good size, poisoned with

prussic acid, so as to be insensible. Heart beating very
slowly and rather irregularly at first, from 15 to 20 beats per

minute only.

   Rhythm of motions : After a long pause, first motion ob-

served in sinus of auricle, and then in appendix, being the
auricular systole ; immediately after which the ventricular
systole, but with no complete interval between the end of one
and beginning of the other systole. After the systoles re-
spectively came the diastoles in like order, and then a long
pause, equal sometimes to 3 or 4 or more beats.

   At each auricular systole, a swelling observed in the cava
and pulmonary veins, extending some way down from the
heart. This appearance resembled a wave of reflux excited
by the action of the auricle. It was not observed in any part
beyond a point of the vessels on which pressure was made.

In the systole, the ventricle shrank concentrically, being
shorter and narrower, but also rounder and more oval, than in

diastole ; the ventricle (which might be called bicornute, being
obtusely pointed at either extremity,) had either horn or ex-
tremity raised slightly in systole, and depressed again, as if by

gravitation, in diastole. The cavities systolized and diastolized
still after the observation was completed, or for more than an
hour, and more regularly than at first.

  --July 2nd. The ventricle ceased beating after about twenty

hours, but the auricles were still pulsating regulai'ly after more

than twenty-four hours. The rhythm of the motions of the

heart as before, but the reflux wave or diastole of the veins
now less distinct, owing probably to the emptiness of the

heart. And in lieu of the regurgitation wave marked by a
; ;;  ;;  ;

--186 REPORT 1840.

diastole, followed by a systole, and then a pause in the veins,

there was observed an opposite order of the motions, viz.

 1. venous systole; 2. venous diastole; 3. then the pause.
 Several times the motions of the veins were observed alone,
and not preceded by auricular contraction, or accompanied by
it, as, toward the close in other observations, auricular con-
traction had often failed to excite or be followed by ventricu-

 lar systole.

                                Observation VIII.

  --July 4th. Subject, a Donkey nine months old, in good

health. Pulse beating well in prsecordia about 70 or 80. Opera-
tion of injection tedious, with considerable haemorrhage ; whole
operation lasted half an hour, and heart acted for considera-

blv more than an hour. When opened, the heart was beating

quickly (above 100) but regularly. Second sound indistinct.

  --Pheenomena : Effects of pressure on the heart action of
-- --threaded auricles no sound, and why manner of auricular
--diastole resistance to pencil in mitral orifices, and how
-- --caused;--pulsation of cava ;--phcenomena of ventricular sy^

stole; mechanism of cardiac impulse valvular jerk over the
mitral opening in systole, and modifications offirst sound arti-

-- --ficially produced hemorrhage from left auricle ; relative

sizes of ventricles.

    S. 1. The stethoscope, loaded with 4 to 5 lbs. of shot, &c.,
 and placed on the ventricles as before, was jerked up by each

 systole, and subsided and deeply indented the parietes in

 each diastole.

    S. 2. The callipers were applied as before, but with a ten-
sion much exceeding that formerly used, and with a similar

 but not equal result ; the heart being considerably less vigor-

ous, as well as the spring much stiiFer. The action became
much hurried under the pressure of the instrument, but its

lees were pushed asunder with force in systole, and a deep
indentation was caused by them in the parietes in diastole,
 which did not wholly disappear sometimes in systole.

    S. 3. The tip of the appendix of the left auricle was

 threaded as before, and the auricle and ventricle acted nearly
 but not exactly in alternation, and the thread was felt to be
 forcibly drawn downwards at the moment of auricular dimp-

 ling and systole.

   S. 4. No auricular sound could be distinguished, apparently

 less attributable to want of enei'gy in the auricle than to the rapid
 beat of the heart and sudden supervention of the ventricular sy-

 stole before the completion of the auricular. The left appendix,
                                                                  ;

ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.                   187

was repeatedly inverted with a pencil and with the finger, and on
the instant of being let free, by withdrawal of the pencil, &c.,
recovered its shape and position, appearing to emerge with
rapidity out of the auri-ventricular orifice and sinus, appa-
rently owing to a continuous and copious influx of venous
blood into the appendix, especially during the systole of the

ventricles.

   S. 5. In experiments on the mitral valves, repetitions of
former trials, and with inverted auricles, some resistance, as
of a hard edge, was repeatedly felt by the finger, and the
pencil was pushed outwards with some foi'ce, but the edge felt
was suspected to be the edge of the interior orifice and not

that of a valve. On the inner side, or that next the septum,

the resistance in systole was more energetic than on the

outer.

   S. 6. The thread that had been passed through the ap-
pendix was drawn upwards, to check the systole of the auricle

during auscultation, but the operation was with difficulty per-

formed, and at  all  events  no  perceptible  difference  resulted
                                                                                                ;

the first cardiac sound appeared unchanged.

AS. 7. slight motion of the cava was observed accompany-

ing the auricular systole, viz. a diastole followed by a systole

both slight.
   S. 8. In systole the ventricle became rounder, harder,

tenser, and shorter ; both fundus and apex, but especially the
latter, were seen to be elevated, and the apex seemed to turn

slightly from left to right.

  S. 9. An eccentric impulse, or abrupt push outwards, was

perceived on whatever part of the ventricle we touched, while

the heart acted with any energy ; and this push or impulse
was most striking, though least powerful, just at the apex, on

account, as it seemed, of its pointed form.

   S. 10. An undulatory sort of motion was perceived in

systole from fundus to apex, along the parietes. In addition
to the general eccentric impulse, there was observed over the
orifices, arterial and auricular, a jerking motion not observed
elsewhere ; and this jerking was indistinct or null over the in-
terior orifice, in a subsequent experiment, in which the mitral
valves were prevented from closing by a slender instrument

something like scissors, the parts of which beyond the joint
were introduced, through the auricle, without inverting it, into
the auri-ventricular opening ; and while the blades were kept
separate, the first sound, as heard on the ventricles, was
found to begin dull and obtuse ; and an obtuse beginning, and
a well-defined beginning were heard alternately, according as
188 REPORT--1840.

the blades were separated or brought together, and as conse-
quently the valves were obstructed or left free.

   S. 11. The tip of the left auricle was snipped off and hae-
morrhage was excited, which was constant but with slight jets

at the systoles of the auricles.

             Observations IX. and X.

--July 7th.  Operated on two Rabbits                                                                                                              one  a large vigorous
                                                                                                                                               ;

domestic one, and the other a smaller wild one ; both stunned

by a blow on the head. The larger one was violently convulsed

before death, and when the chest was opened the heart was

--not beating, and the only result obtained was

S. 1. Distinct beatings in the large vein on the left side

which winds round the base of the heart to empty itself in the

right auricle ; the actions observed were a systole followed by
a diastole, and then a short pause ; there was no auricular sy-
stole ; the venous beating continued for many minutes.

   S. 2. The second heart acted for some minutes with some

energy, especially the right cavities ; the left cavities were

drained by haemorrhage, owing to an accidental wound in tlie

superior great vein in opening the thorax. For some minutes

the rhythm of the action of the cavities went on normally
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;

first, the very rapid and abrupt auricular systole, and then

immediately the ventricular systole more gradual and of longer

duration, and then the pause.

  S. 3. When the left ventricle acted, the apex cordis seemed

slightly deflected to the left in systole, dragging the apex of the

right after it ; and when the right ventricle acted alone, no de-

flection was observed.

S. 4. For a considerable time after the cessation of the left

side, the right cavities acted regularly, but after five to ten mi-

nutes, the ventricle especially began to flag, and the auricle

then acted frequently without any following ventricular systole.

But on one occasion, without obvious cause, the auricle became

sluggish, and even for a few moments motionless, while the

ventricle acted by itself more than once.

S. 5. In the systole, the apex approached the base, and the

opposite sides approached the septum cordis, and the whole

organ became rounder and more globular. In one direction,

viz. the vertical, the heart always, when acting with any energy,

became larger, while every other diameter was diminished.

S. 6. After cutting out the heart, and before cutting out,

but after cessation of spontaneous motion, systole was easily

excited by irritating with scissors, etc., and after the left had

nearly wholly ceased to answer stimuli, still the right ventricle

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      i
--;         ;

ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.  189

contracted on the point of a scalpel being applied to the left

ventricle.

            Observations XL and XII.

   July 1 1 . Phcenomena : Stroke and sound obtained as iffrom

--locomotiveforce in systole of ventricles; rhythm of the heart's

-- --motions manner of auricular action ; same of the ventri-
--cular-venous motions mechanism of the cardiac throb or im-

--pulse ; mode of hoemorrhage from a wounded auricle.

   Subjects, two Donkeys operated on ; one about six weeks
old, the other about two and a half months ; both rather weak
from fasting twenty-four hours, owing to being too young to
eat or drink properly. Each heart ceased to beat after about
half an hour. First animal had his forehead beaten in so as to
stun him, and chest then opened. Heart acted quickly and not

very regularly. No distinct second sound ; no auricular sound.

    S. 1. Before opening pericardium, a hard flat body, having
a piece of lead weighing about a quarter of a pound fixed on
it, was placed on the heart, and a stethoscope was held at a

short distance over it, i. e. at a quarter to half an inch, and at
each systole of the heart the lead rose up abruptly and struck
the stethoscope with a tick, audible at some yards distance,

and receded with diastole to sometimes nearly half an inch,
and again rose up and impinged on the tube in systole, and

 so on.

    S. 2. The pericardium was then opened, and the auricles

and ventricles observed. No auricvdar sound could be detected.
The auricles acted immediately before the ventricles, and after

 the pause or rest, and very abruptly and rapidly: the heart acted
 rapidly, probably considerably above one hundred per minute.

    S. 3. The auricles were observed in systole to dimple and

 contract all round from periphery to centre, as in former ob-

 servations.

  --S. 4. The changes of shape in the ventricles were particu-

 larly plain and striking the apex moved slightly upwards and
 to the left, and was drawn toward the base in systole, while

 the horizontal transverse diameter of the heart, as the animal
 lay on its right side, was diminished, and the transverse verti-
 cal diameter, and that alone, was increased, owing to the heart
 becoming from flattish, inferiorly and superiorly, convex, and
 from in the centre compressed or depressed, strictly globular
 or protruding, so that the central longitudinal axis was elevated
 during systole, and lowered in diastole, while in diastole
 the apex rather approached the sternum from which it had
 receded in systole, owing to shortening of the organ.

    S. 5. The veins w^re observed, and except perhaps a slight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

190 REPORT--1840.

undulation downwards during auricular systole evinced by a
diastole followed by a systole, both very slight, nothing decided
was observed. As in all former observations the ventricles
and auricles respectively acted together.

                                Observation XII.

   The second and older animal was prepared by injection of

woorara, and, after establishment of artificial breathing, the
left ribs were cut quite close to the mesial plane, so as to
expose fully the apex in every motion.

 --(Note. The former was opened in the same way and with

the same effect.) The pericardium was then opened, and the

following results were obtained.

   S. 1. The hard substance (sole leather) weighted with lead,

was applied to the heart, and the same result as in the former
experiment obtained, viz., a sudden abrupt elevation or jerk
upwards of the lead was obtained, and a stroke against the
stethoscope heard distinctly at several yards, and the range of
oscillation or motion of the lead was about half an inch.

   S. 2. On opening the pericardium the auricles and ven-

tricles were acting as in the former observation, viz., the
auricles first after the rest or pause, and the ventricles imme-

diately after the auricles. No auricular sound was detectible

no distinct second sound heard. Heart acting hurriedly and
with varying quickness, but always above the healthy standard.

   S. 3. The motions of the ventricle very conspicuous, and as

in last observation, viz., striking diminution of horizontal
transverse and of longitudinal diameters, and increase of trans-
verse vertical diameter in systole, and in diastole increase of

the two former diameters, and decrease of the last. And in sy-

stole the apex was raised, as was the whole body of heart, by
an elevation of the central longitudinal axis, which was effected
partly by the assumption of a globular form in the previously
compressed central inferior surface, and partly by the visible
protrusion of the previously depressed central superior surface

of the ventricles.

   So long as this observation lasted both auricles seemed to
act with equal pertinacity ; the right auricle being however
snipped, and long after the ventricles had ceased, the blood
gushed out of the right auricle only when the auricle con-
tracted, and the haemorrhage ceased nearly during the diastole

of the auricles.

   S. 5. No other appearances observed in the veins than in

the former experiment, viz., a slight diastole with the auricu-
lar systole followed by a systole with auricular diastole.
ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.  191

   S. 6. In neither of the two preceding observations did the
auricles and ventricles exactly alternate, but in each, whenever
observation was carefully made, the auricular systole imme-
diately preceded the ventricular ; and the ventricular diastole
preceded the pause or rest, which last was first interrupted by

the abrupt auricular contraction.

                    Observations XIII. and XIV.

  --July 15th. Subjects, a Donkey (about a twelvemonth old,

prepared with woorara ; very Httle blood lost in opening ; ani-
mal not healthy, and weak, so as to be ill able to walk before the

--operation ; heart acted pretty well) and a Dog.
  -- --PhcBnomena : DonJcey Rhythm of motions ; character of

-- --auricular actions ; same, of the ventricular ; double friction
--bettveen heart and pericardium normally ; eccentric impulse
--felt all over ventricles in systole ; motions of cava.

  --Phenomena : Dog Normal doublefrictions ofpericardium;
--with other phcenomena.

    S. 1 . Rhythm of motions of the auricles and ventricles was

 as in former experiments ; first, the auricular systole, then im-
 mediately, the ventricular systole, without interval, and as if it
 were a continuation by undulation of the former motion.

    S. 2. Then the pause during which the auricle and ventricle
 became each distended and soft and flaccid, the former sliding
 its extreme margin downwards on the fundus of the ventricle

 toward the apex, to retract it suddenly again toward the

--sinus in systole, and the latter protruding its apex and sides so

 as to be enlarged in every direction, except that of the trans-
 verse vertical diameter, to retract both apex and sides in the
 following systole, and at the same to rise upwards in its cen-

 tral parts with an impulse.
     S. 3. Before opening pericardium the condition of that sac

 was carefully observed, and it was noted, that while the peri-
 cardium remained stationary under all circumstances, the heart
 suffered much change in shape and size, so that there was in
  every part, and especially over the auricles, a to-and-fro motion
  of the cardiac pericardium on the external layer of that sac, a
  friction in one direction in systole and in the opposite in diastole.

     S. 4. The impulse before observed was obtained by the fin-

  ger applied to any part of the ventricle in systole.

     S. 5. The cava observed, and a slight action was noted, viz.

  a diastole followed by a systole, the former with a wave-like
  sensation of motion from the heart downwards, and accompa-
  nying the auricular systole, and immediately preceding the ven-

  tricular. The separator above described was introduced into
192 REPORT-- 1840.

the mitral aperture and a murmur was heard ; but the heart

ceased too soon, owing to errors in the insufflation, to allow of
the experiment being properly followed out.

                  Observation XIV.

  ASame day. Dog, small, and perhaps two years old, was poi-

soned with prussic acid, and then prepai'ed as usual. The

heart acted pretty well for nearly half an hour.

   S. 1. The stillness or inertness of the free pericardium and

constant succession of changes of shape and size in the heart

were carefully observed ; the heart being, for the size of the

animal,  much  larger than  that  of a  donkey                                        the  experiment  was
                                                                                   ;

much less troublesome from that cause as v/ell as from the

greater facility of manipulation of a smaller animal. Every sy-

stole of the auricles produced a double friction, viz., one against

the external layer of the pericardium and one against the fun-

dus of the ventricles, or periphery of the auricular orifices;

and every diastole of course produced friction in the opposite

directions ; and every systole of ventricle produced friction
longitudinally from apex to fundus, and transversely from side

to side, all round the body of the heart ; while every ventricu-

lar diastole included friction in the opposite directions.

 --S. 2. The rhythm of the heart's motions was as before, viz.,

first, the auricular systole, and secondly, immediately there-
after, the ventricular, and without marked interval, but, as if the

latter motion were but a continuation of the former, by a sort

--of continued undulation, and thirdly, the pause consistingfirst

of auricular diastole, and then including the immediately suc-

ceeding ventricular diastole, and interrupted first by the au-

ricular systole.

S, 3. Cava observed and motion noted, viz., a diastole fol-

lowed by a systole, the former synchronous with the auricular

systole, the latter immediately following.

   S. 4. The subclavian artery laid bare unintentionally for

several inches, forming an arch more than two inches in length,

and observed to lengthen without straightening in the systole

of the heart, and to shorten slightly but sensibly in ventricular

diastole.

   S. 5. As in every former distinct observation, the sensation

of impulse was perceptible on every portion of the ventricular
surface the shortening, rounding, hardening, and elevation of

                                            ;

the central longitudinal axis, and increase of the transverse

--vertical diameter alone, of the body of the heart, easily distin-

guished, also the jerking over the orifices, &c., &c.

   S. 6. The auricular systole apparently audible, but the sound
                                                    :

           ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.  193

not separated by any very distinct interval from the instantly
succeeding ventricular sound, which however it preceded ra-
ther, and certainly preceded to the senses of touch and hearing
together, the hardening and rounding of the ventricle.

    S. 7. In the dog, as in the ass, the motions w^ere slovr com-
paratively in the heart, auricles as well as ventricles. The right
ventricle first, and afterwards the left ventricle, were punctured
with a slender glass tube drawn out for a couple of inches at
the lower end, and the result observed. In systole there was
a sudden rise in the tube, and a slight subsidence in diastole.
The subsidence was but slight, the greatest not being in the
left ventricle more than half an inch, and in the right ventricle
still less. The sinking of the blood in the tube in diastole was
such as might be caused by a sudden withdrawal of an impulse
sufficiently energetic (like that of the systole) to overcome gra-
vitation abruptly, and so as to excite a jet in a tube containing
a fluid column sustained by a constant pressure (such perhaps
as might be produced by the venous influx) from below.

   S. 8. In both hearts the right cavities were relieved from
distension before complete cessation of action, and the areas of
the ventricles, judging by apparent extent of walls opened and
spread out, seemed in no degree to differ.

                 Observations XV. and XVI.

--July 18th. Operated on two Donkeys of from four to eight

months old.

  --PhcBnomena : First donkey Glass tubes introduced into left

--auricle and ventricle, and results noted ; normal pericardial

--frictions observed, and several other observations confirmed

Second donkey Blunt Jiook and screw, successively interposed

between mitral valves with considerable modification offirst

-- --sound; also, spontaneous abnormal sounds; auricular sy-
--stolic sound ; results of introduction of glass tubes into heart's
--cavities ; confirmation offormer observations.

   Woorara injected in each case ; in the first, the operation

very successful, but in the second, a second dose of two grains

required.

   In the former, much blood lost, viz., probably owing to an
accidental cut made in hastily opening the trachea for artificial
breathing. The heart found acting rapidly, hurriedly, and with

a rhythm unfavourable for observation. Second sound not di-

stinct. The experiments intended were two, viz., stopping the

mitral valves by an interposed blunt hook introduced through

auricle, or by a screw-shaped wire similarly admitted ; but owing
probably to profuse haemorrhage, the first sound was not su&

VOL. IX. 1840.  o
                                                        --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;

--194 REPORT 1840.

ficiently normal for that experiment, and the second experi-
ment was made, viz.

   S. 1. Glass tubes drawn out at one exti'emity were pushed,
with a rapid rotatory motion, into the auricle and venti-icle of
left side, and the column of blood observed. That in the auricle
gave no satisfactory result, owing to sanguineous exhaustion
apparently, and the consequent insufficient distension in dia-
stole, and slight amount of contraction in systole in the auricle.
But this much was noted, viz., that a very short column that
filled the drawn out part, was not drawn in diastole, yet

neither was it very strikingly lengthened in systole. The ven-

tricle gave better results, viz., a column rose rapidly by suc-
cessive stages, rising some lines at each systole, and continuing
almost stationary at each succeeding diastole, and at length
overflowing the tube and pouring over in large drops at each

 systole.

   S. 2. The friction between the heart and pericardium in

systole and diastole of auricles and ventricles ; the tension and
jerking motion upwards in systole ; and softening and subsidence
in diastole of the parietes of the ventricles : the abrupt jerking
over the orifices in systole, followed by subsidence in diastole ;
the shortening of the diameters lengthwise, and transversely
in systole ; the immediate succession as by a continued undu-
latory motion of the ventricular systole to that of the auricles
 the sensation of an undulation from fundus to apex on the ven-
 tricles ; the dimpling in systole of the left auricle (which only
 was observed); and the equality, post mortem cordis, of the two

--ventricles ; all those former observations were repeated, and

 former results confirmed.

                                                        Observation XVI.

S. 1. The second animal's heart when exposed was acting

with more regularity than the former, and the blunt hook and

screw were successively tried. In each case material modifi-

cations of the first sound were repeatedly produced by the in-

terposition of the instrument between the valves in left interior

opening                                            but  the modifications were  not constant :  and in no
                                                ;

case was there any attempt made to impede the right interior

valves. This much however was noted, that on several occa-

sions the interposition of the instrument was followed by mur-

mur in the mitral opening with the systole, and by a more ob-

tuse character of the first sound, and particularly by a want of

sharpness of definition at its commencement. But it is to be

added, that considerable irregularity existed for the greater

part of the time in the sounds, viz., the first sound seemed
--;

ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.  195

sometimes, and without apparent cause, more obtuse than
others, and more short and abrupt, and the second was often
wholly wanting or too indistinct for observation.

   S. 2. Further, there was observed a feeble dull sound, very
short and rapid, synchronous with the left auricular systole,
and somewhat anterior to the ventricular hardening, and up-
rising, but scarcely separated by any distinct interval from the
ventricular sound, and rather continued into it in a manner re-
sembling the apparent passage of the auricular systole into

that of the ventricle.

   S. 3. The glass tubes were in this experiment introduced as

before, with similar results. Nothing striking occurred in that
passed into the auricle, but a very short column being obtained,
and that nearly stationary, owing probably to the auricle having
been penetrated in several places by the hook and screw so as
to suffer escape more readily by the other orifices. But the
ventricle gave like results as in the former case, viz. a column
rising in systole, stationary in diastole, and at length reaching
the upper end so as to overflow. All the previously observed
phaenomena of the motions of the auricles and ventricles, in
themselves and with respect to each other, and with respect to
the pericardium, were confirmed on this subject, so that the
description of those given under the head of the former expe-
riment of this day, themselves but repetitions of former obser-
vations, must be considered to apply to the normal condition
without any important restriction or qualification.

                              Observation XVII.

  --July 26th. Phcsnomena : Dog Distension to hardness of

auricles during a torpid and as it were semi-paralytic state of

-- --ventricles results of a prick in left auricle ; proofs of active

nature of auricular systole, and of negative character of ven-

--tricular and auricular diastole ; of venous regurgitation du-
--ring auricular systole, and of equal size of both ventricles, 8^c.;

    confirmation of other former observations.

--Subject, a Mastiff-terrier eighteen months old, poisoned
    with prussic acid.
    S. 1 . Heart acting regularly but rather feebly, though large

and muscular; much distended and on both sides equally.
Left ventricle and auricle both much dilated and the auricle

quite tense with blood, so that the appendix could not contract
for some time until a prick was made in it, when a jet was ob-

served coincident with the systole. Some observers thought

the jet synchronous with the systole of the ventricle ; but on
placing the fingers in contact with the sinus and fundus ven-

                                               O2
196 REPORT-- 1840.

triculorum together, it was plain that the jet coincided with

the auricular systole, and preceded by a fraction of a second the

ventricular systole. During the diastole of the auricles a slight

shortening of the column, as from diminished impetus from be-

low, occurred, and again, in auricular systole, a sudden length-

ening of the column, to be followed again by a shortening in

diastole.

During the systole of the ventricles immediately succeeding

that of the auricles, and without distinct interval, no increase

of the jet or column occurred, and during the diastole of the

ventricles no subsidence, but simply a shortening, as before

described, immediately after the auricular systole.

During great part of observation of the jet the left auricle

was tense and hard almost to the finger, and nearly immove-

able, and the ventricular action was dull and feeble, and the

ventricles themselves were not fully emptied in systole, the

heart appearing to have suffered considerable torpefaction

from the poison.

AS. 2.     glass tube was introduced into the left auricle and

ventricle in succession, but a clot soon forming, owing to es-

cape of soda solution during the rotatory motion by which the

glass was first introduced, no very decided result was obtained.

S. 3. After the ventricles had become very feeble and even

the left aui'icle become comparatively inert, some energy of

contraction was observed in the right sinus, and with each con-

traction a wave of regurgitation down the vena cava inferior,

viz. a diastole of the vein immediately preceding the ventricu-

lar contraction and coinciding nearly with that of the auricle,

and followed by a systole coinciding with ventricular contrac-

tion and auricular diastole. The auricles at no time acted with

sufficient energy to promise any result from traction by a string,

or to yield distinct sound in systole, owing to an extreme dis-

tension of the cavities, attributable to torpor of the muscular sub-

stance and rapid and copious supply of blood from the veins.

S. 4. Tlie ventricles after death seemed not to differ mate-

rially in size, having been cut out before complete death, and

allowed to contract.

S. 5. Several previous observations confii'med on this occa-

sion, viz. as to rhythm of motions and cavities ; viz. auricles and
ventricles respectively acted exactly together, and the former

immediately before the latter, and without distinct interval,

but as by continued undulatory motion ; elevation of central

pai'ts of ventricles in systole and subsidence in diastole ; fric-

tions of the pericardium double with each pair of cavities, viz.

both in systole and diastole.
                         .

             ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        197

                         Observation XVIII.

--Phcenomena : Tubes introduced into hearfs cavities; results ;
   confirmations offormer observations as to rhythm, pericardial

frictions, changes of shape in the heart, 8fc., Sfc; compara-

--tive sizes of ventricles
  July 30th. Operated on a Dog between one and two years

old by prussic acid. Heart acting feebly, with the normal

rhythm however ; the cavities considerably dilated.

    S. 1. Glass tubes containing strong solution of carbonate

of soda, secured during the introduction by corks temporarily

fixed in the wide end, were introduced by a rapid rotatory mo-

tion into tbe right ventricle and auricle. Owing apparently to

awkwardness in the manipulation, the result was not through-

out uniform to the eye ; but the general character of what was
observed was this: Columns of blood rose into the tubes in

every case, and were perceived to overflow in each case with a

slight jet in the systole of the cavity penetrated, and a slight

subsidence in the diastole. At one time, for a minute or two,

without interruption, the tubes were observed to overflow

steadily together, one being in left auricle and the other in right

ventricle, each having a slight jet, or upward undulation, in the

systole of the cavity containing it. This experiment was com-

paratively very striking, owing to the great difference in colour

of the two streams, viz. scarlet, and deep crimson or purple.

    During the whole observation nothing occurred suggestive of

impulse, except of the impulse upwards of the systoles of cavi-

ties, and    the slight  gravitation or subsidence in diastole                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

this latter, though often very distinct in each tube, was some-

times quite imperceptible in either. No motion downwards in

the tubes, such as suction would explain, was observed.

    S. 2. After the observation the heart was cut out, and the

left ventricle appeared rather larger than the right.

    S. 3. The rhythm of the motions of the cavities ; the auri-

cular  and ventricular double frictions of the pericardium                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;

jerkingupwards of the fundus and central parts of the ventricles

in  systole  ;  the  shortening in systole                                                                                                  the stationary  state of the
                                                                                                                                         ;

heart amid all its changes of size and shape ; the subsidence of

the central parts and fundus in diastole, &c., &c., were noted

to agree with former observations.

                  Observations XIX. and XX.

 --Aug. 5. Operated by woorara on a Donkey two or three

years old. Operation tedious, owing to strength and resist-
ance of the animal. Also on a Dog.
      ;

--198 REPORT 1840.

--Phcenomena : Donkey Negative character of diastole.
--Dog Apex cordis threaded and held tense in the direction

of the mesial plane of the subject. Results : change of shape
and size of the heart in systole and diastole, and visible mo-

-- --tions glass tube passes into cava inferior; results; columnce
--carnece and 23cirietes electrified ; results ; cavities compared

post mortem and found equal.

S. 1 . Glass tubes introduced into the left ventricle at fundus

and apex, and in each a column rose and at length overflowed,

having a slight subsidence at each diastole, and sudden eleva-

tion  at  each systole                                                            but no well-marked difference between  the
                                                                               ;

times of rise and fall in the tubes was detected.

S. 2. The heart acted for some time with considerable energy,

notwithstanding great haemorrhage, but soon failed after being

perforated. The heart was then cut out while yet contracting

vermicularly, and electricity was applied so as to permeate the

columnae and parietes, but no satisfactory action was obtained.

The cavities of the heart had been for some time much dis-

tended, from loss of irritability before excision.

                                                                                  Observation XX.

A Terrier-dog, stout though small, was then stunned by a

blow     on the head                                                    the       chest was rapidly opened, and artificial
                                                                     ;

breathing estabhshed.

S. 1. The apex cordis was then threaded, and at each sy-

stole a pull at the chord was observed, followed by relaxation,

and the tension and relaxation of the string alternated ; the

--former coinciding with systole, and the latter with diastole.
   {Note. The string was drawn in the line of the longitudinal

axis of the heart.) Dr. Boyd at one time kept the string firmly

extended and permanently tense, by holding his hand as far

away as the string would allow, for a short space, and then

maintaining his position, but relaxing his hold so as to allow

the string liberty to slide between his fingers when drawn away;

and the result was, that before the experiment was suspended,

an inch or more of the string appeared to have passed between

his fingers, one eighth of an inch at least being pulled through

at each systole.

S. 2. After this observation had been made and repeated to

the satisfaction of all parties, the heart acted still with much

vigour, and both sounds were distinctly audible, notwithstand-

ing great loss of blood. Also the diminution of the horizontal

transverse and of the longitudinal diameter, and the increase

of the vertical transverse diameter, with sudden bulging up-

wards of the fundus and central parts, were very plain to the
                         ;

ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEAllT.        199

--eye in systole ; while in diastole the subsidence of the central

pai'ts, with sudden increase of the horizontal cross diameter and

Noof the long diameter, were equally striking.  tilting of the

apex as an independent part was noted, nor any other motion

than such as might be explained fully by the fixity of the

fundus through the vessels, and the sudden increase of the

cross vertical diameter in systole, causing an elevation of the

longitudinal or central axis, which was most sensible at the

apex or free extremity.

AS. 3.  glass tube was introduced into the cava with the

termination directed towards the diaphragm, when a column

of blood rose gradually without any jet until it reached the

upper end nearly, when it ceased to advance, but continued

stationary for some time, and at length receded slovvly towards

the middle of the tube. No sudden motion either upwards

(as ex. gr. by auricular contraction) or downwards (as by dia-

Astolic suction) was observed.  gradual partial subsidence in

the tube then followed, owing apparently to failure of impul-

sive force in the moving powers of the venous circulation.

   S. 4. The heart was then cut out while yet contractile, and

irritated by electro-magnetism and by pricking with scalpel,

and to the satisfaction of every one present the columnae carnese

were observed to contract and relax coincidently with the

parietds.

   S. 5. The ventricles were equal in capacity to the eye and

hand post mortem cordis.

                    Observations XXI. and XXII.

 --August 8. Two Dogs operated on ; one a stout terrier, the

other a mongrel bitch, both eighteen months to two years old.

 --Phcenomena : Second dog Glass tube introduced into cava ;

--results variable, ivith probable causations of fluctuation; au-
--ricles cease actionfirst columnce carnece irritated alternately
--with neighbouring parts ofparietes, and results ; confirmation

of former observations respecting the mechanism of heart's
action and the equality of the cavities during life.

   In the former animal the operation failed, owing to not hav-

ing established artificial breathing in time.

   In the dog the following results were obtained. Having
been prepared by stunning and tracheotomy, with a view to
artificial respiration, the heart was exposed, and found beating

with energy, exhibiting the usual motions and sounds.

  AS. 1 . curved glass tube was introduced into the cava in-

ferior, and immediately a column of blood was observed, which,
after ascending some way steadily, and during several beats of the
--200 REPORT 1840.

heart, again descended also steadily and during several beats.
After a few moments, the tube being held upright with care,
and the lower opening of the tube being toward the abdomen,
and pressure being made on the tube through the parietes of
the veins, a column of blood ascended slowl)' and steadily to
 the top of the tube and poured over at the top. Again, press-
 ure being withdrawn from the cava, fluctuation occurred, viz.
 irregular ascents and descents of the column, gradual and slow,
 and extending each of them over several beats of the heart,
 there being perhaps as many as half a dozen of each to each
 minute of the time they lasted. At no time was there any sud-
 den elevation or subsidence of the column, such as the auricular
 systole or ventricular diastole might be supposed to produce,
 supposing the latter to include suction towards the ventricles.

 The variations of level observed in the tube could be referred

 with any probability to nothing obvious, except the convulsive
 agitation of the right thorax, which was intact, and which
 heaved and collapsed violently for a short time, owing to a
 partial recovery of the animal from the stunning blow during
 the operation, in consequence of haemorrhage and artificially

 sustained breathing. The tube was then introduced into the

 cava superior, and a column was observed in the whole length
 of the narrow part of the tube, and nearly an inch in height,
 and this column suffered no alteration either in systole or dia-

 stole. The shortness of the column in this case was owing ob-

  viously to exhaustion of the vascular system, or insufficiency

 of blood and of vascular tension. There was not any respira-
  tory effort during this last observation.

     S. 2. During this last observation (on the cava superior) the
  unusual appearance was observed of complete quiescence nearly
  of the auricles, whilst the ventricles continued to act with con-
 siderable energy. The early death of the right auricle might
  be referred to withdrawal of supplies from the cava inferior
  especially ; but that of the left auricle is not easily accounted
  for, since insufflation was duly persevered in.

     S. 3. The heart was cut out while yet contractile, and the

  columnae carneae of the right ventricle were observed to act
  accurately with the parietes, whether the stimulus were applied

 to the former or latter only. The columnge of the left ventricle
  were become insensible to stimuli, and the parietes nearly so

  before the left was laid open for observation.

     S. 4. The elevation of the central cardiac axis, and espe-

  cially of its free extremity, viz. the apex cordis, was very con-
  spicuous in systole, and the opposite motions in diastole. Also
  the flattening and lengthening of the ventricles in diastole, and
                     ;;

ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.    201

rounding and shortening in systole. And after opening the ven-

tricles the left seemed the larger of the two.

   The wave-like motion, or sensation as of an undulation from
fundus to apex in systole, was very distinct.

                     Observation XXIII.

--AAugust 24.  Dog (bull-dog terrier), one to two years old,

stunned, and chest artificially inflated.

   Plicenomena : Residts of threading different parts of the ven-
tricles, and at the same moment pressing the threaded parts

with the finger, and pulling at them by means of the thread,

--showing the mechanism of the hearts throb rhythm of cardiac
--and aortic pulsations results of introdttcing a tube into the
-- --cava ; respiratory suction ; venous regurgitation in systole ;

--phcenomena of the hearfs action out of the body both as to

motions and sounds.

S. 1. The heart was laid bare and a thread was passed

through the apex cordis, and a second through the parietes

nearly over the mitral orifice, and traction was exerted on each

string in a direction outwards, and away from or vertical to the

point of insertion, and the result was that in each systole each

string was felt to be pulled and rendered tense, and to become

lax in diastole. At the moment of tension in each chord the

finger was placed on the point at which each respectively had

been introduced, and the result was a double sensation, viz.

1. That of traction in the chord, indicating contraction of the

heart and mutual approximations of its extremities, and,

2. that of outward impulse in the point of the parietes under

the finger (indicating, as the Reporter conceived, the undulation

of the blood reacting against the compressing parietes of the

ventricles).

S. 2. The attachments of the vessels or muscular parts in-

serted into the roots of the arteries, especially the pulmonary

artery, were observed very distinctly to approximate shghtly

towards the apex in each systole, and to recede from the apex

in diastole.

AS. 3.        barely perceptible difference in time was detected

--between the systole of the left ventricle and diastole of the

aorta no distinct interval however.

  AS. 4. glass tube was introduced into the lower cava, and

a column of blood obtained, which oscillated frequently, but

not in accordance with the heart's motions. These oscillations
were attributable (the Reporter conceived) to ii-regular, spas-

modic, respiratory eflPorts, occurring in the right side of the

chest, which was still air-tight, the mediastinum being still
--202 REPORT 1840.

intact. The oscillations were sometimes short, and rapidly

succeeded to each other with a rhythm not differing greatly

from that of the heart, hut at other times were protracted

through several heats of the heart, viz. an ascent continued

for several seconds successively, followed by a descent in the

tube of similar duration.

   S. 5. The pulsation of the veins was very distinct to the

eye in systole, in both the pulmonary veins and cava ; but
whether owing to the auricular systole exclusively, was not
examined into with sufficient care. This much was ascertained,

that the visible venous action was a diastole coinciding with
the commencement of the general action of the heart, and fol-

lowed immediately by a systole. Neither diastole nor systole

of vein seemed gradual, but abrupt and almost instantaneous.

AS. 6.     heavy curved knife was placed on the left ventricle

and held erect between the fingers, so as to allow motion up-

wards or downwards, and the result was as in former experi-
ments, an elevation by sudden heave upwards of the knife in

systole, followed by a subsidence in diastole with depression

of the surface.

   S. 7. The heart was cut out while still beating, and con-

tinued to beat in the hand regularly, with normal rhythm, for
a minute or two, and notwithstanding being shifted from hand

to hand amongst three observers. The first sound was very

distinct during the whole of the time, but less sharply defined

at the commencement. It wanted likewise the jerking motion
over the auri-ventricular openings, and the strong eccentric
impulse or upward heaving in systole, and strongly-marked

subsidence of the ventricle in diastole. The concentric

motions and general rounding and shortening in diastole were

very distinct. There was no second or diastolic sound. When

cut open, the coluranae carneas were seen to act along with the

parietes.

                         Observation XXIV.

 --August 26 and 28. Repeated the experiment on the coii'

traction of the abdominal muscles, as productive of a soundj
resembling the systolic sound of the heart, in the presence of

Dr. Edwin Harrison, Dr. Hamilton Roe, Mr. Phillips, F.R.S.,
Mr. Gulliver, F.R.S., and Dr. Robert Boyd.

   The instrument employed was the flexible ear-tube or ste-

thoscope, with which only the experiment is satisfactorily
practicable, on account of the strong impulse attending the
contraction, and the difficulty of distinguishing the acoustic

from the tactual sensations it occasions.
ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.  203

   The end of the instrument was placed in mediate contact
with the abdominal parietes, and held firmly down upon the
surface, with the intervention of a shirt and thick flannel

under-vest ; a strong and sudden expiratory effort was then
made (in the manner described in the First Report of the
London Committee) with the mouth and nostrils closed, so
that a strong vibratory action, ending in firm tension of parietal
muscles, was sensible to the subject of observation (the Re-
porter), and likewise to the observers, and with this result,
that a single loud, obtuse, abrupt, short sound was heard, and
thought by every gentleman to resemble, more or less, the
systolic sound of the heart.

   S. 2. The same expei'iment was repeated, with the addition

of several folds of a silk handkerchief to the intervening sub-
stances ; and again, with a double fold of cloth and silk like-
wise, in addition to the under-clothing above named, but
without any important difference of result.

   S. o. Hard substances also were interposed above the
under-clothing, viz. a common framed school slate, and small
bound books of different sizes ; but no important difference
was observed, except with the slate, through which the sound
was considered to be decidedly less distinct than in any other
form in which the experiment had been tried. In all these
trials pains were taken to keep the cup of the stethoscope in

accurate contact all round, through the substances interposed
with the abdomen ; and that was easily effected by the use on

the part of the Reporter, who was the subject of experiment,

of both hands at once in maintaining equable pressure.
    It is proper to mention, that several observers agreed in

stating that similar sounds occurring to show in the cardiac
region, would be referred by them to the systole of the heart
without any hesitation.

 Conclusions from both Series for 1838-39 and 1839-40.

                                           Motions.

   1st. That the order of the motions of the auricles and
ventricles is by continuous succession rather than by alter-
nation of actions. The auricles contract abruptly after the
Rest or pause, and the ventricles immediately after the auricles,
without any distinct interval between the successive systoles.
And the diastoles of the cavities follow in somewhat similar
--204 REPORT 1840.

order, viz. the auricular diastole coinciding with the ventri-
cular systole, and continuing after it ; the true Rest or pause
being constituted by the diastole of the auricles and ventricles
together, and in reality ceasing on the recurrence of the auri-
cular systole. This rhythm of the motions seems to be uni-

versal and common to cold- and warm-blooded animals. The
only exception known to the Reporter from books or observa-

tion, seems apparent rather than real, viz. an alternation of
action, such as noted by Lancisi, for example, in the chick in
ovo, and by several observers in cases of very rapid cardiac
action. In such cases the diastoles have been so hurried and
short, (owing no doubt to very rapid and copious influx from
the veins,) that the systoles have been approximated to each
other, and the intervening Rests have been apparently sup-
pressed, and an apparent true alternation of systoles and dia-
stoles without intervening Rest has been produced,

   2nd. That the visible systolic and diastolic motions are first

perceived at the bases or fixed parts of the cavities, viz. in
the auricles at the sinuses, and in the ventricles at the fundus
cordis ; and that the apices of the auricles and ventricles (or
free parts) are brouglit into full action after the other parts,
and only just before the supervention of the opposite and next
succeeding condition of the cavities, whether that condition be

systole or diastole.

   3rd. That in systole the heart is diminished in all directions
(except only in such regions, or parts of the organ, as may
have been previously collapsed or compressed during the un-
resisting flaccidity of the diastole), and that its long axis in
particular is strikingly and invariably shortened.

   4th. That the normal systole of the auricles is energetic
and almost instantaneous, and quite universal, the manifesta-
tions of contraction in the appendix succeeding to those of
contraction in the sinus, by a very minute interval ; and that
the auricular diastole is gradual, continuous, and wholly pas-
sive, and is effected by an influx of blood from the cava pro-
gressively distending the cavity from sinus to apex, and from
the termination of one systole of the cavity to the commence-
ment of the succeeding one.

   5th. That the systole of the ventricles is gradual in its
development, and complex in its phaenomena ; that those phae-
nomena are partly attributable to contraction in the muscular
parietes, and partly to resistance on the part of the fluids.

By the muscular contraction the heart is made to compress

the blood, which resists in all directions alike, and thrusts out
ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.  205

the depressed or collapsed parts of the ventricles, and favours
the systolic shortening of the organ, and the closure of the
auri-ventricular valves ; and this reaction of the fluids mainly

contributes, under various circumstances, to cause the motion
that has been described as tilting of the apex ; this tilting

being principally, if not exclusively, a result of the elevation
of the long axis of the heart in systole, owing to the assumption
of a convex or globular form in the body of the organ, instead
of its superiorly and inferiorly compressed state in the previous

diastole.

   And the ventricular diastole or dilatation is wholly passive,

exerting no influence over the venous current or arterial valves,

and is effected by a rapid influx of blood from the veins, com-
mencing at the moment of relaxation of the ventricles, and
continuing until their succeeding systole, and reinforced imme-
diately before the latter action by an abrupt discharge from

the auricles.

   6th. That the pulsations of the veins are of two kinds, at
least in some animals, viz. both active and passive ; and the
latter or passive pulsations (which, on the authority of Haller
especially, may be held to exist in all animals), are attributable
to reflux from the auricles in their systole.

   7th. The precordial throb or pulsation is caused, imme-
diately, by the undulation of the blood in its resistance to

sudden muscular compression in the systole of the ventricles.

This reaction of the fluids is first perceived about the fundus
of the ventricles, and last about the apex, towards which it
seems to be propagated by a continuous undulation from the
fundus with extreme rapidity. In consequence of this re-
action of the blood, the heart's sides are rendered convex,
instead of compressed or flattened as in diastole, and are, in
the middle parts more especially, heaved outwards ft*om the

central axis abruptly and with great force. Thus on all parts

of the surface of the organ an impulse is felt in systole, which
is greatest there, where, in addition to passive flaccidity of
walls, there has been collapse in the diastole (viz. the central
parts), and which is least where such collapse has previously
been wanting or slight (viz. the apex). This cardiac impulse
is usually perceived, in the healthy subject, over the apex
only, owing to its being absorbed and neutralized over other
parts of the heart by an interposed thick mass of spongy

lung. The heart does not oscillate on the aorta, or move to

and fro in the chest from systole to diastole, and vice versa
                                                                                                                                                                                                           j

nor does it suffer any changes in consequence of its own
efforts, and exclusively of movements of the lungs and dia-
                                                                                            ;

206 REPORT-- 1840.

phragm, excepting in its shape and size, and in the thickness

and tension of its pai'ietes, and the capacities of its cavities.
The doctrine, that the prgecordial pulsation is caused by a blow

received by the ribs, in consequence of the heart's "jumping"

{aXfMa, Hippocrates) or "striking" against them (" pectus ferit,"
Harvey; " costam ictu percutit," Haller, &c. &c.), appears to

be superfluous, with a view to explanation of phfenomena

(notwithstanding the ingenious illustrations of the ancient opi-

nion by Senac and Hunter), and to be substantially unfounded

in point of fact.

8th. That the arterial diastole or pulse, almost everywhere

outside of the pericardium, perceptibly succeeds to the cardiac

systole                                     though near the  heart, the  interval  between  them is
                                         ;

very brief, and to unpractised observers difficult to distin-

guish.

                                              Sounds.

   9th. That the first sound of the heart depends partly, but
in a slight degree, on the abrupt closure and transitory ten-
sion of the auri-ventricular valves, which give to this sound its
sharp, well-defined beginning; but that the first sound is
mainly attributable to cardiac muscular tension alone, and that
its prolonged dui'ation is probably owing to the progressive
character of the normal systolic effort from fundus to apex
and that this sound is probably, in no degree or condition,
attributable to any blow or stroke of the heart against the

ribs.

    10th. That the auricular systole is attended by an intrinsic
sound resembling that of the ventricles, but more short, ob-
tuse, and feeble. This auricular systolic sound is often diffi-
cult of detection, even on the naked heart, and with tolerably
vigorous action of the auricles, owing to its being, to the inex-
perienced ear, absorbed in, or masked by, the immediately-
succeeding and vastly louder systolic ventricular sound.

    11th. That the sounds of friction in pericarditis may, where
well marked and under ordinary circumstances, be expected
to be double at least, and they may be, not improbably, triple
or more. In its systole, each cavity of the heart moves so as
to cause a friction, in one direction, of its attached lamina
against the adjacent free lamina of the pericardium; and in
its diastole, a pericardial friction is caused by each cavity in
an opposite direction ; and as the auricles move to and fro in-
dependently of the ventricles, the normal pericardial frictions
must be quadruple, or double with the auricles and double
with the ventricles. If, therefore, those frictions were ren-
                                                                                    --;

                                  ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.           20/

dered sonorous by the interposition of any rough substance

between the rubbing surfaces, (as lymph, for example,) and

supposing the heart's actions sufficiently vigorous, under ordi-

nary circumstances, we might anticipate with confidence a

--duplication of murmurs at least one systolic and one dia-

stolic                            and this must be the pi-incipal element  in  the  acoustic
                               ;

diagnosis of pericarditis, since effused lymph may be of any

thickness, consistence, extent, &c., and be situate on any por-

tion of the heart's surface between its nearest part and its

furthest ; and may therefore cause friction-sounds of the most

variable seat, depth, and character. But, of course, another

physical means of distinction of gi'eat importance remains,

viz. the comparatively equable diffusion of the sounds of peri-

cardial friction all around the place of attrition, rather than

in any one exclusive direction.

12th. The sounds of the structurally-healthy heart are much

liable to modification, by deviations from the normal standard

in tlie state of the fluids and in the order and force and equa-

bility of action of the carnefe columnae, and other contractile

parts governing or influencing the action of the valves, and the

closure and opening again of the orifices of the ventricles

and this dependence of the heart's sounds on conditions dy-

namic or material, wholly excluding structural defect, is so

considerable, that the second sound may for a time be very

variously modified or masked by strange murmurs, or even

apparently suppressed in consequence of changes in the solids,

of a purely di/namic character, and caused by humoral defect,

in consequence of haemorrhage or from the introduction of

poison into the veins. And the first cardiac sound, though

never wholly wanting during the active existence of the heart,

may still, under similar circumstances to those referred to,

present various abnormal features ; may, ex. gr., be as short as
the second sound, or be attended or followed by anomalous

murmurs, or be otherwise strikingly modified.

13th. Other conclusions, more or less satisfactorily de-

ducible, as the Reporter conceives, from the facts stated, are,

That the peculiar sounds occurring in pericarditis, and attri-

buted to pericardial frictions, are not referable only to vas-

cular turgescence or dryness, &c. of the pericardium, but to
lymph effused by, and adhering to, that membrane, or other

equivalent obstacle to the easy and noiseless gliding over each

other of the adjacent parts of the pericardium.

   14th. That the ventricles are of equal capacity during life,
and that the inequality usually met with after death is an illu-

sion, as explained long since by Hervey.
208 REPORT-- 1840.

   15th. That the suction-influence upon the venous circula-
tion, attributed to inspiration by various writers, is well

founded.

   ]6th. That the action of the long muscles, and more espe-
cially those of the abdominal parietes, is attended with an in-
trinsic sound. The notice of this fact by the Reporter has
been rendered necessary in consequence of some attempts at
verification, and some criticisms on an Experiment of the
London Committee for 1S37-38, published in the last edition
of Dr. Hope's very valuable work on the Heart.

   17th. That the sounds of the heart, like the motions, are
governed by the same law in all warm-blooded animals hitherto
examined, and probably in all kinds whatsoever in which car-
diac sound occurs, viz. that the first sound in all animals is
relatively longer and obtuser, and the second shorter and

--sharper ; that those sounds are, as in the human heart,

respectively systolic and diastolic ; that their causation like-
wise follows the same law as those of man, the first sound
being mainly muscular, and the second probably exclusively

--valvular ; likewise, that there is the same causation and mutual

relation of the cardiac and arterial pulsations.

              John Clendinning, M.D. Oxon. and Edinb.,

            Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Vice-Pre-
               sident of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society,
               and Physician to the St. Marylebone Infirmary.
                                          209

An Account of Researches in Electro- Chemistry . By Pro-

                       fessor ScHOENBEiNj of Basle.

The British Association for the Advancement of Science at
their last meeting in Birmingham, honoured me with the char-e

to undertake a series of experiments, with the view of extend-

piInohgseetdhmeetmohmoieixtrisstwohfbioecuthrwekIennonwoelwleedctgtarekiceoanlthtaehnedlicbocenhrneteymxiitcooanllwaphyhiecbenhfooimsreesnutanh.,e

tAisgsaotciioantsi,omn acnoyntaofinswhainchacmcoauyntpoefrhtahpesreaspupltesarofasmynoltatiemminevdeis--

ately bearing upon the subject in question; but I think them,
nevertheless, closely connected with it. I must, however, not

                      ^^^''  "'^ *^'^ '' '^'" "^^'"^ ^^' ^'""^ ^""^S ^^^o"^-

pHshed''

poafsIstpehsisosffparhmoiomlriuamsre,ltyalIklSnicodweonvr,elatohnpayetdoatphweehcreunlceiovanerdruocdtocuiornm,g mrpoeosinnetmsbelleiicnnttgroitchaiatt-ty

w TTcJsIeahXvluffess,kecmnooooffmfrpewtlahetettheeaerln,Iecgtotnhnrooeiruca'pagnlhlhci^sel.mtouehsi°leon"lrp,'ehwaech'nr'aidnchdhaoibsfesweotennbhogesaestadrgipovellpuedebdratdteruhtmarahanitacintepn,ghob«otfefehstenihtodehemeleseelncatmttortrynueo-.er-

My mtauaacactshstepntndaemeioddnnoddmnnesnuueomolpfrldnetetwhoaichntrenttinetif'rnega-aaie;siiclpalnut"cahsldbhlricopjeterleanoeooaiocr'gdwvprstto,"eoeaoaxtuusr"pmcirrss-mhiimsaeftnyqdegrtegutueoseor'wsssrliotecctse^onfoilri?osmgee'oleeneeca'nvattrm".eoirhf^fpfc"rmeauilth^uccRmph^eoiete^etosslycslentuepw^cpharsh°tehlreisarlceioo;ovl^tcsbmtlee^iihhlyycaetn'stest'ygarp^litmitrer^elttcidaoro^hihoesmi^tetnax\ioy,avposudofeefhsehfirriTMosbftgotwwep-emhomaehnheetvgtneedpneeeahe?ntao'rgmrc,c!o,e^anrohmtamenwXessmeeiodnnletfwhsiotanhaoioue-enntcnloWghro-!sfdt

rffenolr.escotmre^oltfv-uLnreral^f!/trer''''w''Ta*'^t''e\r'^^^h^^a"^s'^"c^'ea^s^"^ed\d  appearance as soon as the
                                                                                        continues to be perceived
                                                                                        to be decomposed.

trode  onllyv,^ anSd          TM.' '"'""  ^f P'"'^"'^^^ ^' the positive elec
                                          circumstances whatsoever at the
                             under no
                                             --

--210 REPORT 1840.

negative one ; for when the gases resulting from the electro-

lysis of water are received in separate vessels, the smell is
perceived only in that which contains oxygen.

   3. The odoriferous pi'inciple can be preserved in well-closed
vessels for a great length of time, whether mixed with oxygen

or with detonating gas.

    4. The disengagement of the smelling substance depends
   (a) Upon the nature of the positive electrode.
    (Z>) Upon the chemical constitution of the electrolytic fluid,
and
    (c) Upon the temperature of that fluid.

   With regard to the circumstance mentioned under («), my

experiments have shown that it is only well-cleaned gold and
platina which are capable of disengaging the odoriferous prin-
 ciple. The more readily oxidable metals, as well as charcoal,
 do not possess that property at all.

    It is worthy of remark that iron, though acting (agreeably

to my former experiments) like gold and platina when perform-

 ing the function of the positive electrode, does not permit the
 disengagement of the odour.

    As to the condition mentioned under (b), I have ascertained
 that the odoriferous principle is obtained from distilled or com-
mon water when mixed with chemically pure, or with common
 sulphuric acid, with phosphoric acid, nitric acid, potash, and a
 series of oxi-salts. 1 could not get a trace of it from aqueous

 solutions of chlorides, bromides, iodides, fluorides, hydro-
 chloric acid, hydro-broraic acid, hydriodic acid, hydro-fluoric
 acid, sulphate of protoxide of iron. If to the fluids (above
 mentioned), which permit the disengagement of the peculiar
 smell, small quantities of nitrous acid, iron vitriol, proto-
 chloride of iron or of tin are added, not the least portion of the
 odoriferous principle will be given out, however actively water

 may be electrolysed. With regard to the aqueous solution of

 potash, I have observed the curious fact, that the smell is some-
 times disengaged from it and sometimes not, the latter case

 occurring much more frequently than the former. I do not
 know yet the cause of that anomaly.

     Concerning the influence which temperature exerts upon the
 development of the peculiar smell, I have found that a fluid
 from which the odoriferous principle is abundantly disengaged
 at a comparatively low temperature, does not yield a trace of it
 when heated near its boiling point. I must not omit to state,
 that dilute sulphuric acid is the fluid best fitted for producing
 the smelling substance, and making the experiments which this
 memoir refers to. It sometimes happens, however, that even
         RESEARCHES IN ELECTRO-CHEMISTRY.          211

in making use of that fluid, the disengagement of the odorifer-

ous principle is either suddenly stopped or does not take place

at all. In such cases, the surface of the positive gold or platina-

electrode is not pure, i. e. it is covered with some foreign sub-

stance ; and to cause the reappearance of the peculiar smell, it

myis necessary to clean that electrode, which, by  experience, is

best done by washing it first with pure muriatic acid, and after-

wards with distilled water.

5. If some pinches of powdered charcoal, iron-, tin-, zinc-, or

lead-filhigs, or of powdered antimonj^, bismuth, and arsenic, or

some drops of mercury are thi'own into a bottle containing the

odoriferous principle (mixed with oxygen), the peculiar smell

disappears almost instantaneously. Iron and charcoal seem,

however, to act more rapidly than the other substances men-

tioned do gold and platina, when strongly heated, also destroy
                                     ;

the smell. Small quantities of nitrous acid and aqueous solu-

tions of proto-chloride of iron, sulphate of protoxide of iron,

and proto-chloride of tin, being put into a vessel containing

our peculiar principle, do likewise instantaneously annihilate

the phosphorus smell.

  A6. gold, or platina plate, after having been kept only for a

few moments within a vessel containing the odoriferous prin-

ciple (mixed with oxygen), appears to be negatively polarized.

To excite that polar state in the metals mentioned, it is a con-

dition, sine qua non,

(rt) That the surface of the plate of either metal be abso-

lutely clean and entirely free from moisture.

(Z») That the temperature of the metal be comparatively low.

Heated gold or platina do not assume the negative polar con-
dition. The current produced by such a polarized metal is of

so short a duration, that it may be considered as instantaneous.
Among the metals more readily oxidable than gold and platina,

it is only silver and copper that are rendered negative by being

put into an atmosphere of the odoriferous principle ; but the
degree of polarity acquired by these metals is exceedingly

slight.

7. Gold and platina having been polarized in the manner in-

dicated, maintain their peculiar condition for some length of

time when placed in common air. I have found plates which

had been exposed to the atmosphere, at least for a couple of

hours, still perceptibly negative.

  A8. polarized stripe of gold or platina loses, almost instan-

taneously, its negative condition, when plunged into an atmo-

sphere of hydrogen. If the metal is kept in hydrogen longer
than just required for destroying its negative polarity, it as-

                             p2
212 REPORT-- 1840.

sumes, according to my former experiments, a positive con-

dition. It will hardly be necessary to mention, that heat also
destroys the polarity in question.

   9. Oxygen obtained by the electrolysis of water, and deprived
of its peculiar smell by the means indicated under § 5, has alto-
gether lost its power of rendering gold and platina negative, and
is, in a voltaic point of view, as inactive as oxygen prepared in
the usual way.

Phcenomena of Polarization caused by common Electricity.

  A10. gold or platina plate, having a perfectly clean and dry

surface, assumes negative polarity when exposed to the action

of a positive electrical brush issuing from a metallic or any
other conducting point. The longer the brush is playing upon

the surface of the metal, the higher will be the degree of polarity

Aacquired by the gold or platina.   small platina stripe, after

having been exposed to the action of a brush produced by

thirty turns of my electrical machine, deviated the needle of a

delicate galvanometer by 60° ; sixty turns, under the same cir-

cumstances, caused a deviation of 90°. It seems that the

nature of the metal which performs the function of a point of

emission also exerts some influence upon the degree of polarity

acquired by gold and platina. Cceteris paribus, a point of

emission consisting of gold caused a deviation of 170°, a point

of brass only one of 60°. As to the metals (more readily oxid-

able than gold or platina), I have only succeeded with silver

and copper in polarizing them negatively by common elec-
tricity. The degree of polarity acquired by the last-mentioned

metals is, however, also exceedingly slight.

   11. The negative electrical brush produces exactly the same

voltaic effects as the positive one does.

  A12. platina plate, polarized either by the positive brush or

by the negative one, loses its electro-motive power when

plunged only for a few moments into an atmosphere of hydro-

gen. All the remarks made under § 8 also apply to the case

in question.

13. If gold or platina plates are connected with the prime

conductor of an electrical machine, i. e. made points of emis-

sion, they will not assume any polar condition, however long
and lively a brush may have been issuing from them.

14. Heated or moistened gold, or plathia plates, cannot be

polarized by the electrical brush.

    15. If the points of emission are heated or moistened, the

electrical brush issuing from them has no longer any polarizing

power. It was impossible to excite in gold or platina even the
BESEAKCHES IN ELECTRO-CHEMISTRY.                                                                                                                     213

slightest degree of negative polarity by holding these metals
ever so long against a brush issuing from heated or wetted

points.

   16. The electrical brush proceeding from heated or moistened
points does not produce the well-known phosphorus smell.
The easiest way of depriving the brush of its smell is to cover

the point of emission with a piece of moistened linen.

  Now in what manner are we to account for the facts above

stated, and what are the inferences to be drawn from them ?
   As to the smell being developed at the positive electrode

during the electrolysation of water, we can hardly help drawing,

from the experiments mentioned in the first section, any other
conclusion than that it is due to some gaseous substance dis-
engaged (conjointly with oxygen) from the electrolytic fluid by
the decomposing power of the current. But what is the nature
of that substance ? Is it elementary or compound ? With

regard to its voltaic bearings, it exhibits the strongest analogy
to chlorine and bromine ; of which bodies I proved, some time
ago, that they possess, to a high degree, the power of negatively

polarizing gold and platina. I have also formerly shown, that

these metals lose again their negative polarity acquired under
the influence of chlorine and bromine, when plunged into an

atmosphere of hydrogen ; there is, consequently, not the least

doubt that, as to its electromotive power, the odoriferous prin-

ciple bears the closest resemblance to chlorine and bromine.
Now, does not this great analogy between the voltaic properties

of chlorine, bromine, and our smelling principle, speak in favour

of the supposition, that these three substances belong to the
same class of bodies, i. e. to those which Berzelius called

' halogenia' ? If we take into further consideration the facts,
(a) that most metals destroy the peculiar smell, that is, com-

bine with the odoriferous principle in a direct manner, and even

at a low temperature; (;6) that the said principle is not dis-
engaged at the positive electrode, unless the latter be composed

of gold or platina ; that is to say, of an eminently electro-

negative metal                                                                                                (c) that the odoriferous body is  not  eliminated
                                                                                                          ',

by the current, if the electrolytic fluid happens to contain a

substance having a strong affinity for oxygen, for instance, sul-

phate of protoxide of iron ; and {d) that our peculiar principle
is always set free at the positive electrode, and never at the
negative one ; I say, if we duly consider all these facts, we can
hardly help drawing from them the conclusion, that the odori-
ferous substance is a body very like chlorine or bromine. The

odoriferous principle, however, may perhaps be nothing but a

secondary result of the electrolytic action. Such is no doubt
--214 BEPOKT 1840.

possible, and indeed it was the first view I took of the case.
The following reasons, howevei", seem to speak against the cor-
rectness of such a supposition. As chemically pure water (or
what we take as such), mixed with sulphuric, nitric, and phos-
phoric acids, with potash and many oxi-saits, yields the odori-
ferous principle, we must conclude that the latter proceeds

from water, and not from the other substances. Now what

secondary product does water allow to be formed at the positive
electrode ? The oxygen being eliminated at the latter, might
certainly combine with some water, and produce peroxide of

hydrogen. But this compound is not gaseous at the common

temperature, and its vapour is wholly inodorous. I have be-
sides observed, that platina enveloped with a film of peroxide

of hydrogen, is positive to common platina. From these facts

it follows, that the odoriferous principle cannot be peroxide of

hjalrogen. Or does another perhaps exist, consisting of hydro-
gen and oxygen, and containing more of the latter element
than the peroxide does ? Are perhaps even chlorine and bro-
mine compounds of a similar description ? The peroxides of
 manganese, lead, and silver, exhibit the same voltaic properties

 as chlorine and bromine, both groups of bodies being emi-
 nently electro-negative. Such a strong analogy, does it not
 indicate a similarity as to their chemical constitution? I do
 not venture to answer any of these questions. The present
 state of chemical science does not yet warrant us to speak of
 chlorine and bromine as of compounds, and I shall therefore
 consider the odoriferous principle as an elementary body, and
 call it " Ozone," on account of its strong smell.

   Now if we take it for granted that ozone is an elementary

 substance, and knowing that it originates in water, we must
 conclude that this fluid is made up of two electrolytes, one

 consisting of hydrogen and oxygen, the other of ozone and

 some electro-positive body. When a current is made to pass

 through such a fluid, both electrolytic compounds are decom-
 posed, their anions, oxygen and ozone, being evolved at the
 positive electrode, their cations at the negative, one. As to
 these cations, we know well enough that one of them is hydro-
 gen. But is ozone also, like oxygen, united with hydrogen ?
 All the experiments I have hitherto made with the view of dis-
 covering in the gas evolved at the negative electrode something
 besides hydrogen, have led to negative results, a circumstance
 which seems to prove that ozone, as met with in water, is com-
 bined with hydrogen.

     I do not, however, yet consider this point as definitively
 settled. That (what we call) pure hydrogen is capable of ren-
RESEARCHES IN ELECTRO-CHEMISTRY.                     215

dering gold and platina electro-positive, seems to me so extra-

ordinary and so important a fact with regard to the chemical

theory of galvanism, that I cannot but recommend it to the

Whyfull attention of philosophers.  indeed should a piece of

platina, being surrounded with a film of hydrogen, and vol-

taically associated with common platina, produce a current

when plunged into pure water ? Which is the chemical action

that possibly can take place under such circumstances ? Ac-

cording to the present state of our chemical knowledge, it is

very difficult, if not impossible, to give a satisfactory answer

to that question. Has perhaps all the hydrogen hitherto pre-

pared not been chemically pure, and does it always contain a

principle still more electro-positive than hydrogen itself, that

is, having a greater affinity for oxygen than hydrogen has ?
Careful experiments alone can decide these important points.

   The fact above stated, that ozone is not developed at the

positive electrode, unless the latter be either of gold or of pla-

mytina, is, in  opinion, very easily accounted for.  These

metals having, at the common temperature, very little affinity

for ozone, do not combine with it, any more than they do with

oxygen in the same circumstances, whilst the other metallic

bodies readily unite with the odoriferous principle*.

   At a high temperature, gold and platina appear to be capable
of combining with ozone f ; and this propei'ty seems to account
for the. fact, that from heated dilute sulphuric acid, for instance,

the smelling substance cannot be disengaged. It is, however,

possible that ozone, in the moment of its being eliminated by
the current, reacts upon the heated water, combining with the

hydrogen of the latter.
   The fact that no ozone is set free if the electrolytic fluid

happens to be mixed with some readily oxidable substance,
with iron- vitriol, for instance, seems to depend upon a decom-
position of water, the oxygen of the latter uniting with the
protoxide of iron, and its hydrogen with ozone. The non-
appearance of the latter is indeed very easily understood, if we

suppose its action to be entirely analogous to that of chlorine
and bromine.

   Before proceeding to the discussion of other facts, I must
say a few words on the polarizing influence exerted by ozone
upon gold and platina. In former papers I have endeavoured
to prove, experimentally, that certain voltaic conditions which
some metals (placed under given circumstances) seem to assume,

are not to be considered as real modifications of those metals

themselves (a view still maintained by some philosophers), but

* See § 5.                          t Ibid.
216 KfiPORT-- 1840.

as changes proceeding only from certain substances being in
some way or other deposited upon those metallic bodies. If,
for instance, platina becomes positively polarized in an at-
mosphere of hydrogen, and negatively in one of chlorine or
bromine, that metal itself does not undergo the least change
with regard to its natural voltaic properties ; and it is only the
film of hydrogen or chlorine that surrounds the metal, which is
to be considered as the seat of the electromotive power, or as
the cause of the polarity. Exactly the same remarks apply to
the negative polarity which gold and platina seem to assume

when put into an atmosphere of ozone. By a sort of capillary

action that substance adheres to the metal, and the latter being
voltaically associated with another piece of the same metal (in
its natural state) and plunged into water, the latter will be acted
upon by ozone just in the same manner as under similar cir-
cumstances it would be by chlorine or bromine. The film of
ozone covering the platina will unite with the hydrogen of
water, and produce by that action a current. This current will
last until all the ozone adhering to the platina sti'ipe unites with
hydrogen, but the quantity of that principle being exceedingly
small, the duration of the current cannot be long.

   Having fully developed my views on the chlorine and bro-

mine circuits in the Philosophical Magazine (August, 1839),
and everything said there applying to an ozone arrangement, I
have no occasion to enter into further details respecting this
branch of the subject.

   As to the depolarizing action which an atmosphere of hy-
drogen exerts upon gold and platina when negatively polarized
by ozone, it perhaps may depend upon the combination of the

latter with hydrogen. In order to account for the disappear-
ance of the polar state, it is, however, not necessary to pre-

sume the taking place of such an action. As platina becomes
positively polarized by hydrogen, and negatively by ozone, it is
obvious that the opposite voltaic actions of these two elements

must, mider certain circumstances, exactly balance each other.
   It is manifest that the facts considered throw a new light

upon what is usually termed negative voltaic polarization. The
results which I obtained some time ago on that subject are
pretty generally known. They seemed to prove that the nega-
tive polar state assumed by the positive electrode in water
(holding oxi -acids dissolved) is due to a film either of oxygen
or of peroxide of hydrogen. To the same cause I was inclined

to ascribe the negative polarity excited in that portion of aci-
dulated water which is near to, or in contact with, a positive

electrode. From the facts above stated, it now appears that, in

                       i
RESEARCHKS IN ELECTRO-CHEMISTRY.  217

both cases, the negative polarity results from the presence of
ozone. Indeed water charged with that principle is negative to
pure water, whilst the same fluid holding oxygen dissolved is,
in a voltaic point of view, inactive to pure water. Water

mixed with some peroxide of hydrogen bears to common water
the same voltaic relation as zinc does to copper. Without
having recourse to actual electrolysation, we may indeed pro-

duce, by means of insulated ozone, all the phsenomena of nega-
tive voltaic polarization, a fact which seems to prove the
correctness of the explanation offered of the phsenomena in

question.

    I also suspect that the peculiar condition of iron, or its in-
active state, has something to do with ozone ; but for the pre-

sent I cannot enter into that subject.

   It is now time to speak of the phsenomena of polarization
produced by the agency of the electrical brush. On comparing
them with those called forth by ozone, we cannot but perceive
a strong analogy between both series of phsenomena. The very
same metals which become negatively polarized by ozone, are

brought into a similar state by the action of the electrical
brush. The same conditions to be fulfilled, in order to polarize
gold and platina by ozone, are likewise requisite to render

these metals negative by the agency of common electricity.
The negative polaritj' developed by ozone is destroyed by the
same means by which we annihilate the negative polar state

called forth by the brush. These facts are sufficient to coun-
tenance the conjecture, that the cause of the negative polarity
is in both cases the same, i. e. that it is a film of ozone sur-
rounding the metals. I have stated (§ 16) that the brush can
easily be deprived of its peculiar smell, and that by so doing
the former loses its polarizing power. This fact clearly
proves that it is not the electrical brush or discharge itself
that excites in the metals exposed to its action the negative
polar state, but the odoriferous principle accompanying the
brush. This principle affecting our olfactory nerves precisely
in the same manner, and also producing the same voltaic effects
as ozone does, are we not entitled to infer that the smelling
matter in the electrical brush and the odoriferous principle

evolved at the positive electrode, are identical bodies ? It ap-

pears to me that they are, and I do not, therefore, hesitate to

ascribe the familiar electrical odour to ozone.

   But how does it happen that ozone makes its appearance,
whilst common electricity is passing from the points of a
charged conductor into the atmosphere ? To account for such
a remarkable fact, we certainly must suppose that there is an
--218 REPORT 1840.

electrolytic compound present in the air, as well as we suppose

one to be contained in water, and that the electro-negative con-

stituent, or the anion of that electrolyte, is our ozone. The

passage of electricity from the points of chai'ged bodies into

the surrounding air being in fact nothing but the act of the

restoration of a broken electrical equilibrium, or a current, it

is not difficult to conceive how ozone is set free near the points
of emission. Our supposed electrolyte being present in the

atmosphere, requires only to be placed within the circuit of

such a current in order to be electrolysed, or to have its anion,

ozone, separated from its cation. If all these suppositions be

correct, it follows that the electrolj^sis of our ozonic compound

will be most vigorous where the emission of electricity is most

abundant, and that consequently, at such a spot, the strongest

smell of ozone will be perceived, and platina or gold acquire

the highest degree of negative polarity. Now experiments

prove that such is really the case.

That the peculiar odour perceived when any terrestrial ob-

ject is struck by lightning has something to do with ozone,

Wecannot be doubted.  have been hitherto profoundly igno-

rant of the nature of that odour, and everything said and

conjectured about it by ancient and modern philosophers must,

in my humble opinion, be considered as totally unfounded.

We know the fact only, and nothing more. The smell pro-

duced b)' lightning is usually described as being either sul-

phureous or phosphorous. Twice in my life I had an opportunity
to observe this odour, once in the church of my native place

(Mezingen in Wurtemberg), many years ago, another time in

my own house at Basle, only last summer. The second case
being still fresh in my memory, I shall say a few words about

it. The object struck by lightning was a small chapel situated

on the middle of the bridge of the Rhine, and about 200 yards

distant from my lodgings. Immediately after the stroke had
taken place, not only my house, but also the houses of my

neighbours, were filled with a bluish vapour, and a pungent

smell was perceived. Six hours after the occurrence I entered

into a parlour which had not been opened all the day, and I

Mycould still perceive the peculiar odour.  testimony is cer-

tainly not wanted to establish the fact, that lightning always

causes the disengagement of an odoriferous principle ; but I

think that, on account of the great mystery which is still hang-

ing over that phsenomenon, the number of observations and
statements about it cannot be too much increased. The fact

related offers, besides that peculiar interest, that the smell was

perceived at a comparatively great distance from the object
RESEARCHES IN ELECTRO-CHEMISTRY.  219

mystruck by lightning. As far as  observations go, they in-

cline me to consider the odoriferous gaseous substance set at

liberty by the agency of lightning as ozone. Lightning being

the same pheenomenon on a large scale as the electrical spark

or brush is on a small one, and our supposed electrolytic com-

pound penetrating the whole atmosphere, electrolysis must

take place, and consequently ozone be disengaged to a con-

siderable amount, as often as lightning crosses our atmospheric

air. The assertion of some observers, that the odour is of a

sulphureous kind, and the statement of others, comparing it

vpith the smell of phosphorus, may easily be reconciled to each

other ; for I have remarked that ozone, when somewhat con-

densed, is rather pungent, whilst the same substance mixed up

with a large quautity of air, possesses a phosphorus smell. It

is well known that the generality of people call any pungent

odour sulphureous. Hence, if it happens that the odoriferous

principle set free by lightning reaches the observer in a con-

densed state, he will describe it as sulphureous, but like phos-

phorus when inhaled mixed up with a good deal of air. Hence

it follows, that the nearer the observer happens to be placed to

the spot where a stroke of lightning takes place, the more pun-

gent will be the smell perceived by him. The property of pla-

tina to assume negative polarity in a medium containing free

ozone, seems to offer an excellent means to ascertain the pre-

sence of that principle in the atmosphere. It appears, there-

fore, to be desirable to make experiments on that subject, and

to place, for that purpose, platina stripes (not being insulated)

in elevated regions, particularly on days when thunder-storms

are taking place.

Before closing this paper, 1 must not omit to put a question

of some importance. Does the electrolytic compound men-

tioned exist in our atmosphere quite independent of its aqueous

vapour, or is it (the electrolyte) carried into the air by the eva-

poration of water ? It is a matter of course, that this question

can only be answered by experiments, and I have not yet found

time enough to make them. Supposing the electrolyte to be

carried into the atmosphere by the evaporation of water, the

electrical brush should not produce any smell when passing into

absolutely dry air, and the quantity of ozone disengaged would,

cceteris paribus, be proportional to the quantity of aqueous

vapour present in the atmosphere ; i. e. would depend upon the
hygrometric state of the latter. It is hardly necessary to say,

that problems of the highest scientific importance would be

raised, in case it should turn out that ozone can be produced in

dry air. Be that, however, as it may, the ubiquity of our elec-
220 RKPORT-- 1840.

trolyte can hardly fail acting a most important part in the

household of nature ; and it is not impossible that the elec-
trical phsenomena taking place within om- atmosphere, the real

cause of which is still covered in dai'kness, are closely con-

nected with the workings of our presumed compound.

The fact of philosophers having not yet had the slightest notion

of the existence of such a body is, I presume, no argument against

its existence. If we suppose the electrolyte in question to be

a substance closely resembling water in its chemical and phy-

sical properties, and existing in the latter flviid as well as in the

atmosphere, only in very small quantities, it is easily conceiv-

able why its existence has not hitherto been observed. I
readily allow, however, that many researches, many experi-

ments, must still be made before we arrive at certain results, at

complete certainty, regarding the subject of ozone. Convinced

as I am of its great scientific importance, I shall not fail de-

myvoting all  leisure time to its close investigation, and to

sifting a matter to the bottom which promises to yield so rich

a harvest of results. I should feel indeed very proud, if the

British Association would honour me with the charge to pre-
sent them an account of my researches next year.

It would be not right if 'I did not expressly state, before

finishing mj'^ paper, that I owe most of the results above men-

tioned to a pile constructed upon my friend Mr. Grove's prin-

ciple, an arrangement which cannot be too highly thought of.

                       C. F. SCHONBEIN.

Bale, August 2, 1840.
                                                221

 Second Report upon the Action of Air and Water, ivhether
   fresh or salt, clear or foul, and at various temperatures,

   upon Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, atid Steel. By Robert

    MalleTj M.R.I.A., Ass. Ins. C. E.

 140. Since my former report upon this subject was submitted
to the British Association, as now printed in its Transactions,

 additional interest and importance has been given to every
branch of the inquiry, as to the durability of iron under its
 various circumstances and conditions, by the rapidly-increasing
introduction of iron vessels to navigation in the most difficult
and lengthened voyages.

    Amongst the several problems of a strictly scientific cha-

racter requiring solution before the use of iron ships for distant
voyages, or their economic adoption, under any circumstances,
can be pronounced certain, is the great question of their dura-
bility as compared with those of timber; and it is hoped

that the experiments made or in progress under the auspices
of this Association, and about to be detailed, will render, in

part at least, a satisfactory reply thereto. But, besides the
 desirableness of prolonging the existence of iron ships, it is
of the utmost importance to prevent the formation of rust at
all upon them under water, which, once produced, affords a
" nidus" for the growth of marine animals and plants by which
the ship's bottom is rendered foul, and her sailing qualities are
greatly interfered with. These causes of foulness are found to
adhere with the utmost obstinacy to the oxidized iron. It is
part of our object to endeavour to find remedies for these

 evils.

    141. The present report contains the first set of tabulated
results which I have obtained as to the amount and nature of
corrosion of cast and wrought iron under several different con-
 ditions of exposure to the chemical action of air and water,
whether of the ocean or of rivers, &c. And as this subject
 essentially consists of two distinct parts, or is to be viewed in
 two different lights, namely, as a chemical or purely scientific
 inquiry, and as a technical one, from which useful practical
results are to be derived, and as some portions of it, viewed in
the former light, are still under experiment, and likely to be so
for some time to come, I purpose, on this occasion, to reserve

I

the purely scientific consideration of the subject, as far as pos-
                               :

--222 REPORT 1840.

sible, for a future and final report, and confine the present to
the results and their modifying conditions which have already
been obtained, and are of practical value and importance to the

civil engineer, the iron founder, or the iron-ship builder.

    142, 1 proceed, then, to state the general nature of the ac-

companying tabulated results of experiment. The first five
tables contain the data and results of the chemical or corrodmg
action of sea and fresh water on cast and wrought iron under

five several conditions of experiment, continued during a period

of between a year and thirteen months.
    It will be seen that these five first tables, so co-ordmate with

each other as to form one connected and comparable whole, by
which have been determined the relative rates of corrosion, and
the absolute amount thereof, for eighty-five several sorts of cast
and wrought iron, under each of the following conditions, viz.

1. In clear sea water, at temp.   46° to 58° Fahr.

II. In foul sea water,     ,,     46° ,, 58°      ,,
                                            115°  ,,
III. In clear sea v/ater,  ,,                     ,,
                                  3^6° ,, 61^
IV. In foul river water,   ,,

V. In clear river water, ,,       32° ,, 68 ,,

   143. During the period in which the several sets of speci-
mens iiave been immersed, the five waters acting on them have
been examined as to their physical and chemical properties.

   144 The water of No. 1, that of Kingstown Harbour, con-
tains, in a cubic foot, 12661 grains of soUd matter, which
analysed with precaution in the usual manner, had the follow-

ing constitution reduced to per cent.

Chloride sodium                   71*32
Chloride magnesium                10-79
Bromide magnesium
Sulphate lime                      0-60
Sulphate magnesia                   4-87
Carbonate lime                      5*30
Organic matter
                                    l'/3
Lots                                5*27
                                    Q-12

                                                                              100-00
   I could not detect any chloride of potassium or carbonate
iron said to be occasionally present in minute quantity in sea

water. The amount of organic matter is very variable. It
therefore appears not to differ much in composition from the
waters of the British Channel, but considerably from those of
the Mediterranean and the Atlantic Ocean, as given in the best
                 --

ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 223

=published analyses*. Its specific gravity is         1027-80 · and

100 cubic inches of the water taken from the surface contain
in combination, 1-43 cubic inch of gas, which proves to be
atmospheric air, with traces of carbonic acid,
volume in seventy. This water is beautifully          or about       one
                                                      pellucid,      and
free from suspended inorganic matter. Its boiling point in
glass IS 214-5 Fahr., barom. 29-7 inches.

145. The following table of the amount of saline contents
ot sea water, from various
bearing upon our subject :  localities,  may    be    interestino^-  as

Table of Saline Contents in 1000 parts of Sea Water.  Authorities.

^'*^^!^ ge^                 ...          28-30        Marcet.
Arctic bea sea water
North Atlantic                            350             "
Equator                                                   "
                                         42-60

                                         39-20

South Atlantic                           4r'>0            "
                                         39-40
Mediterranean    ....[                   42-00        Laurent
                                         21-60        Marcet.
Sea of Marmora

rJlacK kSea

Baltic                      ".

                                     Q.QQ

'Dead Sea                            335.00

British Channel                          35-50        Sweitzer. ^
^"'^^^^                                  33-76        Mallet.

mvmauoutbc1hi4ho6m.r.eistOyDonrfoe.fcMLatarahrbuoorcuneesintactn,daalcsBvioodou.lisultmlaIeotenshs,aovtfaehnasdtneaeaLvwameagrmtroeabnrneigeaaenr,eiastbsoltoeactcceotadno,stiafooiinnnnadlt6lha2yse
present it.                                                          ^

pturto1rm4i7d.thoerTghmaeonuiwctahtmeaortftoetfrheNoofg.rae2a,tbolrKacitknhgaatsntodofwwtnhhiestefewoueclro,lsoeiuasrf,woauetnxedhr'aflutelaslkaeonnf

Aintolerable fcetor, and is permanently milky or opalescent.
=wmacwccaaouiittbnndeeisirrce,maqnuufiad?moecion,cttposaroiondgntfiurdden-Iagvtgcataoretcnsiorosesttn,hoatrenau(tmpdHllsey,etgsorsC1ee)3vte,o7hal9edvoo-mefff5isuxldlwtgrbhurysuairanbieclebnihslsnseoesftooocffrofonrrfstteeohselnehihntydtsdwsw^rmeaBoaaotastfteyuthrletebprhrehe^uaTarotshnibeec-daa

i T^ *'taaIDnroneeud'rIt,srhueePwlsihpsthawah'mat'tee'ae'oar"fvs"e?wtlr.hhiy*oim'scev'e'haarainmbadiobnlvoegef^l'ge^pcirshvolpewoonirr^it^tfdh"oie'ro^nt^ot,h^fhe^ehc' soasawl^el^caet^i.vuw^ema«r,t",I'etdrdochefooorflnicdsvatsterh,idbetocufnbeoraanmotrt-mes

                 · Marcet, Laurent.
--

224 REPORT-- 1840.

billed, one volume in thirty-six, on the average, of a mixed gas,

consisting of

                              Atmospheric air,
                                Carburetted hydrogen.
                               Hydro-sulphuric acid.
                               Carbonic acid,

the proportions of which vary at different times. The residue

of the water very gently evaporated yields at times traces of

=phosphate of ammonia. Its boiling point is in glass 213°*5

=Fahr., barom. 30*2 inches. Its specific gravity is  1-02770

at maximum found.
   148. The water from No. 3, or clear sea water, at 115°

Fahr., is of course, in all respects, the same as the water from
Kingstown Harbour, except containing less combined air.

149. The water of No. 4, or that from the river Liffey,

w^ithin the tidal limits, consists of a variable mixture of water,
having the same constitution as that of Kingstown Harbour,

with the water next to follow, or No. 5. It is alternately fresh
and salt with the rise and fall of tide, and always foul ; much
organic matter is suspended in it, and some extremely divided

silex. It evolves hydrosulphuric acid and common air on

boiling, and contains about one volume of these in twenty of

water. One cubic foot of it contains, after filtration, 58r5

grains of solid matter, Avhich consisted of

Putrified organic matter                       28*00
                                               49-73
.........Chloride sodium
                                                 6-10
...Chloride and bromide of magnesium

Sulphate h me                                  11*21
                                                3*00
Sulphate magnesia

Loss                                           1-96

                                               100*00

Traces of ammoniacal salts also are found, and of phosphoric
=acid or phosphates. Its specific gravity is 1*00227, and its
=boiling point is in glass 212" Fahr., barom.
                                               30*1 inches.

150. The last water, No. 5, or that of the clear stream of

the Liffey, above the tidal limits, and above the city of Dublin,

contains one volume in eleven of mixed gases, which are at-

mospheric air and carbonic acid, generally in about the pro-

portion                   94 cubic inches.
           Air
           Carbonic acid    6,,

                          100
      ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 225

consistin; Of                           "" ^''"'' "' '"''^ "^^"'^''^

      Sulphate Jime                                                      \     5'>-53
      Carbonate lime
      Carbonate iron                                                        *  24*44
                                                                                 ^.oo
      Chloride calcium                  '.'.'.'.
                                                                                g.gj
      Chloride magnesium                                                        4-22
                                                                                2-27
      ....Chloride sodium                                                       2-30

      ^°^«

                                                                            100 00

mwsIthodigacihvedstehrueinvrceiedvretraiLnifatlFrleaycpeprsaosbosafebsia,liatfryefeafcratloklmaolnit,ghepprrboeebvdiasobulsoylfycaanlrobbtiotneca'etdoevbeoyrf
                            I^^' boiling-pci^,it of this water

?l4°S^ 'i '^^·'k^"'

winder andfui^mL"'"' ""''"'' ^"^ ^"'^ ^^'^'^^^^ ^'^--

Tnprlt?: f!l *^\^^*T "\^hich the various classes of iron ex-

ctRtbehhfesee!esnpamaredrTyetttkhita'cooiud^lplseard"re"bkimyOnibsjmweehycittcpsh^hr.a^ie^tntv'h--'iveoiisu^eesiwner^axeenpprdoesrrettidh*me,aerpnierttesnwcioalhwulatvoidenoelnsb^yscerbeoienbbsefceduorrx;nvtiedhuduaeercnrhtdunaeevad-es

atodrhfieet1oi5rnoxe2naif.stdeuarurTtrpieheoodeonnftcooitorrhriorennroucscpsaiortsvl,etesuoieamrnncnottntsi,1hoi3enttshosoefueffrtmffaheoaicecrdtesetaaniobondflfeftwscihaavoeestftemcirrheneatgsiru,anallct&ttschv,e.eartira&shybcteiio.nncvgmeTsnhtwecaeioitstneeh!-s
clature of which it may be necessary to explain
rtanehcdgeIotwasttuheIrrSoofmlfuasecn,recushwsuaathrfnfiragececrehqeauibiatolrr;feien2tigtnhnhdetu,aoslilbrUeetonxnhsipeclfirtasoaairbfpnlmoeeedudsP.n,.odf,af,nc1odosartvn,eeudmrnbeUilrdnfeaiaoucvfrnieominsr^fgmoit,rahtmeholsrfyiponwllwohluiooemttw-nhh-

ssccrSaipinn^gTi's ffroun'dh  '"^^''''  ^? '^'""' ""^^^-^^3^ corroded on
                                        places covered with plumbaginous
                              in some

?rdVt Local^,'w!h"e^re^tIhePs^ur'f¥a^ce"o^f"^t^h^e'^i^ro«nfi^s^fdouanndd       black after
                                                                               only rusted
    ,
3rd,

4th, Local Pitted, where the surface is found as in the last

1840   * ^^^°''' ^ ^^ '" ^^'            ·" ^^P°'^' ^ -°-
--

226 REPORT-- 1840.

case, but on scraping the rust off the metal is found unequally
removed to a greater or less depth beneath it, so as to leave a
pitted uneven surface ; 5th, Tubercular, where the whole of the
rust which has taken place at every point of the specimen has
been transferred to one or more particular points of its surface,
and has there formed large projecting tubercles*, leaving the

rest bare.

   In one or other, or some combination of these forms, every
sort of iron, cast and wrought, wliich I have noticed, corrodes
when exposed to the action of air and water, by which is meant

water holding jiir in combination, such as all water at common

temperatures found in nature does.
   153. The 12th column in these tables contains the amount of

water, if any, absorbed by the specimen of iron. It was con-
ceived possible, from some known facts f, that cast iron long
under the pressure of water might from its porous crystalline
grain absorb the fluid more or less like a sponge ; if so, it was
necessarjr to know the amount of this as influencing the weigh-
ings. Means were therefore taken to determine the point, and
the tables show that in almost evei*y case no absorption has
occurred; where it has, the result is to be attributed withoutdoubt
to a minute " blow-hole," or cavity in the casting.

    It is certain, however, that under a sufiicient pressure, cast

iron may be caused to absorb water or other fluids, and experi-

ments are in progress to determine the conditions of this ques-
tion, which is not without interest and utility. The difficulty of
obtaining cast iron impermeable to fluids is M^ell known to the
makers of hydravdic presses.

    154. The tables Nos. VI., VII. and VIII. reduce into a small
compass the whole of the results of the preceding ones ; their
own headings sufficiently explain their particular objects ; it
is therefore only necessary here to make some general obser-
vations on a few of the more striking results arrived at so

far.

   155. On the average it will be seen that the metallic de-
struction, or corrosion of cast iron, is a maximum in the clear

sea water at the high temperatui-e of 115° Fahr. (y), and that it
is nearly as great in the foul sea water (|3), while it is a mini-

mum in the clear river water (e).

    156. The temperature is not higher in the first case than iron
in works of engineering, or in iron ships is likely to be exposed

 to in different parts of the world, as the following data in-

 dicate :

    * Report, § 49 to 59.  f Rpport, § 37 to r)8.
                                                    8

ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATKR UPON IRON. 22/

A thermometei' sheltered from radiation and

   on land does not rise, in any part of the    + 114°-8 Fahr.
   globe, above                                 + 87°'

One similarly situated on the open sea,         -- 58°

   no-where rises above
Lowest observed temperature on land . .

Temperature of the sea in any latitude or sea-

    son, never rises above                       +  86°
                                                    29° *
Nor has been observed lower than        ... --

At the mouths of tropical tidal rivers, or in lagoons, the tempe-
rature of the water, however, may reach a much higher limit.

157- I woidd here I'emark a cause of increased corrosive ac-

tion, affecting castings, such as cast-iron piling, &c., at the

mouths of tidal rivers, which has not, to my knowledge, struck

previous observers.

It is well known that the sea water, during the flowing of the

tide, from its greater density, forces itself beneath the river water

like a wedge, and slowly and imperfectly mixes with it, hence

two strata, one of fresh or brackish watei", the other of salt

water below it. Thus while engaged in a diving-bell survey of

part of the bed of the river Bann, in the North of Ireland, last

year, I found, during the flow of tide, the water strongly saline

at the bottom of the river, and yet fresh enough to drink within

three feet of the surface, the total depth of water being about

25 feet ; and in the Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edin-
burgh (April, 1817) will be found a paper by Mr. Stevenson,

C.E., in which he describes analogous phaenomena as occurring

at the mouth of the river Dee, at Aberdeen, in the rivers Forth

and Tay, and at Loch Eil, where the Caledonian Canal joins

the Western Sea. On taking water up at various depths at Fort

William, he found the specific gravity

                     =At the surface 1008-2,

                     =At 9 fathoms  1025-5,

                     =At 30 fathoms 1027-2,

or completely fresh at top, and salt as the sea itself beneath.

Now Becquerel has proved that a homogeneous metallic sur-

face (a rod or wire for instance) exposed to the action of a fluid

menstruum, M'ill assume a state of electrical tension, provided

that the fluid in which it is immersed be of different density in

two strata, i. e. of different corrosive power. In fact, the

metal and the two layers of fluid constitute a voltaic pile

of one solid and two fluid elements ; hence as one end of the

metallic rod will be in a positive state with respect to the

Nowother, it will be corroded faster than the other.       this

* Annales de Chimie, xxvii., 432.

              q2
--228 REPORT 1840.

is precisely the condition of any casting reaching through a

considerable depth of M'ater at the mouth of a tidal river. The

water is salter below than above, the part of the casting im-

mersed therein (the lower end of a cast-iron pile for instance),

will therefore be in an opposite electric condition to that of the

portion above, and the amount of corrosion of the positive ele-

ment due to the kind of iron, and the state of the water, will be

further increased or "exalted" by the negative condition of the

opposite end, which will be itself in the same proportion pre-

served. This principle extends to very many practical cases,

as to iron plates, &c., partly immersed in a solvent fluid, and

partly exposed to moist air, &c. ; and it suggests the importance

of giving increased scantling to all castings intended to be so

situated, to allow for this increased local destruction of material.

my158. In section (138) of   previous report, I stated the fol-

lowing as important desiderata for experimental answers as

touching the subject, viz.,

I. The rate of progression of corrosion in sea and fresh

water, with reference to increasing depth.

II. The comparative amount of corrosion in the same water

at various temperatures, within the limits of climate

and season.

III. The determination of the relation between the saltness

   of water and its corroding eff"ects on iron.

I am now enabled to state the law governing each of these

conditions, as deduced experimentally.

159. And first, with regard to depth : if water held in solu-

tion or combination the same volume of air or oxygen (not

constitutional) at every depth, then the amount of corrosive action

of the menstrua on iron or any other metal standing in its rela-

tion to air and water, at any given depth, will be to the amount

of corrosion of the same iron at any other depth, inversely as

the depth. This supposes the water stagnant, and that fresh

supplies of combined air are derived from the surface, and not

from a lateral current. It also only applies to moderate

depths ; and it is possible that at veiy great depths this law

might not hold true.

We160.  do not know with any certainty whether deep

waters, or the ocean, contain the same proportions of combined

air at all depths ; but within twentj^-four feet I have not been

able to find any difference in the volume of combined air from

that at the surface in either sea or river water.

161. This determination, of course, will not apply where a

constant supply of water, holding new quantities of combined

air, is brought in laterally, as in a tide- way or river. In this case.
          ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND VVATKR UPON IRON. 229

if the proportion of combined air be the same at all depths, it
seems probable the corrosion will slightly increase with the
depth ; but the matter is now under experiment.

   162. The second question, namely, at what temperature the
corrosive action of water on iron is a maximum, has with each
(sea and fresh water) two conditions, namelj^, when the water
is combined with air, and when it is freed from it by boiling, or

otherwise.

   163. In the first case, namely, in water and combined air, I
find corrosion proceeds fastest in fresh water at temperatures
varying between 175° and 190° Fahr.

    164. I find, further, that the rapidity of corrosion is in the
direct ratio of the volume of combined air at any given tempera-
ture ; and lastly, I have found, on slowly heating water holding
air in combination from 60° Fahr. up to 212° Fahr., that the air
is evolved most freely, and in greatest volume, at 190° to 195°

Fahr. ; hence we at once perceive that the reason why the
maximum corrosion of fresh water with combined air is between

175° Fahr., and 190° Fahr., arises from this being the point at
which the attraction of the water for the air is destroyed, or
nearly so, and hence the latter left free to combine with the

metal.

    165. If fresh water be deprived of all combined air, its cor-
rosive action on iron ceases in toto in a close vessel ; nor does
corrosion commence at a boiling temperature ; but if the vessel
be open and very shallow, the heat even of ebullition does not
prevent the absorption of air ; and oxidation, once commenced,
goes on even more rapidly than at a lower temperature.

    166. Information is yet wanting as to the temperature of

maximum corrosion of sea water, a question of greater intricacy
and importance with reference to marine boilers, and now in

course of experiment.

   167. As regards the third question, namely, the relation be-
tween the degree of saltness of sea water and its corrosive power
for iron at common temperatures, I find that in sea water, de-
pri%'ed of combined air, acting on iron in an open vessel, and
having therefore to originate its corrosion by air drawn from the
atmosphere, the corrosive power is inversely as the density of
the solution, or the amount of its saline contents.

   168. And in the case of sea water holding air in combination,
the corrosive power is compounded of the direct ratio of the
volume of combined air, and of some function of the amount of

saline contents.

    169. The tendency of dissolved salts to prevent the absorp-
tion of air by water, which is such, that a saturated solution of
--2?50 RKPORT 1840.

sea salt, deprived of aii', can scarcely be made to absorb air at
all; and that in dissolving most salts, expel the combined air from

the water of the solution, united with the circumstance, that the
voltaic conducting power of the water is greater in proportion to

the amount of its saline contents, indicate that fresh water may
hold so much combined air (not to speak of carbonic acid) as to
act more rapidly on iron than sea water ; that, on the other
hand, with much less combined air, the superior conducting
power of the saline solution may place its corrosive power on a

level with or above that of the former ; and that, bj' the variable
combination of these two elements, within their respective limits

of saturation, any assignable ratio may exist of the corrosive
power of aerated fresh and sea water.

    This might seem to render our enlarged experiments in the
open sea nugatory ; but it will be recollected, that the compo-
sition of sea water, both as to solid and gasiform contents, is

very nearly constant.

    The experiments from which these conclusions* have been
 deduced, were made on equal parallelepipeds of the cast iron,
 as in class No. 1. a. 77? exposed during equal times, and the
 oxides produced washed off, filtered and weighed ; hence they
 were all made in vessels of limited size.

    The part which the combined air plays in these reactions is
 very remarkable ; it seems to belong to the same class of phse-
 nomena as those known both in inorganic and organic chemistry,
 where the presence of a third body is required to commence or
 sustain the reactions of the three, any two of which alone are
 quiescent. Thus gallic acid, lignin and other analogous sub-
 stances, suffer no change, either in air or in water ; but add to
 the water a minute portion of an alkali, or alkaline earth, and the
 process of oxidation commences at once. Alcohol stands in the

 like predicament.
     170. It seems probable that the air, in the case of the reaction

 on iron, is not decomposed directly by the iron at all, but by its
 protoxide, previously formed by decomposition of the water,
 catalytically, or due to the presence of the combined air. If so,
 we should expect to find hydrogen evolved from the first mo-
 ment, as well as nitrogen, produced by the decomposition of
 the air. But water, although combined with air, absorbs about
 one and a half per cent, of hydrogen, while, unless the air be
 previously expelled, it absorbs no nitrogen ; hence decomposition
 proceeds for some time before hydrogen is evolved ; but on stop-
 ping the reaction at an early stage, and expelling the air andi

                                               * Report, § 158 to 169.
       ON THK ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON, 231

absorbed gas, traces of hydrogen can be detected: at a subsequent

stage, ai)d especially if the mass and surface of iron be great in

proportion to the volume of water, hydrogen and nitrogen are

both evolved, and the white, greenish or black oxides before

produced, become red. When this has arrived, the presence of

air is no longer essential to cany on the decomposition of the

water, the sesquioxide of iron, which acts as an acid to its own

base, supplying its place. At a still later stage, ammonia is very

frequently formed, especially where much carbon is disengaged

from the iron in the state of plumbago. These reactions closely

analogize with those presented by tin when acted on by nitric

acid. This metal, when pure, will scarcely, if at all, decompose

water cold                                  yet, when it decomposes nitric acid, it decomposes
                                         ;

water at the same moment ; hydrogen is given off, and ammonia

is sometimes produced during the oxidation of the tin ; but this
rather digresses from the practical intention of the present re-

port.

171. The powerful corrosive action of foul sea water (evi-

denced in Table No. IV.) by water holding putrifying organic

matter in solution and suspension, is due, in great part, to

the quantity of hydrosulphuric acid (H + S) disengaged from
the mud at the bottom, and with which the water is im-

pregnated. The iron, acted on by the water in presence of

its combined air and carbonic acid, forms hydrated oxides

(FeO + HO) and (Fe^ Og + Fe H+ O), and carbonate of

iron (Fe + C O^), and probably, in some cases, basic salts of

some organic acids. These, continually exposed to streams

of hydrosulphuric acid, are in part converted into protosul-

phuret of iron (Fe S), and in part into the bisulphuret of the

protosulphuret or magnetic pyrites (6 Fe S + Fe Sg), both being

formed in an amorphous state, or occasionally deposited in mi-

croscopic crystals in the tissue of decaying organic substances.

Both of these sulphurets are of most unstable constitution, and

rapidly oxidize under the action of air and water, forming proto-

Osulphate (Fe + S O3) + 6 HO, and the disulphate of the sesqui-
Hoxide (2 Fe^ O3 + S O3) + 6 O, and frequently various other more

basic sulphates. These, when soluble, are washed away, and

rapidly expose fresh surfaces of the iron to oxidation. In every

case, the water charged with these salts has become a better

conductor, and a more powerful agent in maintaining corrosion.
   But organic matter in a state of putrefaction is one of the

--most powerful deoxidizing agents known, so much so, as to be

capable even of reducing sulphate of lime in the state of gypsum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

hence these sulphates of iron are in their turn reduced in part
232 KEPORT--1840.

back to sulphurets ; and accordingly, in the neighbourhood of
ii'on exposed in these conditions, organic matters are frequently

found, lined, penetrated, or coated with crystals of bisulphuret

of iron (Fe So), or common pyrites, while their oxygen has gone

to form carbonic acid and hydrosulphuric acid, both in their turn

again to react in presence of air and water upon the iron.
   Hence, then, the prodigious power of degradation of castings

or forgings of iron, when exposed to the foul water of the sewer-

age of great cities, as so often observed ; hence the cause of the

destructive action of " bilge-water " upon the holding down

bolts of marine engines.

  A172. very interesting case, verifying the occurrence of these

phaenomena, has recently been observed and examined by the ac-

curate Berthier*. " On the 15th June, 1837, an ancient malle-

able iron anchor was taken up from the bottom of the river

Seine, nearly opposite Gros Cailloux. It was found imbedded in

a conglomerate of pebbles, bones and altered wood, with grains
of sand and fragments of pottery, of a light gray colour, and

held together by a calcareous cement, which had accreted round
the metal. The anchor was two metres long, and weighed not

less than 200 kilograms. It was thought to be of the fifteenth

century ; its form, however, agrees with those of the sixteenth;

and it cannot be more ancient than a.d. 1400. The crust
was easily detached by a blow. At one end was found a piece
of wood in immediate contact with the iron ; this had pre-

served its ligneous texture, so as to be easily recognisable ; but
it was deeply altered in its qualities. Its aspect was that of a
dark gray homogeneous mass, with an uneven fracture, and it

was strongly magnetic. By calcination and roasting, it lost

0*375 of its weight, and exhaled a strong odour of sulphurous

acid. Acetic acid dissolved from it 0*65 of pure carbonate of

lime, while hydrochloric acid dissolved it nearly entirely with

disengagement of hydrosulphuric acid.
   " The residue was composed of portions of unaltered wood,

mixed with a small quantity of persulphuret of iron (bisul-

phuret).

   " The analysis of the whole gave

Carbonate lime                       ....  0"65
                                     ....  0*18
=reS protosulphuret iron                   0*07
                                           0*10
Fe 82= persulphuret iron

Ligneous matter

                                           1*00

* Annales des Mines, vol. xiii. p. 661.
                                             --

ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 233

The iron must be, for the greater part, in the state of mag-

+netic pyrites (6 Fe S Fe Sg), and the remainder in the state of

persulphuret. The gray paste of the crust is coloured like-
wise by the sulphuret of iron [Berthier does not say which].

   "The production of sulphuret of iron at the surface of this

anchor in the Seine in contact with wood, is not surprising,

since we know that its waters contain sulphate of lime, and

that sulphates in solution are converted slowly into sulphurets
in presence of organic matter, with production of carbonate of

lime.

   " The carbonic acid, dissolved in the water, must have had
likewise some influence on the results of this reduction, and
it is probably to its presence that we may attribute the forma-

tion of the persulphuret of iron."
    These facts sufficiently indicate the accordance to nature of

the theory of reaction of putrid waters which has been advanced,
and are fertile in conclusions of practical importance to the en-
gineer occupied in works of construction in iron, connected with
the docks or harbours of large towns, or in similar situations.

   173. The average minimum corrosion is indicated (by Tables

V. and VI.) as occurring in clear river water, containing air in
combination. This difference below the index of corrosion for
clear sea water is to be accounted for upon the general princi-

ples already laid down * ; and as subsidiary causes influencing

the results are to be noticed, the absence of all extraneous cor-
rosive agents, and the circumstance that the coat of oxide of
iron formed in fresh water adheres obstinately to the iron, often
forming imperfect crystals, of brown hematite (/er oligiste),
and is not removed in a loose pulverulent form with the same
ease as it is in sea water, and hence acts in some degree as a
cloak, or partially impervious covering, to defend portions of
the metal from further action.

    174. It will be further observed, from Tables III. and VI.,
that wrought iron suffers greater loss by corrosion in hot sea
water (temp. 115° Fahr.) than under any other circumstances
 an important result as respects the construction of marine en-

gines and boilers. Upon the latter point a special set of ex-

 periments are in progress, having in view principally the points
 of inquiry suggested f ; and should the results of these experi-
 ments give a decidedly advantageous point of concentration at
 which to work marine boilers (other circumstances being consi-
 dered), there will be no difficulty, by the aid of the brine-pumps

 now occasionally used in first class steamers, and of Mr. Sea-

* §§ 1G7, 1C8, 169.  t First- Report, § 78.
--234 REPORT 1840.

ward's salt gauge, in preserving any such saline condition in the

water within the boilers as may be desirable.

175. These Tables also show that in general the removal of

the exterior "skin" of a casting by planing or filing, to the depth

of one fourth of an inch or more, great!)' increases the corrosive

action of air and water upon it, so that the cast irons so cir-
cumstanced show an average amount of corrosion, or, as I have
ventured to name it in the Tables, have an index of corrosion
not much less than that of wrought iron. This shows promi-

nently the value of a close-grained and dense metallic surface

for dvirability.

We17(>.   further remark, that while vvrought iron corrodes

faster than cast iron, with the skin so removed, in clear sea

water, on the contrary, the cast iron, with its surface or skin

removed, corrodes faster than wrought iron in clear river water.

This is due to the circumstance that the coat of hardened oxide

{fer oligiste*) formed in clear river water, adheres much
less obstinately to cast than to wrought iron, and hence me-

chanically protects the former less, while in sea water the coat

of oxide formed is more or less pulverulent in both cases.

   177- There are two facts of an altogether novel and singular
character which these Tables present us with for the first time

--the first, that " chilled " cast iron, of whatever sort, upon the

whole corrodes faster than the same sort of iron cast in green

sand ; the second, that the size, or scantling (and perhaps the

form) of a casting in iron forms one element in the rate of its

corrosion in water.

   178. With respect to the first, I have remarked f, that
chilled cast iron is that which, as compared with mottled or

dark gray cast irons, should corrode with the least rapidity

on principles considered as established. The facts now for

the first time elicited by experiment, however, show the di-
rect contrary to be the case. This may appear at first sight
to conflict with the principles already laid down ; it does not,

however, do so in any respect. It is still quite true that chilled

cast iron (that is to say, cast iron containing a minimum of sus-

pended or uncombined carbon, and of the highest density)

will corrode the most slowly, provided it be homogeneous |.
But practically, the exterior surface of no chilled casting is

homogeneous ; on the contrary, it is variable to a greater

degree than that of any other sort of casting, hence the forma-

tion of those innumerable voltaic couples by whose action cor-

rosion is promoted : in other words, the results of the present

· § 173.          t See §§ 3f), 44, 49.  + § 55.
                                                                                                          a;

         ON THE ACTION OF Alll AND WATKR UPON IRON. 235

experiments show that the voltaic action produced at the sur-
face of chilled cast iron, by its want of homogeneity, increases
the corrosion of the metal by menstrua, to agrf«/er extent than
its great density and hardness, and small amount of uncombined
carbon, are capable of retarding its corrosion, in comparison
with other sorts of cast iron. In confirmation of this it will be

observed, that in almost every case the condition of the corroded

--surface of the " chilled " specimens has been " tubercular,"

form of rust which, whenever it is found on iron, is an unfailing
index of a want of uniformity of substance. This want of ho-
mogeneity, however, is less in every chilled casting as we recede
from its surface towards the interior ; and, accordingly, I ex-
pect that the result of the next two years' corrosion of those

specimens, the whole of which are now immersed, and proposed
to remain so for that period, will show rather a diminished excess

in the index of corrosion of "chilled" over the other sorts of
cast iron ; the difference also diminishes with increase in bulk
of a chilled casting, which must be more uniform the larger

it is.

    179. This leads to the second fact brought to light by these
results, viz. that the size (and perhaps the form) of castings in
iron influences their rate of corrosion. With the view to deter-
mine whether any difference in this respect might exist, it will
be seen that in the series a, immersed in clear sea water, nearly
every sort of cast iron has duplicate specimens experimented
on ; viz. of one inch in thickness by five inches square, and of
one quarter of an inch in thickness by five inches square, but
differing in no other respect whatever save in this one dimension
only. Yet it will be observed, that throughout the amount of
corrosion of the quarter of an inch, or thiimer pieces, is greatly
more than that of the thicker, or one-inch pieces of each sort

of iron.

   The difference is greatest in the softest and most carbonace-
 ous, or leather "graphitic" cast irons, and least in the hard,
dense, silvery cast irons. Thus in the Vartey Hill (No. 2) hot

blast iron, the index of corrosion of the quarter-inch casting to
that of the one-inch, is about 5'5 : 1 ; in the Cinderford (No. 1)
 cold blasts as 10"35; in the Muirkirk (No. 2) cold blast as
 11*5 : 3, while in the Calder (No. 4) hot blast it is only as
 6' 76 : 6*20, or nearly in ratio of equality.

    This very striking circumstance would scarcely have been
 predicted before the present results forced it on our notice

 yet its rationale is easy vipon principles just applied to the case
 of " chilled " castings. These thinner castings have cooled

 much faster, and more irregularly than the thicker, or one-inch
--236 REPORT 1840.

ones ; hence are much less homogeneous, and contain dispersed

veins and patches liarder than the rest of their substance ; hence
again the formation of voltaic couples, and accelerated corro-

sion of surface.

180. This novel fact leads us to some important practical

Wedeductions.        at once see the advantage in durability that

weight for weight castings of massive scantling have over those

Weof attenuated ribs and "feathers."  see the importance of

casting the "feathers" on ribbed castings intended to be sub-

merged, of equal scantling with the other parts to which they
are attached, otherwise the attenuated rib will be eaten away

long before the principal parts of the casting will have suffered

mmuch ; and this not merely because there is less stuff the rib

to he eaten away, but because its smaller size gave cause for

its being eaten away proportionally faster, and in preference

to the grosser rib.

We181.  see the importance of having all ribbed castings

cooled in the sand before being stripped from the moulds, so as

to ensure the greatest possible uniformity of texture if intended
to be submerged. Indeed, this precaution ought to form part

of the engineer's specification for guidance of the founder in
preparing castings for every aquatic work, and for other reasons

it might be added for every work.
    182. These views give the rationale of the fact which has been

often noticed, but never explained, that the back ribs, of cast iron

sheet piling, decay much faster than the faces of the piles, al-
though the latter are more exposed. Thus in the Blackwall

piling the front ribs of the main piles are two and a half inches
thick, while the " feather" or back ribs are but one and a quar-

ter of an inch ; in the sheet piles the front ribs are one and a half

or one and a quarter inch, and the feathers but one inch.

   183. The principles we have now got also indicate that cast-
ings in " dry sand and loam," will probably be, cceteris paribus,
more durable under water than those cast in " green sand."

   184. In general, the results of these experiments show that
the cast irons with low commercial marks, the numbers 3 and 4,
&c., corrode locally and generally become pitted ; while the
high marks, the numbers 1 and 2, &c., corrode with considerable

uniformity over their whole exposed surface, in accordance with

the general principle just stated.

   185. On the whole, the practical preference appears so far to

be due to the Welsh cast iron for aquatic purposes ; a fortunate
circumstance, seeing from thence we draw the largest supplies
of iron. Closeness of grain is especially desirable, and what-
ever can be done in way of mixtui'e of different makes of iron
ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 237

to increase this property will be valuable. Still more definite

results, however, are to be expected from the examination of

the suite of specimens again after their present immersion.

186. With respect to cast irons made by the hot and cold

blasts, the index of corrosion appears to be, on the whole,

slightly in favour  of the  cold  blast,  but  not  much                         a circum-
                                                                              ;

stance possibly attributable to the hot blast iron containing a

different proportion of alloyed metals of the earths and of sili-

con, as Dr. Thompson has shown*, and to their general differ-

ence in density, as hereafter to be noticed.

   187. The great elements of difference in corrosion, however,

--as respects the iron itself, appear to be, I. The degree of ho-

mogeneity of substance of the metal, and especially of its sur-

face. II. The degree of density of the metal, and state of its

crystalline arrangement. III. The amount of uncombined

carbon or suspended graphite contained in the iron. The

more homogeneous, the denser, harder and closer-grained, and

the less graphitic, the smaller is the index of corrosion of any

given specimen of cast iron,

188. The Table No. VIII. is one deduced from all the pre-

ceding, in which, assuming the rate of corrosion found by ex-

periment for a period of 387 days, to continue uniform, the ave-

rage loss per superficial foot of surface, for each general class

of iron, and thence the depth to which any casting will be cor-

roded in a period of one century is shown. This may be con-

sidered as a specimen table, showing one practical end pro-

posed by these results.

189. The assumption here made, that the rate of corrosion

will continue for a century uniformly as during the first year,

is possibly not critically correct ; the error, if any, however, is

one not in excess, but in defect, for though the rate of corrosion

may accelerate, it certainly is not likely to be retarded. This point

the results of the continued experiments on the same specimen

novv in progress will, after two years more, fully determine.

Meanwhile I have strong reason to conclude that, after a suf-

ficient period has elapsed to enable submerged cast iron to be-

come coated with a spongy covering of plumbago produced by

its own destruction, then the further rate of corrosion will be

somewhat accelerated, and that hence the results contained in

this table are rather below the truth.

190. These deductions, in general, indicate that from three

to four tenths of an inch in depth of cast iron, one inch thick, and

about six tenths of an inch in depth of wrought iron will be

destroyed in a century in clear sea water, a conclusion probably

* Report of the British Association, vol. vi.
--238 REPORT 1840.

not very far astray where no special perturbations or causes of

corrosion supervene.

   191. This gives a period of duration of about two hundred
years to the cast iron wharf wall, lately constructed at Black-
wall, London, before the castings shall have become so atte-

nuated and fragile as to be useless.
    192. Having been recently in correspondence with Col. Pas-

ley, Royal Engineers, and Lieut. Symonds, of the same corps,
regarding the state of the iron taken up from the wreck of the
Royal George, with specimens of which I have been favoured by
the former gentlemen, an opportunity has occurred, through in-

formation for which I am indebted to Lieut. Symonds, of controll-

ing or testing the accuracy of these results in a very decisive

Away. number of guns have been taken up from the wreck of

the Edgar, which were upwards of one hundred and twenty-nine
years under water. The depth to which they were corroded
from their original dimensions, which were known, was found

to be seven-eighths of an inch on the average. Now let us ap-

ply the results of our experiments to see what depth of cor-
rosion they predict under the circumstances. Turning to Table

No. VL, we find the average loss for hard gray iron with the

skin removed (as in a bored gun) per square inch of surface in

= =387 days 13*55 grains in foul sea water 195 1*2 grains per

square foot, which, multiplied by 123*4, the times 387 days is

=contained in 130 years, and divided by 7000 the grains in a

pound avoirdupois, give a loss by cori'osion of 34*4 lb. per square
foot; but the actual loss has been 32*81 lbs. per square foot,
that being the weight of a square foot of cast iron seven eighths
of an inch thick. This strikingly close result is corroborated
by others on iron from the Royal George, immersed for fifty-
eight years, corroded from half an inch to three fourths of an
inch in depth on the average, and together prove that the re-
sults of these experiments may be relied on practically.

    193. I have now to make a few remarks upon the supple-
mentary tables which accompany the five first tables of experi-

ments, viz. those containing the results of corrosion of cast iron
covered with various paints and varnishes. These were mobtly
such as ai-e generally in use for such purposes, and were laid on
with great care, so as to cover the whole surface completely, and

leave as few microscopic pores as possible in the covering. The

general results are these : of the ten sorts of paints or varnishes

tried, there is not one that will completely prevent corrosion,
nor one that will remain perfectly adherent or undecom-
posed for a single year under water. In foul water, fresh or
         ON THB ACTION OF AIR AND WATJill UPON IRON. 239

salt, white-lead paint perishes at once, the white-lead being
probably converted into sulphuret by the action of the nascent
hydro- sulphuric acid yet white lead forms the great staple

                                                                                       ;

base for all the paints generally used for exposed iron works.
Caoutchouc varnish appears to be the best covering in hot water,
and generally in all the others asphaltum varnish. But boiled
coal tar laid on, the iron being hot, has decided advantages over
every other, the reasons of which v>'e shall presently see. It is
sufficiently obvious, howevei*, that nothing very important in
the way of protection is to be hoped for from any one of the

coverings tried, at least when used alone.

   194. Since these experiments were commenced, my atten-

tion has been drawn to the results of an analogous series obtained
by Mr. James Princep of Calcutta, and contained in the Journal
of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, which appear worthj' of notice.
The proposed extensive employment of iron steam-boats on the
Ganges, and the rapid corrosion to which iron is subject in a
hot climate, induced the local government to cause these expe-
riments to be made, to endeavour to procure a varnish that
should preserve the surface of the metal. Mr. Prinsep took two
sets of six wrought iron plates, each 3 feet by 2 feet, upon which

various paints and varnishes were applied. One set was just

completely submerged, and the other half-immersed, one half of
each plate being in the air and the other half in the water of the
canal at Calcutta, near the Chitpur lock-gates, where it is only
slightly salt. After three months' exposure the two sets were
taken up and examined, and the following table contains the re-
sults, which it is to be regretted have not the numerical pre-
cision that would have been obtained by weighing the plates
before and after immersion.

                                                                                Experiments
240                    --REPORT 1840.

                   _c

         a
         a

             §

                  ·3
                  .S

              «

^r

 e

 ii
          1
             c
             3

Ho

 ?,

  "i

k;
           ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 241

Coal-tar thus appears to stand preeminent as a covering varnish
for iron. The general accordance of these experiments with

those of the present report is satisfactorj\ The anomalous re-
sult, No. IX., with the zinc protector, Mr. Prinsep considers due
to its containing lead, which was proved to exist in it. Coal-
tar was finally adopted for the iron vessels navigating the wa-
ters of the Ganges.

    195. In the progress of these researches I procured, by the

favour of Henry English, Esq., of the Mining Journal, a speci-
men of " zinc-paint" now sold as a covering for iron when

ground in oil ; that which I received is in the form of a mode-

rately dark, gray powder, which decomposes water rapidly ; suf-

ficiently fine to form a strong full-bodied paint, when ground

with oil, which dries rapidly, though not quite free from gritti-
ness. As I could not obtain any very definite information as to

the origin or mode of preparation of this substance, and its va-

luable qualities were highly spoken of, I considered it worth
making a quantitative analysis of. It will be unnecessary here

to  state the method pursued                                                                                the analysis was performed with
                                                                                                         ;

care, and the results give the follovving composition as that of

the zinc-paint :

           Sulphuret lead                                                                                   9-05

           Sub-oxide and oxide of zinc . . 4-15

           Metallic zinc                                                                                    .... 81*71
           Sesquioxide iron                                                                                                     0* 14

           Silica                                                                                           I'Sl

           Carbon                                                                                           1.20

           Loss                                                                                             1-94

                                                                                                            100

    It would hence appear to be probably some residual matter

obtained in the zinc-works. I have at present specimens of it
upon iron in all the six conditions of experiment, and hope at a

future period to be able to report favourably of the results. I

should, ci priori, conceive that it would make an excellent body
for a sound durable paint, well suited to works in iron.

   196. Another sort of paint has been for some time much
recommended by the vendors, made from impure black oxide
manganese ground in oil. This may possibly form a powerful

  drier, but, from its harsh and dense substance, can never be
a suitable " body" for a paint j nor does it seem to offer any
special advantage in the former respect.

   197. The defects of ordinary oil-paints seem chiefly to arise

irom the instability of constitution of the fat oils, turpentine
or other organic substances entering into their composition.
    1840.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ''
                                                                                                            i>
                                                    ;

242 REPORT-- 1840.

All the fixed oils may, in fact, be viewed as organic salts or com-

binations of the oily acids, with a compound base generally

H^" glycerine" (Cjj  O^,), or vegetable mucilage. Most of the

oil of turpentine found in commerce also contains more or less

Nowpinic and silvic acids*.  all these acids i-eadily quit their

weakly positive organic bases, to form salts with the more

powerfully basic oxides of the metals, with which they are

used commonly in the formation of paints, as white lead,

ochres, &c. &c. ; in this combination, however, the original

organic bases are left free to form new combinations, under the

joint action of air and moisture, and of the metal on M'hich

they may be spread. The resultant action of all which is, that

the paint, in workmen's language, gets ' killed' ; that is, be-

comes either more or less soluble in water, or pulverulent and

removable by it ; and in place of preserving an oxidable metal,

promotes its corrosion. Pinic and silvic acids act powerfully

as such, upon mauy bases ; the former decomposes the car-

bonate, acetate, and most of the organic acid salts of copper,

several of the earthy acetates, and the alkaline carbonates with

effervescence when fused with them. Yet it is remarkable,

that upon the peroxide of copper, and several other peroxides,

it has scarcely any action. The electro-negative relations of

commercial turpentine, then, may be neutralized, if desirable,

in composing a paint ; but this is in every case attended with a

diminution of its power to resist the action of water. Priestley

first ascertained that volatile oils, such as turpentine, absorb

oxygen or atmospheric air, and combine with them in part.

In this they closely resemble the fat oils, and the result is

analogous in both ; they finish by conversion into resins.
Hatchett's experiments, and also the saponification by potass

of oil of turpentine, indicate that the volatile oils do not unite

directly with metallic oxides, but receive oxygen from then^,

become acid resins, and thus form resinous salts. Thus, if oil

of turpentine be heated with peroxide of lead, water is given

off. The oil becomes dark brown, viscid, and at length solid
the result is a compound of resin and oxide of lead ; common

resin, as Blanchet and Sellf have shown, is oil of turpentine,

=with an atom of oxygen combined C,o Hg O. Hence we

may conclude that oil of turpentine plays no chemical part in

the constitution of paints, but in so far as it has suffered these

changes ; in doing so its density is increased and its volume

consequently diminished, and hence every oil-paint is full of

microscopic pores, however carefully laid on, as may be proved

* Unverdorben, PoggendovfF's AnnaJen, vii. to xxi.
t PoggendorfF's Anna/en, xxix. 133.
           ON THK ACTION OF AIR AND WATKR UPON IRON. 243

 by the microscope ; and thus, when laid on an oxidable metal,
 corrosion slowly takes place through these, or, as workmen
 say, " it rusts under the paint."

     198. In the absorption of oxygen, which takes place when

  an oil capable of being rendered drying, such as linseed or nut
 oil, is exposed to the action of the atmosphere or of oxygen
 gas, the volume of carbonic acid formed is by no means equi-

 valent to that of the oxj'gen absorbed. Hence it is obvious
 tliat the drying of oilj^ paints is effected by a slow but real
 combustion of part of the hydrogen of the oil forming water,
 and by the partial acidification of the vegetable mucilage. This
 process is greatly accelei-ated by the presence of various sub-

 stances, but particularly carbon in a solid state. It is well

 known that lamp-black and oils mixed together in proper pro-
 portions absorb oxygen so fast as to produce spontaneous com-

 bustion at high temperatures, yet it is the slow combustion of
 the h5'drogen of the oil rendered more active by presence of
 the carbon, to which the exaltation of temperature sufficient
 to produce ignition was at first due. This combustion is already
 in part performed in the oils rendered drying by litharge, &c.,
 and still more in the burnt oil used for the ink of copper-plate
 and letter-press printers, and called by them " the varnish."
 In fine, in every combustible compound of carbon and hydro-
gen, combustion, whether slow or defectively supplied with
oxygen, seizes on the hydrogen first, and lastly on the car-
bon, and this leads, in the case of oil paints, to a succession
of changes of constitution, by which at length the original
solid material of the paint alone remains in feeble combination
with a little decomposing resin.

    199. The direction, then, in which we are able to look for
improvement in the preservative power and durability of our
paints, is in choosing from amongst the known groups of
organic substances, those which have greater stability than

the fat or fixed oils, and which, in place of being acid or

haloid, are basic or neutral. AmoiJgst the many substances of
this class which occur, few seem better fitted to form a sub-

stitute for the fat oils in paints than the heavy oily matter

obtained by the distillation of resin, to which M. Fremy gave
the name of 'resinein*'j it has the composition (C^q Hjg O).

=Now two atoms of resin 2 (Cj^ Hg O) ; hence this oil is
=a fluid resin deprived of an atom of water (H O). It is a

heavy transparent oil, destitute of taste or smell, insoluble in
water and alcohol, not acted on hy caustic alkalies, has a high

=boiling-point 480° Fahr., and reduces litharge, when boiled

                                  * Annates du Pharm. xv. 282.
241 RKPORT 1840.

with it, as the drying oils do. This substance can be obtained

in any quantity cheaply ; all the resins possess the property of
gradually combining w'ith water when long immersed in it, and

forming a porous compound, analogous in all respects to the

substance thrown down by water from a solution of resin in

alcohol, or from its combination with an alkaline solution.

When the latter is precipitated by an acid a true hydrate is

formed, consisting of an atom of resin and eight atoms of
water. Even copal, after having dried as a varnish, is gradually
acted on in this way l)y water, and becomes pulverulent. Re-
sinein, however, does not seem to be capable of forming a
hydrate, and therefore offers decided advantages as an aquatic

200. Reichenbach has lately shown* that Eupion (Lgi H,o)

may be obtained by distillation of rapeseed oil. Naphthaline

and Paraffine are both soluble in the latter ; and these, from
their stability of constitution and other properties, only require

a suitable solvent to form the most valuable bases for paint.
Naphthaline can be obtained in large quantity, in fact it is a

drug with those who distil naphtha from coal-tar ; and Laurent
has* hownt that Paraffine may be obtained in abundance by
distillation from the shale of the coal formations. In the com-

bination of these with soUd materials, the principal object to
be held in view to obtain a durable paint is to choose a metallic
powder or peroxide least liable to be acted on by the agents
most obnoxious to paints, viz. air, water, carbonic acid, and
hydrosulpluiric acid, and at the same time capable of intimate

combination with the organic base.

201. But in a paint, or rather varnish of Naphthaline or Paraf-
fine, no solid inorganic substance is necessarily included. The

only other component needed is a suitable vehicle to cause these

substances to spread and hold them upon the metallic surface.
This obtained, a varnish covering, more durable than aiy known,
Avould probably be produced. This is rendered almost certam
by the facts already adduced by Mr. Prinsep's and my own ex-
periments. In these, coal-tar laid on the iroii hot is immea-
Nowsurably superior to every other covering.
                                              coal-tar in this

state consists of naphthaline  enveloped  in  asphaltum                                        when  coal-
                                                                                            ;

tar is exposed to this temperature, naphtha and other volatile

matters are driven off, and the results of an imperfect destructive
distillation, in which hydrogen is lost, while naphthahne is a
product, remain on the iron a bright and solid varnish, ihis
not only gives the key to the only true method of applying
bituminous matter as a varnish, but it indicates the cause ot the

* Jour, fur Pract. Chim. i. 377.    t Annales de C/ihnie, h: 218.
                                        --

ON THK ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 245

entire difterence in preservative power observed between coal-

tar so used and Swedish tar laid on cold ; had the latter been
heated also until decomposition commenced and naphthaline was

formed, less difference probably would have been found between

them.

   202. In connexion with this may properly be mentioned the

method stated to be used for giving the beautiful jet black var-

nish coating to the Silesian or Berlin castings in iron. These

beautiful specimens of art are covered externally with an ex-

cessively thin coat of a black, shining, and remarkably hard

varnish, which is not acted on for a considerable time by strong

sulphuric or nitric acid, or for some hours by caustic potass,

and which resists oxidation of the metal beneath for a long

time ; but, when continually exposed to air and water, at length

forms isolated patches of rust, which gradually spread. The

--varnish is said to be thus produced : the article of iron is sus-

pended from a wire and covered with a very thin coat of linseed

oil, it is then hung over a smoky wood fire within about a foot

of the faggots, and exposed for some time to the smoke and

--flame generally about thirty minutes ; it is then to be lowered

to within three or four inches of the fire, now become clear,

and heated more strongly for a few minutes, and immediately

immersed in oil of turpentine, from which it is removed to be

Apolished with woollen cloths.  second application is some-

times requisite to give sufficient blackness and brilliancy, which

is always more readily obtained witn cast than with wrought

iron. It is difficult to discern the precise nature of the changes

which the oil undergoes in the process : watery vapour, Eupion

and carburetted hydrogen are probably given off, and some of

the volatile products of the wood, in imperfect combustion,

Amay enter into combination. different composition is recom-

mended in the Dictionnaire Technologique, vol. xxii. p. 164,

for producing this black varnish, viz.

Bitumen of India                            0*5

Resin                                       0"5

Drying oil                                  I'O
Copal or Amber varnish                      I'O

with enough of oil of turpentine to make it spread, laid on the

iron hot and baked.

   203. Amongst the mechanical coverings of iron for prevent-
ing oxidation, may here be properly noticed the fusible enamel

patented by Mariott, of London, and since by others. These

are very fusible glasses, having, by the addition of large quan-

tities of oxides, about the same expansion as the cast-iron culi-
nary vessels, to which they were chiefly proposed being applied..
                                                                                --

24fi REPORT 1S40.

They iire of very limited application, and appear to present a
good deal of technical difficulty.

204. These somewhat scattered facts, in the chemical history

of paints and preservative varnishes, are little more than suffi-
cient to show us the barrenness of this region of art, which has

received no cultivation as yet but that of continued tentation on
the part of the workman, undirected by scientific principles.

Much might be hoped for, important in technical results, by the

enlargement and correction of our still defective knowledge of

the organic chemistry of the fixed and volatile oils, the resins

and the bitumens. To paints or varnishes alone, however, we

are not to look for the means of complete protection from cor-

rosion  for  oxidable  metals                               their liability to  removal by slight
                                                         ;

external forces precludes this ; their proper place, as mechani-

cal protectors, will be found subsidiary to those which are de-

pendent on chemical or electrical relations ; and one of their
most important uses will probably be found in their application,

in union with substances poisonous to animal and vegetable life,
to the bottoms of iron ships, to prevent the " fouling" produced

by their accumulation, and now found of so much incon-

venience.

205, At the period of publication of the previous report, the

preservation of cast and wrought iron, by the electro-chemical

action of zinc, was beginning to excite that attention which

was first drawn to it by the views of Sir Humphry Davy, and
the subsequent experiments of Prof. E. Davy ; but there had

not been time to enable any very decided results to be given in

that report. I am now, however, in a condition to state the
results of a tolei'ably complete train of experiments made on

the protective powers of zinc, to iron and steel under various

circumstances, some of which have been continued for upwards

of two years.
   The experiments I have made on the electro-chemical power

of protection of zinc to iron are divided into two gi-eat classes

those in fresh water and those in sea water ; and each of these
classes again divides itself into two, namely, those made with

the preserved and preserving metals submerged to a greater or
less depth in the fluid, and those in which the metals were ex-

posed freely to air, and covered by an indefinitely thiti film of
water constantly renewed, or, in technical language, to " wet
and dry. In each of these conditions experiments have been
made on the protected metal, in presence of zinc in a massive

form in simple contact, through the intervention of the solvent
or fluid in which both were immersed, and also when the pro-
tected metal has had voltaic contact established with the zinc by
       ON THE ACTJON OF AIK AND VVATKil UPON IRON. 217

actual union, or, as I shall call it, in metallic contact, as in tlie
case of zinked iron, or iron coated with zinc at its fusing

temperature. Hence there have been made eight distinct trains
of experiment on this one branch of the subject, each of which
lias been carried on upon cast iron, upon wrouglit iron, and
upon steel, as the following scheme will serve to indicate :

                  All freely exposed to air and carbonic acid.

                                      r Submerged 12 inches                           sea water,

                                                                           <     j fresh water,

          Arin simple contact.        [   Submersion  indefinitely           [In      sea water,
                                                                    smalH ,           fresh water,
Cast iron

and <                                                                         -

                                      r Submersion 12 inches .                        sea water,

zinc.                                                                                 fresh water,

           (_ In metallic contact. \                                       r t sea water,

                                          Submersion indefinitely small <
                                      (_ ^ fresh water,

                                      {Submersion 12 inches .                         sea water,
                                                                                      fresh water,

                                          Submersion indefinitely small \ J^          sea water,

iron andW                                                                             fresh water,

zinc.                                 /"Submersion 12 inches               J _" sea water,

           I fresh water,
           (_ In  metallic  contact.
                                      <                                     ^    ^,"  sea water,
                                       [  Submersion  indefinitely  small  J          fresh water,

                                      {Submersion 12 inches                         sea water,
                                                                           ,i,

                                                                                    fresh water,

and                                                                                                       sea water,
                                          Submersion indefinitely small
zinc.
                                                                                                 y.^ fresh water,

                                      f Submersion 12 inches                          sea water,
                                                                           X\I,n fresh water,
           In metallic contact.
                                                                                      sea water,
                                          Submersion indefinitely small \ ,
                                      |_ fresh water.

I will not venture to enter here upon the lengthened detail of

these experiments, which will probably appear in a more suitable

place, but merely state the method and principal results ar-

rived at.

206. The fresh water used in all these experiments was that

which supplies the city of Dublin at the north side ; it comes

from Lough Ouwell, in a limestone district, county Westmeath
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;

it contains no solid matter when filtered, but a trace of car-

bonate of lime and of carbonate of iron. Tt holds in combina-

tion, however, one volume in eight of gases evolved on boiling,

which consist of

Atmospheric air                                               94*1

Carbonic acid                                                       5*9

                                                                        100*0 cubic inches.

The sea water used was invariably that from Kingstown Har-
bour, of which the analysis has been already given.
--248 RKPORT 1840.

   All the experiments were carried on with water and air at
about 62° Fahr. The cast iron is that of a 77, (Table No. I.),
or hard gray, mixed, Welsh and Scotch iron.

   The wrought iron. No. 2, Welsh bar, and the steel (l) cast

steel, of the Mersey Steel Company's make. The depth of im-
mersion in all the submerged experiments was uniformly twelve
inches, in glass vessels. The zinc used was nearly pure. The
volume of water employed in each experiment was fifty cubic

inches.

Of Cast Iron in simple contact luith Zinc immersed in Fresh

                                            Water.

    207- If cast iron be perfectly free from any initial stains of
rust, and quite homogeneous in texture, it is electro-chemically
preserved by the contact of an equal surface of pure zinc, for an
indefinite period, during which the zinc is oxidated, the oxide of
zinc is transferred to the surface of the iron, and forms mammillary
concretions on it ; after which the protective power of the zinc
is greatly diminished, and at this stage the contact of any sub-

-- --stance, even a neutral one, such as glass with the iron, is

sufficient to originate oxidation upon it, which, once established,
gradually extends, without the zinc having power to arrest it.

The oxide of iron produced has the composition (Fe O + Fe^ O3)
 + H0*.

     208. If cast iron, having a polished surface, be suffered to
 contract any coating of rust, although the surface be afterwards
 perfectly polished to the eye, yet zinc, in simple contact, has
lost nearly the whole of its power of protection ; the zinc and

iron both oxidize from the moment of immersion. If the surface
be removed by the file to some depth, however, the remaining

 metal is preserved.
    209. If wrought iron has been exposed to solvent action in

 contact with a powerfully electro-negative metal, as copper or
 mercury, for a considerable time, and its surface be then removed,
 even to the depth of j^th of an inch, or more, with the file, and
immersed in contact with zinc, the latter is found to have lost
 nearly all protective power with respect to it. Cast iron so cir-
 cumstanced corrodes from the first moment, and the oxide is de-
 posited in tubercles.

   210. On the other hand, if wrought iron, a portion of whose

    * The fovniulEe used for these oxides have respect merely to composition, and
 not to proportion, which varies with tlie duration of exposure.
                          ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 249

surface has been in metallic contact with zinc, or other more

IJowerfuUy electro-positive metal, while immersed in a solvent,
have its surface removed by the file to the depth of y^^th of an
inch or more, and be then immersed alone in fresh or sea water

oxidation does not take place at all for a considerable time, and

only forms at length in minute detached tubercles.

211. Thus it appears that wrought iron, which has been for a

length of time in contact with an electro- negative metal in pre-

sence of a solvent, acquires an electro-positive polarity, while that
which has been so circumstanced with an electro-positive metal

acquires an electro-negative polarity. The same phaenomena do

not present themselves with cast iron to the same extent, but yet

are discernible.

To this curious subject of electro-polarization. Dr. Andrews's

experiments on bismuth andplatina supply analogous instances
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;

and an interesting paper on the same, as effecting copper and
platina, has been much overlooked in the thirteenth volume of
the Journal of the Royal Institution, p. 200. I introduce these
two last experiments (209. 210) here for the purpose of remark-
ing, that no piece of iron which has before been used for any such

experiments as the present, should be used again for a different
one. Before becoming aware of this, I was tormented with
anomalous results.

  212. I stated in my previous report, that the views of Payen

and Dumas, viz. that the cause of tubercular corrosion was a

slightly alkaline reaction of the corroding water, seemed to me
unnecessary to account for the phaenomena. I am now enabled

to state, that the sole essential circumstance to tubercular corro-

sion is want of homogeneity in the metal corroded, and that I

have obtained the most marked tubercular corrosion of cast iron

in pure distilled water, and in acidulous fluids. The corroding

agent must, of course, be such as will not dissolve the oxide pro-

duced                     and it must be admitted, that all other things being the
                       ;

same, the presence of an alkali greatly exalts the tendency to

tubercular deposition of oxide, which may, however, take place

without it.

Of Cast Iron in si?nple contact with Zinc imynersed in Sea

                                            Water.

   213. Cast iron, perfectly free from initial rust, is perfectly
preserved from oxidation in sea water by an equal surface of
zinc. The latter is oxidated; but the oxide formed is not

transferred to the surface of the iron, nor does it adhere to

that of the zinc : it is washed away in a flocculent form, and

IS partly dissolved by the saline contents of the sea water.
250 UE PORT-- 1840.

Yet, after the lapse of a considerable time, the whole surface
of the zinc becomes covered with a thin, black, hard crust of
sub-oxide, on which are deposited minute crjstals of calc spar,
produced by decomposition of the salts of lime in the sea water.

When this has taken place, the protective powers of the zinc are

greatly diminished, or nearly destroyed.

Of Cast Iron in simple contact with Zinc at an indefiniteli/

                           small depth in Fresh Water.

    214. Cast iron, free from initial rust, so exposed in contact

with an equal surface of zinc, is oxidized from the first moment
of exposui'e. The zinc is oxidized also, and the oxide forms

concretions at the point of contact of the metals, and increases
the oxidation of both metals ; so that of two equal surfaces of
cast iron, exposed during equal times to an indefinitely small
depth of fresh water, the one alone, and the other in simple con-
tact with an equal surface of zinc, the latter will lose the greater
amount by oxidation.

   215. When cast iron, free from initial rust, is exposed to an

itide/initeli/ small depth of sea water, in simple contact wilh
an equal surface of zinc, its oxidation is retarded, but not pre-
vented, and after a time takes place, as in the last case.

Of Wrought Iron in simple contact with Zinc immersed in

                                       Fresh Water.

   216. Wrought iron, free from initial rust, exposed in contact

with an equal surface of zinc, is preserved from oxidation until
a large amount of oxide of zinc has concreted at the point of
junction of the metals, when tlie iron gradually begins to form
tubercular points of oxide on its upper side. The oxide has the

Ocomposition (Fe + Feg 03) + !! O. Carbon is deposited in

microscopic crystals on the zinc.

   217. Wrought iron, under the same circumstances as above,
but immersed in sea water, is preserved for a time. But although

the oxide of zinc deposits on the iron with greater difficulty in
sea than in fresh water, yet it does so at length, along with cry-
stals of calc spar; after wliich the protection of the zinc becomes
uncertain, and is disturbed by the contact of any neutral solid.

Of Wrought Iron exposed in simple contact zcith Zinc at an

                 indefinitely small depth in Fresh JVater.

   218. When wrought iron, free from initial rust, is exposed

thus, in simple contact with an equal surface of zinc, oxidation

commences at once, and proceeds rapidly. The zinc is oxidized
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

also, and the oxide of zinc adheres to the points of contact of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
        ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 251

the metals in mammillarv concretions. The oxide of iron formed

HO Ohas the composition (Fe + Fe^ O3) + (Fe 4- C Oo) + O.

  219. Whemvrought iron is exposed under the same circum-

stances as above, but to sea tvater, the same phasnomena as in

the last case present themselves, but much more slowly, much

of the oxide of zinc being dissolved in the sea water.

Of Cast Steel exposed in simple contact ivith Zinc, immersed

                                    in Fresh Water.

When220.  cast steel, free from initial rust, is exposed in

simple contact with an equal surface of zinc, the general surface

of the metal remains bright, but tubercular oxidation gradually

takes place at the points of junction of the steel and zinc ; the
latter oxidizes less as this proceeds, and finally ceases to protect

the steel at all. Carbon is transferred from the steel to the

surface of the zinc. The oxide formed has the composition

(FeO + F2 03) + HO.

Of Cast Steel in simple contact with Zinc immersed in Sea
                                           Water.

   221. In this case, the same phaenomena take place as in the
last, but much more slowly.

Of Cast Steel in simple contact ivith Zinc, exposed in an in-
                 dejxnitely small depth of Fresh Water.

222. Cast steel, free from initial rust, thus exposed in sim-

ple contact with an equal surface of zinc, soon begins to rust in

irregular patches. The zinc also oxidizes, and the oxide forms

concretions at the points of contact ; after which the steel ox-

idizes still faster, so that in equal time it loses rather more by

oxidation than an equal surface of cast steel, exposed as above,

alone.

When223.  cast steel, free from initial rust, is exposed in

simple contact with an equal surface of zinc to an indefinitely

small depth of sea water, the same pliffinomena, as in the last
case, present themselves, but much more slowly.

--Of Wrought Iron in metallic contact ivith Ziiic, or Zitiked
        Iron. Of Zinked Iron immersed in Sea Water.
  A224. plate of zinked iron was immersed for twenty-five
months in sea water ; its whole surface was zinked. On ex-

amination, the surface was covered with a hard black coat of
sub-oxide, over which was a thin coating of crystalline car-
bonate of lime, but no symptoms of oxide of iron were to be
--252 RKPORT 1840.

seen. Very little of the zinc was dissolved, and a little loose
oxides were in the bottom of the glass jar, which proved to be

(Zn O + C O2) + (Ca O + C 0,,) + (Fe O f Fe^ O3) + (Zn O + FesOg)
+ HO.

  A225. plate the same as the foregoing in all respects, im-

mersed the same time in a saturated solution of common salt,

on examination presented the same phsenomena, but less strongly

ma rked.

  Of the ratio of Zinked surface to that of Iron necessary to

               protect the latter, immersed in Sea Water.

   226. When equal parallelopipeds of partiallj' zinked iron are

immersed in sea water, having the following ratio of zinked

surface to that of the iron, viz.
--254 REPORT 1840.

shown, that as soon as oxidation takes place at any point upon
the iron surface, the pi-otective power of the zinc is at once
diminished, or rendered null.

Of Iron in metallic contact ivith Zinc exposed to an indefinitehj

                           small depth of Sea JVatev.

  230. When seA'eral equal parallelopipeds of iron, having the

following ratios of zinked surface to those of iron, viz.

«... ... ...Surface of Zinc.
                      4-00
                                 Surface of Iron.
                    :1
... ...h . . . 2-00
                    :1
... ...c . . . 1-00
                    ;1
... ...d . . . 0-25
                    :1
... ...e . . . 0-125 : 1
... .../ . . . 0-065 : 1
...g . . . 0-13125 . .
                    :                                 1

...h . . . 0-015625.:                                 1

...i . . . 0-00786 . .:                               1

are exposed to an indefinitely small depth of sea water, the iron

I'emained bright and free from oxide, down to the ratio of 0-065

of zinc to 1 of iron ; but in all below this the iron suffered ox-
idation tubercularly. The oxide of zinc for-aied did not adhere
to either the iron or the zinc, and was partly precipitated in a
flocculent form, and partly dissolved in the sea water. Within
the period of experiment the limit of protective power of zinc
in metallic contact with iron, under the present condition, lies
between j^^nd and g'jth of the surface of the latter.

Of Iron in metallic contact ivith Zinc, exposed to an in-

                  definitely small depth of Fresh Water.

231. When several parallelopipeds of iron having the follow-

ing ratios of zinked surfaces to those of iron, viz.

Surface of Zinc.       Surface of Iron.
..:..!h 30-0
..:..!I 20-0
..:..!m 10-0
..:..!n 5-0
..:..!o 2-0
..:..!p 1-0

were exposed to an indefinitely small depth of fresh water,

oxide of zinc was formed from the moment of expo.sure, on all,

which formed hard mam miliary concretions on the surface of the

zinc, and also in isolated centres on that of the iron ; but from

the ratio of equal surfaces of zinc to iron, up to the proportion
         ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 2o;>

of thirty times the surface of zinc to that of iron, complete
electro-chemical protective power could not be procured even

for a few hours. With equal surfaces of zinc and iron the
latter became red-rusty in twelve hours, in tubercular masses,

Othe oxide formed having the composition (Fe + Fcc, O3)
+ H O.

   232. From the foregoing series of experiments on the re-

actions of fresh and sea water on iron and zinc, besides the

immediate facts obtained, we are in a condition to make some
genera] deductions. It has been shown that the oxidizing

effect of fresh water, holding one volume in eight of air and

carbonic acid, is much greater than that of sea water, holding

one volume in seventy of air and carbonic acid, on cast iron,
wrought iron, and steel, in voltaic contact with zinc, all other

--things being the same ; this arises from two circumstances the

difficulty with which a saline solution absorbs air when once
robbed of it, but still more from the fact, that the oxide of zinc
formed plays a very diffei'ent part in sea water to what it does

in fresh water.
   233. In sea water the oxidation of the zinc produced oxide

(Zn O), and at length a coat of suboxide, which forms a dis-

tinct dai-k gray layer on the zinc surface, and may be detached

on bending the metal so as to obtain the suboxide in a state of
complete insulation from admixed metal, but none of the first
adheres to the metallic surface ; the whole of the oxide of zinc
formed is either washed away in a pulverulent form, or is dis-
solved by decomposition of the sulphates, bromides, and chlo-
rides of the sea water, forming sulphate, bromide, and chloride
of zinc, while the lime and magnesia form, with absorbed car-
bonic acid, insoluble carbonates 5 or if the iron be peroxidized,
the oxide of zinc forms in part a saline double oxide with the
sesquioxide of iron ; but the zinc surface is preserved clean
and uniform to the last, either in the metallic state or as a sub-
oxide, except when the reaction has been very slow and the
electrical current very feeble ; in which case, after the lapse of
a long period, crystals of calc spar form on both metals.

   234. Not so, however, in fi'esh water; here the oxide of
zinc undissolved forms local concretions of oxide on the sur-

face of the metal already covered with -a coat of suboxide.

Now the precise condition constituting a suboxide, as Bei-ze-

lius has well remarked, is to be decomposed, under the play of
very slight af&nities, into protoxide and metal, as in the ana-
logous cases of the suboxides of copper, bismuth, arsenic, &c.,
at each local centre of deposition, then of protoxide of zinc,
the suboxide is so decomposed in fresh water, attended with
--256 REPORT 1840.

decomposition of the water itself; hence results local action

on the zinked surface, between the portions of it in the metallic

state and in the state of suboxide or protoxide ; and hence its
removal in patches, by which the iron is soon laid bare in
spots, on which, when once peroxide of iron has formed to a
certain extent, the protective power of the remaining zinc is at
an end; for as has been shown*, the original difference in

electric condition betvAeen clean iron and clean zinc is so small,

that the former ceases to be negative with reference to tlie

latter as soon as it has been rendered more positive by the pre-

sence of its own peroxide.

We235.    have seen that the conditions the most favourable

possible for rapid oxidation of iron consist in its exposure to

" wet and dry," or to air covered with an indefinitely thin

film of water constantly renewed ; thus circumstanced, zinc has
no protective power over iron in fresh water ; and on the whole

it mav be affirmed, that under all circumstances zinc has not yet

been so applied to iron to rank as an electro-chemical protector
towards it in the strict sense; hitherto it has not become a prevent-

ive, but merely a more or less effective palliative to destruction f.
   236. There are some contingent circumstances in the re-

actions of zinc and iron, in presence of air and water, which

require a brief notice. All the surfaces of a parallelopiped of

iron, in contact with zinc, do not lose alike by oxidation ; in
these circumstances, that surface which is nearest to the source

of absorbed atmospheric air, especially if it be parallel to the
plane of the surface of the fluid, loses the most by oxidation in

a given time.

   237- AH other circumstances being equal, the upper surface

of a parallelopiped of iron loses more in a given time than
either of the others. The reason of this is, that the bubbles of

hydrogen escape freely from the upper surface as soon as

formed, and leave it constantly exposed to the action of the air
and water; but they cling to the lateral and under surfaces,
and so defend them more or less from the reaction. The same
result is frequently observable in a piece of iron exposed to a
moist atmosphere, but from a different reason ; here, in general,
dew deposits first and most copiously on the upper surface, and

    * § 207.

   t It is scarcely therefore necessary to notice, in way of contravention, a
paper in Po^gendorff's Annalen for last year, vol. xlvii. p. 213, giving an

account of the complete preservation of certain salt-pans by bands of zinc,

which are said not to have been in contact with the saline solution. The

paper in question is a curious instance of the " sophisma non causcB pro

Acausa."  recently-boiled satiu'ated solution of common salt has no action on

iron, whether zinc be present or absent.
       ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 257

hence it is the more moistened, and therefore the more cor-
roded. These modifying conditions apply, whether iron be in

contact with zinc or not.

    238. Water is always decomposed by iron or zinc in metallic
contact as soon as oxidation of either metal has commenced,
and hydrogen is at first absorbed by the water, and when this
is saturated, evolved ; but oxidation will not commence at all
either on metal in an hermetically sealed vessel of water free
from air, or on a body acting in its capacity as a peroxide. Hence,
while air is constantly requisite to maintain the power of de-
composing the water, it is not by the decomposition of the air
alone that the iron or the zinc is oxidized, as was maintained
by Dr. Marshall Hall*.

  239. In my former Report f, I alluded to the effect of

covering surfaces of neutral solids, as glass, &c. (beneath which

 the solvent fluid penetrated), in arresting corrosion. In the
progress of these experiments, however, I have observed some
 curious modifications of this condition.

    240. If a clean surface of iron immersed in water be covered
with a parallel surface of plate glass, leaving a film of water
between, oxidation will not take place between the glass and
the iron, at least for a great length of time ; it very gradually
creeps inwards from the edges, forming patches of green inter-
mediate oxide ; but if in place of the plane of glass a glass lens
of large curvature, and thus making very small angles with the
surface of the iron, be placed upon it, oxidation will commence
at the point of contact, and will spread from thence, although
the iron may be in such a condition, that if no glass or other
neutral solid were in contact with it at all, oxidation would
just not take place.

    241. So that, in general, whether a neutral solid prevent or
promote oxidation, depends upon its position in relation to the
surface of the metal. This fact seems to belong to the as yet
not understood power, in promoting chemical action, which
extremely small orifices or fissures seem to possess, as in the
action of spongy platina, of pyrophorus, of porous bodies in
the condensation and the diffusion of gases, endosmose and
exosmose through capillary tubes, and so forth. It has long
been observed, that in a crystallizing solution, crystals first
form at acute angles and on salient points.

    242. If a plane of polished iron, or other oxidable metal, be
fixed, forming a very acute angle with a plate of glass, ivory,
&c., and both plunged into water, oxidation commences at the
angle first and spreads from it, whatever be the position of the

       * First Report, § 11.                       t § 121.
                                                s
1840.
258 REPORT-- 1840,

angle with reference to the horizon. If the angle be formed by

two planes of iron, the same results follow. If a cut be made

on a plate of polished steel with a diamond, oxidation takes

place there first. Hence, in general, a rough plate of iron or

steel will be acted on by air and water sooner than a smooth or

polished one                                                 and thus we perceive,  in  instruments of pre-
                                                          ;

cision, the value of a well-polished or burnished surface.

243. The well-known difference in rapidity of solution be-

tween pure zinc and that containing an alloy of another metal

in small quantity, first noticed by De la Rive, induced me to

make a few experiments as to whether the protective power of

zinc to iron could be exalted by alloying the former with a mi-

nute quantity of another metal, higher or lower in the electro-

chemical scale. The following alloys were accordingly made,

and equal surfaces of cast iron submitted to the action of sea

water, immersed in metallic contact with these, viz.

                                                             50 Zn
          ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 259

    The primary object of these two series of experiments was

 to determine, in all its generality, the question as to the pre-
 servative or non-preservative power of brass or gun-metal to

 iron in sea water, a statement affirmative of which, it will be

recollected, was made at the meeting of the British Association

 at Liverpool. This question lias been pretty fully discussed in

my previous report, and it was therein shown that neither brass

nor gun- metal, as commonly so called, had any protective
power (of an electro-chemical character) over iron in water,
but, on the contrarj', promoted its corrosion. The few experi-
ments on M'hicli this limited conclusion was made, were tried

on alloys of uncertain, or at least non-atomic constitution ; it
was desirable not merely to set the question of protective power
finally at rest, but to establish a set of practical data for the
engineer as to the actual amount of increment or decrement of
corrosion of iron due to the presence of various alloys of the
orders brass and gun-metal, when immersed in sea water.

    245. It is obvious that this question is only a particular case

of a much more general one, namely, if there be three metals,

ABA, and C, whereof Cis electro-positive, and electro- nega-

tive with respect to B, and capable of forming various alloys,

BA-l-C, &c. ; then if be immersed in a solvent fluid in pre-
B Asence of A, shall be electro- chemically preserved, and cor-
roded, and vice versa. If B be so innnersed in presence of C,
B will be dissolved or corroded, and C electro-chemically pre-

served, the amount of loss sustained in either case by the posi-

tive metal being determined according to Faraday's general law

of volta equivalents.

   But now let various alloys be formed, having atomic constitu-

A A Ations, as 2 + C, + C, + 2 C, &c., and let B be exposed

to the same solvent in presence of each. Query, what will be the

Belectro-chemical relation of the metal to each alloy, in I'espect

to preservation, or amount of loss by corrosion ? and what will
be the nature and amount of the reactions of several such alloys
upon an acid or saline solution, of a third metal, or of either

of those constituting the alloys ? thus,

  246. When the metals, zinc and lead, and their alloys, having
+the compositions (4Zn + Pb) , (3 Zn -f Pb), (2 Zn + PI)), (Zn Pb),
(Zn-f-2 Pb), {Zn + 3 Pb), (Zn-f 4 Pb), are immersed under simi-

lar circumstances in a solution of acetate of lead, it would be
presumed that the decomposing power of every alloy would be

in proportion to the quantity of zinc entering into its composi-
tion. The result is not so, however. The zinc and the alloys

(4 Zn + Pb) and (3 Zn + Pb) at once reduce the lead of the acetate

of lead to the state of metal, and as rapidly as zinc alone ; after
--260 REPORT 1840,

the lapse of some days, the alloys (2 Zn + Pb), +(Zn Pb), iind

+(Zh 2 Pb) have reduced a few scattered crystals of lead ; but

the remaining- alloys, (Zn4-3 Pb) and (Zn + 4 Pb), act in all re-

spects precisely as the lead itself towards its own salts.

When21 7 ·  a similar set of alloys are placed in a solution of

nitrate of copper, a metal which is reduced from its salts both

by zinc and lead, then the zinc and the alloys (4 Zn + Pb) and
(3 Zn + Pb) reduce the nitrate to metal, and the lead does so
likewise. The alloys (2 Zn + Pb), (Zn + Pb), and (Zn + 2 Pb)

reduce the salt to deutoxide and metal mixed ; but the alloys

(Zn + 3 Pb) and (Zn + 4 Pb) reduce the nitrate to deutoxide alone,

without reduction of metal. From the relations in affinity for

oxygen between copper, zinc and lead, it was to be presumed,

that all the alloys of the two latter metals w^ould reduce copper;

+but it is remarkable that all the alloys between (2 Zn Pb) and
+(Zn 4 Pb) have less power of reduction than lead alone, while

the alloys (4 Zn + Pb) and (3 Zn + Pb) have at least equal power

with zinc alone.

Analogous phsenomena occur when solutions of other metals,

reducible by either zinc or lead, are used; and also when other

metals, as the alloys of copper and zinc, or copper and tin, are em-

ployed, so that no prediction can be made, from the known affini-

ties of the component metals towards a saline solution, what shall

be the affinities towards the same solution of their atomic alloys.

248. In this class of reactions it by no means always happens,

that both metals of the alloy, although both separately soluble in

the electro-negative element of the saline solution experimented

on,  are dissolved  in  the  ratio  in which they exist  in  the alloy
                                                                                                          ;

nor is it always the most electro-positive metal of the two of

which the largest amount is dissolved. The presence of each

metal, and of its oxides, affects the affinities of the other of them,

instances of which we have in the alloy of silver and platina,

soluble in nitric acid, &c. As, however, the treatment of the

general question of the action of alloys, when immersed in acid

or saline menstrua on the solvent, and on each constituent metal,

does not properly belong to the present subject, and a sufficient

general indication of their bearing upon it has been given, I re-

serve the details for another occasion, and pass on to remark the

practical uses to the engineer of Tables IX. and X.

249. In Table IX. it vvill be seen that the twelfth column gives

the amount of loss per square inch of surface of cast iron, with
the skin removed by turning or planing (during a period com-

parable with all the preceding experiments), in contact with

brass, and various analogous alloys of zinc and copper, and also
with copper and with zinc singly. Thus the engineer is enabled
                                                                  ;

                          ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 261

to predict the amount of loss an)'' piece of submerged iron- work
will sustain in a given time by corrosion, when brass, &c. enters

as part of the construction, as, for instance, in the rollers, chain-
boxes, paddle-sluices, &c. &c. of dock-gate work.

It will be seen that cast-iron alone, similarly circumstanced

to all the rest (No. 24), suffers a loss in sea water, as compared

with an equal surface of cast iron in contact with copper, as

8-23                      11 '37; that is,  the copper, as might be expected, largely
                       :

promotes the corrosion of the iron ; but the Table also shows,

what would not have been expected, that the alloy having the

composition (7 Cu.+ Zn), promotes this corrosion still more

powerfully, or in the ratio of 13'21 : 8-23, so that the addition of

this amount of an electro-positive metal to the copper actually

produces an alloy (a new metal, in fact), with higher electro-

negative powers in respect to cast iron than copper itself. The

Table shows that copper, and every alloy of it, with zinc, from

+(Zn 10 Cu) to (17 Zn-<-8 Cu) inclusive, are electro-negative

with respect to cast iron ; but that every alloy from (18 Zn + 8 Cu)

+to (5 Zn Cu) inclusive, with zinc itself, are electro-positive with

Nowrespect to cast iron.                    the last but one of the electro-nega-

+tive alloys is that (2 Zn Cu), which is the usual composition

of British brass of commerce, which, while it does actually by

its presence increase the corrosion of iron by menstrua, thus

fortunately does so in a small degree, as compared with other al-
loys containing more copper.

   250. It will be perceived that the alloys from (l7 Zn + 8 Cu)
to (23 Zn + 8 Cu) form a separate interpolated series, advancing

each by one eighth of an atom, and differing by only a single atom
of zinc from the alloy (2 Zn H- Cu) which precedes, and from that

(3 Zn + Cu) which follows. This was needed, and prepared after

the formation of the other alloys, in order to discover the alloy of

no action, as it may be termed, or that which, in presence of iron

and a solvent, would neither accelerate nor retard its solution

and accordingly we see it lies between (17 Zn-|-8 Cu) and

+(18 Zn 8 Cu), the former being slightly electro-negative, and

the latter slightly electro-positive, with respect to cast iron.

251. It was stated in the former report, that the really import-

ant direction in which to look for protection from corrosion of
iron in water was indicated by some results of Schonbein, An-

drews, Payen and other experimenters, and that the problem
was "to obtain a mode of electro-chemical protection, such, that

while the metal (iron) shall be preserved, the 2^^otector shall
not be acted on, and whose protection shall be invariable*."

This view Professor Schonbein himself, in a paper presented to

                                            * Report, § 136.
--262 RE POUT 1840.

the Chemical Section of the British Association at Birmingham,
passes summary judgment upon, by affirming that " the con-

dition, shic qua non, for efficaciously protecting readily oxidable

metals against the action of free oxygen, being dissolved in fluids,

is to arrange a closed voltaic circle, made up on one side of the

metal to be protected, and another metallic body more readily

oxidable than the former, and on the other side, of an electrolyte

--containing hydrogen for instance, water." Whatever opinion

may be formed as to the necessity of a closed circle, it is un-

doubtedly not proved that the evolution of hydrogen is the con-

dition of protection, sine qua non ; the experiments adduced do

not show it, while many others might be quoted directly show^-

ing it not to be a necessary condition. This is not, however, the

place for discussing Professor Schonbein's views at length, which

involve the whole qnastio vexata of the chemical and contact

theories of galvanism.

252. I proceed, therefore, to notice the seventh column of

this Table, in which is given the loss of weight sustained by the

alloys of copper and zinc while in presence of cast iron and the

solvent. On inspecting this column it will be apparent that

the losses l^ave not taken place in accordance 'with the law

of volta-equivalents : there can be little doubt that they are

strictly in accordance Mith that law, and that the results are ir-

resolublc from the involvement of two or more series in column

seven, arising probably from some of the alloys being simple

binary compounds, and others either double binary alloys, or a

mixture of a binary alloy with one or other of its components in

excess.

253. It w'ill be further observed, that whereas zinc alone in

=protecting cast iron suffered a loss of  2*95 grains, being

nearly the equivalent, the alloy (23 Zn -\- 8 Cu), which as fully

protected the iron from all action or corrosion, sustained a loss
but of =0'51 grain; in other words, the protecting metal was

scarcely itself acted on at all.

This, then, makes a by no means unimportant step towards

obtaining the much-wished-for electro-chemical protector before

spoken of; and henceforth the engineer will have it in his

power, whenever the alloy (23 Zn + 8 Cu) can be used or applied

in contact with cast iron, to protect the latter as fully as by

zinc itself; yet with a protector which shall suffer scarcely

any loss, and whose protective energy I have reason to suppose
will be, from this very cause, much more permanent and inva-

riable than I have already proved that of pure zinc to be.

   254. With respect to the allojs themselves found in this

Ninth and following Table, I believe so large and complete a
        ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 263

collection of strictly atomic alloys of the two practically impor-
tant classes of brass and gun-metal has not been made hereto-

fore.

   The principal experiments on the properties of this class of
alloys published, are those of Margraff; but his were not
atomic alloys, nor made in a way likely to ensure a knowledge
of their constitution. I have therefore deemed it worth while
to make some experiments on the properties of these alloys, and
have given the results in Tables XIV. and XV. : as these nearly
explain themselves, it is necessary to make but few remarks on
them. The alloys of zinc and copper were all made in close
vessels ; the copper was fused first, the zinc in another part of
the same bent wrought iron tube, coated and lined with porce-
lain clay and plumbago. The zinc was gradually brought in
contact with the copper : the apparatus excluded air, and was
continually agitated, until the alloy was poured into a mould of
cast iron, in which it was cast into a long strip, which solidified
instantly. About seven pounds weight of each alloy were formed
at once, and the constitution of each, where any cause of doubt
existed, was verified afterwards by an assay. Their composition

--therefore is rigidly assigned a circumstance which it is con-

ceived gives their properties, so far as they have been ascer-
tained, more than usual value.

   255. The modulus of cohesion given is higher considerably
than those found by Sir John Rennie for copper and brass

(2Zn + Cu), or commonly assigned to zinc. I have no doubt,

however, of the present being correct, and the difference arises
probably from the superior purity of the metals used by me.

   256. The immediate change by the addition of only one

eighth of an atom of zinc to the alloy (2 Zn + Cu), from a tough

yellow alloy to a white one of extreme brittleness, is very re-

markable. The alloy (5 Zn + Cu), and all the alloys of copper
and zinc having more constituent zinc than (17 Zn + 8Cu) are

electro-positive to cast iron, or protect it in solvents yet M'hen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

+the alloy of copper is reduced to the ratio of (25 Zn Cu), or

(100 Zn + Cu), the compound becomes again electro-negative to

cast iron*. These indicate, in a forcible manner, that these

latter are not simple alloys, but mixtures. It may be added,

that the I'eduction to the law of volta-equivalents of the losses

in the seventh column, may enable us to discover what is the

constitutional arrangement of the alloys themselves.
    257. It should be remarked, before leaving the subject of

+these alloys of Zn Cu, that their specific gravities, as experi-

                                                             * § 243.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;

--264 REPORT 1840.

mentally obtained in coiuinn five, do not follow the ratio of the
amount of copper, increasing as it increases, although tlieir
general tendency is towards this ; the greatest perturbations

take place in theinterpolatedseries(]7Zn + 8Cu)to(23Zn-)- SCu).

These specific gravities are taken on the alloj^s just as they were
cast, and suddenly cooled in the cast-iron mould ; but on sub-
mitting some of them to lamination, very variable amounts of
condensation took place. Hence it is probable that sudden
cooling produces an effect analogous to tempering in cold water
on the alloys of copper and zinc. Dussaussoy found that as
the latter became soft and malleable by tempering {tronpe),
their specific gravities were reduced in variable proportions
and it matters not whether this tempering be effected in water,

or by sudden cooling in a metallic mould ; the alloys now in

 question have therefore been submitted to this process ; and as
no link at present exists connecting the density of such an alloy

with its specific gravity after lamination, the densities now given
ill Tables XIV, and XV. will be found, in most instances, not

 to correspond with those occasionally given in books, and
which have been chiefly made on alloys submitted to compres-
sion, or cast and cooled in various wavs. The densities given,
 however, are I believe close approximations to the truth ; and
all the alloys having been cast in the same way, at the same
temperature, and cooled at the same rate, these specific gravities
must be relatively correct.

    258. Table X. contains the results of the action of sea
water on cast iron, in presence of copper and tiiij or their alloys.

What has been said of the preceding explains the general na-

 ture of this Table also. It is therefore only necessary to re-

mark here, that as copper and tin are each singly electro-negative

 with respect to iron *, they both, together with every alloy in
 the Table, increase or accelerate the rate of corrosion of cast
 iron in a solvent, though in every variable degree.

    The maximum increase is produced by tin alone ; which in-

 dicates that tin is more powerfully electro-negative to cast iron
 than copper, contrary to the opinion previously held. The in-
 crease of corrosion produced generally by alloys of copper and
 tin is far greater than by those of copper and zinc : hence the
 important practical deduction, that when submerged iron-works
 must be in contact with either alloy, common brass, or copper
 and zinc is much to be preferred to gun-metal, although con-
 trary to general practice amongst engineers.

    The losses on these alloys in column seven, as in the former
 case, do not apparently follow the law of volta-equivalents.

                                                        * Report, § 96.
          ON THE ACTION OK AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 265

    259. The ratio of the surface of the cast-iron parallelopipeds
 used in these two sets of experiments to that of similar slips
 of the alloys, is given : both iron and alloys were filed to an ex-
 act gauge, so as to present strictly equal surfaces, in pairs, and
the former made all of equal weight. The amount of loss or
 the " index of corrosion " of cast iron in contact with any given
 alloy in the Tables, will of course vary according to some un-
 ascertained function of the surface of the alloy and of the iron
 exposed to chemical action. The law regulating this remains
to be developed ; it is a subject of considerable complexity and
 experimental difficulty. The ratio, however, of surface of the
electro-negative to that of the electro-positive metal, may vary

to a considerable extent without very materially affecting the
results given in the present Tables, as respects their primary

 object.

    260. These experiments were necessarily made in a limited
quantity of sea water (12 cubic inches each), and all in separate
glass vessels ; and as this water was soon exhausted of much of
its previously combined air, the eleventh and twelfth columns

in each Table give the ratio of the actual corrosion in a limited
quantity of water to that which would take place in an unlimited
one, or in the open sea, which is deduced from the result of
(a 77) in Table I. first series, being on the same sort of cast
iron as the present.

    261. There are several collateral points of scientific interest
this branch of our inquiry presents, which I pass, as out of the
subject of inquiry. I would remark, however, that the results
confirm fully what had been previously stated respecting the
impossibility of protecting iron by brass in the ordinary sense of
the word. They also point out the inutility, not to say the ab-
surdity, of some inventions for the so-called prevention of ox-
idation, for which patents have recently been obtained ; for ex-
ample, more than one patent for so preserving iron by dipping
it into melted copper *, or coating it with copper or brass in
various other waysf.

   262. It has recently been proposed to substitute zinc for
lead in the operation of " cramping," or running a fluid fusible
metal into the joints of iron-works to secure them together, or to

   * Repertory of Arts for 1839-40.
   t I observe with pleasure that M. Karsten of Berlin has recently published

{V Inst'dut, No. 275, April 1839) some experiments on the electro-chemical re-
lations of alloys of copper and zinc, &c., to solutions of their own metals. It
is to be regretted that liis experiments do not seem to have been made on
alloys of atomic constitution ; but while unknown to each other travelling

(though with different objects) on neighbouring roads, it is pleasant to find
that our results have so far brought us to the same resting-place.
             --

--26G RKPORT 1S40.

other materials, in order, by taking advantage of its positive re-
lation to iron, to save the latter from the increased corrosion
due to the presence of lead, which is strongly negative to it.

    Zinc alone, however, possesses some disadvantages as a
" cramping " metal ; it oxidates with great rapidity when fused
in an open vessel ; it contracts more than lead on solidifying, and
it is too rigid to permit subsequent " caulking," so as to cause
it again to till the cavity into which it was cast. The results
which have been given for the alloys of zinc with copper render
it extremely probable, however, that an alloy of zinc and lead
might be formed eminently suitable as a " cramping metal " in
contact with iron, which, while it should possess the requisite
physical properties, would be found in such a relation to iron as
to retard, or at least not promote, its oxidation.

   263. In my previous report* I suggested the possibility of

preserving electro-chemically, to a greater or less extent, the
dense and hard gray cast irons in ordinary use for engineering

purposes by means of contact with the softest and most carbo-
naceous cast irons, such as those of Scotland and Ireland. I
showed that the latter sort of cast iron is, in presence of a sol-
vent, constantly in an electro-positive relation to the former,
and that of two such specimens of cast iron, in voltaic contact,
there was reason to believe that the denser iron would be pre-
served to a greater or less extent at the expense of the other.
Experiments on this subject have now been in progress for
twenty-five months.

   264. When four equal-sized parallelopipeds, two of very hard

dense bright gray cast iron, just capable of being planed or
turned, and two of soft dark gray and highly carbonaceous cast
iron, are placed, one of each pair, separately in a jar of sea
water, and the other pair (viz. hard and soft) in a jar of sea
water together, and in voltaic contact, the pieces having been
all weighed, and the sea water preserved at a constant level,
&c. &c. Then, after a period of twenty-five months had elapsed,
on examination the following were found to be the results as to
corrosive action :

   All the pieces were found covered with a coat of red oxide,

= O+having the composition {Fe^ Og) (Fe C-f- Og) -f^H O,

and much of the same had deposited in the glass vessels.
   265. The piece of hard cast iron immersed singly was found,

on washing off the coat of rust, clean and pretty bright, and its

surface still metallic. On weighing, and also measuring by a

micrometer, it was found to have lost a coat of iron over its

                                                              * § 129.
         ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND VVATJiR UPON IRON. 267

whole surface of 0*007 of an inch in depth, a result also con-
firmed by the amount of rust contained in the vessel, and on
the piece when reduced to peroxide.

   266. The piece of soft cast iron immersed alone was found,
on washing off the coat of rust, to be covered with a thin coat
of soft, unctuous plumbago, capable also of being washed away
by rubbing with the finger ; its surface was black, and filled
with glittering minute scales of graphite, but had lost its me-

tallic lustre wholly. On removing the plumbago down to the

solid iron, by rubbing with a piece of hard wood and washing,
the piece was found to have lost a metallic coat over its whole
surface of 0*01 of an inch in depth, estimated as before, and
controlled by the amount of graphite and rust reduced to

peroxide.

   267. Lastly, the voltaic couple, the hard and the soft iron in
contact, were examined ; on washing off the rust, the hard
specimen appeared bright and polished, and some minute file-
marks on its surface, as sharp as when placed in the sea water.
The surface of the soft piece of cast iron, on the contrary, was
black, full of scales of graphite without metallic lustre, and
capable of being rubbed away with the finger. The two sur-
faces, which were actually opposed to each other and in contact,
were iii both almost quite free from stain or oxidation, where
air and water with difficulty gained access, from reasons before

explained. On washing and cleaning perfectly the hard speci-

men from oxide, and the soft one from oxide and plumbago,
and weighing as before, the hard cast iron was found to have

=lost a coat of iron over its whole exposed surface 0*00263 of

an inch in depth, while the piece of soft cast iron had sustained
a loss over its whole exposed surface of 0*03 of an inch in
depth, both estimated as before, by weighing and measurement,
and the result controlled by estimation of the pei'oxide and
graphite produced.

    268o It is hence proved, that the softest dark gray cast iron is
sufficiently electro- negative, to hard bright gray cast iron, to re-
tard the corrosion of the latter in sea water when voltaically as-
sociated with it, to the extent of two thirds of the total amount of
corrosion that would be experienced by the same hard gray cast
iron, if exposed for the same time and under similar circum-
stances alone to sea water, and that the formation of plumbago
on the softer iron or positive pole, and the collection of a coat
of rust on the surface of both irons, does not prevent, although

it may possibly in some degree interfere with, this effect.
Hence it follows, that while the voltaic relations of soft to hard
cast iron are such as will not prevent oxidation upon either, it
--2GS REroRT 1840.

is yet in our power greatlj' to retard the corrosion of the harder
iron at the expense of the softer, so that the engineer is thus
given a principle of guidance in the combination of different
"makes" or sorts of cast iron in the same structure, when it

may be desirable partially to preserve some parts at the expense

of others of less structm-al importance*. Instances of such
cases, and of the applicability of the principle here given, will
at once occur to practical men.

   269. The engineer of observant habit will soon have per-
ceived, that in exposed works in iron, equality of section or
scantling, in all parts sustaining equal strain, is far from in-
suring equal passive power of permanent resistance, unless, in
addition to a general allowance for loss of substance by corro-

sion, this latter element be so provided for, that it shall be
equally balanced over the whole structure ; or, if not, shall be
compelled to confine itself to portions of the general structure,

which may lose substance M'ithout injuring its stability.
   The principles we have already established sufficiently guide

us in the modes of effecting this ; regard must not only be had
to the contact of dissimilar metals f, or of the same in dis-
similar fluids I, but to the scantling of the casting and of its
parts §, and to the contact of cast iron with wrought iron or
steel, or of one sort of cast iron with another ||. Thus, in a
suspension bridge, if the links of the chains be hammered, and
the pins rolled, the latter, where equally exposed, will be eaten
away long before the former. In marine steam-boilers, the
rivets are hardened by hammering until cold ; the plates, there-
fore, are corroded through round the rivets before these suffer
sensibly, and in the air-pumps and condensers of engines work-
ing with sea water, or in pit work, and pumps lifting mineral-
ized or " bad" water from mines, the cast iron perishes first
round the holes through which wrought-iron bolts, &c. are in-

serted. And abimdant other instances might be given, showing

that the effects here spoken of are in practical operation to an
extent that should press the means of coimteracting them on

the attention of the engineer.
    270. I have not yet been enabled to extend this part of the

inquiry to fresh water, but have reason to suppose it would not
be in such case attended with equally striking results from
facts before stated with respect to zinc and iron in contact in
fresh water ; the same forces, however, still will operate with
like results, only differing in degree. It seems not improbable,

* Report, § 134.   f § 244--261.   % § 157.
                   || § 263--268.
§ Sect. 179--183.
ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IKON. 269

that the softer cast irons might be alloyed with a minute quan-
tity of some other metal, which should produce a compound
still more electro-positive with respect to hard cast iron than
before. This view is supported by some facts recorded by Ber-
thier, in the Annales des Mines, torn. xi. p. 512, third series.
Soon after Algiers was taken by the French, some ancient shot
and shells were sent to France to be recast, which had been
discovered in the arsenal. They were found, however, unfit for
service ; the metal of which they were composed was full of mi-
nute cavities, so brittle as to be easily pulverized, white and
lamellar. Analyses of the shot and shells gave the following
results in 1000 parts :

         Shot.                               Shells.

         Arsenic . . , 0*270 . . . 0-098
         Carbon . . . 0*010 . . . 0-015

         0-280                               0-113

They contained neither sulphur, manganese, calcium, nor sili-

= =con. Specific gravity of shot
                7 '650, of shells                          7 "5 85.

The cast iron alloy of which they were formed was found by

Berthier to oxidate, when exposed to air and tvater, with un-

usual rapidity : he supposes these projectiles to have been cast

in Spain, of iron made from mispikel or arseniuret of iron.

271. I now proceed to make some remarks upon the specific

gravities of cast iron, wrought iron, and steel, which follow in

the accompanying tabulated results. In Table XI. are col-

lected the specific gravities of all the cast irons of the preceding

experiments. These specific gravities have been taken with an

unusual amount of care, and by a new method, described in

the former Report*, which possesses some decided advan-

tages in point of accuracy and convenience. They have all

been taken on equal- sized cubes of the several cast irons cut

by the planing-machine from bars of equal size, viz. one inch

square, and cast in the same way, at the same temperature

nearly, and cooled at the same rates ; all of which precautions

are essential to procuring correct results,

272. Many of my specific gravities do not agree with those

given by Dr. Thompson or those of Mr. Fairbairn, contained

in their respective reports f. This may arise possibly from Dr.

Thompson's specific gravities having been taken from pieces of

the raw pig-iron, or castings of a different size from those I

used, or of various dimensions with respect to each other. In

Mr. Fairbairn's case, probably from the circumstance that (as

* § 71.  t In vol. vi. Report of the British Association.
270 REPORT-- 1840.

I have heard) his specific gravities were taken bj' weighing         I
equal bulks ; cubes, in fact, cut from the mass of cast iron by

the chisel and file, a method in itself not susceptible of much
accuracy, but rendered much more liable to error from the

liability to variable condensation of volume of the iron in the

processes of chipping and filing ; a rough crystalline broken

surface effectvially prevents an exact specific gravity being taken
of cast iron by the usual method of weighing such a specimen
suspended in M'ater ; and no cutting out of the specimen for
weighing by any method is allowable, except by the lathe or
planing-machine, which operate so quietly, that no condensa-

tion of volume is likely to take place.
   273. Dr. Thompson's results give the specific gravity of hot-

blast iron greater than that of cold- blast. Mr. Fairbairn's, on

the contrary, give the specific gravity of cold-blast ii'on as the

greater, and to the latter conclusion my own results tend. I have

entii'e confidence in the correctness of the specific gravities I

have given, from the method and precautions taken, and the ac-

--curacy of the instrument used in the weighings a balance of

Troughton's construction, readily sensible, when loaded, to the

third decimal place.

  A274. correct knowledge of the specific gravities of cast iron

is important in several respects to the engineer, but most of all
so from the fact, that Messrs. Fairbairn's and Hodgkinson's ex-
periments on the strength of hot- and cold-blast iron seem to in-

dicate that the ultimate strength of cast iron is in the ratio of

some function of the specific gravity, a view more recently also
confirmed by Mr. Richard Evans's experiments on the strength

of anthracite pig-iron.

  Now the conditions rendering the specific gravity of the same

cast iron variable, are

   I. The bulk of the casting.
   II. The depth or head of metal under which it has been cast.
   III. The temperature at which the iron has been " poured," or
run into the mould.
   IV. The rate at which the casting has cooled.
   The determination of the law governing the change in each
of these cases is a work of some labour and difl&culty, which has

been partly attempted,
    275. In Table XII. the results are given of the experi-

ments I have made on Scotch, Welsh, and Staffordshire cast
irons, showing the increase of density produced in large cast-
ings at every two feet in depth, down to fourteen feet in depth
of casting. These experiments were made on pieces cut at every
two feet from a shaft or cylinder of four inches in diameter, cast
                         ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 271

vertically, in dry sand moulds. They show a very rapid increase

at first, and, belove four feet in depth, a nearly uniform incre-

ment of density, approximating to a common difference of 0-13.
  No previous attempts have been made, to my knowledge, to

ascertain these conditions of variable specific gravity in cast iron :
yet their importance is obvious ; for if the ultimate strength of

castings is as some function of their specific gravity, the results
of experiments in relation to strength of castings of different
magnitudes, or cast under different heads, are not comparable,
unless these conditions of specific gravity be attended to, and in-

volved in every calculation.

  276. In Table XIII. the results are given of my experi-

ments on the decrease of specific gravity of the same cast iron,
due to increase of bulk or volume of casting, the circumstances
of head of metal, temperature and rate of cooling being the same.
The irons experimented on are Scotch, Welsh and Staffordshire.
The bulk of the casting in each successive experiment is double
that of the preceding one ; and the results show nearly an equal
decrement in specific gravity in proportion to the increase of
volume of the casting.

   These results sufficiently show, for instance, that although
the strength of rectangular beams varies directly as their bi-eadth,
yet doubling the thickness or breadth of such a cast-iron beam
will not quite double its strength, as the same iron becomes less

dense in the larger casting, if so be that we admit a relation be-
tween density and ultimate cohesion, of which there seems to be

but little doubt.

   277- In Table XI. I have arranged all the cast irons of

my experiments in classes, according to the characters of their

fracture, and, for the first time, attempted to establish an uni-
form system of nomenclature in this respect, dividing all sorts
of cast iron, by fracture, into one of six classes, either

                             I. Silvery,

                          II. Micaceous, {miratoire of French authors,)
                         III. Mottled,
                         IV. Bright gray,

                           V. Dull gray,
                         VI. Dark gray,

which will be found sufficient to include and describe every va-

riety                    and it is much to be wished that authors on  these  sub-
                      ;

jects would, in future, adopt this or some similar invariable no-

menclature for the character of fracture, at present usually so ill

described.

278. The nomenclature, or classification of cast iron by frac-
--272 REPORT 1840.

ture here adopted, is more also than a mere set of arbitrary
visual distinctions, inasmuch as each class I have made holds a
constant relation between the character of its fracture and its
chemical constitution. I have also given the general working
character of each such class of cast iron, by which, however, it
is not to be understood, but that occasionally a mixed cast iron

may be found, possessing all these characters in working, and
yet breaking with a slightly different fracture. The working

characteristics given are, however, on the whole, correct.
    279. The present communication, I would hope, in some de-

gree fulfils the desire of tlie British Association as to a poi-tion
of this inquiry, and will be found not devoid of use to the prac-
tical engineer. I do not purpose to enter at all in the present
Report upon the chemical consideration of the changes which
iron occasionally undergoes bj^ the action of various solvents in
passing into a substance analogous to plumbago, nor of the or-
ganic and other products which result from such reactions

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

these I hope to bring forward on a future occasion, along with
the results of all the other trains of experiment in progress or
contemplation, and of the second immersion of all the cast and
wrought irons for a period of two years, which will expire in

January 1842. The results of their first immersion are now
given, and with the results of the experiments now in progress,

on wrought iron and steel, together with a review of the whole
subject in its imrely chemical relations, will, I expect, com-

plete our researches.

   280. The latter experiments on wrought iron and steel have
been for some months in operation ; and the tables of data be-
longing to them, which best indicate their nature and extent,
have been presented ; but it is not necessary to publish them at
this time, as the only results of this series actually completed as
yet, are the specific gravities. These are given in Table XVI.

   The maximmn specific gravity is that of tilted blister steel,

=made by the Mersey Steel Company, which is 7-8461. The

minimum specific gravity is that of cast steel in the ingot, be-

fore tilting, which is =,7'4413 ; it contains microscopic vesicles.
The specific gravity of the iron from which both were made, is

= 7-5839.

   From this Table it appears, that both in wrought iron and steel
the density is increased more by hammering than by rolling, and

that the densest specimens of both metals break with a fibrous
or very fine crystalline fracture, while the least dense have a coarse

crystalline or lamellar fracture.

   281. Experiments already detailed having demonstrated the
great rapidity with which iron of every sort is corroded while
         ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 273

kept just covered with water, or between " wet and dry," a
series of new experiments have been recently arranged, contain-
ing specimens of cast and wrought iron, freely exposed to all the
atmospheric influences, at Dublin. These are coordinate with
all the experiments, whose first results of submersion are now
given, and will connect the action of water containing air and
carbonic acid on iron with that of air holding water and car-

bonic acid in suspension, &c. ; and, as the meteorological regis-
ters of Dublin are tolerably perfect, will be hereafter comparable

with any such made in another locality. The data of this set of
experiments may await the publication of a third report, and be

given along with the results.
   282. In concluding this second report upon a subject in which

I feel a lively interest, and the practical bearing of which needs
no further evidence than the multitude of patents, whether good
or bad, for inventions intended to preserve iron, &c., which have
been obtained since the publication of the first report, and in

retracing the ground already gone over, I must regret the many

imperfections and omissions, which I might have been enabled to
avoid, could I have devoted more time to these researches. That
learned otium, however, so necessary to successful experimental
study, is denied to those who, like myself, find every day to come
preoccupied with the unavoidable duties of a laborious profession.
Hence, most of these experiments have been made and recorded
in hours stolen from rest, or, with greater difficulty, from busi-

ness.

   I have to thank many individuals for specimens of iron, &c.

in various conditions, and especially my young friend Mr.

Charles Scanlan, for his valuable assistance in taking great
numbers of specific gravities.

      1840.
74 REPORT 1840.

                                                                        Table

     Box a. No. 1. containing Specimens of Cast and Wrought

Sunk and moored at the Second Buoy in from the Western Pier Head in three
     ordinarily 12 to 16 feet. Temperature of water 46° Fahr. to 58° Fahr.
     August 3rd, 1838. Weighed again and landed August 26th, 1839; hence
     1840, at one o'clock p.m., and now immersed. Specific gravity of water

                                             Box «. No. 1. Class No. 1.

ssss  Commercial Character of Iron.  Hot or      External                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Specific
                                      Cold    Character of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gravity of

                                      Blast.    Fracture.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sspe=ci-Wme--sn

      No. 1. Doulais                  ColJ Dark gray Green                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7192
      No. 1. Doulais                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7183
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I

                                     1 Cold Dark gray Green

3 No. 3. Doulais                     Cold ' Dark gray Green 7-159

4 No. 3. Doulais                       Cold Dark gray Green                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7-149
5 No. 1. Doulais
                                     j                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7164

                                      Hot Dull gray ' Green

6 No. 1. Blaenavon                   Cold     Dark gray                                          Green                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7-143
7 No. 1. Blaenavon                   Cold     Dark gray                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7-133
8 No. 4. Doulais. Finery pig         Hot                                                       I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6-378
                                              Silvery
                                                                                                 Green

                                                                                               j

                                                                                                 Green

9 No. 4. Doulais. Finery pig         Hot Silvery                                                  Green 6-369

10 No. 1. Pentwyn. Peculiar fracture. Hot Micaceous Green 7000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I

11 No.l. Pentwyn. Peculiar fracture. Hot ' Micaceous Green 6-991
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  [j

12 No. 2. Varteg Hill                 Hot     ' Bright gray                                    j  Green                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7074

                                     I

13 No. 2. Varteg Hill                I Hot ' Bright gray Green                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7-065

                                     Box a. No. I. Class No. 2.

14 No. 1. Arigna                       Cold Micaceous                                             ' Green
15 No. 1. Arigna                                                                            |
16 No. 2. Arigna
17 No. 2. Arigna                       Cold Micaceous
                                       Cold Dull gray

                                     ;

                                       Cold Dull gray
         ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 275

No. I.
Iron, immersed in clear Sea Water, Kingstown Harbour.

and one half fathoms water, at half tide, on a clean sandy bottom. Tide rises
The length of the Box lies east and west. Sunk at one o'clock p.m.,

=the period of immersion 387 days. Sunk a second time January 11th,
=in Kingstown Harbour 1027'80.

Welsh Cast Iron.
--276 REPORT 1840.

                                              Box a. No. 1. Class No. 4.

"~ = i; P                                 Hot or     External     Specific
                                            Cold   Character of  Gravity of
           Commercial Character of Iron.                         Specimen
                                           Blast.     Fracture.
                                                                 s=:^.

a. 26
«. 27
« 28
a. 29
a. 30
X 31
cc 32
X 33
a 34
« 35
a- 36
a 37
a 38
« 39
a 40
a 41
e
         ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATKK UPON IRON. 277

Scotch Cast Irons.
278
          ON THE ACTJON OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 279
Welsh Cast Iron. Chilled.
280 REPORT 1840.
                     Box «. No. 1. Class No. 13. Gray Cast Iron.

  1.
         ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 281

protected by Paints or Varnishes.
--282 REPORT 1840.

                                                                             Table

                     Box /3. No. 2. containing Specimens of Cast and

  Sunk and moored in the foul Sea Water, close to the mouth of the Great Kings-
       flood-tide. Bottom soft putrid mud. Temperature of water from 4C
       o'clock P.M. on the 3rd of August, 1838. Weighed and landed on the 26th
       the 13th of January, and now immersed. Specific gravity of water at

                                                      Box/3. No. 2. Class No. 1.

1.
         ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 283

No. II.

Wrought Iron immersed in Foul Sea Water.

town Main Sewer. Depth of water two feet at ebb, and from eight to twelve at

Fahr. to 58° Fahr. Receives fresh water during heavy rains. Sunk at 4

=of August,         the  same  hour                          thus immersed 387 days.  Sunk again on
         1839,  at                                        ;

Mouth of Sewer 1027-70 filtered.

Scotch Cast Irons.
   284  --REPORT 1840.

1.                        Box /3. No. 2. Class No. 6.
         ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON.                                   285
Standard Bar Wrought Iron.

                  1. 10. 12. 13.

Dimensions of     Weight of   Weight of   Total loss    Loss of     Loss of          Character of
   Specimen.      Specimen    Specimen                 Weight       weight            Corrosion.
                               after 387  Corrosion   per square  referred to
                  in Grains.                      in    inch of    Standard
                                                                      Bar.     Sfeg
                                          387 days.    Surface.

in. in. in.       28977       23436       541         12-57       1-186              Uniform str.

4-873 X 3 X -875

Gray Cast Iron. Skin removed by planing.

5 X 5 X -75       34131 33150             981         13-55       1-278        0- Uniform.

Gray Cast Iron, protected by Paints or Varnishes.

   5x5x1

Box /3. No. 2. Class No. 8.
--286 REPORT 1840.

                                                                              Table
         Box 7. No. 3. containing Specimens of Cast and Wrought

                                                                                                       110° to
    Sunk in the Plate-iron Hot Water Cistern of the Dublin and Kingstown

          24 inches. Heated by circulation of water from a boiler. Temperature
         Taken out and removed in consequence of alterations in the arrangements

     =immersed 117 days. Specific gravity of water at 60° Fahr. 1027-80.

                                                    Box y. No. 3. Class No. 1.

 1.
           ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 287

No. III.

Iron immersed in clear Sea Water at Temperature from

125° Fahr.
Railway Company's Baths at Salt Hill, near Kingstown. Depth of water
nearly constant at 115° Fahr. Sunk on the 6th of August, 1838, at 4 o'clock p.m.
of the Baths, on the 1st of December, 1838, at same hour, having thus been

Scotch Cast Iron.
288
          ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON.  289
Standard bar of Wrought Iron.
290
ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON.                                                                                                                                                       291

No. IV.

Iron, immersed in Foul River Water, within the tidal limits.

the junction of the Poddle River therewith. Depth of water four feet at ebb,
and very brackish at flood. Bottom soft putrid mud. Temperature of water
o'clock P.M. Weighed and landed again on the 24th of August, 1839, at same
one o'clock p.m., January 13th, 1840, and now immersed. Specific gravity of

Scotch Cast Iron.

                                                                                                                                                                   10. 11. 12.                  13.

Dimensions of  Weight of                                                                                                                                        I     Loss of Loss of           Character of
   Specimen.   Specimen                                                                                                                                            Weight per Weight              Corrosion.
                           Weight of , Total loss
               in Grains.  Specimen                                                                                                                                square referred to  .£Prt o

                               after                                                                                                                               inch of Standard
                           383 days'
                           exposure. 383 days.                                                                                                                     Surface.  Bar.

5x5x1          41449 41145  304                                                                                                                                    4-34      ·417               Local P.
5x5x1          43295 42885  410                                                                                                                                    5-85      ·562               Tubercular.

Welsh Cast Iron.
292 REPORT 1840.
                                                    Box 8. No. 4. Class No. 6.

    1.
           ON THB ACTION OP AIR AND WATER UPON IRON.                              293
Standard Bar Wrought Iron.

               7.                                 10. 11. 12.                     13.

                           Weight of  Total loss               Loss of
                           Specimen               Loss of Weight
Dimensions of  Weight of              Corrosion   Weight per referred
  Specimen.    Specimen        aiter         in   square inch to Standard         Character of
                           383 days'                                       ·stei   Corrosion.
               in Grains.  exposure.  383 days.
                                                  of Surface,
                                                               Bar.

in. in.  in.

5 X 3 X -875 24380         24062      318         7-227        -694        0- Unif. striated.

Gray Cast Iron. Skin removed by planing.

5 X 5 X -75 34114 33674               440 677                  -651        0- Uniform.

Gray Cast Iron, protected by Paints or Varnishes.

5x5x1          42238
5x5x1
5x5x1
5x5x1
5x5x1
--294 REPORT 1840,

                                                                                Table

          Box e. No. 5. containing Specimens of Cast and Wi'ought

     Sunk in clear, unpolluted water of the river Liffey, above the tidal limits,
           stream, varying with season from three to six feet in depth. Temperature
          on the 4th of August, 1838, at five o'clock p.m. Weighed again, and
         days. Again sunk at one o'clock p.m., January the 13th, 1840, and now

                                                    Box e. No. 5. Class No. 1.

     1.
             ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IKON. 295

  No. V.

  Iron, immersed in the clear Fresh Water of the river Liffey.

  within the premises of the Royal Military Hospital, Kilmaiuham, in a running
  very variable, from 32° Fahr. to 68° Fahr. Bottom of fine granite sand. Sunk

 =landed on the 20th of August, 1839, at same hour. Hence immersed for 381

  immersed. Specific gravity of water 1001-39.

  Scotch Cast Iron.

'
296                                               111 ·
o S So
                           --REPORT 1840.

                                             Box s. No. 5. Class No. 6.

        Commercial Character of Iron.         Hot or     External    4.
                                               Cold    Character of
                                                                                      Specific
                                               Blast.    Fracture.                Gravity of
                                                                                 Specimen

                                                                           s=----

. 12 No. 2. Doulais. Common bar                        Fibrous             7-587

                   Box £. No. 5. Class No. 7« Gray Cast Iron.

13      fiNNoo. 1. Calder                 \ Hot Closebright gray Green     7-138

        l +i No. 2. Pentwyn+^ Scrap J

                           Box e. No. 5. Class No. 8. Gray Cast Iron

+14                        i No. 2.
        No. 1. Calder                         Hot Close bright gray Green  7-168
                                                                           7-1C8
        Pentwyn -|- ^ Scrap               J
                                                                           7168
+15                        a No. 2.
        No. 1. Calder                         Hot Close bright gray Green  7-168
                                                                           7-168
        Pentwyn -(- i Scrap               J"

        No. 1. Calder -j- i No. 2.1           Hot Close bright gray Green
+16
        {* Pentwyn ^ Scrap                J

+ +17
        i No. 1. Calder    i No. 2.           Hot Close bright gray Green

        { Pentwyn I Scrap                 J

        i No. 1. Calder -|- i No. 2.          Hot Close bright gray Green
+18
        Pentwyn ^ Scrap                   J

                                                       Supplementary Table. Box 4

°..gss  Protective Paint or Varnish.          State of Covering after 381 days' exposure.

14 Caoutchouc varnish                         Varnish not visible
                                              Paint visible ; oil partly gone
14 Best white-lead paint                      Varnish not tisible                          ^
                                              Varnish scarcely visible
15 Copal varnish                              Varnish not visible
                                              Scarcely visible
15 Asphaltum varnish                          Gone in spots. Changed to adipocere .
                                              Still black and lustrous
16 Mastic varnish                             Not visible
                                              Not visible
16 Swedish tar

+17 3 parts wax 2 parts tallow

17 Coal-tar, laid on hot

18 Turpentine varnish                  ,

18 Drying oil
          ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON.  297
Standard Bar of Wrought Iron.

6.
298     --REPORT 1840.
   a(0
         ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 299

                                Table VII.

Deduced from the foregoing Table VI., showing the Average Loss
     of all varieties of Cast Iron, 8tc., experimented on in each
     of the five conditions of immersion for a period of 387 days,
     on one square inch of surface.

                 Condition of Iron.
--300 Table No. IX. Cast Iron, in presence of Zinc

Table of Experiments on the Amount of Action of ^Sea Water on Cast Iron

      these Metals, all exposing equal surfaces.

            ^Exposed Surface of Zinc, Copper or Alloy, 199 square inch.

        g
and Copper, immersed in clear Sea Water.  301

in Voltaic Circuit, with Zinc, with Copper, and with various Atomic Alloys of

^Exposed surface of Cast Iron 3*07
                                          .

--302 Table No. XI. General Classification of

                   Class of Iron.            Hot or

                                             Cold.

       Apedale                               Cold    No. 2.       Silvery
       Hardest procurable                             Scrap    Micaceous
       Gray Cast Iron, of varnish covering   Hot
       Pentwyn                               Hot     No! 2.      Mottled
       Calder                                Hot     No. 4.
       Shotts                                        No. 4.   Bright gray

       Doulais. (Finery pig).                Hot     No. 4.    Dull gray
                                                               Dark gray
   9.  Arigna      (Peculiar)                Cold    No. 1.
10.    Burchill's                            Cold    No. I.
11.    Muirkirk                              Hot     No. 2.
       Pentwyn.                                      No.l.
12.                                          Hot
13.                                                  No. 3.
14.    Arigna                                Cold    No. 2.
                                             Hot     No. 2.
15.-   Apedale. (Cylinder Iron)              Hot
       Pentwyn                                       No. 4.
16.                                          Hot     No.l.
17.    Calder, No. 1 -f Pentwyn, No. 2 1     Cold    No.l.
18.                                          Cold    No.l.
19.    -I- Scrap                   /         Hot     No.l.
20.                                          Hot
21.    Gray Cast Iron. Skin removed . .              No. 2.
22.                                                  No. 2.
       Monkland                                      No. .3.
23.                                                  No.l.
       Clyde                                         No. 3.
24.                                                  No. 2.
25.    Parkfield                                     No. 3.
26.                                                  No. 2.
27.    A pedale                                      No.l.
28.                                                  No.l.
29.    Calder                                        No.l.
30.                                                  No. 2.
31.    Arigna, ^. Scrap, ^                           No. 3.
32.                                                  No. 3.
33.    Calder, ^. Scrap, ^                           No. 3.
34.                                                  No.].
35.    Gartsherry                            Hot     No. 2.
36.    Shotts                                Hot     No.l.
37.    Arigna                                        No.l.
38.    Gartsherry                            Cold    No. 2.
39.    Shotts                                Hot     No. 2.
40.    VartegHill                            Hot     No.l.
41.    Calder                                Hot     No. 2.
42.    Summerlie                             Hot     No. 2.
43.                                                  No. 3.
44.    Madeley Wood                          Hot     No.l.
45.                                                  No.l.
46.    Elsecar                               Cold    No. 2.
47.    Cinderford                            Cold    No.l.
48.    Carron                                Cold
49.    Gartsherry                            Hot
50.    Muirkirk                              Hot
51.                                          Hot
52.    Monkland                              Hot
53.    Doulais                               Hot
54.    Arigna                                Cold
55.                                          Hot
       Shotts                                Cold
                                             Hot
       Lillicshall                           Hot
       Shotts                                Hot
       Caedtalon                             Cold
       BufFery                               Cold
       Caedtalon                             Cold
                                             Cold
       Carron                                Cold
       Doulais                               Cold
       Doulais                               Hot
       Blaenavon                             Hot
       Muirkirk
       Milton
       Calder
       Calder,^. Pentwyn, |
       Arigna, ^. Pentwyn, ^

                                                                           I
                                                        ;

the several Cast Irons of the foregoing experiments.                                                                                                                                                                  303

         Character in Working.                                                                                                                                                                    Specific

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Gravity. How Cast.

Least fusible ; thickening rapidly when                                                                                                                                                           7-603  Chilled      Maximum density.
     fluid by a spontaneous "puddling ;"                                                                                                                                                          7-624  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-624  Chilled      / Full of microscopic
      crystals vesicular, often crystalline,                                                                                                                                                      7-629  Chilled      \ vesicles.
                                                                                       J                                                                                                          7-527  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-158  Sand
     incapable of being cut by chisel or
                                                                                                                                                                                                  6-378  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                               j
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sand
    file; ultimate cohesion a maximum,                                                                                                                                                                   Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sand
    and elastic range a minimum.                                                                                                                                                                         Sand

"Very soft; feels greasy; peculiar mi-"|                                                                                                                                                          7-015  Chilled
                                                                                                                                                                                                  6-928  Sand
caceous appearance generally owing                                                                                                                                                                6-980  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-000
to excess of manganese ; soils the >
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-308
fingers  strongly ;  crystals   large                                                                                                                                                             7-116
                                                     ;                                                                                                                                            7-017

runs very fluid ; contraction large. J

Tough and hard; can be with diffi-                                                                                                                                                                7-168 Sand

      culty filed or cut ; crystals large                                                                                                                                                         7-138  Sand
     and small mixed ; sometimes runsi                                                                                                                                                            7-294  Sand
      thick ; contraction on cooling                                                                                                                                                              7-140  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-248  Sand
     maximum.                                                                                                                                                                                     7-268  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-079  Chilled
 Toughness and hardness most suitable                                                                                                                                                             7-134
     for working; ultimate cohesion and                                                                                                                                                                  Chilled
      elastic range generally are balanced -
     most advantageously ; crystals uni-                                                                                                                                                          6-329 Chilled       r Minimum density
      form ; very minute.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-115  Sand         L porous as No. 7.
 Less tough and hard than the preced-                                                                                                                                                             7-152  Sand
' ing ; other characters alike ; con-                                                                                                                                                             7-141  Sand         Minimum solid.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-001  Sand
     traction on cooling a minimum.                                                                                                                                                               7-183  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-074  Sand
 Most fusible, remains long fluid                                                                                                                                                                 7-064  Sand
      exndes graphite on cooling ; soils                                                                                                                                                          7-156  Sand
      the fingers ; crystals large and la-                                                                                                                                                        7-115  Sand
       mellar; ultimate cohesion a mini-                                                                                                                                                          7-097  Sand
     mum, and elastic range a maxi.                                                                                                                                                               7-049  Sand
     mum.                                                                                                                                                                                         7-081  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-074  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  6-838  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-124  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-164  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  6-809  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-109  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-205  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-152  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-030  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-063  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-020  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-107  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-159  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-192  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-143  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-076  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-073  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-027  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  6-978  Sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-050  Sand
304 REPORT 1840.

                  TO

               s
                     ON THE ACTION OF AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 305

                                                                                                                           i-t GO

 a                   5

O 9<                      >o 1--
                                                        t>. ·>
o1=3
                                            TO
 s
                                      «0 r-i
      o^
                                              X
 <
Eh 3 C

     O"

         cc

         s           «Xg

                2(2

1840.
--306 REPORT 1840.

Table No. XIV. Showing the Chemical and Physical Properties

       1.
          ON THE ACTION OP AIR AND WATER UPON IRON. 307

of the Atomic Alloys of Copper and Zinc of Table No. TX.
308 REPORT 1840.

 >
     ;

309

Report on some Observations on Subterranean Temperature.

                   By Robert Were Fox, Esq.

Having already given, through the Philosopliical Magazine*,
a summary of the observations on subterranean temperature
wliich I had previously published from time to time, I must, in

complying with the unexpected invitation of the British Asso-

ciation, necessarily include in the present Report many of the

details contained in that memoir.

   Early in the year 1815, my friend Joel Lean stated to me

his conviction, that the high temperature observed in our
mines existed in the earth itself, increasing with the depth

and shortly afterwards his brother Thomas Lean, at our johit
request, kindly made many experiments in Huel Abraham
Copper Mine, of which he was the manager, in order to test
the correctness of this view. The results obtained by him

tended to confirm it very unequivocally ; and so did another

series, made in the same year at my request, in Dolcoath
Mine, by John Rule, jun., one of the superintendents. Many

other individuals have since obligingly carried on similar ob-

servations for me in different mines, all showing that the sub-

terranean temperature increases, in some proportion to the

depth from the surface. The ratio of its increase at different

depths, and the causes which exercise a gi'eater or less influ-
ence upon it, have, however, hitherto been undecided.

   I have elsewhere endeavoured to show, that the rate of in-
crease is not so considerable at deeper excavations as at those
which are shallower ; and the subjoined Tables will, I think,
exhibit this point in a satisfactory manner, as far, at least, as
the results obtained in some of the mines of Cornwall and

Devonshire, which I have published from time to time, may be

considered an authority.

                                * Phil. Mag. 1837, vol. ii. p. 520.

     Table I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .

--Table I. Showing the Results of Observations on Subterranean

   the Ratio of its Increase at different Depths. The experiments

    the deepest levels or accessible parts of the respective mines.

                               C. stands for Copper Mine.                               Depth from Temperature

                               T. ditto  Tin       ditto.                               Surface in       of Rock,

       Mines and Localities.   G. for Granite.

es                             K. for Killas.                                           Fathoms. Fahrenheit.

1822   South Huel Tovvan, St. Agnes, C.K. in cistern"!

1827   or reservoir at the bottom                          J
1827
1822   Huel Wellington, near Camborne, C.K. small]

1822   streain from Western end of deepest level           J

       Ditto    ditto   ditto      Eastern ditto

       East Liscombe, near Tavistock, C.K. in deepest 1

       cistern                                             J

       Huel Unity- Wood, Gwennap, Tin, K. in ditto

1820   Huel Unity, Gwennap, T. and C.K                                                   90
1820                                                                                    110
1820   Ting- Tang, ditto       C.K., in the lode
                                                                                                100-00
1822   Huel Gorland, ditto     C.G
                                                                                        128
1820            Means of depths and temperatures.                                       138              G7°-00
1830
1824   Beer-Alston, Beer-Ferris, Devon, Lead and Sil-                                   140                 74-25
                                                                                                            70-6i
1824      ver K., in deepest cistern                                                    150                 50-0«
1824                                                                                    150                 20-6:
1827   Huel Squire, Gwennap, C.K., in deepest cistern.                                  152                 Ur7i
                                                                                         152                 50-0<
1827   Huel Rose, Kewlyn, Lead, K., deepest level ....                                  160                66°-7i
1827
       Chasewater, Chasewater, T.K., in E. end of                                                116-25
1822
       deepest level
1819
 1822  Ditto    ditto,        W. end of deepest level ....

 1822  Huel Trumpet, W'endron, T.G., in deepest level...
 1822  Huel Jewel, Gwtnnap, C. and T.G., 40 fathoms 1
 1822
 1820  to the E. of shaft, and 4 feet from end of level J
 1820
       Ditto    W.ditto, 18 ditto,  ditto, and 4 feet ditto
 1820
 1827  Huel Vor, near Helston, T.K. in deepest level, "I
 1827
 1820      4 fathoms from shaft       C.K.     in  lode,  16^J
       ^Consolidated Wines, Gwennap,

       fatlioms E. of Job's shaft

       Treskerby, near Redruth, C.G. in lode

       Poldice, Gwennap, T. and C.K., bottom of)

       Trussel's shaft                                                               J

       Ditto           ditto   ditto of Oppy's shaft ..

       Consolidated Mines, C.K., bottom of Job's ditto...

       Ditto    ditto          ditto of Taylor's ditto...

       Huel Damsel, Gwennap, C.G,

       United Wines, ditto, C.K., end of level N. of |

       Sampson's shaft, and supposed 6 feet from lode j

       *Ditto   ditto          W.ditto,  of ditto in lode...

       Huel Alfred, near Hayle, C.K., E. end of level...

       Ditto    ditto          ditto, W. ditto

       *United Mines, K., in the lode E. of shaft
                       Means of depths and temperatures

                        IMeans of temperature                                           123-12
                      Deduct mean temperature of climate

       Means of depths in fathoms, md of excess of 1

          temperature above tlimate ..

       Which being estimated at the depth of 100 fa-"                                   100-00

          ihoins, cive

                        Computed temperature at                                         lOOOO
Temperature in difFerent Mines in Cornwall and Devonshire, and
were, with a few exce2itions (distinguished by an asterisk), made in

Depth in     5 ^ t^"   Depth in                                             Mean                        Ratio of Depth
Fathoms.              Fathoms.                                             Depth.                           to a given
                                                                   .c o -                                  Incrt'ase of

                                                 5"S-S                                                   Tem.ieraturc

                                                                                                            = 10=.

=45
                                                                   45 ... 60"                           Surface 50''

50 50 57

50                    50                         58"'-5            50                58

82 82 64

8S 86 64

                                                                           62-60               60''-60

                                                                                           - 50 -00

                                                                                                                fms.

                                                                                           =10 -60 01-59-05 10"^

     --62-60             110                 --68                   90               66
              60°-60                                               110               68
                                         8000 63°-25               110               68

120 66-5                                                           120               66-5
                                                                                     68
120 63                                                             120               71
                                    120                            120
                                                                                     71
128 75 128                                                                           64
                                                                                     70
128 68 128                                                          128              71
128 65 128                                                          128              69
                                                                    138
138 71                                           69 137-5
139 69 136

140                                                                 140              72
144                                                                140               76
114
150                                                                150
150                                                                150
                                                                   152
155                                                                152
155                                                                155
                                                                   155

     138-50  72-11                       128-00 ·70-60                      132-81             70-13
                                                                           - 59-05
             66-35                                          66-92                          - 60-00
             50-00                                          50-OU             73-76
                                                                                             =10-13 or72-81 10°
     100-55  16-35                       104-00  10-92
                                                                                                     =131-86 70°

     100-00   1G-2G                      100-00  16-27
                                                 50-00
     10000    5000
                                         lOOOO 66°-27
             66-2611
 312                                                                                Table I.

      0|                                                     Mines and Localities.
         o

30 1819
31 1822
32 1830
33 1830
34 1820

                                                          I

35 1837
         1837
         1815
         1824
         1824
         1830
         1837

42 1837

 43
{continued.)
      314 REPORT 1840.

            Mean results of temp, at 100 fathoms under the surface.

                        Rock = 16-75 + 50 = 60-75
                        Water = 16-26 + 50 = 66-26
                        Air = 16-27 + 50 = 66-27

                                                                                    Mean 16-43                66-4<3

                                                                                    At 200 fathoms under the surface.

                                                                                    Rock = =8-82 + 66-75 75-57
                                                                                    Water = 1 1-27 + 66-26 = 77-53
                                                                                    Ah- = 11-73 + 66-27 = 78-00

                                                                                    Mean 10-61                77-03

                                          Table II.

      Temperature observed in different parts, but not the deepest,
         of the following mines, in Cornwall and Devon ; Huel Abra-
         ham, Dolcoath, United Mines, Treskerby, Huel Squire,
         Ting Tang, Huel Gorland, Huel Damsel, Chasewater, Huel

         Unity, Huel Vor, Huel Unity-Wood, Beer Alston, Poldice,
         Consolidated Mines, Huel Friendship, Huel Maid, Nangiles,
         North Huel Virgin, Tresavean, etc.

  Depth                                                                                                         o      Ratio of Depth to a given
                                                                                                              ; J2 &!  Increase of Temperature.
       in
                                                                                    Temperature, Fahrenheit.
Fathoms.
                                                                                 I                            (g=^ Fathoms Temp. General Mean

10 to   +20 58. 57. 56. 53
20...
30 ...  30'6l.55.64. +56.58                                                         ,,
4(1...
50...   +40 56. 60. 54. 56. 61. 62. 06. 62. 6l. 5/. 60. 5/. 55. 60.
60...   +50 58. do. 60. 60. 60. 63. 58. 58
-0...
        60|60.62.60. 58. + 63.63.61.61.62.60.57
80...   70l 61. + 62.64.61.61.59.68

        80 64.62 64.64.62. + 64.66.-0.65.64.64.68.67. ..

        90 66.64.63.64.66. +65. 6y. 62. 67

 90... 100
100... 110

150.
160.
REPORT ON SUBTERRANEAN TEMPERATURE.                                                                                             315

The first Table contains results obtained in the deepest

galleries or accessible parts of mines, a few only excepted, in

which cases the experiments were made with great care in the

rock at superior levels, and at a distance from other excava-

tions. Some of the reasons for preferring the former to the

genex'ality of results derived from the upper parts of mines

have been stated on previous occasions, and they appear to be

so obvious as to render repetition needless.

  The rate of increase of temperature, as it respects the rock

or rubbish, and the water and air, appears to have been

tolerably consistent. The mean is 16°*4o at 100 fathoms deep,

and 27°*0c> at 200 fathoms deep ; the augmented temperature

of the first hundred fathoms being to that of the second hun-

dred fathoms, as lG*4o to lO'GO.

Some of the results from which these means are deduced

are rather uncommonly high, and probably the general mean

temperature observable in our mines would be more nearly

represented by their omission, thus reducing both the above

means a little                                                                    but if this  were  done, it does  not appear  that
                                                                               ;

their relations to each other would be essentially altered.

In the last columns are included all the results obtained in

the rock, water, and air, with the exception of a few which seem

to be in unusual excess, and they give, in round numbers,

A temperature of 00" at 59 fms. below the surface.

                                                                                  ,, 70° at 132 ,,                  ,,

                                                                                  and 80° at 259 ,,                 ,,

Being an increase of

           10° at 59 f i:s. deep,                                                                    or 1° in 35-4 feet,
       of 10 more at 73 fms. deeper,                                                                 or 1 in 43'8 feet,
and of 10 ,, 114 fms. still deeper,                                                                  or 1 in G4'2 feet.

The second Table shows the temperature observed in the

rock or rubbish, water, and air, in various mines at different

depths, but not in the lowest excavations. It will not there-

foi'e, perhaps, be considered to possess much value beyond

what is derived from the great number of the results, and the

probability that the mean which they indicate may be an ap-

proximation to the truth. The figui-es only are given, without

any details, and are to be found in my papers inserted in the

Transactions of the Cornwall Geological Society, and in the

Philosophical Magazine.

Many of the observations, even in the first Table, may per-

haps now be considered very imperfect, having been obtained

when the inquiry was in its infancy. The method which I

have more recently adopted, of having the bulbs of different

thermometers buried at different depths at the bottom of a

mine, appears to be as unexceptionable as the circumstances

of the case will admit of; but, in fact, I have always considered
--316 REPORT 1840.

that the best expermients on subterranean temperature, in-

fluenced as it is by so many disturbing and conflicting causes,

can be regarded as affording only approximations to the truth,
and, in a greater or less degree, in proportion as they are more

or less numerous, and made in different localities.
   The second Table exhibits increments of temperature equal

to 10° each, at intervals of about 47, 79, and 125 fathoms of

descent. The comparative augmentation of temperature at

small depths exhibited in this Table, and its reduction at greater
ones, may perhaps be more or less attributed to the ascent of

warm air and vapour from the deeper galleries of the mines,
and the descent of colder currents into these parts.

   I have taken the mean temperature at 50° Fahr., and it is,
I think, clearly not more than this in the mining districts of
Coi'nwall and Devon, judging from the experiments I have
instituted on the temperature of the ground at three different
stations, at the depth of three feet, which give a mean of
49°"86* for the year, at a mean elevation of about 240 feet
above the level of the sea ; and also from the meteorological
registers kept in this neighbourhood, some of which appear in
the Cornwall Polytechnic Society's Reports and the Annals

of Philosophy t-
   I add a diagram or section, by way of illustration of the

first Table.
              REPORT ON SUBTERRANEAN TEMPERATURE. 317

The upper line represents the surface of a given district
and the diagonal
                  one the line of junction of granite and killas'
The dotted lines  show the mean intervals at which, according

to the first Table, there appears to be a progressive augment-
ation of 10° Fahr.; but the tortuoua line ya: might more
properly indicate the very irregular depths at which a criven
amount
hood.   of temperature                                                                              exists,  even  in  the  same nei^ghbour-

^ The isothermal lines are represented as having a small
mchnation downwards as they pass from the killas into the
granite, to illustrate the inferior temperature of
                                                                                                                                   the latter.
Ihe amount of this difference is undoubtedly very                                                                                  variable in

different localities,  and sometimes little or nothing. I have, in
                       on subterranean temperature, noticed the
my earlier papers

tact, although I did not ascertain the extent of the difference*
nor have I considered it so high, upon the whole, as Mr. W. j'
Henwood has done ; but he has investigated this point much
more fully than I have, and made numerous experiments in
reference to it.

  mThe  intervals between the isothermal lines seem to vary

much    different places                                                                            but I think it will be found to be a
                                                                                                 ;

general fact, that the temperature increases less rapidly in
descending in proportion to the depth of the stations in the
mines Jt
apprehend     so, the conducting power of the rocks cannot, I
              be considered as the immediate or proximate cause
of these pha;nomena at the greatest depths hitherto attained ^
nor is it to be supposed, that a depth where the heat is trans-
mitted through this medium only will ever be reached by
man, seeing that the temperature at the bottom of some deep
mines is already almost as great as is compatible with active
operations.

I have often suggested, that the differences which are found
to exist in the
and strata, are   increments of temperature in different places
                  principally caused by the circulation of water
under the surface; and
through cooler portions  the                                                                        tendency of    warm     water to ascend
                          of                                                                        that fluid is           consistent with
                                                                                                                    quite

the fact of the ratio of increase being greater at small than at
considerable depths. Wherever the facilities are the greatest
tor the ascent of these currents, such, for instance, as exist in
veins, faults or fissures in the strata, and frequently at the
junction of different rocks, there the subterranean temperature
IS usually found in excess, or above the mean. Let the points

* It seems almost needless to remark that, in                                                                      comparing  the  subterranean
mtemperature                                                                                                       be had to  the  depth of the
              different rocks, reference should
^stations at which the observations were made.
--318 REPORT 1840.

a, b, and c, in the section, each represent the deepest part of

a mine, all three being in killas. If fissures or veins, pervious

to water, be supposed to descend from these points to a much

greater depth, where the temperature is considerably higher,

it is evident that the warmer water will rise, and the cooler

sink and take its place; and thus an excess of temperature will

be imparted to a, b, and c by the agency of the circulating

water. It matters not whether the ascending currents proceed

dmfrom  the killas, oryin the granite, or through the line of

junction h e, to 6 or c; in any of these cases corresponding

effects will be produced, and a, b, and c will be at a higher

temperature than other points at equal depths in their vicinity,

more or less distant from fissures, veins, etc. ; the former dif-

fering only in degree according to the depth, or rather tempe*

rature of the parts where the currents originate, and the

obstacles they meet with in their passage. Nos. 51, 52 and
53, in Table I., may be referred to as examples of this differ-

ence. In this case, the vein in the Consolidated Mines, at

290 fathoms deep, was found to be at 92°, whilst the rock at

the same depth, and only 10 fathoms from it, was at 86° 3';

and at 24 fathoms from it, 85° 3'. These facts, with others

which might be mentioned, seem to show how poor a con-

ductor of heat the rock is, and they give additional support to

the views advocated in this Report.

The circulation of water under the surface, and its influence

on subterranean temperature, is moreover, I apprehend, pro-

moted by the agency of electricity, which is in such active

operation in metalliferous veins*, since it will cause water to

pass through many substances that would otherwise be imper-

vious to it. The simplest, and almost the feeblest voltaic

combinations, are capable of illustrating this remarkable pro-

perty, and will transmit water, especially if it contain saline

ingredients, through the most tenacious clay, etc., in any direc-

tion, either horizontally or vertically.

I will now conclude this Report with the expression of a

hope, that the ratio of the increase of subterranean tempera-

ture may be more fully investigated, not only in this countrj'

but also in others, where the climates are the most dissimi-

lar f, in order to determine the modifications produced by

   * I observe, by the Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, No. 55, that

Prof. Reich has detected electric currents in Himmelfahrt Mine, near Frey-
berg, although they were evidently much less energetic than those prevailing

--in our mines of copper, etc.
   t Note. Might not this object be accomplished, as it respects some of the
mines in America, through the instrumentality of the mining companies, if
                                     ;

RKPORT ON SUBTERRANEAN TEMPERATURE.  319

these circumstances, as well as by the strata and the spheroidal
form of the earth, on these phenomena.

requested by the British Association ? and I conceive that, in Siberia, Sweden,
and other countries, there might be found willing coadjutors in the prosecution
of such an investigation so interesting to science. In this Report I have con-

fined myself to my own observations, or those which have been made for me

but I find, on looking over several series of results published by other indi-
viduals, that they tend, more or less, to confirm the conclusions at which I

--have arrived ; that the subterranean temperature does not increase so rapidly

in descending, at great depths, as at smaller ones ; and it is remarkable, that
the observations made long ago, in some mines of Germany, etc., indicate a

temperature I think 50 per cent, less in the aggregate than the average of

the results obtained in the Cornish mines, as far as I am acquainted with

them.
                      321

Report on the Observations recorded during the Years 1837,
   1838, 1839, and 1840, by the Self-registering Anemometer

  erected at the Philosophical Institution, Birtningham. By

   A. FOLLETT OSLER, Esq.

The records of the Self-registering Anemometer, erected at the

Philosophical Institution at Birmingham, are now tabulated for

aneriod of upwards of four years; and though the observa-

tions from a single station can neither possess the interest nor

value of those we may hope to derive at no distant period from

several, yet so little is at present known respecting the laws of

the aerial currents in this latitude, that I have ventured to bring

forward the few facts at pi-esent collected.

  The plan adopted first suggested itself in consequence of my

friend Mr. Snow Harris having requested me to take out the

mean hourly force of the wind without reference to its direction,

which he apprehended might show some connection between

the wind's movements and the horary oscillations of the baro-

meter*. Considering that this mode of examining the anemo-

metrical records might exhibit other results equally deserving

investigation, I pursued the inquiry in the manner set forth in

this paper.

The observations are comprised in the years 1837, 1838,

1839, and 1840. The usual plan is adopted of regarding De-

cember, January and February as the winter quarter ; March,

April and May the spring; June, July and August the sum-

mer                   and September, October and November the autumn.
                   ;

Having procured a number of sheets of paper, ruled simi-

larly to Table I., I commence with December 1, 1836, and
note down the mean force and direction of the wind during

each hour of the day, as recorded by the anemometer. The

figures express, in pounds avoirdupois, the force exerted by the

wind on a surface of one foot square, kept at right angles to

the current. I have not noticed the force when less than half a

pound is registered, it being difficult to read oif a smaller

amount with accuracy ; and in heavy gales it is not possible to
ascertain the mean force of the wind even so nearly as this.
Owing to the oscillations of the vane, it is sometimes difficult to

ascertain precisely the mean direction ; besides which, the

instrument occasionally indicates an intermediate place between

1840.                 * Second Report of the British Association, p. 233.

                                                     Y
--322 REPORT 1840.

two points of the compass ; it is therefore not always prac-
ticable to attain exact accuracy ; in all such doubtful cases, I
have taken that which, on the whole, appears to be the nearest

point.

   It must be borne in mind, that it is the force and direction
of the wind that this instrument records, and not velocity,

which the valuable and ingenious instrument invented by Pro-
fessor Whewell is intended to register.

   But though the oscillations of the vane offer a difficulty for

the reason just stated, yet it affords a remarkable distinction

between different winds, and even between the same wind at
different times. During a north wind, for instance, the vane is

generally steady, while during a N.E. and E.NE. wind the

Aoscillation is frequently considerable. south wind, too, is some-

times very steady, and at other times the reverse ; but not hav-

ing had time to investigate this peculiarity, I merely mention it

for the purpose of inviting attention to the  circumstance                                                         as a
                                                                                                                ;

knowledge of the cause that produces this diffei-ence, if fully un-

derstood, may prove valuable to the meteorologist.

  A sheet on the plan of Table I. having been drawn out for

every month during the four years, I proceeded by taking an

abstract of each month as shown in Table II., and thus ob-

tained the total of the forces of each wind for the twenty-four

hours during the month.

   Plate III. fig. 1 is a diagram drawn from the general totals

(marked f) in Table III., showing at one view the direction and

sum of the forces of the wind for each hour of the day, as re-

gistered at Birmingham, during the years 1837-8-9-40.

   Plate IV. represents the comparative direction and forces of
each wind during the twenty-four hours, distinguishing the

quarters of the year. See Table IV.

   Plate V. contains diagrams, showing the comparative force
and direction of each wind, obtained from the sum of the hourly

means in Table III. (marked X)- See also Table VI.
   Plate I. fig, 2 is projected from Table V., and exhibits the

comparative force of the wind for each of the twentj^-four hours,

direction not being regarded. In this Plate the coincidence

between the curve of force and of temperature is very remark-
able, the temperature preceding the rise of the wind by a short

interval.

   The whole of these tables must be regarded merely as com-

parative ; I have therefore not considered it necessary or de-

sirable to reduce the total amounts to obtain the mean force
per day or per hour, as it would merely add to the labour and

sources of error without effecting any equivalent practical
ON THE SELF-REGISTERING ANEMOMETER.         323

good. Had the anemometer been placed in a more exposed

situation, we should have had the same comparative results,

but they would probably have been more clearly developed.

The principal thing to be aimed at in the selection of a site for

such an instrument is, to have it equally exposed to all winds :

whether it be on a hill or a plain, is of trifling importance, pro-

vided it is not sheltered on either side*.

There are many other facts which I had hoped to have adverted

to, such as the law of succession, the mean duration of each

wind, and the connection of the currents with the alterations in

the state of the barometer, thermometer, and hygrometer, all

of which must necessarily furnish interesting subjects for in-

vestigation, though I have as yet been unable to devote to them

mya requisite portion of  time.

   * The anemometer from which these observations are taken being placed in
the centre of a large town, does not afford such accurate results as would be
obtained from an instrument situated beyond the reach of disturbing causes.

                                 y2
--324 REPORT 1840.

Pi
   ON THE SELF-REGISTERING ANEMOMETER.  325

'
326 REPORT 1840.

                                      0^

   Eh

   n
      ON THE SELF-REGISTERING ANEMOMETER.  327

feu
« a;

no
o ts

01
32S                         --REPORT 1840.

                       "5
                        f2

                                                                            H3;
<
  ON THE SELF-BEGISTERING ANEMOMETER.  329
i

                                       ->
                                       ^>
330         REPORT 1840.

        "a

        1

     n
ON THE SELF-REGISTERING ANEMOMETER.  331
332 REPORT 1840.

      cq
  ON THE SELF-REGISTKRING ANEMOMETER.  333

2

o
334 REPORT 1840.

   o
  T

     Oi

                          I

     CO

                  I

         to

    <
 ON THE SELF-REGISTRRING ANEMOMETER.  335

J,
M6           --REPORT 1840.

          1

     I

GO

n
<
           ON THK SELF-RKGISI'KRING ANEMOMETER.  337

       e2

1840.
--338 REPORT 1840.

  <

   Eh
   ON THE SELF-REGISTERING ANEMOMETER.  339

"3
340          REPORT-- 1840.

          i

CD
  ON THE SELF-RKGISTERING ANKMOMKTER.  341
1
342                    REPORT 1840.

                    o

PQ

<
     ON THE SELF-REGISTEKING ANEMOMETER.  343

13

 S

^

 &

·T3

 O

Eh

os

n
--344 REPORT 1840.

                                        9k
ON THE SELF- REGISTERING ANEMOMETER.  345
--346 REPORT 1840.
ON THE SELF-REGISTERING ANEMOMETER
I
                                              349

Report respecting the Two Series of Hourly Meteorological
     Observations kept at Inverness and Kingussie, at the Ex-
    pense of the British Association, from Nov. \st, 1838, to
     Nov. \st, 1839. Btj Sir David Brewster, K.H.,F.R.S.,&c.

Having selected Inverness and Kingussie as two suitable sta-
tions foi* carrying on the two series of hourly observations with
the thermometer and barometer, I prevailed upon the Rev.
Mr. Rutherford, of Kingussie, and Mr. Thos. Mackenzie,
Teacher of Raining's School, Inverness, to undertake these
observations. The necessary instruments were made by Mr.
Adie, of Edinburgh, under the superintendence of Prof.
Forbes, and the observations begun on the 1st of November,
1838, that month being the commencement of the meteorolo-
gical year, or the^^r*^ of the group of winter months.

    While these observations were in progress, I communicated
to the Association at Birmingham a specimen of those made
at Kingussie, with a brief notice, which is published in the
Report of last year. I have now the satisfaction of laying be-
fore the Association the observations themselves, forming two
quarto volumes, a work of stupendous labour, executed, for
the first time, by educated individuals, with the aid of properly

 instructed assistants.

   The observations made at Kingussie, and, to a certain ex-
tent, those made at Inverness, contain ampler details of me-

 teorological phsenomena than any series of hourly observations

 with which I am acquainted. In addition to the thermome-

 trical observations, the height of the barometer and the tem-
 pei'ature of the mercurial column were observed every hour.

 The general character of the iveather was carefully noted.
 The character and direction of the wind at every hour was
 recorded. The number of hours of wind, of breeze, of calm,

 o^ rain, oi snow, and oi cloudy and clear weather were regu-
 larly marked ; and the number and nature of the Auroree Bo-
 reales were recorded and described.

    When these observations are compared with those made at
 Leith, under my superintendence, hrfour years, from 1824 to

 --1827 inclusive, at the expense of the Royal Society of Edin-

 burgh, with those made at Plymouth, from 1832 to 1840, at

 --the expense of the Association, and under the able superin-

 tendence of Mr. Snow Harris, and with those made at Padua,
 Philadelphia, and in Ceylon, we perceive very distinct traces
  of meteorological laws, of which no idea had been previously
350 REPORT 1840.

formed ; and I have no hesitation in stating, that when this class
of observations are multipHed and extended, they will tend to

general results of as great importance in pre-determining at-
mospherical changes, as those which have enabled the astro-
nomer to predict the phaenomena of the planetary system.

   Sir David Brewster then proceeded to give a brief and
general account of the results obtained from the observations
in Inverness-shire, leaving the numerical and more minute de-
tails for the report, which will be published in a future
volume of the Transactions of the Association.

    In giving an account of the observations on temperature, the
results obtained at Kingussie and Inverness were compared

with hourly and two-hourly observations made in other places,

as exhibited in the following table :

Places of Observation.  Latitude,
                             N.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS AT INVERNESS, &C. 351

north latitude 8° 30' 35". These observations were made in con-
sequence of the Rajah having seen the recommendation to esta-
bhsh hourly observations in the first volume of the Report of
the British Association. The hours of mean temperature ob-

tained from these valuable observations, are

Morning mean                                                                                   8*^ 34''5
Evening mean                                                                                   7 31

               Critical interval                                                               10 56-5

agreeing within 8^ minutes of the mean results given in the

preceding table.

   Sir David Brewster then directed the attention of the Sec-
tion to the following representation of the mean annual curves
of daily temperature at Leith, Plymouth, Kingussie, Inver-

ness, and Trevandrum. He pointed out the similarity (ap-

proaching to almost entire coincidence) between the curves of

Kingussie and  Plymouth                                                     an  elevation  of  750 feet above  the
                                                                         ;

sea, producing the same effect as a diminution of latitude of
SIX degrees. He also drew the attention of the Section to the
352 REPORT-- 1840.

curve of Trevandrum* (marked by a dotted line), in which

the daily range for the annual curve greatly exceeds that of
all the other curves in the diagram, a new result which no
person could have anticipated.

                              JBarometrical Observations.

   Sir D. Brewster then proceeded to give a general account
of the barometrical observations. The daily oscillations which
they indicated correspond both in time and in magnitude with
those which had been made in other parts of the world ; but
as the corrections had not yet been applied to all the observa-
tions, it was deemed unnecessary to make a more minute state-
ment.

                            Observations on the Wind.

   In comparing the number of hours of calm throughout the
y^ar, it appeared that they occurred when the temperature
was lowest, and upon laying them down in a curve this curve
was almost exactly the reverse of that of the mean daily tem-
perature for the year ; that is, the wind, or the commotions
in the atmosphere, depends on and varies with the tempera-

ture.

   " This very important and new result," Sir D. Brewster
remarks, " is confirmed, in a remarkable manner, by the ob-
servations of Mr. Osier at Birmingham, made at the request
and expense of the British Association, which I have seen
since I arrived in Glasgow ; observations of inestimable value,
which exhibit more important results respecting the phaeno-
mena and laws of wind than any which have been obtained
since meteorology became one of the physical sciences."

   The Kingussie and Inverness observations contain many
curious observations on the Aurora Borealis and other atmo-
spherical phfenomena, for an account of which we must refer
to a fuller report, which will appear in a future volume of the

Transactions of the British Association.

   * The mean temperature is reduced 30°, so as to bring this curve among

the other curves.
                          353

Report on the Fauna of Ireland: Div. Vertebrata. Drawn
   up, at the request of the British Association, by William

   Thompson, Esq., ( Vice-Pres. Nat. Hist. Society of Bel-
  fast,) one of the Committee appointedfor that purpose.

                          PART I.

It has been remarked to me, and by a distinguished naturahst,
that the zoology of Ireland can hardly be worth attention, from
the similai'ity it must bear to that of Great Britain, already so
well known. But, properly considered, the zoology of an island
which, in the eastern hemisphere, constitutes the most western
land within the fifty-first and fifty-fifth degrees of north lati-
tude, cannot but be highly interesting, especially in connexion
with that most attractive subject, the geographical distribu-
tion of animals. In Ireland, we find within the degrees of lati-
tude just mentioned the extreme western limits to which all our
species range that are peculiar to the eastern hemisphere. In

--Zoology, however, that is, in Vertebratal zoology, forofitonly
--the present communication treats, we do not (as some writers,

without reflecting on the very different circumstances which in-
fluence the distribution of animal and vegetable life, have an-

ticipated,) find the same interesting results as in Botany. The
West and South of the island do not present us with any of the

Vertebrata of Portugal, the western Pyrenees, or the South of
Europe, which are not found elsewhere in the British Islands.

The Erica mediterranea, Menziesia polifolia, Arbutus Unedo,

&c., have no animal representatives*.
   Throughout this Report it has been considered desirable to

--contrast the zoology of Ireland with that of Great Britain, to

present, in fact, a comparative list of the Vertebrata of the two
islands. It must, however, be borne in mind, that all species
found from the Channel Islands in the south, to the Shetland
Islands in the north, are included in the British Fauna, and
that within the degrees of latitude over which it extends, Ire-
land occupies but one third. Ireland is comprised within
four degrees, whilst the Shetland Islands range nearly six de-
grees further to the north, and more than two degrees to the

south the Channel Islands are situated. The Fauna of Great

Britain also extends over ten degrees of longitude, whilst that
of Ireland is limited to half the number.

   The physical geography of Ireland must, like that of every

* What may be the distribution of Lepus hibernicus and Mus hibernicus

is yet indeed a problem.

1840.                     2a
--354 REPORT 1840.

other country, have a primary influence on the numher of indivi-
duals of the species which are found there either permanently or
as periodical visitants. At the same time, its natural features do
not differ so much from those of Great Britain as altogether to
preclude the presence of more than one, or perhaps two, verte-
brate animals, which have a place in the British and not in the
Irish Fauna. These are the Ptarmigan Tetrao Lagopiis) and

                                                                                                                                                  (

Alpine Hare. For the abode of the former, it does not afford
 a continuity of mountains of sufficient altitude and of such a

nature as this bird chiefly inhabits. The haunts of the Alpine
Hare [Lepits variabilis) are pretty similar to those of the
Ptarmigan, but often at a much lower elevation.

    The influence of climate is now to be considered ; and under

 this head the species just mentioned might perhaps with pro-

priety have been included. The difference between the tempe-

 rature of Ireland and Great Britain cannot with any degree of
 certainty be said to attract to, or repel from, our island, any

species of the British Vertebrata. Our mild winters in par-
ticular have otherwise great influence. The Stoat {Mustela

 erminea), for instance, very rarely in winter changes the co-

lour of its summer fur to the warmer and more attractive garb
of the Ei'mine, in which it is so much better known. Even in
 the north of the island, some species considered as birds of pas-
 sage in England, except in the extreme south, are induced to
 become residents, as is the case with the Grey Wagtail {Mota-
 cilla Boarula), and to a very great extent with the Quail
 {Perdix Coturnix). Of the Grallatores, some few species re-
main throughout the winter in the North of Ireland, although
only to the South of England are they known at this season.
But, above all, the mildness of our winters is such, that some of
 the soft-billed birds, which are generally able to procure an
abundance of food, are more disposed than in the neighbouring-
island to song, and accordingly at this period of the year de-
light us with much more of their music.

   The humidity of our climate would seem to attract to fa-
vourite localities more Woodcocks {Scolopax Rusticola) than

are found in any part of Great Britain, and, together with the
great extent of bog throughout the island, brings hither to

winter many more of the Jack Snipe {Scoloj^ax GalUnula),
and of the common Snipe [Scolopax Gallinago). The two
last, above all other birds, exceed in number those found in
England and Scotland. The indigenous Starlings and Snipes
are as nothing compared with the numbers that pour into the
island during autumn from their breeding-haunts in higher

latitudes.
                          ;

ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.  355

   Our moist and rich meadows draw hither in spring more

Land-Rails {Crex pratensis) than are generally to be found
in the meadows of England and Scotland ; but in the case of

this bird, the far-western position of Ireland should perhaps be

considered, as in Portugal the species is about equally

abundant.

 --Mammalia. It is so extremely difficult to procure the greater

number of the animals of this class, that some, especially of

the smaller species, are doubtless yet to be discovered ; as

known at present, they appear to fall short of those of Great

Britain in an extraordinary degree. In the Cheiroptera, or
Bats, we seem to be remarkably deficient, but time must add

more species to our list. In the genus Mus there is a species

-- --- the M. hibernicus as yet unknown elsewhere. The Squirrel

(Sciurus vulgaris) and Dormouse {Myoxus avellanarius) are
desiderata : of the genus Arvicola I have not seen an Irish
example. In Lepus, the place of L. timidus and L. varia-
bilis is supplied by L. hibernicus, as yet known only to Ireland.
In Mustela, the Polecat {M. Putorius) is unknown to me ; and
if M. vulgaris be indigenous, it is much more rare than M.
erminea, which prevails from north to south. Oi Felis Catus,
as an Irish animal, positive information is yet wanted. The
Talpa europcBa we certainly have not, though in Great Britain
mole-hills may be observed close to the sea-side at some of
the nearest points of land to Ireland, as at Holyhead in
Wales, and Portpatrick in Scotland. The Soreces at present
known are but two in number.

   Ireland possesses as many Birds as from her geographical
position might be anticipated. The species which appear in
the catalogue of Great Britain and not in that of Ireland, are
chiefly occasional visitants, many of which have no doubt ex-
tended their flight hither, although they have not come under
the cognizance of the naturalist. This refers chiefly to strag-
glers or single birds ; the species which come in flights to
Great Britain generally extend their migration to Ireland also.

   In the class Reptilia nothing particular need be remarked,

except the well-known fact of the absence of Ophidian Rep-
tiles from the island.

   In Amphibia we have not the Toad {Bufo vulgaris) ; the
Frog {Rana temporaria) is stated to have been introduced

the Natterjack {Bufo Calamita) is believed to be truly indi-
genous to Kerry.

   The coast of Ireland offers nothing very remarkable in
Fishes. The families having a place in the British catalogue
and in which the Irish is particularly deficient, are Percidce,

                                             2A2
      --

--356 REPORT 1840.

Sparida, and Tcenioidece. In fresh-water fishes there is, com-

pared with England, a remarkable poverty in the species of

Cyprinidce yet, leaving out of the question geological in-
                                            ;

fluences, there are in certain portions of Ireland lakes and

rivers apparently well suited to this family. Scotland too is

very deficient in the Cyprinidce.

In the following catalogue of the vertebrate animals of Ire-

land about 420 species are included ; namely, of Mammalia,

SO?;  Aves,^?>^l;  Reptilia,2;     Amphibia, 4<;  Pisces,  150
                                                                        f.;

omitting in each class all extinct and naturalized species. To

take a general review of the Irish Vertehrata, as known at

present and every year several species are added to the cata-

--logue and of the causes of the absence of species found in

Great Britain, it is believed that the physical geography and

climate of the island will account for that of only one or two.

The want of old timber over the country might be considered

an obstacle to the presence of certain Mammalia and Birds,

as the Cheiroptera, or Bats, a large proportion of the British

species of which inhabit old trees ; the Squirrel, &c. In Birds,

the Picidce, or Woodpeckers, their congeners, and some others.

The absence of all species which would not be affected by any

of the above circumstances, and which we really have not,

seems to me to be attributable to geographical distribution

alone ; thus, as the shores of continental Eui'ope on the same

parallels of latitude as Great Britain are the western boundary

to many vertebrate animals unknown to that island, so again

are the shores of the latter the extreme western boundary to

many species unknown to Ireland *.

 --Note 1. The North-east of Ireland and South-west of

Scotland, although divided by so narrow a channel, are zoolo-

gically very different. The species unknown to me as Irish,

but of which I have seen examples from the opposite coast,

are, the Polecat {Mustela Putorius), Mole {Talpa europcea).

Ciliated Shrew {Sorex ciliatus), the three species of Campa-

gnol [Arvicola amphibia, A. agrestis, and A. riparia), and the

--common Hare [Lepus timidns) the Black Grouse {Tetrao
--Tetrix) the Blind-worm {Anguis fragilis). Adder or Viper

{Pelitts Berics), and Toad {Btifo vulgaris).

In the genera to which the animals just mentioned belong,

Ireland is known to possess but one species which is not found

in Scotland, the Lepus hibernicus, and of the terrestrial Mam-

malia generally, but one other, Mus hibernicus : of the com-

   * Several species of British Birds are either not found in the West of En-
gland, or become rare towards that quarter ; as the Nightingale, Nuthatch,
Wryneck, Kentish Plover, Stork, &c.
                                                                                    ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                               357

men Shrew-mouse of Ireland {Sorex rusticus), indeed, I have

not seen any specimens from Scotland, but there can be little

doubt that the animal is found there.

 -- --Note 2. The situation of the Isle of Man midway between
--Great Britain and Ireland suggests the inquiry whether cer-

Ontain species not found in the latter island pievail there.

this subject Mr, E. Forbes informs me that the Mole, Squirrel,

Dormouse, and Roe-deer are not indigenous to the Isle of

Man; neither is the Toad, nor any species of Ophidian Rep-

Atile.  skin of the Hare of the island sent me by Mr. Forbes

is that of L, timidus, the species found in Great Britain, and

represented by L. hibernicus in Ireland*.

   * It may be desirable, witb reference to the above remarks, to allude briefly

to such species as, found in Great Britain and not in Ireland, prevail further to
the west. In Mammalia, five of the British and non-Irish species are found in

the western hemisphere. They all belong to the division Mamm. Aquatica,

and are only occasional visitants' to the shores of Great Britain. The species
are Calocephalus (Phoca) groenlandicus, Trichecus rosmarus, Delphinus I'ursio,
Delphinapterus {Beluga) leucas, Monodon Monoceros.

    In Aves, sixteen British and non-Irish species prevail in the western hemi-
sphere. Of these, the Ptarmigan {Lagopus mutus) onl}' can with certainty be
termed indigenous to Great Britain, and for its absence from Ireland reasons
have already been assigned. Linaria canescens seems not yet to be properly

established as an indigenous British bird. Two species, Pracellaria glacialis
and Lobipes kyperboreus, are periodical visitants, the former to St. Kilda only,
the latter to the northern Scottish islands. The remaining twelve are occa-

sional and very rare visitants to Great Britain or the neighbouring seas.
They are Nauclerus {Elanus) furcatus, Surnia funerea, Plectrophanes Lappo-
nica, Ectopistes (Columba) migratoria, Macroramphus griseics, Tringa rufes-
cens, Tringa pectoralis, Oidemia perspicillata, Clangula histrionica, Merganser
cucullatus, Larus atricilla, and Thalassidroma Wilsoni,

    In Reptilia, two species which have a place in the British and not in the
Irish catalogue, belong to the western hemisphere : these are Chelonia imbricafa
and Sphargis coriacea.

    In Amphibia, none of the species under consideration occur in the west.
    In Pisces, several British and non-Irish species appear in the North Ameri-
can list, but they are all known only as rare and occasional visitants to the
shores of Great Britain. They are Trichiurus lepturus, Sebastes norvegicus,
Naucrates Ductor, Exocoetus exiliens, Engraulis enerasicholus ?, Echeneis Re-
mora, Murcsna vulgaris ?, Zygeena malleus, Scopelus Humboldtii, and Xiphias

   The Mammalia, Reptilia, and Pisces of the West are taken (with the excep-
tion of Sphargis coi-iacea) from Dr. Richardson's " Report on North American
Zoology," (Report Brit. Assoc, vol. v.), and Dr. H. Storer's " Report on the
Fishes &c. of Massachusetts ;" Aves, from the Prince of Musignano's " Com-
parative Catalogue of the Birds of Europe and North America."

* Throughout this Report, the term indigenous is applied to species perma-

nently resident                                                                     periodical visitant, to those  which  come annually ;  occasional
                                                                                 ;

visitant, to those met with at uncertain intervals.
                                  --:

358 REPORT-- lS4a

                PART II.

                  Div. VERTEBRATA.

Class MAMMALIA-- Sect. I. MAMM. TERRESTRIA,

                Order 1. Cheiroptera.

                Fam. Vespertilionida.

[Throughout the comparative catalogue, the mark denotes absence, as the

    +mark does presence. Thus Vesp. Noctula is unknown in Ireland ;

        V. Pipktrellus is a British as well as an Irish species.]

Ireland,                                              Great Britain,

                      Q           Vespertilio Noctula, Sclireh.

Vespertilio Pipistrelhis, Geoff.         ,, Leisleri, Kuhl.
                         G              ,, discolor, Natt.

                      O                                                                 ·+-

        ,, Daubentonii, Leisl.            3j pygTOEeus, Leach.
                                         ,, serotinus, Gmel.
Plecotus auritus, Geoff.                  ,s murinus, L.
                                           ,, Bechsteinii, Leisl.
                                          ,, Nattereri, Kuhl.
                                          ,, emarginalus, Geoff.

                                                    +

                                          ,, m)'stacinus, Leisl.
                                          ,, aedilis, Jenyns.

                                                    +

                                  Plecotus brevimanus, Jenyns,

                                  Barbastellus Daubentonii, Bell.
                                  Rhinolophus Ferrum-equinum, Leach.

                                           ,, hipposideros, Leach.

   Of the Vespertilionidce, of which 18 species are now enume-

rated as British, all that can be announced as Irish are the
Vesp. Pipistrelhis, V. Daubentonii and Plecotus auritus : the

first and last are common from north to south of the island
of the V, Daubentotiii^ , one individual was obtained by the
Ordnance collectors in the county of Londonderry. That other

species remain to be discovered, there is little doubt.

Of the British Bats, 4 species have each been found, but in

one locality ; and of 4 other species but a single individual has

been procured.  --Order 2. Bestije.

                (Ferae Insectivorae.)

                                   Fam. ErinaceidoB.  Great Britain.

                       Ireland.                            +

Erinacens europseus, L.

   Common throughout the island.

* The species determined by Mr. Jenyns.
                                                                           --

                                                              ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                                                                                                                SS^

                                                                        Fam. Talpidce.

                                                              Ireland.                                                                                                           Great Britain.
                                                                                                                                                              Talpa europaea, L.

                                                                        Fam. SoricidcB.

                       Ireland.                                                                                                                                                   Great Britain.
Sorex rusticus, Jenyns.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -|-
   ,, tetragonurus, Herm.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -\-

                                                                                                                                                              Sorex fodiens, Gmel.
                                                                                                                                                                  ,, ciliatus, Sower.
                                                                                                                                                                  ,, castaneus, Jenyns.

S. rusticus is the common Shrew of Ireland from north to

south                           of S. tetragonurus                      I  have                                                                               seen  but one      native speci-
                             ;

men, which was procured by the Ordnance Survey near the

Giant's Causeway.

                                                                        Order 3 FerjE.

                                                                        Fam. UrsidoE^.

                       Ireland.                                                                                                                                     Great Britain.

Meles Taxus, Flem.                                                                                                                                                                  -j.
     In suitable localities throughout
        the island.

                                                                        Fam. Felidee,

                        Ireland.                                                               Great Britain.
Lutra vulgaris, Erxleb. (?) f
Mustela vulgaris, L. (?)                                                                     ^

     ,, erminea, L.                                                                                                              -f.

Martes foina, Bell.                                                                                            j^
   ,, Abietum, Bai/.                                                       Mustela Putorius, L.

Vulpes vulgaris, Briss.                                                                       ^

                                                                                                                                   _|_

                                                                           Felis Catus, L.

                                                                                                                                  -j.

The Irish Otter, named provisionally Lutra Roensis by Mr.

Ogilby, is not now considered by that gentleman distinct from

L. vulgaris                                                   it is not uncommon.                                                                             Of the Mustelce, M. Puto-
                                                           ;

rius is unknown to me as Irish ; and of M. vulgaris, which is

noticed as common by Templeton and others, 1 have not seen

a native specimen : M. erminea is common from north to south,

and passes under the name of 'Weasel'. Maries Abietum

is found throughout the island                                                                                                                                of M. foina,  but  one                                  native
                                                                                                                                                           ;

example (killed in the county of Antrim) is known to me. The

   * Ursus Arctos, L. I am not aware of any written evidence tending to show-

that the Bear was ever indigenous to Ireland ; but a tradition exists of its having
been so, and it is associated with the Wolf as a native animal in the stories
handed down througji several generations to the present time.

   t The note of interrogation within brackets (?) marks species doubtfully Irish.
                          ----

--360 REPORT 1840.

difference of colour attributed to these animals appears to me

of no value as a specific character, as in course of shedding
their fur they become particoloured, the breast as well as the
body presenting at the same time the colours of the Beech and
the Pine Marten*. Certain data for including Felis Catus in
the Irish catalogue are wanting : it is said to frequent the wild
district of Erris (co. Mayo). Vulpes vulgaris is common f.

                          Order 4. Glires.

                          Fam. Castoridce.

Ireland.                                             Great Britain.

                          Arvicola ampliibius, Desm.
                              ,, avvalis, Gm. (agrestis, Brit, au-

                                                           thors).

                               ,, nibidus, Baill. (riparia, Yarrell).

  Of the genus Arvicola, there is not any species known to
me as indigenous to Ireland.

                          Fam. MuridcB.

               Ireland.                       Great Britain.

Mus sylvaticus, L.        Sciurus vulgaris, L.

  ,, Musculus, L.         Myoxus avellanarius, Desm.
  ,, Rattus, L. (?)       Mus minutus, Pall, (messorius, Shaw.)
  ,, hibernicus, Thomps.
  ,, decumanus, Pall.                      +

                                                                           -f-

                                           +

                                          +

   Sciurus vulgaris is not now a truly native animal % ; it was in-
troduced a few years since to the county of Wicklow, where it

is said to be fast increasing in numbers. Rutty, in his Natu-

ral History of the County of Dublin, (1772,) vol. i. p. 291, re-
marks that it is " said to have been found in the wood in

  * When the above was in the press, Mr. Eyton published in the Annals of

Nat. Hist. (Dec. 1840, p. 290) some valuable remarks on the British Martens,

tending to prove that they are in reality but one species. He states that the

young animal has the yellow breast attributed to the Pine Marten, and the adult,
the white breast of the common " species." I had also long since remarked that
the yellow colour of the breast gave place to white. This view would satisfac-

--torily explain why the yellow-breasted one M. Abietiim should appear to be

the more common with us, as by far the greater proportion of animals that fall
victims to man are those which have not arrived at full maturity.

    f Canis Lupus, L. Smith, in his History of Kerry (p. 173), states that
Wolves were not entirely extirpated in Ireland until 1710. That noble race of
domestic animals, the Irish Wolf Dog, so successfully used in their pursuit, has,

since no longer required, been neglected, and must now, I fear, be called

extinct.

   X There is a tradition that the Squirrel was common in Ireland before the

destruction of the native woods.
                                  .

                 ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                                                          361

Lutterel's Town." In the same work it is observed in vol. i.
p. 277, that " a vulgar error has prevailed, mentioned at Jon-
ston's Historia Animalhcm, that the Dormouse was not found

in Ireland," &c. ; a sort of description of the animal follows,

but by no means proving it to be a Myoxus. Mus minutus

cannot be announced as Irish ; but a native animal was once

described to me which would agree with it ; M. sylvaticus and
M. Musculus are both too common over the island. The ani-
mal provisionally called Mus hibernicus* is now so rare that I

have been able to obtain for examination but one specimen,

which is insufficient to establish it properly as a distinct spe-

cies ; M. Ratfus, though very rare, is stated to occur occa-

sionally in various parts of the island

   In his Natural History of Dublin, Rutty states that the Mus

decumanus " first began to infest these parts about the year

1722." (vol. i. 281.) It has long since overspread the island.

                      Ireland.    Fam. Leporidce.

Lepus hiberniciis, Bell.                                           Great Britain.
           Cuniculus, L.                      Lepus timidus, L.

                                                    ,, variabilis, Pall.

                                                                                                              -\-

The only species of Hare known as Irish is the L. Mber-

nicus, which is common throughout the island, as is likewise

L. Cunicultisf.                   --Order 5. PecoraJ.

                                  Fam. CervidcB§.

                        Ireland.                     Great Britain.
Cervus Elaphus, L.
                                                   +

                                  Cervus Capreolus, L.

   · Proceedings Zool. Soc. London, 1837, p. 52.
   f This animal passes under the names of burrow and bush Rabbit in the North
of Ireland. These are distinguished from each other accordingly as they bur-
row in the ground in the ordinary manner, or live in " forms " like the Hare
among bushes or underwood. This departure from their natural habit is, I con-

ceive, only resorted to where the soil is unsuited to burrowing. In the Annals

of Nat. Hist. vol. v. p. 362, a notice will be found on the subject of Hares bur-
rowing in an exposed situation on the western coast of Ireland, to which they
were introduced, and where they could not otherwise find shelter.

   X Bos Taurus, L. The remains of a race of Oxen, believed to be peculiar to
Ireland, are found in our bogs. The distinguishing characters are, " the con-

vexity of the upper part of the forehead, its great proportional length, and the
shortness and downward direction of thehorns." See an abstract ofa paper by

Mr. R. Ball, " On the Remains of Oxen found in the Bogs of Ireland," in the
Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy, January 28, 1839.

    § Cervus Dama, L. Smith, in his History of Kerry, notices herds of Fallow
Deer as frequenting the " mountains" in that county. But as these are the
haunts not of this animal, but of the Stag or Red Deer (C. Elaphus), the latter
                                 --

--362 REPORT 1840.

  The C. Elaphus, once abundant over Ireland, is now con-

fined to the wilder parts of Connaught, as Erris and Conne-
mara ; and to one or two locaUties in the South, more espe-

cially the vicinity of the lakes of Killarney.

Sect. II. MAMMALIA AQUATICA.

                     Oi'der 6. Pinnipeda.

                                 Fam. PhocidcB.

                       Ireland.                          Great Britain.
Plioca vitulina, L.
                                                     +
Halichaerus Gryphus, Bell.
                                     Phoca grcenlandica, Mull.

                                        ,, barbata, Mull.

                                                     +

                                     Trichecus Rosmarus, L.

was probably tbe species alluded to, especially as in the index to the volume
appears " Deer, red or fallow". For a long period the Fallow Deer certainly has

not been found in any part of Ireland where it could be called truly wild.

A horn of this species which I possess, (through the kindness of Edward Benn,

Esq., of Glenravel, county Antrim,) is stated to have been dug up from a con-

siderable depth in a bog in his neighbourhood, but minute particulars respecting

it could not be obtained. It may not be out of place to observe here, that the
C. Dania is now well known to inhabit Greece in a wild state. Lord
Derby has for some years possessed a pair of these animals of the common
spotted variety, which were brought from the neighbourhood of Axium by
Lord Nuo-ent, and which, as I am informed by my friend Mr. Ogilby, who

examined them attentively, during a recent visit to their noble owner, differ
in no respect from the common Fallow Deer of our parks. Moreover, as re-

marked by the same gentleman, the universal application of the word Dama

to this animal in the Italian, French, Spanish, and other modern languages de-

rived from the ancient Latin, (added to the fact of the animal being still found

in the forests of Italy, where there are no parks or inclosures,) points it out as

the beast of chase so frequently mentioned under the same name by the Roman

poets. Mr. Ogilby hkewise remarks that it is in all probability the Platycerus

of Pliny, or rather of the Greeks, from whom he copied. It is said in a note

to the second edition of the Regne Jtiimal to have been found in the woods

of Northern Africa.  horn of the true Elk (C Alces), as noticed by me in the
ACervus Alces, L.

" Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London," for 1837, p. 53, was some

years since presented to the Natural History Society of Belfast. To the donor

it was given by a relative residing at Stewartstown, county Tyrone, who attached

much value to it as a singular relic dug out of a peat-bog on his own property
in that neighbourhood. That it was so obtained I am assured there cannot be
a doubt. The horn is that of a very old animal, and quite perfect. On re-

moving the paint with which it was besmeared, the horn certainly presented a

fresh appearance ; but might not this be attributed to the well-known preserv-

ative property of the soil in which it is said to have been found? There is not,

that I am aware of, any record of this animal having ever existed in a wild state

in the British Isles ; but as it inhabited a wide range of latitude on the continent

of Europe, it is within the bounds of probability to believe that it may have

been a native species.

   Sus Scrofa, L. The Wild Boar was at one period common in Ireland, but
has long since become extinct. Giraldus remarks that it was of a small race,
but tusks of this animal dug up in our bogs are often of goodly dimensions.

                                                                                    i
                 ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                                                      363

   P. vittilina and Hal. Gryphus only, in this family, have
with certainty been recognised as Irish species ; they both in-
habit the coasts from north to south.

   Precise information is much wanted with reference to P.

harbata as a British species ; and as such, P. grcenlandica (or
the animal so considered to be) is a recent addition to the ca-
talogue. Trich. Rosmarus very rarely occurs in the Hebrides
and in the Orkney and Shetland Islands-

                                                         Order 7. Cete.

                          Fam. Delphinidce,

Ireland.                                                                   Great Britain.

Delphinus Delphis, L.                                                      +

Phocsena communis, Less.                                 Delphinus Tursio, Fahr.

                                                                        +

        ,, Orca, F. Cuv.                                                                                  -f-
         ,, melas, Bell.
                                                                         +
Hyperoodon Butzkopf, Lacep.
                                                         Beluga leucas, Bell.

                                                                        +

                                                         Diodon Sowei-bsei, Jard.

                                                         Monodon Monoceros, L.

D. Delphis, P. communis and P. Orca are considered to pre-

vail on various parts of the coast of Ireland, the second to be

the most common, the last the rarest ; of all, I have seen native

specimens, but cannot from personal knowledge speak of the

comparative abundance or scarcity of the species. P. melas

has been observed on the western and southern coasts ; Hyp.
Butsskopf along the eastern coast. The four Delphinidce

which cannot be enumerated in the Irish catalogue are very

rare as British  species                                 of Diodon  Sowerbcei   a  single                      speci-
                                                      ;

men only is on record.

                                                         Fam. BalcenidtB.

Ireland.                                                                   Great Britain.

Physeter macrocephalus, L.                                                 -j-
     ,, Tursio, L.                                                         -j-
                                                                           -j-
Balaena Mysticetus, L.                                                     -j-
Balaenoptera Boops, Flem.

According to Dr. Molyneux*, the "Spermaceti Whale"

has been captured on the north and north-west coasts. Smith

notices one, taken near Youghal ; and Rutty, in his Natural

History of Dublin, mentions an individual as cast ashore in

1766. Templeton states that Phys. Tursio is of occasional oc-

 currence in the West.                                   Bal. Mysticetus has been rarely cap-

1

tured on various parts of the coast. Of a Balcenoptera {Ba-

IcEna rostrata) which was taken on the western coast some years

ago a very full account has been pubUshed by Dr. Jacob in the

Dublin Philosophical Journal.

                 * Phil. Trans., vol. xix. 1795-6, p. 508.
                        --
--364 REPORT 1840.

          PART III.

Ireland.       Class AVES.

          Order 1. Raftores.

              Fam, VulturidcE.

                                                 Great Britain.
                            Neophron Percnopterus, Sav.

   This bird has a place in the British Fauna from its occur-
rence in England on one or two occasions. Africa is its head

quarters.

          Fam. FalconidcB.

                        Ireland.                          Great Britain.

Aquila Chrysaetos, Vig.                              +
Haliaeetus albicilla, Selby.                          +
Pandion Haliseetus, Sav.                              +
Astur palumbarius, Bechst. (?)                       +
Accipiter fringillarius, Raij.                        +
Falco groenlandicus, L. Hancoclc.                     +
                                                      +
   ,, Islandicus, ZaiA. i/a«coc^.(?)                  +
    ,, peregrinus, L.                                 +
    ,, Subbuteo, L.                                  +
   ,, rufipes, Bechst.                                +
   ,, Tinmiiiculus, L.                                +
    ,, ^salon, Gmel.                                  +
Buteo vulgaris, Bechst.                               +
    ,, Lagopus, Vig.                                  +
Pernis apivorus, Cuv.                                 +
Circus rufus, Briss.                                  +
    ,, cyaneus, Flem.
                                      Circus cineraceus, Shaw.
Milvus Ictinus, Sav.
                                                       +

                                      Elanus furcatus, Sav.

   The two first-named species, the Golden and Sea Eagles are
in Ireland, as in Scotland, more numerous than in England.
Pandion HaUceetus is chiefly confined to the more southern half

of the island. Astur palumbaritis has a place not only in the
older county histories, but in Mr. Tenipleton's catalogue; I have
not myself seen any specimen which could be verified as native.
Accipiter fringillarius, Falco peregrinus, F. Tinnunculus, F.
jEsalon, Buteo vulgai'is. Circus rufus, and C. cyaneus, inhabit
suitable localities throughout Ireland : in the wild and moun-
tainous parts of the country which are destitute of wood, B. vul-
garis makes the precipitous rocks its habitation. Falco groen-
                                                                                     ,

ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                                             365

landicus as distinguished by Mr. Hancock from F. Islandicus*

has in one instance been obtained in Donegalf : under the latter

name Mr. Templeton records a specimen, killed in the county

of Antrim, but as both these terms were then used synony-

mously, it must remain doubtful whether it was this or the

former species. By this naturalist the F. Subbuteo was on two

occasions observed in Ireland. Falco riifipes has once been ob-
tained, in the neighbourhood of Dublin. Biiteo Lagopus is

a very x'are winter, as Pernis apivorus is a summer, visitant.

Smith, in his History of Cork, (completed in 1749,) remarks of

the Milvus Ictinus, "These birds are so common that they

need no particular description ;                  with us it remains all

the year J." At present the species is unknown in that county.
The terms Kite and Goshawk being applied indiscriminately

in Ireland to the Buzzards, and the latter sometimes to the

Peregrine Falcon, renders it somewhat dubious whether the

proper names have always been legitimately employed in the

county histories, &c. The Milvus Ictinus has, on what was

considered sufficient authority, been noticed as an extremely

rare visitant to the North §.

   Of our desiderata, the Circus cineraceus is a species, which

from its general resemblance to C. cyaneus, might readily be

overlooked ; it will probably yet be added to the Irish cata-

logue. Elanus furcatus, an American species, has only twice

been taken in Great Britain.

                                 Fam. Strigidce.

                       Ireland.                   Great Britain.

Bubo maximus, Sibbald.                                 +
Otus vulgaris, Flem.                                  +

  ,, Brachyotos, Cuv.                                                           -\-
Scops Aldrovaudi, Will. 8f Ray.
                                                  +
Surnia nyctea, Dum.                               +

Strix flammea, Z.                Surnia funerea, Dum.
Ulula stridula, Selby.
                                                 +
                                                  +

                                 Noctua Tengmalmi, Selby.

                                  ,, passorina, Selhy.

Of the occurrence of either Btibo maximus or Scops Aldro-

vandi in Ireland, there is but a single record. Otus vulgaris

   * Annals of Natural History, vol. ii. p. 249.
   f The description of this individual, supplied me, previous to the appearance
of Mr. Hancock's paper, by John Vandeleur Stewart, Esq., of Rockhill,
Letterkenny, in whose collection it is, is so ample, as to prove its species

beyond any doubt.
   X Vol. ii. p. 326, 2nd edit.
   § Ann. Nat. Hist., vol. i. p. 156.
                                   ----

366 REPORT-- 1840.

and Strix flammea are common and resident. Otus Brachyo-

tos is a regular winter resident ; at the same season Surnia
nyctea has occasionally been met with. Ulula stridula is in-
cluded in the older county histories ; on what was considered
sufficient authority it was noticed as an Irish species in Annals
of Natural Histoi'y, vol. i. p. 156.

   Surnia funerea has its place in the British catalogue from a
single individual having been taken off the coast of Cornwall.
Noctua Tengmalmi and N.passerlna have been very rarely met
with in England.

                                   Order 2 Insessores.

                                   Div. 1. Dentirostres.

                                   Fam. Laniadce.

                     Ireland.                             Great Br'Uain,
Lanius Excubitor, L.
                                                         +

                                         Laniiis Collurio, Z.

                                             ,, rufus, L.

The L. Excubitor only in this family can be announced as

Irish : its occurrence in a number of instances is on record.

L. Collurio is a regular           summer  visitant       to  England                                         L.
                                                                                                           ;

rufus but a very rare and occasional one.

                                   Fam. MuscicapidcB.

                         Ireland.                             Great Britain,

Muscicapa grisola, L.                                    +

                                         Muscicapa luctuosa, Temm.

   M. grisola is a regular summer visitant to Ireland.
   M. luctuosa is in England considered only as an occasional

visitant (Selby).

                                   Fam. Merulidce.

Ireland.
ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.  367

fully kept pace with that in Great Britain : so mild have been

our few last winters, that the song of M. musica was almost
daily heard. Mer. pilaris and M. iliaca regularly take up
their abode with us in winter, as does M. torquata in summer.

Oriolus Galbula has in a few instances been met with in
various parts of Ireland, and as far north as Donaghadee, co.
Down.

   Mer. WJiitei has on two occasions occurred in England.

                                        Fam.
                                                   ,;

--368 REPORT 1840.

   Accentor modularis, Erythaca Riibecula, Saxicola Rubicola
Regulus Aurocapillus, Parus major, P. cosruleus, P. ater, Mo-

tacilla Yarrellii, M. Boarula, Anthus ohsctirus, A. 'pratensis
are common and resident : in the wilder districts, especially
towards the west, M. Boarula is rare. Parus caudatus and P.
palustris are likewise resident, but much less common than the

preceding species ; the former is increasing with the spread of

plantations ; the latter is very little known as an Irish bird.
Phceriicura Ruticilla is but of occasional and rare occurrence
Ph. Tithys can only be announced with certainty as having
once been met with. Saxicola CEnauthe, S. Ruhetra, Sali-
caria Phragmitis, Curruca cinerea, Sylvia Trochilus are the
most common and widely dispersed of the regular summer visit-
ants; Salicaria Locustella should perhaps be included with
them, but its retired habits render it less known. Salicaria
arundinacea is recorded by Templeton as once seen by him
near Belfast, and in a single instance Cakmiophilus biannicus
has been obtained on the banks of the Shannon. Ctirruca
Atricajiilla is probably a regular summer visitant to select
localities, and has in several instances been known to winter
in Ireland. C. hortensis is with certainty known only as an
occasional summer visitant. Sylvia Hippolais and Motacilla
fiava appear every summer in comparatively few localities over
the island. Sylvia Sihilatrix and Anthus arboreus are believed
to visit Ireland in summer, but it yet remains to be determined.

   Of our desiderata, Accentor alpinus, Phcenicura suecica,
Regulus Ignicapillns, and Anthus Richardi are only known as

rare and occasional visitants to England. Motacilla neglecta
cannot without further information be regarded otherwise than
a species of occasional occurrence in Great Britain. There is
little hope of Partis cristatus being found in Ireland : it is, as a
British bird, known only in Scotland, where it especially fre-
 quents the pine forests. Melizophilus j^rovincialis has been

met with only in the more southern half of England. Of Phi-
lomela Luscinia and Curruca Garrula, the former is unknown
in the West of that country, and the latter would seem to be-
come rare towards the same quarter. With increased atten-

 tion, more species in this family will doubtless be added to the

 Irish catalogue.

                                         Fam. AmpelidcE.

                        Ireland.  Great Bi-itain.
Bombycilla garrula, Bonap.
                                      +

An occasional winter visitant to Ireland.
           ON THE FAUNA OP IRELAND.                                                           369

                         Order Insessores.

           Div. 2. CONIIIOSTRES.

                         Fam. Fri7igillidcB.

                          Ireland.                                            Great Britain.
                                                            Alauda alpestris, L.
 Alauda arveiisis, L.
     ,, arborea, L.                                                        +

 Plectrophanes nivalis, Meyer.                              Plectrophanes Lapponica, Selby.
 Emberiza Miliaria, L.
                                                                           +
      ,, Schoeniculus, L.
       ,, Citrinella, L.                                                  +
                                                                          +
Fringilla Coelebs, L.
     ,, Montifringilla, L.                                  Emberiza Cirlus, L.
                                                                  ,, hortulana, L.
Passer domesticus, Ray.
                                                                          +
Coccothraustes vulgaris, /'/6>?w.(Fring.                                  +
       Coccotbraustes, Temm.)                                             +

Coccothraustes Chloris, Fletn.                              Passer montanus, Ray.
Cardiielis elegans, Steph.
                                                                          +
      ,, Spinus, Steph.
Linaria minor, Ray.                                                       +
                                                                         +
    ,, cannabina, Sw.                                                     +
    ,, montana, Ray.                                                      +

Pyrrhula vulgaris, Temm.                                        -f

      ,, Enucleator, Tern. (?)                              Linaria canescens, Gould.
Loxia curvirostra, L.
                                                                +
   ,, leucoptera, Gmel.                                         +
                                                                +
                                                            ^.
                                                            Loxia Pytiopsittacus, Bechsf.

                                                                +

Alauda arvensis, Emb. miliaria, E. Schcenicidus and E.

Citrinella, Fring. Ccelebs, Pass, domesticus, Coec. Chloris,

Linaria minor and L. cannahina are common and resident.
Alauda arborea. Card, elegans, Lin, montana and Pyrr. vul-

garis are likewise resident, but more local than the others.

Plect. nivalis is a regular winter visitant to the North of Ireland,

but little known in the  South                              Fring. Montifringilla      is a fre-
                                                         ;

quent, perhaps a regular visitant at. the same period. Cocc.

vulgaris. Card. Spinus, and Loxia curvirostra occasionally

visit us in winter, the first-mentioned being the most rare, and

occurring in the fewest numbers ; the last-named has in some

instances bred in Ireland. Pyrr. Enucleator would seem
from a note of Mr. Templeton's to have been once met with
near Belfast. Loxia leucoptera has been obtained on one

occasion.

1840.                    2B
                                                                     ;

--370 REPORT 1840.

   Alauda alpestris, Pled. Lapponica, Emh. Jiortulana and
Loxia Pytiopsittacus^ are very rare and occasional visitants
to Great Britain. Emheriza Cirlus and Passer montanus are

local species in England, the former visiting only a portion
of the South. Linaria canescens I have not yet sought to

distinguish from its allies.

                                  Fam. Sturnidce,

                        Ireland.                   Great Britain.

Sturnus vulgaris, L.                                   +
Pastor roseus, Temm.                                   +

   The former species is somewhat local and partially resident
it abounds in particular localities during winter. The latter is
a rare summer visitant, but has been met with in all quarters

of the island.

                                  Fam. CorvidcB.

                        Ireland.                     Great Britain.

Fregilus Graculus, Selb.                           +
Corvus Corax, L.                                   +
                                                  +
    ,, Corone, L.                                 +
   ,, Cornix, L.                                   +
    ,, Frugilegus, L.                             +
    ,, Monedula, L.                                +
Pica melanoleuca, Vieill.                          +
Garrulus glandarius, Flem.
                                  Nucifraga Caryocatactes, Briss.

   Freg. Graculus is pretty generally diffused over the marine
cliiFs of Ireland, and rarely inhabits inland localities. All the

species of Corvus are resident and common ; C. Corone least
so. Of Pica melanoletica it is stated by Smith, in his History
of Cork, (1749,) that it "was not known in Ireland seventy years
ago, but is now very commonf . Rutty, in his Natural History

of Dublin, observes respecting this bird, " It is a foreigner,
naturalised here since the latter end of King James the Se-
cond's reign, and is said to have been driven hither by a strong
wind. "J Garr. glandarius inhabits only some parts of the
island, especially towards the centre and south.

   Nucif. Caryocatactes is but a rare visitant to Great Britain.
I have heard that it once occurred at Silvermines, co. Tippe-

rary.

   * It is more than probable that some of the later British specimens noticed
as this bird were merely L. curvirostra, with the point of the lower mandible

not extending beyond the profile of the upper.

t Vol. ii. p. 330.                X Vol. i. p. 308.
                                               ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                                 371

                                                                  Order Insessores.

                                                         Div. 3. SCANSORES.

                                                                  Fam. Picidte.

                        Ireland.                                                     Great Britain.
Picus major, L.
                                                                  Picus viridis, L.

                                                                                    +

                                                                     ,, minor, L.
                                                                     ,, martius, L.

                                                                  Yunx Torquilla, L.

Owing to the general scarcity of wood, especially old, this

family of birds is rare. P. major only can with certainty be in-

troduced to our catalogue, and it is but a very rare visitant.
" Picus varius minor. Lesser Spotted Woodpecker," is given

as one of the birds of the co. Dublin by Rutty*. In Dr. Patrick

Brown's catalogue of the Birds of Ireland it likewise has a

place, but was probably copied from Rutty. In Smith's Water-

fordf appears " Picus Martis, the Woodpecker, a bird rare in

this county :" the P. martius can hardly have been here meant.

Picus viridis would appear to be generally distributed in

suitable localities in Great Britain, and P. minor to be so in

England                                        P. martius is a very rare visitant.   Yunx Torquilla,
                                            ;

one of the summer birds of passage to England, decreases in

numbers towards the west of that country.

                                                                  Fam. Certhiadce.

                         Ireland.                                                     Great Britain.

Certhia familiaris, L.                                                             +
Troglodytes europseus, Cuv.
                                                                                                                   -\-
Upupa Epops, L.
                                                                                   +

                                                                  Sitta europasa, L.

    Cert, familiaris constantly inhabits the best-wooded districts

throughout Ireland ; Trog. europcBus is common and resident.
Upupa Epops is a rare visitant but has been taken in all quar-

ters of the island.

   Sitta europcBa is somewhat local in England, and towards
the West is said to become more rare.

                                                                  Fam. CuculidcE.

                                               Ireland.                          Great Britain.

Cuculus canorus, L.                                                                  -\-
Coccyzus americanus, Bonap.
                                                                                     +

   The former is a regular vernal migrant to Ireland, and is

generally diffused ; the latter has on two or three occasions
been obtained in the counties of Cork and Dublin.

                                               * Vol. i. p. 302.                     f P. 338.

                                                                  2 b2
                                   --

--372 REPORT 1840.

                                   Order Insessores.

                                   Div. 4. FlSSIROSTRES.

                        Ireland.   Fam. Meropid(B.                                                                                              Great Britain.
Coracias garrula, L.
                                                                                                                                             ·       +
Merops Apiaster, L.                                                                                                                                  +

   Both species are extremely rare and known only to have oc-

curred on two or three occasions in Ireland.

                                   Fam. Halcyonid(B.

                        Ireland.                                                                                                                Great Britain.
Alcedo Ispida, L.
                                                                                                                                                     +

Is diffused over suitable localities and resident.

                                   Fam. Hirundinidce.

                        Ireland.                                                                                                                Great Britain.

Hinindo rastica, L.                                                                                                                                  +
     ,, urbica, L.                                                                                                                                   +
      ,, riparia, L.                                                                                                                                 +
                                                                                                                                                     +
Cypselus Apus, Flem.                                                                                                                                 +
     ,, alpinus, Temm.

The three species of Hirundo and Cyp. Ajms are regular

vernal migrauis to Ireland, ^'yp- alpinus iias been obtained
once off Cape Clear, and again in the county of Dublin.

                                   Fam. Caprimidgidce.

                       Ireland.                                                                                                                 Great Britain.
Caprimulgus eiuopseus, L.
                                                                                                                                                      +

  A regular summer visitant to certain portions of the island

both north and south, but very local.

                                   Order 3. Rasores.

                                   Fam. ColumbidcB.

                         Ireland.                     Great Britain.

Columba Palumbus, L.                                  +

                                       Columba CEnas, L.

,, Livia, Briss.                                                           -f-
,, Turtur, L.
                                                   +

                                       ,, migi-atoria, L.

   C. Palumbtis and C. Livia are common and resident in their

very different places of abode. C. Turtur is an occasional

summer visitant.
    C. CEnas is very partially distributed in England, being

Cchiefly confined to the midland and eastern counties. Of

migratoria a single specimen, supposed to have been in a wild
state, has been obtained in Great Britain*.

   * Phasianus Colchicus, and its var. /3 the Ring-necked, are common in many

parts of Ireland to which they have been introduced.
ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND-                                                                 37o

                                  Fam. TetraonidcB.

                        Ireland.                 Great Britain.
                                  Tetrao Tetrix, L.
Lagopus scoticus, Selby.
                                                                  4-
Perdix cinerea, Lath.
   ,, Coturnix, Lath.             Lagopus niiitus, Leach.

                                                                                   -f-
                                                                                    -f-

   In the genera Tetrao and Lagopus, which in the eye of the
sportsman if not of the naturahst are of all others the most
attractive, we now possess but one species, the Lagopus
scoticus. This is common to heathy tracts, from the low-
lying bog to the mountain top throughout Ireland, and is in

many places as abundant as in the highlands of Scotland. Of

the Tetrao Urogallus, Smith, in his History of Cork*, ob-

servesj that it is now found rarely in Ireland since our woods
have been destroyed. In his Natural History of Dubhn, Rutty
remarks, that "one of these \_T. Urogallus'] was seen in the

county of Leitrim about the year 1710, but they have entirely
disappeared of late, by reason of the destruction of our woodsf ."
In the work above cited. Smith describes the T. Tetrix as
" frequent." Mr. Templeton states that he had been in-
formed by excellent authority, that " black game is mentioned

in some of the old leases of the county of Down"| ; and else-
where this bird is noticed as a native. That the species alluded

to by Smith was the T. Tetrix would seem hardly to admit of

doubt, as in addition to it he enumerates the Red Grouse. If

it were really indigenous, its extinction must, I conceive, be at-

tributed to the destruction of our native woods. The Lagopus

mulus is not now, nor do I conceive ever was, indigenous to
this island. There seems not to be in any part of Ireland a

continuity of mouDtaiiis of sufficient altitude to be suited to the

Ptarmigan's abode. Perdix cinerea is common and resident.

P. Coturnix frequents the most highly-cultivated districts in
summer, and within the last few years has in certain localities

remained throughout the winter.

                                  Fam. StruthionidcB.

Ireland.
                                  --

374 REPORT-- 1840.

as one    of the  birds  of the   county  of Cork                                       it  is  long  since
                                                                                     ;

extinct.

                    Order 4'. Grallatores.

                         Fam. Charadriadce.

                        Ireland.                     Great Britain.

CEdicnemus crepitans, Temm.           Cursorius Isabellinus, Meyer.

Charadrius pluvialis, L.                                             -f
        ,, Morinellus, L.                                             \-
        ,, Hiaticula, L.
                                                    +
Squatarola cinerea, Cuv.                             +
Vanellus cristatus, Meyer.
Strepsilas Interpres, Leach.          Charadrius minor, Meyer.
Arenaria Calidris, Meyer.                     ,, Cantiacus, Lath.
Haematopus Ostralegus, L.
                                                     +
                                                     +
                                                     +

                                                                                  -\-

                                                     +

   In this family, Van. cristatus and Hcem. Ostralegus are com-

mon and resident. Char, pluvialis and C. Hiaticula are com-
mon and partially resident; the numbers of both species (certain-
ly of the former) being much increased by an autumnal migra-

tion from higher latitudes. Squat, cinerea, Strep. Interpres,

and Aren. Calidris, are regular periodical visitants. (Edic.
crepitans and Char. Morinellus very rarely visit Ireland.

   Of the Cursorius Isabellinus, four individuals have been

obtained in England and Wales. Char, minor has a place in
the British catalogue from a single specimen killed in Sussex.

To the east and south-east of England only, I believe, is

Char. Cantianus known.

                                  Fam. Gruidce.

          Ireland.                                   Great Britain.
                                      Grus cinerea, Bechst.

   In his History of Cork, Smith states that " this bird was
seen in this country during the remarkable frost of 1739."

                                 Fam. Ardeidce.

                       Ireland.                     Great Britain.

Ardea cinerea, Lath.                                                                  -f-
           purpurea, L.
                                                                                     -|-
        ,,
                                      Ardea alba, L.
   ,, Garzetta, L.
                                                     +
Botaurus stellaris, Steph.
                                         ,, russata, Wagler.
      ,, minutus, Selby.                  ,, Ralloides, Scop.
Nycticorax europaeus, Steph.
                                                      +

                                      Botaurus Mokoho, FieiU.

                                                     +
                                                      +
ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                     375

Ireland.                                     Great Britain.

Platalea Leucorodia, L.  Ciconia alba, Ray.
Ibis Falcinellus, Temm.
                              ,, nigra, Ray.

                                        +
                                        +

   In this family, the Ardea cinerea only is common and resi-

dent; Botaurus stellaris is, in consequence of the improve-

ment of the bogs, becoming gradually scarcer, and, as a resi-
dent species, is confined to few localities. Bot. minutus, Nyct.

europceus, Plat. Leucorodia, Ibis Falcinellus, are rare visit-

ants. Ardea purpurea and A. Garzetta have each been once
obtained of the latter species, one or two other examples in

                                             ;

addition to that alluded to*, are said to have occurred on the

southern coast.

   The six British species of the Ardeidce which are desiderata

in Ireland, are, with the exception of Ciconia alba, very rare

visitants ; three of them, indeed, are with certainty placed in
the catalogue from their occurrence each in a single instance.

                         Fam. Scolopacidce.

Ireland.
                                                                                                                     ;

--376 RtPORT 1840.

   The word " resident," in the sense in which it has hitherto
been used, will not apply to any of the Sclopacidce. The
species of which a portion breed in Ireland, and are common
at all seasons, are Num. arquata, Tot. Calidris, Scol. Gctlli-

nago, and Trin. variabilis. Tot. Hypoleucos is a regular

summer visitant ; at the same season T. Ochropns has occa-
sionally been met with, and very rarely T. Glareola^l The
regular autumnal migrants are Num. Phcsopus, Tot. Glottis,

Lim. rttfa, Machetes pugnax, Trin. subargtiataf, T.minuta^,

T.  Camitus                                           and  to these probably Lim. melanura might with
                                                   ;

propriety be added. In the North of Ireland these species are

met with for a longer or shorter period during autumn, and

generally move southward on the approach of winter : to this

there are, however, occasional exceptions, in some I'emaining

behind ; to T. Canutus and T, Glottis this more especially
applies. Num. P/iceojms is, in conseqvience of being in large

flocks, much better known upon our coasts in spring when

migrating northwards, than in the autumn, when it appears

only in small numbers. Scol. Rusticola and S. Gallinula come

from more northern latitudes to abide the winter ; the former

has of late years bred in various parts of Ireland |. Scol. Sa-

hini, Trin. maritima, and Phal. lohatus, have on several occa-

sions been obtained ; T. maritima is probably a regular winter
visitant. Recur. Avocetta and Him. melanopterus have twice

been noticed. Tot.fuscus is on record, from a single example
having occurred : this species may have escaped notice from

its general similarity to the common Tot. Calidris. Scol. major
should not perhaps be included even with a mark of doubt,

as I have not seen any example of it, killed in Ireland, but

sportsmen have described birds to me that can hardly be any

other, and have correctly remarked on the peculiarity of habits

in which they differed from the Scol. Gallinago.

   Of our desiderata in the Scolopacidce, Tr. pectoralis has

once, and Tr. rufescens twice, been obtained in England
Macr. griseus is a *' very rare," and Tr. Temminclcii an " oc-

casional visitant" to that country. Lohipes hyperboreus is in

Great Britain chiefly confined to the more northern isles and

coasts of Scotland.

                                                                Fani. RallidcE.

                                                      Ireland.                   Great Britain.

Rallus acjnaticus, L.                                           Glaveola Fratincola, Leach.

                                                                                                                -\-

    * See Annals of Natural History, vol. v. p. 8.
    t Ibid., vol. iv. p. 285.
    X Annals of Natural History, vol. ii.
                                        --

ON THE FAUNA Ol' IRELAND.                                           377

                              Ireland.           Great Britain.
Crex pratensis, Bechst.
                                                           +
  ,, Porzana, Selhy.                                       +

Gallinula Chloropus, Lcth.                  Crex Baillonii, Selhy.
Fulica atra, L.
                                               ,, pusilla, Selby.

                                                           +
                                                           +

   R. aquatictis and the two last are resident and common, as
the species ordinarily are in other countries. Crex pratensis
is a regular summer visitant, and abundant ; C. Porzana a
species of occasional occurrence at the same season.

   Of Glareola Pratincola, four individuals are on record as

British. Crex Baillonii and C. pusilla are very rare visitants
to England.

          Order 5. Natatores.

                                        Fam. AnatidcB.

          Sub-Fam. Anserina.

Ireland.
--378 REPORT 1840.

   A. ruficollis is a very rare visitant to England. A. Gamben-
sis has been but once obtained, and whether the individual so
recorded was a wild bird is very questionable, as the species
does not appear to have been met with on the European con-

tinent.

         Fam. Anatidce.

         Sub-Fam.
                                                                                           ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                                                                  379

The three species of Fuligula noticed as Irish, and Clang,

vulgaris, are regular M'inter visitants : Okl. nigra and Har.

glacialis would likewise seem to be so, but in very small num-

bers                         for             four winters                                                      successively  I   have  obtained                                                   a  single
                          ;

specimen of the last in Belfast Bay. Oid.fusca, Som. mollis-

sima, and S. spectabilis, can only be noticed as very rare

visitants                                    once only has the last been obtained*.
                                          ;

Ful. rufina has in a very few instances occurred in England.

F. Nyroca is but a rare and occasional visitant; and F. dispar

has once been procured. Clang, histrionica is likewise very

rare.

                                                                                                               Fara. AnatidcB.

                                                                                                               Sub-Fam. Merganina.

                       Ireland.                                                                                                     Great Britain.
                                                                                                                                                .l
Mergus Merganser, L.
     ,, Serrator, L.                                                                                                                                                                           i

       ,, albellus, L.                                                                                         Mergus cucullatus, L,

                                                                                                                                                                    _l_

   M. Serrator is indigenous, nestling on islets both of marine
and fresh-water loughs. M. Merganser is a regular, and M.

albellus an occasional winter visitant.

   M. cucullatus has a place in the British catalogue from the

occurrence of a single specimen.

                                                                                                               Fam. Colymhidce.

                       Ireland.                                                                                                  Great Britain.

Podiceps cristatus, Lath.                                                                                                                             _i_
       ,, rubricollis, Lath.
        ,, cornutus, Lath.                                                                                                                           jl.
       ,, auritus, Lath.
       ,, minor, Lath.                                                                                                                              _l.

Colymbus glacialis, L.                                                                                                                               _|_
               arcticus, L.
                                                                                                                                             j_
       ,, septentrionah's, L.                                                                                                                 j_

                                                                                                                                       +

                                                                                                                                               j_

Pod. minor is common and resident ; P. cristatus is more
rare, but resident on the larger lakes ; P. rubricollis is known

only as a rare visitant                                                                                        P. cornutus is not of uncommon occur-
                                                                                                            ;

rence in winter, at which season P. auritus more rarely occurs.
These two last species are most probably indigenous, as iri

England, but they have not come under my cognizance in
summer. Col. glacialis and C. septentrionalis are regular

winter visitants                                                                           C. arcticus is much more rare, but occasion-
                                                                                        ;

ally met with at the same season.

                                             * The specimen is in the collection of Mr. R. Ball.
380 REPORT 1840.

                               Fam. AlcidcE.

Ireland.                                      Great Britain.

Uria Troile, Lath.                            -{-
   ,, Bninnicliii, Sabine.
  ,, Grylle, Lath.                            -|-

Mergulus melanoleiicos. Eat/.                 +
Fratercula arctica, Stepb.                    +
AlcaTorda, L.                                 +
                                              +
  ,, impennis, L.
                                              -\-

    Uria Grylle is a resident species. U. Troile, Frat. arc-
tica, and Alca Torda, are regular summer visitants, having
breeding-haunts around the coast : either or both of the two

former I am disposed to believe may occasionally be found in

small numbers in the bays of Ireland during winter. Uria
Brunnichii is noticed by Major Sabine as seen by him in the
month of July on the coast of Kerry*, where it may be pre-

sumed to breed. By this able ornithologist, the Merg. me-

lanoleucos {M. Alle) was observed at the same time with U.
Brunnichii ; here it also may have its nestling-places ; in two
instances I know of this bird having been shot on the coasts of

Wexford and Kerry. Of Alca impennis, a single specimen is

on record as Irish.

                     Fam. Pelecanidce.

                        Ireland.              Great Britain.

Phalacrocorax Carbo, Steph.                        +
          ,, cristatus, Steph.                     +
                                                   +
Sula Bassana, Briss.

   The first two are common and resident. Sula Bassana is
common on the coast of Ireland in summer and autumn; the in-

dividuals which frequent the northern parts have their breed-

ing-haunts in Scotland. On the Irish coast this species breeds

only on one of the Skelig islands off Kerry.

                               Fana. Laridm.

Ireland.
       ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.  381

Ireland.
             --

--382 REPORT 1840.

that " this beautiful gull has lately visited the western shores
of Ireland," (p. 35). Capt. James Ross, the author of this

Appendix, has informed me that early in the year 1834 he

derived that information from Joseph Sabine, Esq., and that
he knovps nothing of it further than vphat is published. For
some years, however, I have had a note communicated by the

late Thomas F. Neligan, Esq., of Tralee, who was well versed

in British Birds, that " in January 1835 he saw a gull in a
field near that town, and four miles from the sea, which he
was satisfied was the L. ehurneus ; he watched it for about
twenty minutes, and was at first attracted by the ivory tint of
its plumage and its black legs." All the species of Cataractes
do in autumn and winter, at least occasionally, visit the Irish
coast. Piiffinus cinereus has been obtained near Dungarvan,
county Waterford, and is believed to breed there. P. An-

glorum is known to me only as an occasional visitant ; it would
seem to be more rare now in Ireland than formerly, as is the
case in other of the British islands : in Harris's Down and

Smith's Cork it is mentioned. Thai, pelagica is at all times to
be met with on the coasts of Ireland washed by the Atlantic,
and breeds on several of the islets ranging from north to
south of the western coast. Thai. Bullockii {Proc. Leachii,
Temm.) has been obtained on various occasions in all quarters
of Ireland ; it breeds on some of the western islets.

    Sterna Caspia and ^S*^. Anglica have in a very few instances
been obtained in England. Larus atracilla, as a British bird,
was known only to Montagu, who on two occasions met with
it on the coast of Sussex. Proc. glacialis is, except in the
North of Scotland, an occasional visitant to the shores of Great
Britain; P.fuliginosa has but once been procured in Eng-

land.

    In the preceding catalogue of Irish Birds, all the species
noticed by Mr. Selby as indigenous to Great Britain will be

-- --found either as such, or as visitants except the following :

 Melizophilus provincialis, Parus cristatus, Mmberisa Cirlus,
 Passer montanus, Picus viridis*, Sitta europcea, Columha
 CEnas, Lagopus mutus. With these may be mentioned three
 more which are said to have been found in Ireland, but are not
 now indigenous Picus minor, Tetrao Tetrix, Otis tarda.

     * I have been assured that this bird is found in some localities in Ireland,
 but have not seen specimens.

                                                                                 I

                                                                I
                                  ------

          ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                                            383

                                  PART IV.

                                  Class REPTILIA.

          Order 1 Testudinata.

                        Ireland.                         Great Britain.
Chelonia Caouana, Schw.
                                                                                        -f-

                                          Chelonia imbricata, Schw.

                                          Sphargis coriacea, Gray.

  A single specimen of C. Caouana has been taken alive on

the coast of Donegal*. In the British catalogue this species
has a place from the occurrence of an individual on the
Devonshire coast.

    C. imbricata and ^S*. coriacea have each been obtained on
three occasions on the coasts of Great Britain.

                                  Order 2. Sauria.

                        Ireland.                        Great Britain.
Zootoca vivipara, Wagl. Bell.             Lacerta agilis, L. Bell.

                                                                                         -|-

    Z. vivipara prevails over the island. Lacerta viridis, stated

by Ray to have been found in Ireland, is at present quite un-
known. Mr. Bell in his " British Reptiles" suggests that

" a green variety of Z. agilis, L., was probably alluded to : this
IS more likely than that the true L. viridis was meant ; but

the L. agilis, L., has not been distinguished as an Irish spe-

cies." It has but lately been added to the British Fauna, and
from specimens obtained in the South of England.

          Order 3.                Ophidia.

Ireland.                                          Great Britain.
                                    Anguis fragilis, L.
                                    Natrix torquata, Rai/.
                                    Pelius Berus, Merr.

    Ireland has ever been free from the presence of Ophidian

Reptiles. As there is no physical obstacle to their being

indigenous to the island, it can only be said, that as all

animals have geographical limits assigned to them, so these
have Great Britain as their western boundary within her

parallel of latitude.

* See Annals of Natural History, vol. v. p. 8,
384 REPORT-- 1840.
                     ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                                                     385

In the family PercidcB, Ireland would seem to be so deficient

that  four  species  only  can  be  announced                                                         of tliese,  Mullus
                                                                                                   ;

Surmuletus is given on the authority of Dr. Patrick Browne'a

Catalogue, published in 1774. The Perca fluviatUis is stated
to have been introduced ; but this I am disposed to doubt, as

the species is so very widely distributed over the island.

Labrax Litpus is a well-known fish on the coast, its numbers

decreasing northwards. Trachinus Vipera is found from

north to south.

Of the species unknown to the Irish Fauna, Serranus Ca-

brilla and S. Gigas have in Great Britain been noticed only

on the coast of Cornwall, and of the latter but a single in-

dividual has been procured ; Polyprion cernium has been
observed only on the south-west coast of England ; Mullus
barbatus is extremely rare ; Trachinus Draco a species only

of occasional occurrence, and chiefly on the southern coast*.

Acerina vulgaris is said to be common to the rivers and canals

in England.
386 REPORT--1840.

on the more southern coast. Scicena norvegica has I believe
been taken only from Berwick northwards. Cottus Gobio isf
said to be common in England.

   Of Trigla Poeciloptera but a single individual, obtained at
Youghal, has yet been recognised in the British seas*. Of
the Triglcs, T. Gurnardiis is most common in Ireland, and

taken in abundance in the more genial season of the year;
next come T. Hirundo, T. Pint, and T. lineata, which are

procured at different seasons and throughout the winter. T.
Lyra I have not seen in the north, but have observed it in Gal-
way market. Mr, R. Ball states that at Youghal it is not

uncommon. Of the Cotti, C. Scorpius and C. Bubalis are
common around the coast ; the latter the more so. Aspido-

phorus, Gasterosteus aculeatus, with its varieties f, and G. Spi-
nachia, are common from north to south ; G. Pungitius is

obtained in the north, and in one locality at least, southwards.

                                  Fam. ScicBnidte,

                        Ireland.                 Great Britain.
Sciafiia Aquila, Cuv.
                                                                  -h

                                  Umbrina vulgaris, Cuv.

  A single individual only of S. Aquila is known to have been

taken on the Irish coast; about the 1st of August, 1840, it
was captured within the entrance of Cork harbour.

   The Umbrina vulgaris has but in one instance been recog-

nised as a British fish.

                                  Fam. SparidcB.

                       Ireland.                  Great Britain.
Pagellus Centrodontus, Cnv.
                                  Chrysophrys aurata, Cuv.
                                  Pagrus vulgaris, Cue.
                                  Pagellus erythrinus, Cuv.

                                         ,, Acarne, Cuv.

                                                  +

                                  Dentex vulgaris, Cuv.
                                  Cantharus griseus, Cuv.

Of the seven British species of the Sparidce, I have seen

only the Pag. CentrodontusX in Ireland, where it is common

Aaround the coast.                second species appears in several Irish

catalogues, and Chrysophrys or Pagrus may perhaps be

   * Proceedings of the Zoological Society, 1837, p. 61.
   f Gast. trachurus, semiarmatus, lieurus, brachycentrus, semiloricatus, and

spinulosus seem to me varieties of one species. See Annals of Natural His-

tory for April 1841.
   X It is I presume this species wliich is alluded to by Templeton, under the

name of Sparus aurata.
                  ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.  387

meant. Rutty mentions Cantharus Rondeletii, quoting Wil-

loughby, fig. 5, 1, as a fish taken in Dublin Bay: the species

thus referred to is the Cantharus vulgaris"^, a Mediterranean

fish, and yet unrecognised as British, The reference is pro-

bably erroneous.

Dentex vulgaris and Pag. Acarne have their place in the

British catalogue from the capture of a single individual of

each species ; the other four have, with the exception perhaps

of either Chrysophrys or Pagrus, been taken only on the

Asouthern coast of England.  single specimen of Pag. ery-

thrinus was procured by Dr. Parnell in the Frith of Forth.
--388 REPORT 1840.

        Ireland.                  Fam. TcEtiioidei.

                                                                     Great Britain.

                                                     Lepidopus argyreiis, Cnv.
                                                     Trichiurus Leptuvus, L. ?
                                                     Tracbypterus vogmarus, Cin\
                                                   Gymnetrus Hawkenii, Bl. 1
                                                     Cepola rubescens, L.

   Of the Tcenioidei, none can be announced as Irish ; all are

species of only occasional occurrence on the coasts of Great
Britain, excepting the Cepola rubescens, which will doubtless

yet be added to the Irish catalogue. On the coast of Ayr-

shire, in Scotland, so near to Ireland, it has several times been

taken.

                                  Fam. Mugilidcc.

                        Ireland.                 Great Britain,

Mugil Chelo, Cuv.                                                                 -f-
    ,, Capito, Cuv.
                                  M. curtus, Yarr.
Atherina Presbyter, Cuv.
                                                                                -)-

   Of the MugiUdce we probably want only Mvgil ctirtus, of
which but one British specimen has been obtained. Mug.

Capito has been noticed as Irish, but all the specimens which

have come under my own examination were M. Chelo, which
is our common Mullet of the north*. Atherina Presbyter is

taken from north to south.

                                  Fam. Gobiadce.
ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                  389

                        Ireland,  Great Britain.
Callionymus Lyra, L.
                                        +
       ,, Dracunculus, L.               +

   Of our desiderata here, the Blennius ocellaris and J5. Ga-
lerita are rare and apparently local on the coast of Great

Britain ; the Gobius albus has been taken only in the Solway

Firth, and but on one occasion.

In Ireland, the Blennius Pholis and Murcenoides guttata

are very common around the coast ; the B. Gattorugine is of

occasional occurrence in the north ; the B. Yarrellii (B. pal-

micornis of Yarrell's and Jenyns's works) has been obtained

on the Antrim coast by the Ordnance Survey. By Templeton
the Zoarces was noticed in one instance ; but little is known
with certainty of Anarrhicas as an Irish fish. Of the genus

Gobius, the G. minutus and G. Ruthensparii (G. bipunctatus,

Yarr.) are the most widely diffused in their very different places
of abode on our coasts, the former, as elsewhere, the more
abundant; G. niger and G. Britannicus* I have only from
the more southern portion of the island; G. gracilis and G.

unipunctatus are of occasional occurrence with G. minutus.

Callionymus Lyra and C. Dracunculus are not unfrequently

taken from north to south, the latter the more commonly.

Fam. LopMidcs.
390 REPORT-- 1840.

                       Ireland.            Great Britain.

Crenilabrus riipestris, Selhy.   Crenilabrus luscus, Couch.
       ,, pusillus, Yarr.
       ,, exoletus, Yarr.                       +

                                                                               -\-

                                                +

   Of the British Labridce wanting to the Irish Hst, the L.

Comber is a very obscure and Httle-understood species. Lahrus
Vetula, Julis vulgaris^ and Crenilabrus biscus, have each but
in a single instance been obtained on the British coast.

   Labrus variabilis and Cren. Tinea are common in suitable

locahties around the Irish coast ; Lab. variegatus is as exten-
sively distributed, but in very small numbers ; Lab. trimacu-
latus has been taken by the collectors of the Ordnance Survey

at Portrush near the Giant's Causeway. Of Cren. riipestris,

C. exoletus, and C. pusillus, a few individuals have been pro-

--cured the first-mentioned on the north-east and west coast,

the second on the north-east, and the last on the south only.
                                                ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                            391

will yet be added to our list, I have little hesitation in con-

sidering the waters of this country as deficient in the fishes of

this family.

   Gobio fluviatiUs, Ahramis Brama, and Leuciscus erythroph-
thalmus are common, and widely diffused over the island.

Cobitis barbatula is somewhat generally distributed ; Abramis
Buggenhagii has as yet been observed only in the river Lagan.

Cyprinus Carpio and Tinea vulgaris are in some waters in

the  country                                    but even  the  latter, which  is  considered                        indi-
                                             ;

genous to England, is stated to have been introduced to Ire-

land. Leuciscus Phoxinus was introduced some years ago

near Dublin, and has, I understand, thriven well there*.

                                                          Fam. Esocidce.

              Ireland.                                                      Great Britain.

Esox Lucius, L.                                                                   +
Belone vulgaris, Cuv.
                                                                                  -^

Scomberesox Saurus, Flem.                                                         4-

                                                                Hemiramplius europsBUS, Yarr.

ExoccetusexilienSjjB/. (?Irishspecies).                                           -1-

   The two first mentioned are common; the Scomberesox is

apparently rare ; Exocoeti have been observed on the southern
coast, but specimens are not available, that the species might

be determined. The fish named provisionally HemirampJms

europceics has not yet been noticed on the Irish coast f.

                                                          Fam. SalmonidcB.

              Ireland.                                                         Great Britain.

Salmo Salar, L,                                                                 +
                                                                               +
     Eriox, L.                                                                 +

     Trutta, L.                                                                                                -f-

     Fario, L.                                                                 +
                                                                               +
     ferox, Jard.                                                              +
                                                                               +
     Umbia, L.                                  \ one species,
                                                                Osmerus hebridicus, Yarr.
        Salvelinus, Don. ) W. T.                                Thymallus vulgaris, Cuv.
Osmerus Eperlanus, Flem.
                                                                Coregonus Lavaretus, Flem.

   * In Rutty's Dublin (1772) it is remarked of the Cyprinus Carpio, that
" it is said to have been first introduced into Ireland in the reign of King
James the First." In the same work it is said of Tinea vulgaris, that it, like
the Carp, " is found for the most part in ponds, and rarely in the LifTey and
Donnybrook rivers." " Cyprinus Cephalus and C. Barbus" appear in Dr. P,
Brotvne's list of Irish Fishes, but excepting their names no information is

given.

   t Silurus Glanis, L., a fish described to me as taken some years ago in a

river flowing into the Shannon near its source, exactly agrees with this species.
For particular notice see Annals of Natural History, vol. vii.
                                                                                                                           ;

--392 REPORT 1840.

                          Irelancf.                  Great Britain.

Coregomis Pollnn, 'I'liomp.          Coregonus Willughbei, Jard.
                             "              ,, Lacepedci, Parncll.

                                     Scopelus Hiimboldtii, Cuv.

   Of the genus Salmo, Ireland possesses all the British spe-
cies. There are many valuable fisheries for S. Salar around

the coast ; of the migratory species, S. Trutta is next in value,
and is taken co-extensively with it ; the distribution of aS*.

Eriox is yet to be determined ; on every side of the northern
portion of the island it occurs. S. ferox is common to the
larger lakes, as is S. Fario to the rivers and lakes throughout
the island. Salmo Umhla or S. Salvelinus (for I regard the
fish so called but as one species) inhabits suitable lakes in all
quarters. The Osmerus JEperlanus is recorded by Templeton

as a fish of occasional occurrence. Coregonus Pollan, as yet

known only as an Irish species, inhabits Lough Neagh, Erne,
and Derg, and is abundant in the first-named locality.

   Of the six species of British Salmonidce, as yet unknown as

Irish, three, Osmerus hebridicus, Coregonus Willughbei, and
Cor. Lacepedei, are each known only to a single locality
Scopelus Humboldtii (if such be the species) has been re-
corded but in three instances on the coast of Great Britain
Thymallus is very local in England. This is noticed in Rutty 's
Dublin, but evidently in error, as it is made " a sea-fish."
Dr. P. Browne enumerates it, perhaps without any better

reason; he published in 1774, Rutty in 1772. Coregonus
Lavaretus (if properly so named) is found only in Bala Lake
in Wales, and some of the northern English lakes.

                       Ireland.      Fam. ClupeidcB.
Clupca Harengus, L.
                                                                      Great Britain.
   ,, Sprattus, L.
                                                                                                                      -\-
         Pilchardus, BL
                                                      Clupea Leachii, Yarr.
Alosa Fiuta, Cuv.
   ,, communis, Cuv.                                                                                                  -\-

                                                            ,, alba, Yarr.
                                                                                           -f

                                                                                                                      -f-
                                                                                                                      -\-

                                                      Engraulis Encrasicholus, Flcm,

    Clupea Leachii and C. alba have not yet been identified as

Irish species ; nor has the Engraulis, which is of rare occur-
rence on the English coast, been noticed on the Irish.

    Clupea Harengus, C. Sprattus, and C. Pilchardus prevail
around the coast, the last-named in the south particularly

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;

here also the Alosa Finta is chiefly found. The " Rock Her-
ring," which according to Dr. Parnell is the name applied in
                         ON THE FAUNA OF IRELA^^D.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        393

Scotland to the Alosa Finta, is enumerated among the Fishes
of Londonderry in Sampson's History of that county. It is
however the A. communis which is noticed in the Ordnance
Survey of Londonderry, and as being " not uncommon."

                         Div. 2.--SUBBRACHIALES.

                         Fam. GadidcB.

                        Ireland.                                     Great Britain.

Gadus Morrhua, L.                                                    +
   ,, Callarias, L.
   ,, jEglefimis, L.                                                                                   -j-
    ,, luscus, L.
    ,, minutus, L.                                                                                    -j-

Merlangus vulgaris, Cuv.                                                                              -j-
        ,, Pollaclnus, Cuv,
        ,, Carbonarius, Cuv.                                                                           -j-

                                                 ?                                                    -|-

Merlucius vulgaris, Cuv.                                                                                -j-
Lota Molva, Cuv.
                                                                                                        -\-
Motella tricirrhata, Nills.
    ,, Mustek, Nills.                                 Merlangus virens, Cuv.

Brosmus vulgaris, Cuv. (?)                                                                                -|-
Phycis furcatus, Cuv.
Raniceps trifurcatus, Fletn.                                          +

Couchia minor, Thomp.                                  Lota vulgaris, Cuv.

                                                                     +

                                                                                                          -f-

                                                       Motella Cimbrica, Nills.

                                                                                                       -)-

                                                                                                       -j-

                                                                                                         -j-

                                                    r Couchia argenteola, Thomp.
                                                    i (Motella glauca, Gadus argenteo-
                                                    L lus, Mont.)

Of the four British species of the Gadklce which we seem

to want, one, Motella Cimbrica is a recent addition to the cata-

logue, and is yet known only to two localities, both in Scotland
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;

Lota vulgaris is very partially distributed in England                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Couchia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;

argenteola* has been observed only in Devonshire and Corn-

wail                     Merlangus virens is unknown to me as a species distinct
                      ;

from M. Carbonarius. Oi Brosmus vulgaris I have not seen an

Irish specimen, but it is in the list of Fishes given in M'Skira-

min's History of Carrickfergus.

Gadus Morrhua and G. /Eglefinus are common around the

Irish coast. Gad. luscus, G. Callarias, and G. minutus are of

occasional occurrence from north to south. Merlangus vul-
garis, M. Pollachius and M. Carbonarius are common and

generally distributed. Merlucius vulgaris is taken around the

coast, but is much more common in the south. Lota Molva

and the two common Motellce are generally distributed. Phy-

                         * Annals of Natural History, vol. ii. p. 411.
--394 REPORT 1840.

 cis furcatus has but rarely been obtained, and oi Raniceps tri-
furcaius a single individual is on record. Couchia minor has
 been captured only in Strangford Lough*.

                                       Fam.
ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.  395
           Fam.
396 REPORT-- 1840.

guilla acutirostris, A. latirostris and A. Conger are common

and in suitable localities, especially the first and last generally-

disti'ibuted species. Of the A. acutirostris there are several va-

luable fisheries in Ireland. A. mediorostris is marked with

doubt from a want of accordance in the one osteological

character of the specimen examined with that attributed to

the  species                                      in every other  character and  in  habit  examples
                                               ;

taken in the North of Ireland agree with it. Leptocephalus

Morrissii has, in a few instances, been taken on the north-

eastern, southern and western coasts. Templeton notices

the Ojihidiirm imberbe of Pennant as once obtained by him.

Ammodytes Lancea is common on sandy coasts around the

island ; A. Tobianus has only as yet been recognised on the

Down coast, where it is well known.

                                                  LOPHOBRANCHII.
------

ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                           397

            Order 5.              Sclerodermi.

Ireland.                                                Great Britain.

                                     J Balistes Capriscus, Gmel. (a single

                                       \ specimen.)

II. CARTILAGINEI.

Order 6. Eleutheeopomi.

                        Ireland.                Great Britain.

Acipenser Sturio, L. (')                        +

      ,, Thompsoni, Ball, MS.     Acipenser latirostris, Parnell.

   Mr. R. Ball is of opinion that one or two Irish examples of
Acipefiser, which he has critically examined, are not only dis-
tinct from the two species which have been recognised as Bri-
tish, but are undescribed : he has named the species^. Thomp-
soni, and is about to publish a communication on the subject in
the Proceedings or Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy.
Sturgeons are occasionally, though very rarely, taken in all the
larger rivers of Ireland, but I have not had the opportunity of

examining them critically as to species.

          Order 7.                Acanthorrhini.

Ireland.                                                   Great Britain.
                                         ( Chimsera monstrosa, L. (taken only in
         _                               \ the Shetland Islands).

Order 8. Plagiostomi.
       Fam. SqualidcB.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;

398 REPORT-- 1840.

Carcharias vulgaris has not been properly established as a

British species ; the Zygcena malleus has but once been taken
Scymnus borealis twice, and in both instances north of the

mainland of Scotland. Echinorhinus spinosus is a late addi-

tion to the British catalogue, and has been obtained in different

localities on the English coast.

ScyIlium Canicula, Spinax acanthias, Mustela leevis and

Galeus vulgaris are the most common species                                                                                                                                                                                                     the first the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;

most so, the others becoming less so in the order in which they

are set down. They are found from north to south. Carcha-

rias glaueus, Lamna Cornubica or Monensis (these I am dis-

posed to believe are but one species), and Squatina Angelus

are of occasional but rare occurrence from north to south.

Templeton notices Scyllium stellare as taken occasionally ; and

Carcharias Vulpes as having been seen about the Copeland Isles,

near the entrance of Belfast Bay. Selachus maximus, the

" Sunfish" of Ireland, and so valuable for its oil, prevails on

the western and southern coasts, but chiefly on the former.

Of the Pristiurus melanostomus, two individuals have been ob-

tained by the collectors of the Ordnance Survey at Portrush,

near the Giant's Causeway*.
                                                                                                                                  --

                                                                      ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                                                        3&9

                       Ireland.                                                                                                                       Great Britain.
                                                                                                                                      Myliobatis Aquila, Cuv.
                                          ?

Cephaloptera Giorna, Risso.

Of our desiderata in this family, R. marginata and R. radi-

ata are rare species, and only of occasional occurrence, the

former on the EngUsh, the latter on the Scottish coast. Of

R. microcellata and Myliobatis Aquila, not more than two

or three British examples ai'e on record. Raia intermedia is

one of Dr. Parnell's recent additions from the Frith of Forth.

Raia clavata, R. Batis, and R. maculata are taken from

north to south of Ireland                                                                                                         the first is the most common on the
                                                                                                                               ;

north-east coast. R. Oxyrhynchus is included from being no-

ticed in Smith's History of Waterford. R. chagrinea and

R. radula are additions made to our catalogue by the Ordnance

Survey, and have both been taken on the north-east coast.

In contributing these species Captain Portlock remarks, that
" the former seems to take the place of i2. Oxyrhynchus on the

northern coast," and that of i2. radula he lately saw a speci-

men which was procured in Dublin Bay. The Torpedo, of

which I have seen Irish specimens, is identical with that from

the coast of France, figured by Walsh in the Philosophical

Transactions                                                          and which in the present confused state of the
                                                                   ;

genus, it might be desirable, for the sake of distinction, to term

Torpedo Walshii *. Cephaloptera Giorna has a place in the

general British catalogue from a single individual taken on

the southern coast of Ireland. The Rays are less known in

Ireland than most other fishes, in consequence of their being

rarely brought to market, and when so to their being in an im-

perfect state.

                                                                      Order 9. Cyclostomi.

                                         Fara. Petromyzidce.                                                                          Great Britain.

                        Ireland.                                                                                                                       -f-
                                                                                                                                                      -f-
Petromyzon marinus. L.                                                                                                                                 -j-
        ,, fluviatilis, L.                                                                                                                            -\-
         ,, Planeri, Bl.                                                                                                                               -|-

Ammocoetes branchialis, Cuv.
Myxine glutiiiosa, L.

   In this family Ireland possesses all the British species.
P. marinus ascends several of the rivers around the coast.

P. Planeri occurs from north to south, and is more common
than P. fluviatilis. Ammocoetes branchialis is likewise widely
distributed. Myxine is said by Templeton to have been found

at Carrickfergus.

* For a particular notice on this subject, see Annals of Nat. Hist. vol. v. p. 292.
400 RRPORT-- 1840.

   Finally, the species of Vertebrata which appear at present
to be peculiar to Ireland, are six in number ; two Mammals,

Mas hibernicifs (not yet properly established as a species) and

Lepus Jiibernicus and four Fishes, Coreffonus Pollan, Couchia
                                                                                                                                           ',

minof-f, Lepadogaster cephalus, and Echiodon Dn/mmotidii.
Further investigation will, in all probability, show that some
of these species are found elsewhere.

                        PART VI.

                                                        Concltisio?i.

    In addition to the foregoing comparative catalogue, it has
been thought desirable that a catalogue proper, or one con-
taining the Irish species only, should be appended to this

--Report. It here follows, and with it are local lists : of these,

a few more could have been given, but the six which are intro-
duced comprise all that were considered necessary for the

present purpose. The idea of giving these occurred so late,

that there was not time to perfect them, but in so far as they

extend they are believed to be critically correct. The columns

headed " Elsewhere in North," &c. are added for the recep-
tion only of such species as are 7iot found in the restricted
localities comprised in the one or two preceding columns. For

the Belfast list I am myself accountable, together with the

greater part of what is contained in the columns headed

" Elsewhere," &c. The list for " N. W. Donegal" is derived

from Mr. John Vandeleur Stewart's contribution to the .0th
vol. of the Magazine of Natural History on the Mammalia
and Birds of that district : additions made since its publica-
tion have been kindly communicated to me by Mr. Stewart,
and are included ; at his desire likewise some two or three
species noticed in his published catalogue are here omitted.
The lists for Dubhn and Youghal were contributed by Mr.
Robert Ball. " West of Connaught" is derived from different
sources ; " Tralee" from a list favoured me some years ago by
an ardent and accurate naturalist, Mr. Thomas F. Neligan,
since deceased. The distance of twenty miles round Belfast,
Dublin, and Youghal is comprised in the respective catalogues.
The ? throughout the columns implies doubt as to species, and

not as to habitat ; the * denotes presence.

   ·}· Mr. Yarrell, perhaps judicious]}', considers this too minute to be satisfac-
torily characterised as a species. The difference, however, in size between it
and Gadus argenteolus, Mont., is so trivial, tliat if the one be acknowledged,
tlie other has all b»it equal claims to be so.
                     ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                    401

                               North.  East.      West.  South.

MAMMALIA.

Vespertilio Pipistrellus

Plecotus auritus

Erinaceus europaeus

Sorex riisdcus

Tetragonurus

Meles Taxus

Lutra vulgaris

Mustela vulgaris^

erminea

Martes Foina

Abietum

Vulpes vulgaris

Mus sylvaticus

Musculus

Rattus ^

hibernicus

decumanus

Lepus hibernicus

Cuniculus

Cervus Elaphus

Phoca vitulina

Halicbaerus Gryphus

Delphinus Delphis

Phocsena communis
    -- Orca
    -- melas

Hyperoodon Butzkopf

Physeter macrocephalus? ..

-- Tursio                   ,

Balasna Mysticetus

Balaenoptera Boops (" Ba-

laena rostrala")

            AVES.

Aquila Chrysaetos

Haliaeetus albicilla
Pandion Haliaeetus
Astur palumbarius?"....

Accipiter fringillarius .
Falco gioenlandicus

     - Islandicus?
    - peregrinus
    - Subbuteo
    - rufipes
    - Tinnunculus
    - ^salon
Buteo vulgaris
    - Lagopus
Pernis apivorus
Circus rufus
    - cyaneus

  ^ See preceding remarks on.  " Rutty's Dublin,         Templeton.
1840.
                               2D
                         .

402                            --REPORT 1840.

                               North.  East.                                    West.  South.

            AVES.                                                          ?,w
                                                  S.S
Milvus Ictinus'
Bubo maximus                   Sec preceding remarks on.

Olus vulgaris
    -- Brachyotos ....

Scops Aldrovandi ...

Surnia nyctea
Strix flammea

Ulula stridula"

Lanius Excubitor....

Muscicapa grisola ...

Cinclus aquaticus . . .

Merula viscivora   .. .

   -- pilaris

   -- musica
   -- Iliaca

     vulgaris

     torquata

Oriolus Galbula             ,

Accentor modularis .

Erythaca Rubecula ..

Phoenicura Ruticilla ,

     Tithys

Saxicola CEnanthe ....

-- Rubetra                  ,

-- Rubicola

Salicaria Locustella* ,

     Phragmitis             ,

     arundinacea ...

Curruca atricapilla...

     hortensis

     cinerea

Sylvia Hippolais

     Sibilalrix?^

     Trocliilus

Regulus aurocapillus

Parus major

     coeruleus

     palustris

     ater

     caudatus

Calamophilns biarmicus

Motacilla Yarrellii

     Boarula

     flava

Anthus obscurus

     pratensis

     arboreus?*

Botnbycilla garrula

Alauda arveniis

     arborea

Plectrophanes nivalis

Emberiza miliaria
                     ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.  403

            AVES.

Emberiza Schoeniculus

           Citrinella
                           1.

404                            --REPORT 1810.

                               North.  East.                West.  South.

                                                            1^

           AVES.

Squatarola cinerea

Vanellus cristatus

Strepsilas Interpres

Arenaria Calidris

Haematopus ostralegus

Ardea cinerea

     purpurea

     Garzetta

Botaurus stellaris

     minutus

Nycticorax europasus

Platalea Leucorodia

Ibis Falcinellus

Kumenius arquata

     Phaeopus

Totanus fuscus

     Calidris

     Ochropus

     Glareola?*

     Hypoleucos

     Glottis

Recurvirostra Avocetta
Himantopus melanopterus. .
Limosa melanura

     rufa

Scolopax Rusticola

     Sabini

     major?^

     Gallinago

     Gallinula

Machetes pugnax

Tringa subarquata

     variabilis

     maritima

     minuta

     Canutus

Phalaropus lobatus

Rallus aquaticus

Crex pratensis

     Porzana

Gallinula Cliloropus

Fulica atra

Anser palustris (A. ferus"!

Steph.)                    /

     ferus ( A. Segetura 1

Steph.)                    /

     Erythropus (A. albi-

frons, Steph.)             J
      Beriiicla

     Brenla

Cygnus ferus

     Bewickii

                               ^ See preceding remarks on.
       "

       ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                      405

                           North.  East.              West.  South.

                           ^1 ga                      t^

AVES.

Tadorna Vulpanser
Spatulea clypeata
Chauliodus Strepera
Anas Boschas
Querquedula acuta

 -- Crecca
 -- Circia (Anas quer-

   quedula, X.)
Mareca Penelope
Somateria moUissiraa

   -- spectabilis

Oidemia fusca
         nigra

Fuligula ferina
         Marila

           cristata

Clangula vulgaris
Harelda glacialis
Mergus Merganser

   -- Serrator
   -- albellus

Podiceps cristatas

   -- rubricollis
   -- cornutus
   -- aurltus
   -- minor

Colymbus glacialis

   -- arcticus
   -- septentrionalis

Uria Troile

   -- Brunnichii
   -- Grylle

Mergulus melanoleucos ...

Fratercula arctica
AIca Torda

         Impennis
Ph al acrocorax Carbo

           cristatus

Sula Bassana
Sterna Boysii

          Dougallii
        Hirundo

          arctica

        minuta

         nigra

          stolida

Larus Sabini
        minutus

          capistratus

         ridibundus

          Rissa
        Canus

         eburneus?"

                           Sec preceding remarks on.
40(5                            RKPORT 1S40.

              AVES.                  North.   East.           West.          South.

  Larus argentatus                                                 l>
      -- fuscus
                                                              ^=
     -- marinus
     -- Islandicus                                                       .?
     -- glaucus

  Cataractes vulgaris
           Pomarinus
            Ridiardsonii
             parasiticus

   Puftious cinereus

          AMglorum

   Tlialassidroma pelagica
              Bullockii

            REPTILIA.

    Clielonia Caouana ...
    Zootoca vivipara
    Lacerta agilis, Berl;.

           AMPHIBIA.

    Rana temporaria
    Biifo Calamita
    Triton palustris? "

    Lissotriton punctatus..

        -- pahnipes?

               PISCES.

    Perca fluviatilis
    Labrax Lupus

    Trachinus Vipera

    Miillus Surmuletus''

    Trigla Pini

           lineata

           Hirundo

       Lyra

    -- Gurnardus... 1 One

           Cuculus          /species

    -- PoEciloptera

    Cottus Scorpius

               Bubalis

    Aspidophoriis cataphractus

    Gasterosteus aculeatus

           pungitius

           Spinachia

    Scixna Aquila

» See preceding remarks on.                                                                                     .  .

*>  Given  on  authority    of  Dr.  Brown's  catalogue,  in  which  no  locality is                               named.
.

ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                                         407

   North.  East.                               West.  South.

               PISCES.                               1^
                                               ^ See preceding remarks on.
    Pagellus Centrodontus
   Scomber Scomber

           ' maculatus
   Thynnus vulgaris

          · Pelamys
    Caranx Trachurus
    Zeus Faber
   Lampris Luna
   Mugil Chelo

             Capito
    Atherina Presbyter ..
    Blenuius Gattorugine

              Yatrellii, Val. (B^,·1
       prilmicornis, Yarr. and
        Jenyns" Works)

               Pholis
    Murasnoides guttata
    Zoarces viviparus

    Anarrhicas Lupus
    Gobius niger, Cuv

             Britannicus, Thomp.
        (G. niger, recent Brit.
         authors)

    Gobius Ruthensparii (G

   --bipunctatus, Yarr.)
             minutus
                 gracilis
           - unipunctatus
     Callionymus Lyra

          - Dracunculus
     Lopbius Piscatorius
     Labrus variabilis (L,

         maculatus, Bl.)
                lincatus
                variegatus
               trimaculatus

     Crenilabrus Tinea
              Cornubicus
               gibbus
                 rupestris
                 pusillus
                exoletus

     Gobio fluviatilis
     Tinea vulgaris'
     Abramis Brama

              Buggenhagii
      LeuciscusErythrophthalmus
       Cobitis barbatula .
      Esox Lucius
      Belone vulgaris
      Scomberesox Saurus
       Exocoetus exiliens?..
       Silurus glanis ? "^

Posbibly introduccd-sce preceding remarks on.
--408 REPORT 1840.

                               North.  East.  West.  South.

PISCES.                                                     1^

Saltno Salar*                          ·> See preceding remarks on.

Eriox

Trutta

Fario

         ferox             }i

      Umbla, L

         Salvelinus, Don.
Osmerus Eperlanus ..
Coregonus Pollan

Clupea Harengus

Sprattus

Pilchardus

Alosa Finta

       communis
Gadus Morrhiia

Callarias

.Slglefinus

luscus

        minutus
Merlangus vulgaris

Pollachius

Carbonarius

Merlucius vulgaris
Lota Molva

Motella tricirrhata

        Mustela
Brosmus vulgaris ?
Phycis fiircatus

Raniceps trifurcatus
Couchia minor

Platessa vulgaris

Flesus

Liraanda

microcephala

Pola

Hippoglossus vulgaris

Pleuronectes maximus
       Rhombus

punctatus

hirtus

Megastoma

--Solea vulgaris
   -- Lingula

variegata

Lepadogaster Cornubiensis

bimaculatus

cephalus

Cyclopterus Liimpus

Liparis vulgaris ?''

        Montagui

Anguilla acutirostris

latirostris

S. Salmulus, Young.
                          .

                 ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND.                         409

                              North.  East.        West.  South.

                                                   I?

PISCES.

Aiiguilla mediorostris ?

Conger vulgaris

Leptocephalus Morrissii

Ophidiuin imberbe

Echiodon Drummondii

Ammodytes Tobianus .
   -- Lancea

Syngnathus Acus

   -- Typhle
   -- jequoreus
   -- anguineus

   -- lumbriciformis

Hippocampus brevirostris ? .
Tetrodon stellatus

Orthagoriscus Mola

Acipenser Sturio?

Scyllium Canicula

   -- stellaris

Piistiurus melanostomus

Carcharias Vulpes ?

   -- glaucus

Lamna Cornubica 1     ^)ne?
   -- Monensis ... J

Galeus vulgaris

Mustela Isevis

Selachus maximus

Spinax Acauthias

Squatina Angelus

Torpedo Walshii

Raia Batis

Oxyrhynchus

chagrinea

maculata

clavata

radula

Trygon Pastinaca

Cephaloptera Giorna ....
Petromyzon marinus ....

fluviatilis

Planeri

Amraocoetes branchialis

Myxine glutinosa

                      * See preceding remarks on.
                                                  411

Report of Experiments on the Physiology of the Lungs and

  Air-tubes. By Charles J. B. Williams, M.D., F.U.S,

When at the request of the Medical Section of the British As-

sociation, I undertook three years since to investigate experi-
mentally several doubtful points respecting the properties and
offices of parts of the respiratory apparatus in the higher classes
of animals, I hoped to be able to include in the inquiry the che-
mical process of respiration, and the vital effects of its interrup-

tion. Professional engagements having obliged me to relinquish
these points, I have restricted my attention to others more im-
mediately bearing on practical medicine. The chief of these are

the contractility and sensibility of the air-tubes and lungs.
    It has long been a matter of controversy whether the lungs

 uid air-tubes are more than passive in the motions of I'espiration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;

whether they possess any self-contracting or expanding power,
independent of the muscles which affect the capacity of the
chest. Different writers, both ancient and modern, have main-
tained opposite opinions. Laennec, after Sennert, Bremond
and others, attributed to the lungs both a self-contractile and
self-expansive power, in addition to their mechanical or elastic
properties. Haller, on the other hand, was led by experiment
to deny that any independent vital motions are exhibited by the
lungs of animals, corresponding with those of respiration ; and
Miiller has confirmed these negative results. Within the last
few years certain writers in this country and in France*, have
denied altogether the muscular contractility of any part of the
air-tubes below the larynx.

   These negative observations are in opposition to the generally-
received opinion, derived chiefly from the anatomical researches
of Reisseissen, that the circular fibres of the air-tubes, from the
trachea to their terminations, are muscular. Very few at-
tempts have been made to solve this problem by experiment.
Varnier and Wedemeyer only succeeded in exciting partial con-
tractions in the smaller bronchi ; but after all their results,
Miiller concludes that " it is remarkable that there exists at pre-
sent no direct proof of the contractility of the muscular fibres
of the trachea and its branchesf."

    I need scarcely remark, that this subject is by no means one

of merely speculative interest. Much of the pathology and
             * MM. Trousseau and Belloc, Dr. Geo. Budd, &c.

                  t Elements of Physiology, translated by Baly.
--412 REPORT 1840.

treatment of various diseases of the respiratory organs, espe-
cially asthma, is at present founded on the supposition of a
muscular contractility of the air-tubes, the very existence of
which is stated by one of the most eminent of modern physio-

logists to be little more than assumed. The chief objects of the

following experiments were to test the existence of muscular
irritability in the air- tubes ; and if such wei'e present, to deter-
mine its charactei*, and the circumstances or influences which

could afl^ect or disturb it. The experiments were performed at
the London University College, and in several of them I was
kindly assisted by Professor Sharpey, Mr. James Blake, Dr.

Davison, and several of my pupils, especially Messrs. Blom-

field, Carlill, Parkes and Jos. King.
   In most of the experiments I made use of Poiseuille's

hfBmadynamometer, which is a tube bent like an inverted si-

phon, containing a coloured fluid ; the short limb of this tube,
furnished with stop-cocks, being adapted to the windpipe or one
of its branches, the column of fluid within would be readily

moved by any contraction of the air-tubes or lungs, causing pres-
sure on the air in it : and the rise or fall of this fluid was mea-

sured by a scale divided into inches and tenths.

  A1. dog was killed by pithing. The chest being imme-

diately opened, the lungs collapsed completely. They were
taken out with a part of the trachea, which was then tied to the
brass tube of the haemadynamometer (or as I shall call it, the
dynameter) ; on completing the communication by turning the

stop-cock, the fluid in the tube oscillated several times to the

amount of about one fourth of an inch. On passing a galvanic

current, from a trough of thirty three-inch plates, from the margin
of the lungs to the brass tube in the trachea, the fluid rose
quickly, but gradually, nearly two inches ; it sunk speedily on
breaking contact ; again rose on repeating it ; but fell slowly

when the contact was continued for some seconds. When the

current was passed only through a single lobe, the rise was still
distinct, amounting to three or four tenths of an inch. The
rise was repeatedly produced, but to a diminishing extent, and
after two or three minutes the effect seemed to be exhausted.

   2. The preceding experiment was repeated with eight dogs
of various sizes, with similar results. The rise of the fluid co-
lumn caused by galvanising the whole lung amounted at first to
from li to 2i inches, but afterwards gradually diminished. If
the current was passed continuously for some length of time,
the fluid in the tube fell, and could not be raised by the gal-
vanism for a minute or two after. It was found also that inflating

the lungs impaired the eftect of the current. On repeating the
ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OT THE LUNGS AND AIR-TUBES. 413

experiments further, it was found that the irritability was only
exhausted for a time ; and on waiting two or three minutes
between each application of the galvanism, the liquid was raised

again and again for upwards of an hour ; at first to the extent
of one or two inches, but afterwards to a gradually diminishing
extent, until all effect ceased. So, too, although no effect ensued
immediately after inflating the lung, yet on waiting a minute or
two the contraction took place, only diminished in degree by
the compressed state of the air, which required more contractile
force to move it. The fall on interrupting the current was
pretty rapid, the fluid recovering its level in from ten to twenty

seconds.

   3. Several trials were made to compare the contractility of

the smaller and the larger bronchial tubes respectively. When

the galvanism was passed along only the margins of the lobes,

scarcely any contraction ensued. When passed from the margin

to the middle of the lobes the column rose two or three tenths

and soon subsided. When passed across a lobe, at right angles

with the chief tubes, the rise was from two to four tenths. But

the greatest amount of contraction was caused by passing the

current from the margins of the lobes to the larger tubes, or

across the direction of these tubes, especially near the bifurca-

tion of the trachea. The rise produced by galvanising these
portions could be also renewed at intervals for a period much

longer than in other parts.

4. The preceding experiments were all made on the lungs re-

moved from the body immediately after death. I tried to obtain
the same results with the lungs in the body ; but it was not easy

to galvanise the lungs without affecting the muscles of the chest,

the contractions of which might interfere with the results.

The expedient adopted was, immediately on the death of the

animal to adapt the dynameter to the trachea; then to open

the chest and break back the ribs, and having separated the

lungs, to pass between them and the walls of the chest a piece of

oiled cloth, and then to apply the galvanic wires to different parts

of the lungs. This experiment gave less distinct results than

when the lungs were removed from the body; It was repeated

five times ; but it will be sufficient to describe one instance in

which the galvanism was tried on the par vagum as well as on

Athe lungs themselves.       large dog was pithed, and the dyna-

meter adapted to the trachea. On opening the chest, the col-

lapse of the lungs caused the fluid to rise three inches. The vagi

being exposed in the neck, one was pinched ; it caused no effect

on the dynameter. The other vagus was then galvanised across

and along a portion of it ; no effect followed in the bronchial
--414 REPORT 1840.

tubes, but the oesophagus was strongly convulsed. The nerve

was then separated and the galvanism passed through it to the

base of the lung ; this raised the dynameter only a tenth. On

passing the current from the base of the lungs to the trachea
the column rose more than an inch, sinking again rapidly on

the withdrawal of the galvanism.

    5. In all the preceding experiments the animals were killed

Aby pithing : other modes of death were afterwards tried.

rabbit was killed by a blow on the back of the neck. The lungs
and trachea being cut out, moderately inflated and galvan-
ised, little effect was produced in the first ten minutes, but the

column had gradually sunk about tlu'ee tenths of an inch, after
this the galvanism repeatedly raised it two tenths.

  A6. large dog was bled to death by dividing the jugular

veins. Death was preceded by very deep and rare breathing ;
the heart beat a few pulses after respiration and sensibility had

ceased. On adapting the dynameter to the trachea, the colunm

was stationary ; on opening the abdomen it sunk half an inch.

On opening the chest it rose five inches. After taking the

lungs out of the body, galvanism failed to raise the column
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

but this failure probably arose from the tube being obstructed
M ith viscid mucus ; for on applying the wires to the bifurcation
of the trachea the tubes were seen to contract distinctly. This
suggested another mode of observation which had been dis-
trusted before, as liable to error. The lungs were cut by sharp

scissors at right angles to the chief air-tubes ; the open sections
being galvanised contracted to half, and in some instances to

less than half their former diameter. To ensure accuracy, the

gaping ends, as soon as cut, were measured by compasses or
tubes of similar size. The contraction was most distinct in the

middle-sized tubes, and those of the size of a crow-quill. One

of these closed completely. These results were obtained for
half an hour after death, and long after the heart had lost its

irritability.                                 The lungs

  A7. large greyhound was killed by pithing.

being removed, one lobe was tried by galvanism and the dyna-

Ameter, with the usual results.  large bronchus of another lobe

was then cut open longitudinally, laid flat and then galvanised.

It became hollow and contracted a third, and at one part half

its diameter. The divided ends of other bronchi also contracted

to less than half. In one instance, when the interior of a large

bronchus was galvanised, bloody mucus was expelled from one

of its branches across which the current passed.

  A8. bullock's lung was experimented on about twenty mi-

iiutes after death, which was caused as usual by a blow on the
ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE LUNGS AND AIR-TUBES. 415

head and dividing the vessels of the neck. The bronchi were

full of frothy mucus, and on touching any of them with the

galvanic wii'es, this froth was exuded from them. Their mea-

sured size also shrunk under the same influence.

9. The same results were obtained with the lungs of a calf,

Ahalf an hour after death (by bleeding and pithing).  small

lobe of the lung when galvanised raised the dynameter tliree

tenths.

   10. Two years ago I observed in the lungs of a horse just

killed by knacking, that the divided ends of the bronchi slowly

contracted on being irritated with a scalpel ; but as no mea-

surement was used, and as those which were not thus irritated

also contracted, only more slowly, I did not then consider the
result conclusive. It may, however, now be arranged among

other facts of the same kind.
   11. In many instances which I need not now detail, I tried

to excite the contraction of the air-tubes by chemical irritants,

such as salt and diluted ammonia. I succeeded with the divided

ends of the tubes ; but with the dynameter it was more difficult,
from the difficulty of introducing the irritant withovit mechani-

cally affecting the column, and also from the irritant causing

the formation of mucous viscid froth, which obstructed the

tubes. The following was the most successful of these at-

tempts.

  A12. dog was pithed and the lungs exposed by breaking

back the ribs. To the trachea was tied a tube with two

branches furnished with stop-cocks. One branch communicated

with the dynameter ; through the other the lungs were to be in-

flated to give the tubes their full diameter. The irritating fluid

was poured into the tube of the dynameter in quantity sufficient

that some might drop into the trachea on blowing into the

upper end of the tube. The lungs being moderately inflated,

the stop-cock of the dynameter was turned, when the column

rose three inches. The column was then depressed by blowing

with the mouth till some dropped into the windpipe. On with-

drawing the mouth the column was driven up three tenths above

its former level, and slowly rose two tenths more. This rise

could only be ascribed to the ccmtraction of the tubes excited

by the irritating liquid in them. By changing the position of

the lung, several sudden starts of one or two tenths repeatedly

occurred, probably caused by the irritating fluid coming in con-
tact with more tubes. But all these movements were much im-
peded by the viscid froth which collected in the bronchi. The

lungs being suffered to collapse, the column sank to a level.

After a while it sunk further two inches below the level ; being
416 REPORT-- 1840.

probably thus drawn down by the re-expansion of the cartilagi-
nous rings of the tubes, now set free by the relaxation of their
contractile fibres. On cutting into the lung the trachea and
 bronchi were found unusually open, and filled with tenacious
 froth. In another instance in which this experiment was re-
peated, the rise after the injection of diluted ammonia amounted

 to li inch.

    13. The experiment was repeated with saturated solution of
common salt, with similar results.

    14. The following experiment illustrates several of the same
points ; and further shows the character of the sensibility in
different parts of the air-passages. Subject, a large Newfound-
land dog. The trachea was exposed and divided below the cri-

coid cartilage. It was then held out by a hook. On being ir-

ritated by a scalpel, the membranous portion gradually con-
tracted until the ends of the cartilaginous rings met. The
contraction was somewhat increased by galvanism. The appli-
cation of salt caused no further effect. None of these irritations
excited cough or sign of uneasiness ; but on passing the finger
upwards to the larynx, violent expiratory efforts were excited,
and the glottis very forcibly closed on the finger. The expira-

Atory efforts forced a little bloody mucus from the trachea.

scalpel was introduced into the trachea as far as its bifurcation,

and scraped against the membrane. No cough followed for some

time ; but on repeating the experiment about a minute after,
cough ensued, and increased on subsequent trials. The salt ap-
plied caused a secretion of bloody mucus. The blood-vessels

in the upper part of the chest were now cut into, when the rare

deep inspirations preceding death by haemorrhage succeeded.
The heart continued to beat several seconds after the cessation
of respiration. The bronchi exhibited full indications of con-

tractility on the application of galvanism, or of salt, or ammo-
nia. The upper part of the trachea, which had during life been
irritated with salt and galvanism, was now found quite expanded,
the portions lower down were half-expanded. Both contracted

slightly on being galvanised, and completely on dividing their

cartilaginous rings.

    Having satisfactorily proved the existence of irritable con-
tractility in the air-tubes, I next proceeded to try how this would
be inflvienced by various medicinal agents which we are in the
habit of using in various diseases of the organs of respiration.

  A15. rabbit was poisoned by dropping some strong hydro-

cyanic acid into its mouth. In thirty seconds it was seized with
convulsive and gasping breathing, and opisthotonic spasms, and
died in ten seconds more. Galvanism produced no results with
ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THK LUNGS AND AIR-TUBES. 4l7

the dynameter for the first five minutes ; but after this it took
effect, and raised the cohmin two tenths ; and in a quarter of

an hour four tenths. These eifects gradually diminished^ and

ceased in half an hour.

16. About ten grains of extract of belladonna*, mixed with

water, were injected into the jugular vein of a rabbit. In fifteen

seconds, gasping with slight convulsions, and death in less than

a minute. On opening the abdomen the heart was seen through

the diaphragm acting quickly. The dynameter being adapted

to the trachea, the chest was opened, when the column imme-

diately rose two inches, and slowly an inch more, when it re-

mained stationary. Galvanism produced no effect for several

minutes, and then a scarcely perceptible rise, which could not

be re-induced, although the experiment was continued an hour.

  A17. dog was poisoned by mouth with hydrocyanic acid.

He fell down howling in a minute and a half, and ceased to

breathe in about half a minute more. Heart beat strongly when

the chest was opened. Galvanism raised the column of the dy-

nameter two inches, and a similar but decreasing effect was ob-

tained at times for half an hour. The same differences were

observed in the contractility of different parts, as after death by

pithing. The cut ends of the tubes continued to contract on

being galvanised half an hour after death.

18. About twenty drops of strong hydrocyanic acid were in-

jected into the carotid artery of an ass about six months old.

It immediately caused the breathing to become very deep and

rare ; but the effect passing off in about ten minutes, nearly a
di'achm more was injected. The deep convulsive breathing re-

turned, with tetanic rigidity of the trunk and loud groaning.

The breathing became very rare, whilst the heart beat violently

with a double second sound. Death ensued about three mi-

Anutes after the second injection.  small lobe of the lung when

galvanised repeatedly raised the column three tenths. Sections

of tubes in other parts contracted distinctly on being galvanised,

but to a less extent than in the dog. Contractile motion was

distinctly seen on cutting a cartilaginous ring of the trachea,
and then galvanising the membranous portion at the back.

19. About ten grains of extract of belladonna mixed with

water, were injected into the right jugular vein of a large dog.

Pupils began to dilate in fifteen seconds, and breathing more

and more deep and laborious, accompanied with convulsive
starts and howling. The breathing ceased and the eye became

insensible two minutes after the injection. The integuments of

   * This and other extracts used were obtained from Mr. Squire, Chemist to
the Queen.

1 840.                   2E
                               .

418 REPORT-- 1840.

the chest being then divided, some dark blood flowed in jets from
the cut vessels ; the animal then made six or seven deep gasps,
during which the heart beat more strongly, and the 63^6 slightly
winked on being touched. This partial restoration was probably

caused by the bleeding. On taking out the lungs scarcely a

trace of contractility could be detected in them by the dyname-
ter, and the cut ends of the tubes shrunk but little on being gal-
vanised. The trachea was quite relaxed, and scarcely any
approximation of the cartilages was produced by galvanism.
The arteries also were less contracted than usual.

    20. About thirty grains of extract of stramonium were in-
jected into the cellular tissue of the neck of a dog. The breath-
ing soon became very quick, laborious, and occasionally ster-
torous. Lower extremities very weak and dragged, as if para-
lysed. Pupil extremely dilated ; but the sensibility of the eye
and consciousness of sounds remained till near death, which
took place twenty-five minutes after the injection. The heart
was found motionless and unirritable, its right cavities and the
veins much gorged with blood ; left cavities and arteries empty.

On cutting and galvanising the bronchi, very little contraction

was perceived, and none with the dynameter. CEsophagus and

 intestines still irritable.

   2 1 Two grains of nitrate of strychnia, dissolved, were injected

 into the carotid of a large dog. In less than four seconds te-

tanic convulsions, which continued a minute. The eye became

insensible in half a minute. On opening the chest the heart

 was found motionless and unirritable ; right cavities and veins
 enormously distended. Lungs being taken out and galvanized,
 at first raised the dynameter two tenths, but not afterwards.
 Voluntary muscles relaxed after death, and were less irritable
 than usual.

   A22. solution of four grains of nitrate of strychnia was in-

 jected into the jugular vein of a donke}^ two months old. In
 fifteen seconds spasms and tetanic stiff"ness. Eye soon ceased
 to wink on being touched. Spasms of neck and back continued

 for more than a minute On opening the chest the heart was

 still beating, the veins and right side much distended. The air-

 tubes gave no sign of contractility with galvanism, although the
 experiment was continued for some time.

     23. Wishing to compare the contractility of the bronchi with
 that of the arteries, I made the following experiment. Imme-
 diately after the death of the subject of the preceding experi-
 ment, ligatures were applied to the top of the descending aorta

 and to the left common iliac, and a dynameter to the right com-
 mon iliac, some carbonate of soda and water being first injected
      ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE LUNGS AND AIR-TUBES. 419

to prevent the blood from coagulating. The aorta was then gal-

vanised, and the column immediately rose gradually two inches.

On I'emoving the wires, it still rose a few seconds, and then sunk

progressively. After it had sunk two inches, the galvanism again

raised it two tenths, but no more. This was about twenty-five

minutes after death. The auricles continued to be excitable by

galvanism more than half an hour after death, the contraction of

one auricle being followed by that of the other. In this and

another donkey, I had proved that the arteries contracted during

life on the application of the galvanic, as well as of chemical and

mechanical stimuli.

24. Some tincture of Lobelia ejlata, much concentrated by

evaporation, was injected into the jugular vein of a dog. There

were symptoms of uneasiness for a few minutes, but no further

Aeffect.  fluid extract obtained by evaporating §iss. solution

of bimeconate of morphia (Squire) was then injected. In twelve

seconds, peculiar convulsive starts and some general tremor,

with laborious breathing, followed by death in about a minute and

a half. Heart was beating when the chest was opened. Single

lobes of the lungs being galvanised raised the dynameter co-

lumn slightly, not more than a tenth. On cutting the lung, the

sections contracted more distinctly, but much less so than in

other cases. Trachea expanded.

25. About half a drachm of extract of conium mixed with

water was injected into the external jugular vein of a dog. In

twelve seconds the breathing became very quick and laborious,

and in a minute the animal was dead. Bronchi not contractile as

tested by the dynameter, and less than usual on galvanising cut

portions. The trachea was already contracted so much that

the ends of the cartilaginous rings were in contact. The heart

was still irritable.

I trust that many of the results of the preceding experiments

are sufficiently evident without further comment.

Almost all of them prove that the air-tubes are endowed with

irritable contractility, excitable by electric, chemical, and me-

chanical stimuli, and they possess also tonic contractility (10,

25).

The contractility is manifest in all portions of the air-tubes

(3, 6, 7, 12, &c.). In the trachea and larger bronchi it is anta-

gonised by the elasticity of the cartilaginous rings (12, 14).
It does not appear to exist in the vesicular terminations of the

air- tubes (3).
    This contractility resembles that of the intestines or arteries

more than that of voluntary muscles, the oesophagus, or heart,

the contractions and relaxations being more gradual than those

                      2H2
--420 REPORT 1840.

of the latter, but less tardy than those of the former. (1,2, 17,

23, &c.)

   The irritability of the bronchial muscles is soon exhausted by
the action of a stimulus (1, 2, 5, 12, &c.) ; and may in some
degree be restored by rest, even when the lung is removed from
the body for an hour or more (2, 3, 6). But when the stimula-
tion is long continued, as by intense irritation of the mucous
membrane during life, the irritability is not restored by rest,
and the tonic contractility is also impaired (14).

   The contractility of the air- tubes seems to be much influenced
by the mode of death ; having been for a time suspended after
death by a blow on the back of the neck (5), and hi one instance

after death by pithing, and haemorrhage. Inflation of the lung
also in some way suspends it for a while (2).

     Several vegetable poisons impair or destroy this contractility.
Extracts of stramonium and belladonna produced this eff'ect
most completely (16, 19, 20). (Their superior efficacy in spas-
modic asthma has been long known.) Strychnia, conium, and
morphia also impair this property considerably (21, 22, 24, 25).
Hydrocyanic acid, on the other hand, does not in any consider-
able degree impair it (15, 17, 18).

    These poisons and different modes of death do not act on the
irritability of the bronchial tubes in the same degree as they do
 on that of the heart and other contractile tissues, (22, 23, 24,
 25,) and they do not seem to act always equally on the irritable
 and on the tonic contractility of these tubes (25).

    The bronchial fibres seem to be excited more by direct sti-
 mulation than by any influence conveyed through the nerves of
 the lungs ; for mechanical and galvanic irritation of the vagi had
 no effect on them ; and passing a current through the nerves to
the lungs caused much less contraction than passing it through

 the trachea (4).

    I am well aware that these, and many other subjects connected

 with them, deserve a fuller investigation, and I have to regret

that my engagements have prevented me from prosecuting them

 further. Such as they are I submit them to the consideration
 of the Section without dwelling on their practical bearings.

                     Charles J, B. Williams, M.D., F.R.S.,

                   Professor of the Principles and Practice of Medicine,
                     and Physician to the Hospital, London Univer-

                           sity College.

 Holies Street, Cavendish Square,
               Sept. loth, 1840.
                                                 421

 Report of the Committee appointed to try J^sperimetits on the
    Preservation of Animal and Vegetable Substances. Draivn

  Pup by The Rev. J. S. Hknslow, F.L.S., rofessor of Botany

    in the University of Cambridge.

The Committee have hitherto directed their attention entirely

to the investigation of the preserving properties of certain ma-

terials vrhen applied separately, either in saturated solutions, or

in different degrees of concentration.

  A set of glass jars, of uniform dimensions (6 inches by l^^),

was procured, and saturated solutions of the substances to be
tried were prepared. Similar solutions were also diluted with an
equal quantity of water, and with double the quantity of water,
and separate preparations were made of animal and vegetable

substances to the amount of 178. These were left in the Mu-

seum of the Botanic Garden at Cambridge, and have been in-
spected at intervals of one and two years. It is intended that
all should remain where they now stand, whether the results
may prove satisfactory or not ; as, possibly, some facts may be
elicited worth noticing, respecting the different manner in which
organized substances are decomposed when placed in a variety
of mixtures which do not preserve them.

   The next step which the Committee propose taking, will be
to mix those solutions which seem to them most likely to suc-
ceed, in various proportions ; and to prepare a fresh set of ob-
jects in these mixtures, which will be placed with the former.
This, indeed, ought to have been done some months ago, but
circumstances have prevented the Committee from carrying this

part of their plan into effect. No very satisfactory conclusions

can be expected to result from these experiments until they
shall have stood the test of a greater length of time than has

yet elapsed since they were connnenced. An account of the re-

sults hitherto obtained will be of service in directing the re-

searches of any who may be disposed to follow up the inquiry,

and the Committee will be glad to receive the suggestions or
aid of any members of the Section who may be disposed to co-
operate with them.

  --\st. Results obtained with Animal Substances. Three salts

of potash, the sub-carbonate, the bi-carbonate, and the arse-
niate, have hitherto yielded the most satisfactory results, and
of these more especially the sub-carbonate. Although the bi-
carbonate has preserved the objects immersed in it, the liquid

Ahas become clouded with flocculent matter. similar formation

of flocculent matter occurs in some of the other solutions, but
has not yet been minutely examined. Tliese three salts are
eflective in each of the three states of concentration em-
ployed, but perhaps the effect is best where the solution is half
of the saturated solution and half of water.
--422 RKPORT 1840.

   The next best to these three, are the sulphate of zinc, the

muriate of magnesia, and arsenious acid.
   The following also possess tolerably fair preserving properties,

but are by no means so good as those already mentioned. They
may be recommended in cases of emergency, as temporary ex-
pedients, and some of them will probably prove more efficient
when used in combination with others, than when employed
singly : sulpliate of magnesia, sulphate of potash and alumina,
(common alum,) sulphate of zinc, muriate of ammonia, sulphate
of potash. It is well known that corrosive sublimate is a per-

fect preservative of animal substances, but this salt renders the
flesh so very hard, that singly it is unsuited to the purposes of

natural history. Added in small proportions to other solutions,
 which render the objects too soft, it will probably be found of

 essential service ; as well also in preventing the formation of
 the flocculent matter which occurs in several of them.

     Prepared naphtha, in the proportion of one part naphtha to
 seven of water, produces a favourable result, but when used more
 highly concentrated the specimens are rendered tough. The rapid

 evaporation of this substance is an objection to its use.

    The effects produced by oxalic acid, and acetic acid, are pe-
 culiar ; they seem to have decomposed the skin and cellular
 membrane of two small fish immersed in them, but to have left
 the muscle untouched. The consequence has been that these

 animals have fallen to pieces, but the separate fragments are
 well preserved, more especially in the acetic acid.

   A few drops of kreosote added to water preserves the objects,

 but they become stained of a dark brown. The following sub-
 stances appear to be wholly unfit for the purpose, and no further
 trial need be made with them: carb. ammonia, chloride of potash,
 muriate of barytes, muriate of lime, nitrate of ammonia, nitrate of
 strontiau, nitrate of barytes, nitrate of soda, nitrate of ammonia
 and magnesia, phosphateof soda, sulphate of soda, sulphate of pot-
 ash, sulphate of ii'on, sulphate of copper, roagh pyroligneous acid.

  --2iid. Results obtained with Fegetable Substances. The suc-

 cess obtained with vegetable substances has been very slight. Spe-
 cimens were immersed in each solution, as in the case of the ani-

 mal substances. None of the salts seem likely to turn out fa-
 vourably in simple solution, unless it may be the sub-carbonate
 and bi-carbonale of potash. In naphtha and acetic acid the spe-
 cimens are preserved, but in the latter they lose their colour and
 assume a reddish tinge.

     P.S. It does not appear from the memoranda that the carbo-
 nates of soda are among the list of substances tried ; but I have
 found that the preserving properties of the common soda of the
 shops are decidedly good on animal substances.

                                                           J. S. Henslow.
                  423

PROVISIONAL REPORTS, AND NOTICES OF PROGRESS
  IN SPECIAL RESEARCHES ENTRUSTED TO COMMIT-

  TEES AND INDIVIDUALS.

                Mathematics and Physics.

Statement by G. B. Airy, Esq., Astron. Royal, relating to
   the progress of the Reductions of the Greenwich Lunar
   and Planetary Observations, undertaken at the recommenda-

   tion of the British Association; and to the state of the
   Funds appropriated to these works.

A RESOLUTION of the General Committee of the British Asso-

ciation, recommending to the Government the reduction of all
the observations of the Planets made at Greenwich from the
time of Bradley, was passed at Cambridge on June 28, 1833,
and a deputation was appointed to wait on Lord Althorp, in

order to present this recommendation, and to request that the

sum of 500/. should be placed in my hands for these reductions.

The sum named was fixed on wholly at random, and without

any sort of accurate estimate, of which the operations did not

seem to admit.

Lord Althorp's answer assenting to the grant was dated

July 25, 1833. It was understood verbally from his Lordship's
private secretary (Mr. Drummond), that more money would be

granted if required.

   The whole sum of 5001. has been advanced to me by the fol-

lowing payments.

1836--Jan. 8      . . . £122 17 9

1837--May 27 . . . 179 2 9

1838--Feb. 24 . . . 197 19 6

                  Total .  .£500

   The last payment is subsequent to the later arrangement
with regard to lunar reductions, of which I now proceed to

speak.

   In the Meeting of the Association at liiverpool in 1837, the
General Committee recommended that the Observations of the

Moon should be reduced, and appointed a deputation to wait
on Mr. Spring Rice, and to convey this recommendation. The
----

--424 REPORT 1840.

deputation accordingly attended at the Exchequer in the winter
of that )'ear, and made the apphcation, naming the sum of
2000^. as necessary, but stating in the formal memorial that the

expense might probably exceed 2000/. And on December 26

of the same year, in writing to Mr. Spring Rice on this matter,
I recommended that the accounts for planetai-y reductions and

lunar reductions should be incorporated, as in pursuing the
work in the most advantageous way, it was wholly impossible
to keep the operations separate.

   The Lords of the Treasury assented to this application, and

directed that 600/. should be advanced per annum, till the
2000/. should be expended.

   In the applications made by me to the Lords of the Treasury

on April 13, 1839, and April 18, 1840, I stated fully that the
money last granted (for the lunar reductions) had been em-
ployed in part on the planetary reductions.

   The advances made to me from the Treasury are the follow-

ing:

            1838--June 13 . . . £600
           1839--May 31 . . . 600
            1840--April 27 . . . 600

                 Total .                                                                                                                                             .£1800

Leaving still payable to TMfi\of)f) n n

from the original grant                                                                                                                                              .J

And on Sept. 4, 1840, I had in 1 k^o /% n

hand about       . . .J

I have, therefore, at my com-\ w^o ^ ^
   mand . . . . . j

This sum may be expected to last a short time beyond the

next meeting of the Association                                                                                                                                      but it would not, in my opi-
                                                                                                                                                                  ;

nion, be prudent to defer proceedings for increasing the sum

till that time.

The state of the reductions is nearly as follows :

                                                 Planets.

   The transits and right ascensions of all the planets are nearly

all completed in duplicate, compared, examined by differences,
and in other ways.

   The polar distances are entirely reduced in duplicate, com-

pared, examined, &c. for all the planets, except an inconsider-
able part of the observations of Uranus (probably finished by
                                                          --

           PROVISIONAL RBPORTS, AND NOTICES.              425

this time), and the observations of the small planets, for which

the distance necessary for the parallaxes is wanting.

The computation of geocentric longitude and latitude from

NPDJR and  is finished in duplicate for Mercury, Venus and

Mars, examined and compared. Jupiter is advanced (proba-

bly now finished), and Saturn has been commenced (probably

now far advanced).

The computation of the Tabular Heliocentric places of all

the planets, except the small ones, is finished in duplicate and

examined.

The computation of the Tabular Geocentric places is finish-

ed for all the large planets, except the application of aberration

to Saturn and Uranus, and a few observations of Jupiter.

The reduced observed places have been confronted with the

reduced tabular places for Mercury and Mars, and thoroughly

examined by myself; and these are, in all important respects,

ready for printing. Those for Venus have also been computed,

but not yet thoroughly examined by me.

The whole of this department will, in no long time, be ready

for press. The only new work to be done upon it is the cal-

culation of the co-efficients of tellurian and planetary heliocentric

errors, which must be conceived to form the geocentric er-

rors.

                    Lunar Observations.

   The whole of the imperfect transits are completed ; and this

has been a very laborious operation.

   The apparent JR of the stars for the clock-errors are

formed, and are ready for application to the investigation of

the moon's right ascension, but are not yet applied.

  No other work is yet done for the lunar observations, though

the books, &c. are pi'epared for many parts of the work.
                                                                        G. B. Airy.

       2'o the Committee of the Physical and Mathematical
                      Section of the British Association.

The Report of the Committee on the Form of Vessels was

read to the Meeting ; but in consequence of the extensive ta-
bles and drawings required for its illustration, it has not yet
been completed for publication.

The Committee appointed to superintend the extension of the

Royal Astronomical Society's Catalogue of Stars, report
   That the work is in considerable progress, and that it w^ill

probably be completed before the next meeting of the British
Association in 1841. They further report, that 360/. have been
                  --

--426 RKPORT 1840.

already paid for computations, and about 'JOl. for printing and
other expenses, making a total of about 430/. out of the original
grant of 500/. As this balance of 70/- will not be sufficient to

complete the woi'k, the Committee request that it may be ex-

tended to 150/., which, they hope, will meet every expense.

The Committee appointed to superintend the reduction of the

stars in the Histoire Celeste, report

That about 33,000 stars have been already reduced, the cost

of which has been 412/., exclusive of about 52/. for printing
skeleton forms for the use of the computer. They further re-
port, that there are about 16,000 more stars to be reduced, the

cost of which will be about 200/. more. As the original grant

will not cover the whole of this expense, (there being only about
35/. remaining out of that grant,) the Committee suggest the
propriety of extending the grant, for the ensuing year, to the

200/. above mentioned, which, they trust, will complete the

work.                 Francis Baily.

August 25, 1840.

Second Report of a Committee of the British Association, con-

   sisting of Sir J. Herschel, Prof. Whewell awf/Mr. Baily,

    for revising the nomenclature of the Stars, appointed at
    Newcastle, 1838.

The revision of the northern hemisphere and the constellations

visible in Europe has been continued by Mr. Baily, by carefully
tracing the just and most authentic limits of the existing and
recognised constellations, and by a careful examination of the
several stars, in the course of which many singular instances of
confusion and error in naming and placing have been detected.
This process, which involves an investigation of the history of
each star, and of the designations it has received from each of
its observers, and in the several catalogues in which it occurs,
is nearly complete, and may be considered as clearing the
ground for a systematic nomenclature of the northern stars, as
well as for an effective table of synonyms of each star.

    In the southern hemisphere, or rather in those constellations
which are only visible to an observer in that hemisphere. Sir
John Herschel has continued and nearly completed a chart of
those stars onhj, and of all those stars which are distinctly visi-
ble to the naked eye in a clear night, in which chart each star
is represented of its true magnitude, according to a scale, in
which the total interval from the stars of the first magnitude to

the lowest inserted, in place of six degrees, is made to consist
      PROVISIONAL RBPORTS, AND NOTICES.                                                                           427

of eighteen, so as to subdivide each magnitude into three. The

final assignment of these magnitudes, resting on the collation
and inter-comparison of an extensive series of observations
made for that express purpose with the naked eye, occasionally

assisted by a common opera-glass, has been a work of much
time and labour, and is not yet quite completed. Nor till this

is accomphshed, can any further progress be made in the re-

arrangement of the southern constellations, which, at present,

are in a state of great confusion.

  A small part only of the grant of 50/., devoted by the Asso-

ciation to this object, has been expended : but the whole will,

no doubt, be required                                                                                             and your Committee, therefore, recom-
                                                                                                               ;

mend its continuance.

      Signed, on the part of the Committee,

                                           J. F. W. Herschel.

Report of a Committee for the reduction of Lacaille's Stars in

      the Coelum Australe Stelliferum.

The reductions of all the stars in Lacaille's Coelum Australe

Stelliferum are finished, and Mr. Henderson's assistant is at

present arranging the results in the form of a catalogue, which,

however, could not be completed in time for this meeting. The

completed portion, so far as finished, has been transmitted to
Mr. Baily, to be used in the construction of the new catalogue of

the Astronomical Society. No money has been spent during

the year ; but, of course, a renewal of the grant will be desira-

ble.

      Signed, for the Committee,                                                                                  J. F. W. Herschel.

Report of the Committee, consisting of Sir J. Herschel, Pro-

   fessor Whewell, Professor Peacock, Professor Lloyd, atid

   Major Sabine, appointed to superintend the scientific co-
   operation of the Association in the Researches relative to

    Terrestrial Magnetism.

In consequence of the measures adopted as detailed in the last
report of this Committee, a very extensive system of magnetical
corresponding observations has been organized, embracing be-
tween thirty and forty stations in various and remote parts of
the globe, provided with magnetometers, and every requisite
instrument, and with observers, carefully selected, and compe-
tent to carry out at most, if not in all the stations, a complete
series of two hourly observations, day and night, during the
whole period of their remaining in activity, together with
monthly term-observations, at intervals of two minutes and a
--428 REPORT 1840.

half. Of these observatories, that at Dublin, placed under the

immediate superintendence of Professor Lloyd, has been

equi])ped and provided for by the praiseworthy liberality and

public spirit of the University of that metropolis. Those at
Toronto, the Cape of Good Hope, St. Helena and Van Die-

men's Land, as also the two itinerant observatories of the

Antarctic expedition, by the British Government ; those of

Madras, Simla, Singapore and Bombay, by the Honourable

East India Company                                                                                         to which are to be added ten stations in
                                                                                                        ;

European and Asiatic Russia, and one at Pekin, established

by Russia; two by Austria at Prague and Milan; two by the

Universities of Philadelphia and Cambridge in the United

States                             one by the French Government at Algiers ; one by the
                                ;

Prussian at Breslau ; one by the Bavarian at Munich ; one by

the Spanish at Cadiz ; one by the Belgian at Brussels ; one by

the Pacha of Egypt at Cairo; one by the Rajah of Travan-

core at Trevandrum in India ; and one by the King of Oude

at Lucknow.

In addition to this list, it has recently also been determined

by the British Govei'nment (at the instance of the Royal So-

ciety) to provide for the performance of a series of correspond-

ing observations, both magnetic and meteorological, at the
Royal Observatory at Greenwich, under the able superintend-

ence of the Astronomer Royal. In Norway, negotiations, in
which M. Hansteen has taken an especial interest, have been

for some time carrying on for establishing an observatory of a

Asimilar description at Hammerfest.                                                                        great number of mag-

netic and other instruments available for this service, it ap-
pears, have been left at Kaafiord by M. Gaymard, acting for
the " Commission Scientifique du Nord," under the directions

of the French Ministry of the Marine, all which instruments,

through the efficient intervention of M. Arago, it is under-

stood, will be placed at the disposal of the observer or observers

who may be appointed to conduct the observations. To com-

plete the estabhshment, however, certain instruments, as well

as registry-books, &c. are still requisite. The Council of the
Royal Society have undertaken to supply these from the Wol-

laston Donation Fund.

   As regards the magnetic observatory at Breslau, under the
direction of M. Boguslawski, your Committee have to report,

that in order to secure the establishment of that station, and

to place it on an equal footing with the rest, certain instru-

ments, &c. required to be provided, for which no funds existed,
or could be made available on the spot, viz. a bifilar and a

vertical-force magnetometer, with the requisite reading-tele-
PROVISIONAL REPORTS, AND NOTICES.                     429

scope, and a set of registry-books. As, owing to the actual

circumstances of that observatory, there appeared no prospect

--of these requisites being otherwise supplied, as the station

appeared to your Committee a desii'able one, and as M.

Boguslawski was wiUing and desirous to lend his aid to this

great combined operation, by taking on himself the laborious

--duty of conducting the observations, your Committee con-

ceived, that although possibly transgressing in some degree

the strict wording of their powers, they were only acting up to

their spirit in devoting a portion (185/.) of the funds placed at

their disposal, to supplying them at the expense of the Asso-

ciation. Unwilling to claim any privilege, or establish any

precedent for the smallest deviation from the strict literal in-

terpretation of a money grant, your Committee suggest to the

meeting the propriety of ratifying, by an express act of recog-

Anition, the application of the above-mentioned sum.  letter

from M. Boguslawski, dated the 22nd July, 1840, announces

the safe arrival of the instruments and books in question, and

the consequent complete state of instrumental equipment of the

Breslau Observatory, expressing at the same time his sincere

thanks for the assistance accorded him.

By returns from the several stations authorized by the British

Government, so far as yet received, it appears that the observa-

tories at the Cape and at St. Helena might be expected to be

complete, and ready for reception of the instruments in July.

From Van Diemen's Land no accounts have yet been received.

At Toronto, where the greatest delays and difficulties were to

be expected, and have been experienced, the observatory was

so far advanced at the date of Mr. Riddell's last communica-

tion, as to leave no doubt of its completion in time for the regu-

lar observation of the August term. Meanwhile, in this, as at

the other stations, all observations practicable under the actual

circumstances of each, are made and regularly forwarded.
And here your Committee would especially call attention to the

extremely remarkable phaenomena exhibited at Toronto on

the 29th and 30th May, when, by great good fortune, a most

superb Aurora appeared at the very time of the term-ob-

servations.* The phaenomena of this Aurora (which was re-

mai'kable for the extent and frequency of the pulsating waves,

alluded to in that part of the report above cited, p. 47, re-

lating to this subject,) are very minutely and scientifically

described by Mr. Riddell. But what renders the occurrence

particularly interesting is the fact, that during the whole time

of the visible appearance of this Aurora, on the night from

* See table of the terms, Report of the Council of the Royal Society, p. 31.
--430 REPORT 1840.

the 29th to the 30th, as well as for some hours previous,
while it might be presumed to be in progress, though ef-
faced by daylight, all the three magnetical instruments were
thrown into a state of continual and very extraordinary dis-
turbance. In fact, at G^ 25^ in the morning of the 29th,
the disturbance in the magnetic declination during a single
minute of time carried the needle over 10' of arc ; and during
the most brilliant part of the evening's display (from 3*^ 25TM
Gott. M. T. to 4^ 35"*,) the disturbances were such as to throw
the scales of both the vertical- and horizontal-force magnetome-
ters out of the field of view, and to produce a total change of
declination amounting to 1° 59'. It should also be remarked,
that the greatest and most sudden disturbances were coinci-

dent with great bursts of the auroral streamers. The corre-

spondence, or want of con-espondence, of these deviations with
the perturbations of the magnetic elements observed in Europe,
and elsewhere, on the same day, cannot fail to prove of great
interest. Should it fortunately have happened that Captain
Ross has been able to observe, that term at Kerguelen's Land,
which is not vei'y far from the antipodes of Toronto, an indi-
cation will be afforded whether or not the electric streams pro-
ducing the Aurora are to be regarded as diverging from one
magnetic pole or region, and converging to another*.

   Your Committee cannot conclude this report without con-
gratulating the Association, and the scientific world in general,
on the extensive interest inspired, and the vast range of obser-
vation consequently embraced by these operations, which, so far

as any accounts have hitherto reached them, appear to be so
far going on prosperously in all its parts, and to promise re-
sults fuUy answerable to every expectation of its promoters.
Neither would they feel justified in their own eyes, were they
to omit expressing their deep and grateful sense of the inde-
fatigable personal exertions of Major Sabine throughout the
whole of its progress, both in carrying on a most voluminous
correspondence, in ordering, arranging and dispatching in-

   * In reference to the Aurora which had been seen at Toronto in Upper
Canada on the 29th of May, and to the magnetic perturbations by which its
appearance had been accompanied, the Astronomer-Royal stated, that the

term-day of the 29th and 30th of May had also been kept at the Royal Ob-

servatory at Greenwich ; that an Aurora was seen there also on the 29tb, and
that the disturbances of the declination magnetometer exceeded in amount any
which had been observed there on previous occasions. Not having brought
the observations with him, Mr. Airy could not state whether their comparison
with the curves of the Toronto Observatory, which Major Sabine had laid be-
fore the Section, would manifest an accordance between the disturbances at the
two stations, a point of the highest interest as to the nature and extent of

these.
PROVISIONAL REPORTS, AND NOTICES.                       431

struments, and facilitating, by constant attention and activity,
those innumerable details which are involved in a combination

--so extensive, a combination which, but for those exertions,

your Committee are fully of opinion, must have been greatly
wanting in that unity of design and coopei-ation which now so

eminently characterizes it.

               Signed, on the part of the Committee,

                                             J. F. W. Herschel.

   Referring to the magnetical observatory at Breslau, men-

tioned in this report. Major Sabine read the following letter
from its director, M. von Boguslawski, received since the

meeting had commenced.

                                                                        Breslau, September?, 1840.

 My --dear Sir, I have the pleasure to inform you, that during the last

magnetic term, viz. on the 28th and 29th August, I have made observations
with the two magnetic instruments provided by the British Association. Not-
withstanding the Michaelmas Term of our University has began, I have suc-
ceeded in engaging and instructing a double number of observers sufficient to
place them at the declination magnetometer in the magnetic cabinet, as well as
at the horizontal, and at the vertical-force magnetometers in the great room of
the observatory. The observations hitherto made can, however, only be con-

sidered as observations of the magnetic variations, because there are several
masses of iron fixed in the buildings. The prospect of obtaining a separate

magnetic observatory being still distant, J feel myself highly indebted to Pro-

fessor Lloyd for the assistance his paper " On the Mutual Action of Permanent
Magnets, &c." has afforded me. By these instructions I have succeeded in

effecting what at first seemed to be impossible, namely, to place the declination

magnetometer, the hifilar instrument, and the vertical-force magnetometer, in the

same room of the present magnetic cabinet, and to put them in equilibrium. How

this is to be done by three small fixed subsidiary magnetic bars, I shall here-
after explain to Professor Lloyd ; and if he agrees with me, all three instru-

ments will be placed in the magnetic cabinet at the next term.
    However, I shall use for a declination magnetometer the second magnetic

bar received with the horizontal force magnetometer, instead of the present bar

of four pounds, in order to obtain small correction-constants. I shall then ex-

pect with patience the establishment of a proper magnetic observatory, so as to

begin to make absolute and daily observations. Please to communicate this in

my name to the meeting of the British Association at Glasgow ; and have the
kindness to express to them my regret, that on account of the necessary ar-
rangements I have to make, I am prevented from accepting their honourable in-

vitation, and assisting at their instructive assembly.

                      (Signed)  Henry von Boguslawski.

Major Edward Sabine.

   Major Sabine also presented to the Section, at the request
of M. KupfFer, Director-general of the magnetical observatories
of Russia, several copies of a report addressed by that gentle-
man to the Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburg,
entitled, " Sur les Observatoires Magn^tiques fond^s par ordre

des Gouvernemens d'Angleterre et de Russie, sur plusieurs
                                                          ;

--432 REPORT 1840.

points tie la surface terrestre." In this report, the Russian
observatories, acting on the same system of observation, both

--magnetical and ir.eteorological, as those of England, are enu-

merated as follows : " La science doit au gouvernement Russe,
et surtout a la protection puissante du ministre des finances,
M. le Comte Cancrine, et a I'incessante activite du chef de
I'etat major du corps des ingenieurs des mines, M. le General

TchefFkine, I'etabUssement des stations magnetiques sui-

vantes :

              Stations.               Directeurs.

------St. Petersbourg  M. Kupffer, Directeur-Gen^ial.
------Catlierinebourg  M. Roschkoff, "l
--------Baniaoul       M. Prange, \" > Ingenieurs des Mines.
-------Nertcliinsk     M. Prange, 2«'"'J
---------Kazan         M. Simonoff, "1 Directeurs des Observa-
--------NikolaiefF     M. Knorre, / toires Astronomiques.
------ ---M.Tiflis
                            Philadelphine, Prof, au Gymnase.

Sitka (Cote N. O. de I'Anierique) MM. Homann et Fwanoff.

Helsingfors (Finland) - - - - M. Nervander, Prof. Extraor. a I'Uni-

------Pekin* (China)          versite.

                      M. Gaschkevitsch, Membre de la Mis-

                         sion Ecclesiastique."

   The copies of M. KupfFer's report were accompanied by a

letter, expressing his regret that the necessary and pressing-
duty of instructing the directors of the observatories, in regard
to the system to be pursued, prevented him from attending the
meeting of the British Association at Glasgow, which he had
otherwise intended to have done.

Report on the reduction of Meteorological Observations made
   at the Eqicinoxes and Solstices, on the part of a Committee

   appointed by the JBritish Association at Newcastle, consisting

   of Sir J. Herschel alone.

Sir J. Herschel, referring to his report of last year for the
reasons why the reduction of these observations was not imme-
diately commenced, reports further, that the same reasons de-
layed any effective commencement of the work until very lately
but that, owing to several wanting series of observations having
at length come to hand, so as to render the series for the yeai's
1835-6-7-S tolerablj^ consecutive, at least, for several localities,
your Committee considered it advisable to wait no longer, but
proceed to work with the materials in hand. Accordingly, having
cast the plan of operations for the comparison and projection of

   A* la station de Pekin nous aurons, si non autant d'observations que des

autres stations, au moins les observations les plus importantes.
           PROVISIONAL REPORTS, AND NOTICES.  433

tlie barometric oscillations in those years, (to which, for the pre-
sent, your Committee propose to limit their proceedings, till it
shall appear whether a further and more complete comparison, in-

cluding the thermometric changes, and especially the correspond-

ence of the winds, seems likely to lead to any valuable conclu-

sions,) the reduction, arrangement and projection of the several

series of observations was confided to the able and zealous hands

of W. R. Birt, Esq., who is now actively employed in the ope-

ration, and who has enabled your Committee to lay before
the meeting, as specimens of the mode of proceedings, the tabu-
lation and projection of the observations made in the British

Isles in the year 1836, which are accordinglj'^ submitted for in-

spection.

In the discussion of these observations it has been found ad-

vantageous to divide the stations from which they have emanated

into groups, according to geographical proximity, the chief of

which are the group of the British Isles, that of the continent of

Europe and the North American, South Afi'ican and Indian

groups. Eacli of these groups is referred by applying the dif-

ferences of longitude to the times of observation to a central

station ; and the projected curves, in which the abscissfe are the
mean times at that station, and ordinates the reduced barometric

altitudes, exhibit at one view the correspondence or disagreement

of the barometric movements for all the stations of the group.

The numbers which serve for the projections are tabulated in

the skeleton forms annexed, which appear well adapted for ge-

neral adoption in such reductions, and of which, therefore, half
a dozen blank copies are annexed as specimens for such members

as may take an interest in the subject.
   The projection of these curves is the first step in the process

of reduction contemplated ; and even in the very limited range

afforded by the specimens now presented, affords ground for in-
teresting remark. Tims, we see, that the march of the barometer

in the only two Irish stations which have furnished observations

(Markree and Limerick), while agreeing well with each other,
differs most decidedly from its corresponding march in all the

English stations, which, on the other hand, offer a good corre-

Aspondence inter se.  letter from Mr. Birt on this subject is

annexed to the present report.

It would be premature at present to enter fully into the de-

tails of the further steps contemplated in these reductions, as
they will be, of necessity, materially influenced by the aspect
under which the subject shall present itself in its progress, and

especially by the discussion of one or two of the most complete

series, among which, thanks to American zeal and industry, the

1840.                           2p
--434 REPORT 1840.

group including the United States promises to be the most promi-

nent.

Only a very trifling sum (under two pounds) has been hitherto

expended (for the printing, by Messrs. Stewart and Muri-ay, of

the skeleton forms) out of the original grant of 100/. ; but the
continuance of the grant will be required to meet the further re-

quisite expenses.

It is only justice to Mr. Birt to observe, that his part of the

work appears to be executed with great care and judgment.

                   (Signed)  J. F. W. Herschel.

       Mr. Birt's Letter, alluded to in the above Report.

                                 Metropolitan L. and S. Institution, September 3, 1840.

  --Dear Sir, 1 herewith inclose the four sheets of curves mentioned in my

last, also the tables of reduced barometric readings from whith they are pro-

jected. The curves of England and Ireland generally differ, in some cases con-
siderably, with the exception of those observed in December 1836, on which oc-

casion the similiarity between the Markree, Oxford, London, and Ashurst
curves especially, as their apices occur about the same hour, is interesting.
The occurrence of the apices of the Edinburgh, Halifax, and Oxford curves at
later periods, and in the order here mentioned, appears to indicate a progres-
sion of the barometric undulation from the north or north-east ; and some of
the remaining sheets also indicate a progressive movement.

    I have not yet proceeded either to rounding oft' the curves, or to reading off

the altitudes on the hour-lines. In the first instance, the undulations only
which form the hourly observations assume a rising and falling in straight
lines, will probably require a gentle rounding, so that the summit should pass
through the point ; for I see clearly, as you observed, that the points must not

be interfered with, on account of the similar flexures in different curves. Do

you consider any advantage would be gained from combining curves that are
evidently similar, so that means of those similar curves may be obtained from
similar altitudes above or below the mean-line, by bringing the apices and flex-

lues on the same vertical ordinates, allowing for difference of longitude?
The general dissimilarity of the curves obtained in Great Britain and Ireland,

lias suggested this to me also, that in future observations of the kind, it would

be desirable to have the stations augmented, and, if possible, the observation
of a complete elevation and depression at each.

    I hope you will receive the present sheets in good time for the meeting,

                                        And remain, dear Sir,

                                                            Yours very respectfully,           I

                                                                                  W. R. Birt.

 --p.S. In the Halifax curve of September, there are probably two errors.

have accordingly left the curve incomplete.
   The scale I have used is 1*5 of the larger divisions, equal ·! of an inch.

Sir John F. W. Herschel.

On the Temperature and Conducting Power of different Strata.
                       By Professor Forbes.

In this report, Professor Forbes gave the results of the ob-
servations made at Edinburgh during the year 18o9, upon
                          :

              PROVISIONAL REPORTS, AND NOTICES.                    435

thermometei's sunk to depths of 3, 6, 12 and 24 French feet into

trap rock, pure loose sand, and sandstone. The details for

the years 1837 and 1838 were laid before the British Asso-
ciation at Birmingham. Combining with these the observations
for 1839, Professor Forbes exhibited the curves derived from
the three years' observations, and gave, in a tabular form, the

results for the three years, as follows

AValues of (one of the constants in the formula used in con-

                                    necting the results*).

For 1837       In trap.   In sand.               In sandstone.
       1838
       1839    M64         1-176                    1076
               M73         1-217
                           1-182                     1-114
                1-086                                1-049

               BValues of (the other constant).

               In trap.   In sand.                    In sandstone.

For 1837       --0545     --0440                      --0316
       1838    --0641     --0517                      --0345
       1839    --0516     --0498                      --0305

              Variation reduced to 0°-Ul Centigrade.

               In trap.   In sand.               In sandstone.

For 1837       58-1 feet . 72-2 feet . 97-3 feet.
       1838
       1839    49-3       61-8                   91

               59-2       63-5                   100

Velocity of propagation for one foot of depth.

               In trap.   In sand.               In sandstone.

In 1837        7-5 days.  7-1 days. 4-9 days.
     1838      6-8        6-8 3-6
     1839      7-8        7-2 4-6

 Report on the Action of Osier's Anemometer at Edinburgh.

I BEG to report, that Mr. Osier's Anemometer has been erected
at Edinburgh, according to the desii'e expressed by the British
Association at Birmingham, and that the members of the Astro-

* The formula in the notation of M. Quetelet is

                      Log. Ap=A + Bp

Where Ap represents the Annual Range in centigrade degrees at a depth p in

AFrench feet.  is the logarithm of the Superficial Range, and B is a constant

determining the propagation downwards, and proportional to * / -^    ^

of the soil.  The values of A and B are deduced from the Anmial Ranges
alone.
                                           2 K2
              --

--436 REPORT 1S40.

nomical Institution have afforded every facility for its erection,

and have removed their camera-obscura for tliat purpose.

Mr. Osier has furnished the instrument below prime-cost,

but I I'egret to say, that the unavoidable expenditure for put-
ting the instrument in working order, carriage, and placing

it in its present position, amounts to 31/. ; so that the sum
of 60/., gi'anted by the Association, has been exceeded by

11/. I have, however, the satisfaction of stating, that the

Anemometer is now in complete work, under the superintend-

ence of Prof. Henderson and Mr. Wallace, of the Edinburgli

Observatory.                  J. D. Forbes.

Glasgow, September 23, 1840.

On the part of a Committee appointed for the purpose of caus-

ing a plate to be engraved for printing paper ruled in squares.
Prof. Forbes reported,

   That the plate was engraved, and that the paper, 22 inches
by 26, and ruled in squares of one tenth of an inch, each tenth
line being stronger than the others, was ready for the service
of the members of the Association, at cost price, on application
to Messrs. Johnston, Engravers, Edinburgh.

Report on the Application of a Portion of the Sum of Fifty

     Pounds, voted by the British Association at its Meeting at
     Birmingham, in 1839, /or Discussion of Tide Observations.

    By the Rev. W. Whewell.

                                               (With a Plate.)

A PORTION of this sum has been expended upon calculations,

having for their object to determine the effect of the moon's de-

clination upon the tides. The determination of this correction

is attended with peculiar difficulties, and has hitherto been incom-
pletely effected. Thesedifficulties arise from this: that the moon's

mean declination is different in different years, through a cycle
of eighteen years, the period of revolution of her nodes. The
inclination of her orbit to the equator varies from about 18° 20',
its amount in 1829 and 1830, to 28° 40', its amount in 1837
and 1838. Hence, if we attempt to determine the declination
correction (of height, for instance) by taking the difiference of
the height from the mean height (allowance being made for
other corrections), we refer to a variable standard. Accordhigly,
if we find from the observations the mean semimenstrual ine-

quality for the successive 5'ears, it will be different in conse-

quence of the different mean declinations in successive years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;

and it is only by taking a series of nine or more years that we
PROVISIONAL REPORTS^ AND NOTICES.  437

ciui obtain the absolute mean semimenstrual inequality, and

consequently the absolute correction for declination applicable

to all years alike. This being known to be the case, I was dis-
posed to take advantage of an opportunity which occurred of

discussing a series of several years' tide observations, with a

view to the verifying in fact these theoretical features of the

correction tables, and determining the correction for declina-
tion. Mr. Dall, the Harbour Master at Leith, had made a se-
ries of tide observations, extending from 1827 to 1839, which I
had every reason to believe to be accurate ; and Mr. Ross, of

the Hydrographer's office, had, for his own satisfaction, begun

to arrange these observations, with a view to discussions rela-

tive to lunar declination and parallax. The latter gentleman

undertook, at my request, to conduct his discussion in such a

manner that it might bring into view such results as I have above
described. The arrangement and discussion of thirteen years'
observations of tides (involving the management of above 18,000
numbers given by observation, and double the number extracted
from tables,) was, of course, a business of very great labour and
time ; but as this task was not originally suggested by the Bri-

tish Association, nor directed exclusively to objects pointed out

by it, I thought it my duty to confine my expenditure within a

sum very disproportionate to the magnitude of the labour. Mr.

Ross has been paid 201. for his discussion of the above-men-
tioned heights, with a view to the declination correction. The
result of this discussion is very nearly what I had anticipated.
The semimenstrual lines taken for different years, difter by the
effect of the different mean declination. Thus the correct mean
of the height of high water for each hour of transit, is about
six inches less in 1837 than in 1829, and this difference is ba-
lanced by a difference in the declination correction which is to
be applied to this mean. The declination correction is greater
in 1837 than in 1829 for equal declinations. The difference,
however, is net constant, but increases with the declination,
which agrees with what the theory indicates. The curves which
express this correction, deviate considerably from each other at
the higher declinations. This result suggests an improved me-
thod of applying the declination correction to tide observations,
which, however, requires to be further considered and examined
before it can be confidently recommended : I mean, a method
of using a different semimenstrual inequality and different de-
clination correction for every different period of the moon's

nodes. On this subject it may hereafter be possible to speak

more decidedly.

                                                        W. Whewell.
438 REPORT-- 1840.

   Another portion of the sum placed at my disposal has been

expended upon calculations and operations performed by Mr.
Bunt. These calculations were in the first place directed to
the determination of the form of the curve of rise and fall of the
tides at Bristol. This determination was the more desirable,
inasmuch as calculations were in progress at the Admiralty

(under my directions) for the purpose of determining the form

of the curve of the rise and fall at Liverpool and at Plymouth.
The results of these calculations have been laid before the Royal

Society, and are now printed by them in the Philosophical
Transactions, as the twelfth series of my Researches on the
Tides. The accompanying communication from Mr. Bunt con-
tains the result of his investigations on this subject. The thing
principally discussed was the displacement of the summit of the

curve of rise and fall ; that is, the difference of the time of high
water actually observed, and the time obtained by bisecting the
interval between equal altitudes, before and after high water.
The main object was, to refer this displacement to its proper
argument. It was natural to suppose that it depended mainly
upon the height of the tidal wave, and, consequently, upon the

age of the moon ; and hence would principally consist of a se-
mimenstrual inequality. But by the discussions, it appears
that there is, besides this fact, one which depends upon the
solar parallax, and also others. This would lead, as Mr. Bunt

remarks, to a suspicion that meteorological causes are concerned
ill producing the result ; the subject, however, is as yet not free
from difficulty. T have also employed Mr. Bunt in other dis-
cussions, with a view to further improvements in our knowledge
of the laws of the tides, especially with reference to two points :

--the determination of the best anterior epoch, or period, at

which that anterior transit of the moon is to be assumed which

--governs the tide : and the solar corrections for parallax and

declination. The excellence of the Bristol observations made
with Mr. Bunt's machine, and of his modes of discussing the
observations, induce me to believe that some progress may still
be made in this inquiry ; but the investigation is not yet com-
pleted. I have also taken the liberty of directing Mr. Bunt to

perform an operation not precisely included in the terms of

the grant made to me for the present year, but closely connected

with it, and forming an almost necessary sequel to a large ope-
ration performed at the expense of the Association in preceding
years ; I mean, a repetition of the levelling of a portion of the
level line in the neighbourhood of the recent landslip in Devon-
shire. The southern extremity of the line leveled from the

Bristol Channel to the English Channel is at Axmouth. When
              PROVISIONAL RKPORTS, AND NOTICKS.  439

the great landslip took place in that neighbourhood, it might

naturally be suspected that a part of the level line might be dis-

turbed. A moment's reflection made this appear improbable,

since the movement seemed to be confined to the chalk and the

clay below it ; whereas the terminus of the level line was bedded

in the red marl. Still, if the movement of the ground were the

result of an earthquake, even the inferior strata might have been

slightly stirred ; and this appeared to be exactly one of the

cases, the decision of which was contemplated in the project of

the level line. I therefore requested Mr. Bunt to repeat the

levelling of the line from the mark in the church tower, in the

village of Axmouth, down to the shore, where is the granite

block which forms the terminus of the line, a distance of six

sevenths of a mile. In July of the present year this operation

was performed (with the same instruments as before), and it ap-

peared that the mark in the church tower was above the mark

in the block                 5-8836 feet,

which in July 1838 had been found to be . . . 5'8805 feet.

The difference, one twenty-seventh of an inch, may be consi-

dered as a proof that there has been no sensible change. Mr.

Bunt also leveled from the granite block, about 230 yards, to

another bench mark eastwards, or towards the landslip, but

found no difference of any importance. The expense of this

operation, \0l., I have taken the liberty of including in the ac-

count for tide discussions.

                             W. Whewell.

     "Dear Sir,

   " I send you the I'esults I have obtained from an elaborate

investigation of ten years' observations of the ' Displacement
of Summit' of the tide-gauge curves. The observed quan-

tities themselves being so small, seldom exceeding 5 or 6 mi-

nutes, I at first thought that they scarcely admitted of being
treated in a similar manner to the ordinary observations of
time and height, in which the corrections are gradually ob-

tained, by approximation. On further consideration, however,
I determined to try ; not knowing in what way to improve upon
my former results. I therefore dx*ew on the sheets a new line

of observation (cutting off only the diurnalinequality), to a vertical

scale of 3 times the size of my old one, which had always been
a scale of 40 min. per inch. This afforded me sufficient size to
go to work, on my former principles of approximation, by

drawing in, on the line of observation, successive pencil curves
of semimenstrual inequality, lunar parallax, and declination,
and of solar correction, from the corrections first obtsiined.
--440 REPORT 1840.

and arranging the residues (which would have heen otherwise

too small), so as to improve the first corrections. The acci-

dental irregularities of the observations, being of course also

magnified, gave me a very irregular line to work from ; not-

withstanding which, I believe the attempt at improvement by

approximation has been as successful in this instance as it has

proved on former occasions.

   " You will perceive that the curves of Lunar Declination

f ^6°\  ..
1 ~\()°\ ^^^ almost exactly smiilar to the curves of Lunar Parallax

 S ,,,, ; the effects of the larger declinations agreeing with

                             J-

those of the smaller parallaxes, and the curves crossing each
other at almost exactly the same nodal points, viz. 3^^ and S^^

of transit.

   " There is not the same agreement between the solar curves of
declination and parallax yet it is observable that neither of

                                                                                            ;

these pairs of curves produces a loop, as the lunar curves do
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

the curve of 22 (large) declinations, like that of 8"-45 (small)

parallax, always keeping above the other, except at the hour of
8|, where the curves touch, but do not cross.

   " The points at the middle of each hour of transit were laid
down, without any alteration, from the diff'erences of the two

parcels of observations, after takingthe averages. Thestraightness

of the axis is arbitrary.

   " The magnitude of the corrections is quite as great as could

be expected from observations which do not themselves ave-
rage more than about five minutes.

   " The great difference of effects corresponding to the maximum
and minimum of solar parallax, would lead to a suspicion that

meteorological causes were concerned in producing them ; the

maximum and minimum of solar parallax nearly coinciding with

midwinter and midsummer. Such causes cannot, however, ex-
plain the forms assumed by the curves corresponding with the
arrangements of the observations for the maxima and minima

of lunar parallax and declination ; especially the former,
which is more clearlj' independent of weather or season. There

is also a diurnal inequality plainly to be seen in many parts of

the curve of observation, which cannot arise from merely local

or meteorological causes.

   " I shall be ver}' glad to know what you think of these curves,
and how they bear on the theory. I am quite satisfied that

thej' very nearly represent any agreement that exists between the
observations and the arguments to which they have been referred.

I shall also be glad to be informed of any results which j'ou may
PROVISIONAL RRPORTS, AND NOTICES.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                441

have arrived at in the course of your own investigations of the

same subject.
    " I have also made some progress in the discussion of the

heights with a view to the determination of the best anterior

epoch, and to the solar correction. I have laid down the two

years' observations made by means of my machine, but have

not obtained any of the correction curves as yet.
   " The two tide-gauges for the East Indies are very nearly com-

pleted. I have had a visit from another engineer officer in the

Company's service, a Lieut. Ludlow, who stayed here three or
four days to study my machine. Lieut. Elliott has written to say
he intends coming again to Bristol, as soon as the new instru-
ments are finished, in order to make himself more perfectly ac-
quainted with all their details. Both these gentlemen expressed

themselves as being highly pleased with my tide-gauge. It has

been working now for more than seven months without the slight-

est derangement, or the loss of a single observation.
   " I do not think that I mentioned to you the extraordinary tide

which occurred here in October, 183S, when the water in our

river rose to nearly 8 feet above its proper height, in consequence
of a hurricane, as shown by the adjacent heights of the series
of tides, from which it differs by that quantity, thus :

" I am, dear Sir, yours very respectfully,

                              "Thos. G. Bunt."

" Bristol, 27th Jan., 1840."

--On Waves. By a Committee, consisting of Sir J. Robison

and J. S. Russell, Esq.

All the objects which had been confided to this Committee

having been fully accomplished, the report now presented was

--to be considered as final. The objects originally committed to

them for investigation were the Phaenomena of Waves propa-

gated in Liquids ; the connexion of these Phaenomena with the

resistance of Liquids to the motion of Floating Bodies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

nature of the connexion which subsists between the Tidal

Wave and Mr. Russell's great solitary Wave of Translation.

Since the publication of their furmer report, the phtenomena

of Waves had occupied the attention of eminent mathematicians,

who had endeavoured to deduce from first principles the curi-
                   :

442 RKPORT 1840.

ous phaenomena which the Committee had observed, so as to

reconcile theory with experiment. The Astronomer Royal, Mr.

Green, and Professor Kelland, had all been engaged on the

subject ; and the two latter had published memoirs in the
Transactions of Cambi'idge and Edinburgh, in which they had

succeeded in obtaining from analysis many of the very singular

results published in the former report of the Committee. There

still, however, remained difficulties which they had not been

able to conquer ; but as Mr. Kelland was about to lay before

the Section his own investigations, it had become unnecessary

to include them in this report.

The subject which had chiefly engaged the Committee

during the last year, was the conclusion and discussion of ob-

servations on the Tidal Wave of the Frith of Forth. This

tidal  wave  presented  some  very  singular  features                                     and, for
                                                                                        ;

the purpose of determining its phaenomena with accuracy, a

standard line had been levelled with great accuracy, under

the direction of Mr. James Aden, C.E., and observations

made at a great number of stations, the rise and fall of the tide

being observed every five minutes. In this channel were ob-

served the singular phsenomena of four tides, or two double

tides, every day ; and, on some occasions, six tides, or two
triple tides were observed. These had all been accurately

laid down from the levels ; and it appeared that the top of

high water rose at Stirling to the height of sometimes as much
as ten feet above the level of the tides at Leith. The tides

were of this form

                                    A, a common Tide- Wave.
                                    B, the Tide-Wave of Leith.
                                    C, the Tide-Wave of Alloa.
                                    D, Tide-Wave near Stirling.

   Mr. Russell had formerly intimated his expectation that this
second tide was the great southern tide-wave of the English
--

    PROVISIONAL REPORTS, AND NOTICES.  443

Channel entering the Forth before the northern tide-wave,
coming round by the Shetland Islands, and afterwards ex-

--aggerated, first, by the dislocation of the wave, and next, by

the narrowing of the channel ; and the velocities of these re-
spective waves appeared to be just what was necessary to this

effect. He had also found a similar appearance in the tide-

wave of the river Tay, which he attribtited to the same cause.
These phaenomena appeared to throw considerable light on the
mechanical constitution of tidal waves. It appeared that,
like the great wave of Translation, tidal waves could not only
meet and cover each other without losing their individuality, but
that they could also pass over each other when going in the
same direction.

   That part of the duties of the Committee which related to
the connexion of the phsenomena of waves with the resistance
of fluids to solids, had been devolved upon them under a sepa-
rate name, as the Committee on Forms of Vessels, and would be
reported by them under a separate head. The wave -form of
vessels, however, had been now proved to possess so many ad-
vantages, that its use seemed likely to become general, and
thus a great change would be effected in the naval architec-

ture.

                      Geology and Geography.
Professor Johnston presented to this Section a portion of
his Report on Inorganic Chemistry , relating to the nature and

origin of Coal.

On the subject of tlie application to the Trustees of the British

Museum, for enlarged exhibitions in illustration of Recent
and Fossil Conchology*, the Marquis of Northampton i*e-

ported,

   That the Trustees of the British Museum had resolved, that a
commencement of such an arrangement should be made, and that

the duplicates of their fossil shells and other Invertebrata, should
be handed over to Mr. Gray, for the purpose of being arranged
with their recent analogous species and genera, vrhere there are
any such.

  On British Fossil Reptiles. By Professor Owen, F.R.S.

--PaoF. Owen reported, That in order to complete his mate-

rials for the continuation of his Report on British Fossil Rep-

                                        * Report for 1839, p. xxiii.
--444 REPORT 1840.

tiles, he had inspected many considerable collections in differ-
ent parts of England, and collected abundance of new informa-

tion, which he fully expected to be able to digest into regular
order, so as to present a continuation of his report on the sub-
ject at the next meeting.

Mr. Stevenson's Report on the relative Level of Land and

Sea was read.

                           Natural History.

At the last Meeting of the British Association, a Committee

was appointed for procuring drawings illustrative of the Spe-
cies and their details of the Radiate Animals of the British
Islands, to accompany a Report of the state of our knowledge
of such Animals, and the sum of 50/. was placed at their dis-

j)osal.

   Respecting the state of our knowledge of two divisions of the
Radiate Animals, the Committee feel it unnecessary to furnish
any report, these departments being undertaken by individual
members of the Committee, whose researches are either pub-
lished, or are now in course of publication*. With regard to
the remaining portion, the Acalepha, they are persuaded it
cannot be effectually investigated and illustrated, except when
the artist and the naturalist are combined in the person of

one individual. The Committee, therefore, after an expendi-
ture of only two pounds, now bring forward the drawings they

have 'had prepared, and, for the reasons assigned, beg leave
to discontinue the further prosecution of the subject.

The Committee appointed at the last Meeting of the British

Association, for the investigation of the Marine Zoology of

Great Britain, by means of the dredge, have to report the ex-

penditure of 15/. out of the 50/. granted for that purpose. The

state of the weather, which prevented dredging in the open sea

during a great part of the summer, and the ditiicuhy of obtain-

ing observations sufficiently precise in information respecting

species, have been tlie causes which have operated against

them, and caused the expenditure of so small a portion of the

Agrant.  series of queries, and printed formulae to be filled up

with the results of the dredging excursions, were prepared and

         * Jolinstou's Zoophytes, and Forbes's Echiiiodermata.
PROVISIONAL REPORTS, AND NOTICES.  445

Adistributed.  Sub-Committee, consisting of Mr. Thompson,

Mr. Ball and Mr. Forbes, examined a considerable portion of

the west coast of Ireland ; Mr. Patterson undertook the exami-

nation of the north-east coast of the same country ; and Mr.
Forbes dredged the coasts of the Isle of Man. The results of

these researches were very satisfactory, and the products in

every case carefully noted down in the printed formulas. The

Committee recommend further researches, and pi'opose that

the dredging-papers be laid by for the present, until a sufficient

amount of data be obtained to warrant the publication of a sum-

mary of their contents.

On the recommendation (a grant adopted in 1839) for en-
graving Skeleton Maps for recording the distribution of Plants

and Animals, the Committee reported at length the measures
they have taken for executing these maps, on certain prin-
ciples, believed to be of undoubted importance. They have
caused three maps to be prepared and lithographed, one of
the British Isles, and one of each hemisphere. The work was
entrusted to Mr. Nichol, the lithographer, under the superin-
tendence of Mr. Brand. This member of the Committee having
been for some time engaged in preparing tables or catalogues
for the Botanical Society of Edinburgh, which should include
a variety of topographical details, it was thought proper to

carry on both these plans together. On the maps, the details

chiefly sought to be given with fulness are the river and moun-
tain systems, the measures of the chief elevations, and important
lakes. The maps are not yet considered by the Committee,

though repeatedly revised, to be complete ; but they recom-

mend that, after having been finally settled, copies should be
printed off, and sold at the lowest remunerating price to all who
may wish copies for natural history purposes. As an illustra-
tion of the way in which these maps may be usefully employed,
the Botanical Society of Edinburgh caused to be represented

in coloured outlines on their maps, from another stone, the 'sec-
tions' of the earth's surface, which are an important part of the
 system of arranging botanical information before alluded to.

The numbers being attached to the several sections on the
map so coloured, immediate reference can be made to the cata-

 logue sheets which have been prepared for botanical registra-
 tion by the Botanical Society. (Copies of the maps and cata-
 logue sheets were presented to the meeting.)
                --

--446 RBPORT 1840.

                                           Statistics.

Prof. Johnston reported the progress made by the Com-

mittee appointed at the Newcastle Meeting to inquire into the
Statistics of the Mining Districts.

                            Mechanical, Science.

  --On the Forms of Vessels. By a Committee, consisting of

Sir J. Robison, J. S. Russell, Esq., and James Smith, Esq.

 On the Translation of Foreign Scientific Memoirs.

At the Meeting of the British Association at Newcastle in

1838, a Committee was appointed for the purpose of procuring
and publishing translations of foreign scientific memoirs, and a
sum of lOOZ. was placed at their disposal : and at the Meeting
at Birmingham in 1839, a further sum of 100/. was allotted for
the same object. The memoirs translated in the first year, under
the superintendence of the Committee, and at the expense of
the Association, were

   1. Remarks on the arrangement of magnetical observatories, and a descrip-
tion of the instruments to be placed in them (with one plate), by Weber.

   2. Method to be pursued during the magnetical term-observations by
Gauss.

   3. Extract from the daily observations of magnetical declination during three
years, at Gbttingen, by Gauss.

    4. Description of a small portable apparatus for measuring the absolute in-
tensity of terrestrial magnetism (with one plate), by Weber.

   5. On the graphical representations of the magnetic term-observations (with

two plates), by Gauss.

   6. On a new instrument for the direct observation of the changes of the

intensity in the horizontal portion of the terrestrial magnetic force, by Gauss.

   7. On the arrangement and use of the bifilar magnetometer, by Weber.

   For the translation and publication of these in Taylor's Sci-
entific Memoirs, the first year's grant of 100/. was paid to Mr.

Taylor.

   In the present year. Ohm's memoir, entitled " The Galvanic

Circuit investigated mathematically," has been translated at the
expense of the Association, and given to Mr. Taylor, for the

seventh and eighth numbers of the " Scientific Memoirs." The

Association have also paid for seven plates contained in the
seventh number, representing the lines of magnetic declination,

inclination and intensity computed by M. Gauss's theory. The
sums paid for these plates and for the translation of Ohm's
              PROVISIONAL REPORTS, AND NOTICES.                    447

memoir, and the plate which accompanies it, amount to 63/.,
which is the whole charge for the present year. The Committee

report that translations have been gratuitously presented to them

by Major Sabine, of the five undeniientioned memoirs on mag-

netical instruments, and on subjects of prominent interest in

mathematical and physical science.

--1. Gauss.   General theory of terrestrial magnetism.

--2. Encke.   On the method of least squares.
              On the determination of the axes of the elliptic spheriod of revo-
--3. Bessel.

lution, which most nearly corresponds to the existing measurements of arcs of

--the meridian.
   4. Weber. Description and use of a transportable magnetometer.
 --5. Bessel. On the barometrical measurement of heights.

   The Committee placed these translations in the hands of

Mr. Taylor, by whom they have been printed in the sixth, se-
venth and eighth numbers of the " Scientific Memoirs. '^ The

Committee further acknowledge the receipt of a translation of

Rudberg's experiments " On the expansion of Dry Air," gra-

tuitously presented by Professor Miller, of Cambridge. This

translation has also been placed in Mr. Taylor's hands, and

will make a part of the eighth number of the " Scientific Me-

moirs."

                   Varieties of Human Race.

Queries respecting the Human Race, to be addressed to Tra-
   vellers and others. Drawn up by a Committee of the British

    Association for the Advancement of Scie?ice, appointed in

    1839.

At the meeting of the British Association held at Birmingham,
Dr. Pricliard read a paper "On the Extinction of some varieties
of the Human Race." He pointed out instances in which

this extinction had already taken place to a great extent, and
showed that many races now existing are likely, at no distant

period, to be annihilated. He pointed out the irretrievable

loss which science must sustain, if so large a portion of the hu-
man race, counting by tribes instead of individuals, is siifi'ered

to perish, before many interesting questions of a psychological,
physiological and philological character, as well as many histo-
rical facts in relation to them, have been investigated. Whence

he argued that science, as well as h-umanity, is interested in the

efforts which are made to rescue them, and to preserve from
oblivion many important details connected with them.

    At the suggestion of the Natural Historical Section, to which
Dr. Prichard's paper was read, the Association voted the sum of
--448 REPORT 1840.

£5 to be expended in printins: <* set of queries to be addressed
to those who may travel or reside in parts of the globe inhabited

by the threatened races. A Committee was likewise appointed

by the same Section to prepare a list of such questions. The
following pages, to which the attention of travellers and others

is earnestly invited, have, in consequence, been produced. It is
right to observe, that whilst these questions have been in pre-
paration, the Ethnographical Society of Paris has printed a set
of questions on the same subject for the use of traveller?. It has
been gratifying to perceive the general similarity between the

questions pi-oposed by the French savans who compose that So-
ciety, and those which had been already prepared by the Com-
mittee ; but the Committee is bound to acknowledge the assist-
ance which, in the completion of its task, it has derived from
the comprehensive character and general arrangement of the
Ethnographical Society's list. The following queries might
have been considerably extended, and much might have been
added to explain the reasons and motives on which some of
them are founded. Such additions would, however, have in-

conveniently extended these pages, and, in part, have defeated

their object. The Committee has only further to express its
desire that the Association may continue its support to the in-
teresting subject of Ethnography, and that their fellow-mem-

bers will aid in bringing these queries under the notice of those

who may have it in their power to obtain replies. Britain, in
her extensive colonial possessions and commerce, and in the
number and intelligence of her naval officers, possesses unrivalled

facilities for the elucidation of the whole subject ; and it would
be a stain on her character, as well as a loss to humanity, were
she to allow herself to be left behind by other nations in this

inquiry.
    It will be desirable, before giving direct answers to the ques-

tions proposed in the following list, that the traveller should

offer, in his own terms, a description of the particular group of
human beings, which he may have in view in drawing up his-

list of answers, seeing that the replies, however accurate and

replete with useful information, may fail in some particulars to
give a complete idea of the people to whom they relate.

                                  Physical Characters.

    1. State the general stature of the people, and confirm this

by some actual measurements. Measurement may be applied

to absolute height, and also to proportions, to be referred to in
subsequent queries. The weight of individuals, when ascer-
tainable, and extreme cases, as well as the average, will be in-
       PROVISIONAL REPORTS AND NOTICES.       449

teresting. What may be the relative differences in stature and

dimensions, between males and females ?
   2. Is there any prevailing disproportion between different

parts of the body ? as, for example, in the size of the head, the
deficient or excessive development of upper or lower extremi-

ties.

   3. What is the prevailing complexion ? This should be ac-

curately defined, if possible, by illustrative and intelligent ex-

ample, such as by comparison with those whose colour is well
known. The colour of the hair should be stated, and its cha-
racter, whether fine or coarse, straight, curled, or woolly. The

colour and character of the eyes should likewise be described.

Is there, independently of want of cleanliness, any perceptible

peculiarity of odour ?
   4. The head is so important as distinctive of race, that particu-

lar attention must be paid to it. Is it round or elongated in
either direction, and what is the shape of the face, broad, oval,
lozenge-shaped, or of any other marked form ? It will contri-

bute to facilitate the understanding of other descriptions, to

Ahave sketches of several typical specimens.  profile, and also

a front view should be given. In the profile, particularly notice

the height and angle of the forehead, the situation of the meatus

auditorius, and the form of the posterior part of the head. It

will also be desirable to depict the external ear, so as to convey

the form and proportion of its several parts. The form of the
head may be minutely and accurately described by employing

the divisions and terms introduced by craniologists, and the

corresponding development of moral and intellectual character

should in conjunction be faithfully stated. So much of the
neck should be given with the profile as to show the setting on
of the head. The advance or recession of the chin, and the
character of the lips and nose, may likewise be given in profile.
The front view should exhibit the width of forehead, temples,

and cheek-bones, the direction of the eyes, and the width between

them : the dimensions of the mouth. When skulls can be col-

lected or examined, it would be desirable to give a view in an-

other direction, which may even be done, though with less ac-

curacy, from the living subject. It should be taken by looking
down upon the head from above, so as to give an idea of the
contour of the forehead, and the width of the skull across from
one parietal protuberance to the other.

5. State whether the bones of the skull are thick, thin, heavy,

or light. Is it common to find the frontal bone divided by a mid-

dle suture or not ? Note the form of the outer orbitar process,

which sometimes forms part of a broad scalene triangle, with

1840.  2G
.

--450 REPORT 1840,

the vertex downwards. How are the frontal sinuses developed ?

Observe   whether the  ossa triquetra are  frequent,  or otherwise
                                                                                               ;

whether there be frequent separation of the upper part of the

OS occipitis ; the relative situation of the foramen magnum. In

regard to the bones of the face, notice the position of the ossa

nasi and unguis ; the former sometimes meet nearlj^ or quite

on the same plane, whilst, in others, they meet at an angle.
The former character is strongly marked in many African

skulls. State the form of the jaw-bone, shape of the chin, and

observe the angle of the jaw, the position and character of the

teeth, and their mode of wear ; and if they have any practice
of modifpng their form or appearance, let this be stated. The
malar bones have already been noticed, but they may require

a more minute description.

   6. When the opportunity can be found, observe the number

of lumbar vertebrae, since an additional one is said to be com-

mon in some tribes.

   7. Give the length of the sternum as compared with the
whole trunk; and also some idea of the relative proportion

between the chest and the abdomen.

  8. What is the character of the pelvis in both sexes, and

what is the form of the foot ?
   9. The form of the scapula will also deserve attention, more

especially as regards its breadth and strength ; and the strength

or weakness of the clavicle should be noticed in connection

with it.

   10. The internal organs, and blood-vessels will with greater
difficulty be subjected to examination ; but it may be well here
to remark, that varieties in these may prevail locally in connec-

--tion with race.
  N.B. Peculiarities may exist, which cannot be anticipated in

queries, but which the observer will do well to notice amongst

his answers to anatomical questions.

   1 1 Where a district obviously possesses two or more varieties
of the human race, note the typical characters of each in their
most distinct form, and indicate to what known groups or fami-

lies they may belong : give some idea of the proportion of each,

and state the result of their intermixture on physical and moral

character. When it can be ascertained, state how long inter-

mixture has existed, and of which the physical char acterstend

to predominate. It is to be observed, that this question does

not so much refer to the numerical strength or political ascend-

ency of any of the types, but to the greater or less physical

resemblance which the offspring may bear to the parents, and
what are the characters which they may appear to derive from
              PROVISIONAL REPORTS AND NOTICES.         451

each : whether there is a marked difference arising from the father
or the mother belonging to one of the types in preference to an-
other ; also whether the mixed form resulting from such inter-
marriage is known to possess a permanent character^ or after
a certain number of generations to incline to one or other of its
component types.

   12. Any observation connected with these intermarriages,

relating to health, longevity, physical and intellectual character,

will be particularly interesting, as bringing light on a field

hitherto but little systematically investigated. Even when the
people appear to be nearly or quite free from intermixture,

their habits, in respect of intermarriage within larger or smaller
circles, and the corresponding physical characters of the peo-
ple, will be very interesting.

              Language.

   13. Do the natives speak a language already known to phi-

lologists, and if so, state what it is; and notice whether it ex-

hibit any dialectic peculiarities, as well as the modifications of

pronunciation and accentuation which it may oifer. State also
the extent to which this dialect may be used, if limits can be

ascertained.

14. If the language be little if at all known, endeavour to

obtain a vocabulary as extensive as circumstances will allow,

and at least consisting of the numerals, the most common and

important substantives *, the pronouns in all persons and num-

bers, adjectives expressive of the commonest qualities, and, if

possible, a few verbs varied in time and person. The vocabu-

lary should be tested by the interrogation of different natives,

and more than one person should be engaged in taking it down
from their mouths, to avoid, as far as may be, errors arising

from peculiarities of utterance or defect of hearing. It is like-

wise of importance that the system of orthography be duly in-

dicated and strictly adhered to,

1 5. Endeavour to take down some piece of native composition,

such as the ordinary phrases employed in conversation, and any

other piece of prose which may be attainable ; and specimens
of metrical composition if such exist. Though these would be

of comparatively little use without translation, yet independently

of this some importance is to be attached to the metrical compo-

sitions if they have a national character and are widely diffused
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

and, in this case, it might be possible to express some of their

Aairs in musical characters.  specimen of known composition

translated into their language, may also be given, such as the

* The names of mountains, lakes, rivers, islands, &c.

                            2 G2
--452 REPORT 1840.

first chapter of Genesis, the fifteenth chapter of Luke's Gospel,
and the Lord's Prayer.

    16. Endeavour to ascertain whether the language is exten-
sively spoken or understood, and whether there are different

languages spoken by men having similar physical characters
obviously connecting them as a race, or if differing somewhat

in this respect, inhabiting a particular geographical tract.

When such groups are said to possess different languages,

endeavour, as far as possible, to ascertain their number, the
sources whence each is derived, and the languages to which it
is allied ; and also the circumstances, geographical or political,

which may account for these distinctions.

    [For further information connected with the investigation

of languages, reference is made to a short essay on this subject
read to the Philological Society of London.]

                        Individual and Family Life.

    17. Are there any ceremonies connected with the birth of a
child ? Is there any difference whether the child be male or
female ?

    18. Does infanticide occur to any considerable extent, and
if it does, to what causes is it to be referred, want of affection,

deficient subsistence, or superstition ?

    19. Are children exposed, and from what causes, whether
superstition, want of subsistence or other difficulties, or from
deformity, general infirmity, or other causes of aversion ?

   20. What is the practice as to dressing and cradling children,

and are there any circumstances connected with it calculated
to modify their form ; for example, to compress the forehead,
as amongst the western Americans ; to flatten the occiput,
as amongst most Americans, by the flat straight board to which
the child is attached ; to occasion the lateral distortion of the
head, by allowing it to remain too long in one position on the
hand of the nurse, as amongst the inhabitants of the South Seas ?

    21. Are there any methods adopted, by which other pai'ts of
the body may be affected, such as the turning in of the toes,
as amongst the North Americans ; the modification of the whole
foot, as amongst the Chinese ?

   How22. are the children educated, what are they taught,

and are any methods adopted to modify their character, such
as to implant courage, impatience of control, endurance of
pain and privation, or, on the contrary, submission, and to
what authorities, cowardice, artifice ?

    23. Is there anything remarkable amongst the sports and
amusements of children, or in their infantile songs or tales ?
PROVISIONAL REPORTS AND NOTICES.  453

   24. At what age does puberty take place ?
   25. What is the ordinary size of families, and are there any

large ones ?

   26. Are births of more than one child common ? What is
the proportion of the sexes at birth and among adults ?

   27. Are the children easily reared ?
    28. Is there any remarkable deficiency or perfection in any
of the senses ? It is stated, that in some races sight is re-
markably keen, both for near and distant objects.
   29. To what age do the females continue to bear children ?
and for what period are they in the habit of suckling them ?

   30. What is the menstrual period, and what the time of

utero-gestation ?

   31. Are there any ceremonies connected with any particular

period of life ?

   32. Is chastity cultivated, or is it remarkably defective, and

are there any classes amongst the people of either sex by whom

it is remarkably cultivated, or the reverse, either generally or
on particular occasions ?

   33. Are there any superstitions connected with this subject?

  34. What are the ceremonies and practices connected with

marriage ?
   35. Is polygamy permitted and practised, and to what

extent ?

    36. Is divorce tolerated, or frequent?

  37. How are widows treated ?

   38. W^hat is the prevailing food of the people ? Is it chiefly
animal or vegetable, and whence is it derived in the two king-

doms ? Do they trust to what the bounty of nature provides,

or have they means of modifying or controlling production,

either in the cultivation of vegetables, or the rearing of animals ?

Describe their modes of cooking, and state the kinds of condi-

ment which may be employed. Do they reject any kinds of

aliment from scruple, or an idea of uncleanness ? Have they
in use any kind of fermented or other form of exhilarating

liquor, and, if so, how is it obtained ? What number of meals
do they make ? and what is their capacity for temporary or sus-

tained exertion ?

   39. Describe the kind of dress worn by the people, and the

materials employed in its formation. What are the diflferences

in the usages of the sexes in this respect ? Are there special
dresses used for great occasions ? and, if so, describe these, and
their modes of ornament. Does any practice of tattooing,
piercing, or otherwise modifying the person for the sake of
ornament, prevail amongst the people ? N.B. Such modifica-
--454 REPORT 1840.

tions not to be blended with other modifications used as signii
of mourning, &c.

   40. Have the people any prevailing characteristic or remark-
able modes of amusement, such as dances and games exhibiting

agility, strength or skill ?

   41. Are games of chance known to the people, and is there a
strong passion for them ?

   42. Do the people appear to be long- or short-lived ? If any

cases of exti-eme old age can be ascertained, please to state

them. Such cases may sometimes be successfully ascertained
by reference to known events, as the previous visits of Euro-
peans to the country. Is there a marked difference between

the sexes in respect of longevity ?

   43. What is the general treatment of the sick ? Are they

cared for, or neglected ? Are any diseases dreaded as conta-
gious, and how are such treated ? Is there any medical treat-
ment adopted ? Are there any superstitious or magical prac-

tices connected with the treatment of the sick ? What are the

most prevailing forms of disease, whence derived, and to what
extent ? Is there any endemic affection, such as goitre, pelagra,
plica, or the like ? With what circumstances, situations, and
habits do they appear to be connected, and to what are they
referred by the people themselves ?

   44. Where tliere are inferior animals associated with man,

do they exhibit any corresponding liability to, or exemption
from disease ?

   45. Do entozoa prevail, and of what kind ?
   46. What is the method adopted for the disposal of the dead ?

Is it generally adhered to, or subject to variation ?
    47. Are any implements, articles of clothing, or food, depo-

sited with the dead ?
    48. Is there any subsequent visitation of the dead, whether

they are disposed of separately, or in conjunction with other

bodies ?

   49. What is the received idea respecting a future state? Does

this bear the character of transmigration, invisible existence
about their accustomed haunts, or removal to a distant abode ?

                          Buildings and Monuments.

   50. What are the kinds of habitations in use among the
people ? Are they permanent or fixed ? Do they consist of a

single apartment, or of several ? Are the dwellings collected
into villages or towns, or are they scattered, and nearly or quite
 single ? If the former, describe any arrangement of them in
streets or otherwise which may be employed.
PROVISIONAL REPORTS AND NOTICES.  455

    51. Have any monuments been raised by the present inha-

 bitants or their predecessors, and more especially such as relate

 to religion or war ? State their character, materials, and con-

struction. If they are still in use amongst the people, state

this object, even if they should be of the simplest construction,

and be little more than mounds or tumuli. If these monu-
ments are no longer in use, collect, as far as possible, the ideas
and traditions of the natives regarding them, and, if possible,
have them examined by excavation or otherwise, taking care to
deface and disturb them as little as possible.

   52. In these researches be on the look out for the remains

of the skeletons of man or other animals, and, if discovered, let
them be preserved for comparison with those still in existence.

                                  Works of Art.

    53. Let works of art, in metal, bone, or other materials, be
likewise sought and preserved, and their similarity to, or differ-
ence from implements at present in use amongst the people of
the district, or elsewhere, be noted.

   54. When a people display their ingenuity by the extent or

variety of their works of art, it will not only be desirable to de-
scribe what these are, but also the materials of which they are
constructed, the modes in which these materials are obtained,
the preparation which they undergo when any is required, and
the instruments by which they are wrought. Such particulars
will not only throw light on the character and origin of the
people, but will, directly or indirectly, influence the commercial

relations which may be profitably entered into when commerce
alone is looked to. When colonization is contemplated, the

facts contained in the replies to these queries will point out the
mutual advantages which might be obtained by preserving, in-
stead of annihilating, the aboriginal population.

                                  Domestic Animals.

   Are there any domestic animals in the possession of the
people ? Of what species are they ? Whence do they appear
to have been derived, and to what variety do they belong ?
Have they degenerated or become otherwise modified? To
what uses are they applied ?

                             Government and Laws.

   55. What is the form of government? Does it assume a

monarchical or democratic character, or does it rest with the
priests ?

   56. Are the chiefs, whether of limited or absolute power,

elective or hereditary ?
--456 REPORT 1»40.

   57. Is there any division of clans or castes ?

   58. What are the privileges enjoyed by or withheld from

these ?

   59. What care is taken to keep them distinct, and with what

effect on the physical and moral character of each ?

  60. What laws exist among the people ? How are they

preserved ? Are they generally known, or confided to the me-

mory of a chosen set of persons ? What are their opinions and

regulations in reference to property, and especially the occu-
pation and possession of the soil ? Does the practice of hiring
labourers exist among them ?

   61. Have they any knowledge or tradition of a legislator, to

whom the formation of laws is ascribed ?
   62. Do they rescind, add to, or modify their laws ? and

how ?
   63. Are they careful in the observance of them ?
   64. What are their modes of enforcing obedience, and of

proving and punishing delinquency ?

  How65. are judges constituted ? Do their trials take place

at stated periods, and in public ?

  66. How do they keep prisoners in custody, and treat

them ?

   67. What are the crimes taken cognizance of by the laws ?

Is there gradation or commutation of punishment ?

                           Geography and Statistics.

    68. Briefly state the geographical limits and character of the

region inhabited by the people to whom the replies relate.

   69. State approximatively the number of inhabitants. As this
is an important, but very difficult question, it may not be amiss
to point out the modes in which the numbers may be ascer-
tained. The people themselves may state their number with
more or less accuracy, but it should be known whether they
refer to all ranks and ages, or merely comprehend adult males,
who may be mustered for war, or other general purpose re-
quiring their combination. In this case state the apparent
proportion between adult males and other members of families.
The number of habitations in a particular settlement may be
counted, and some idea of the average numbers of a family
be given. Where the people inhabit the water-side, the num-
ber and dimensions of their craft may be taken, and some idea
of the proportion between the number of these and of the indi-
viduals belonging to them, may be formed. In drawing con-
clusions from observations of this kind, it will be necessary to
have due regard to the different degrees of density or rarity in
which, from various causes, population may be placed.
PROVISIONAL REPORTS AND NOTICES.  457

   70. Has the number of inhabitants sensibly varied, and
within what period ?

    71. If it liave diminished, state the causes; such as sick-

ness, starvation, war, and emigration. When these causes re-

quire explanation, please to give it. If the inhabitants are on
the increase, is this the result of the easy and favourable cir-
cumstances of the people causing an excess of births over
deaths ; or is it to be assigned to any cause tending to bring
accessions from other quarters ? State whether such causes

are of long standing, or recent.

   72. Is the population generally living in a manner to which
they have been long accustomed, or have new relations with
other people, and consequently new customs and practices, been

introduced ?

   73. If the people, being uncivilized, have come under the in-
fluence of the civilized, state to what people the latter belong,
how they are regarded, and what is the kind of influence they
are producing*. State the points of their good influence, if any,
and those of an opposite character, as the introduction of dis-
eases, vices, wars, want of independence, &c.

   74. Is there any tendency to the union of races ? how is it
exhibited, and to what extent ?

                                        Social Relations.

   75. What kind of relationship, by written treaty or other-

wise, subsists between the nation and other nations, civilized or
not ? Have they any intercourse by sea with other countries ?

Do any of them understand any European language ? Or are
there interpreters, by whom they can communicate with them ?

   76. Are they peaceable, or addicted to war ? Have they
any forms of declaring war, or making peace ? What is their
mode of warfare, either by sea or land ? their weapons and
strategy ? What do they do with the slain, and with prisoners?
Have they any mode of commemorating victories by monuments,

hieroglyphics, or preservation of individual trophies, and of
what kind ? Have they any national poems, sagas, or tradi-
tions respecting their origin and history ? Where Europeans
have introduced fire-arms, ascertain the modes of warfare which
have given place to them.

   State whatever particulars respecting their origin and history

are derived, either from traditions among themselves or from

other sources.

 --· This question will comprise the existence of missions the success or the

want of it from causes connected with missionaries themselves or others.
                                                 ;

--458 REPORT 1840.

Religion, Superstitions, 8fc.

   77- Are the people addicted to religious observances, or
generally regardless of them ?

   78. Do they adopt the idea of one great and presiding Spirit,

or are they polytheists ?

79. If polytheism exist, what are the names, attributes, and

fables connected with their deities, and what are the modes in

which devotion is paid to each ? Are any parts of the body

Doheld sacred, or the reverse ?  they offer sacrifices, and are

they of an expiatory character, or mere gifts ?

80. Have they any sacred days or periods ? fixed or move-

able feasts, or religious ceremonies of any kind, or any form of

thanksgiving or other observance connected with seasons ?

   81. Have they any order of priests; and if so, are they here-

ditary, elective, or determined by any particular circumstance ?
   82. Is the religion of the people similar to that of any other

people, neighbouring or remote ? If different, are they widely
so, or dependent on particular modifications, and of what kind ?

   83. In what light do they regard the religion and deities of

neighbouring tribes ?

   84. Is there any idea of an inferior order of spirits and ima-

--ginary beings, such as ghosts, fairies, brownies, and goblins

and how are they described ?
   85. Have they any notions of magic, witchcraft, or second

sight ?

   86. What ideas are entertained respecting the heavenly bodies ?
Have they any distinction of stars, or constellations ? and if

so, what names do they give them, and what do these names

signify ?

   87. Are they in any manner observed with reference to the
division of the year, and how ?

   88. If time is not divided by observations of those bodies,
what other mode is adopted ? and do observances connected

with them rest with the priests or chiefs ?

   89. When the traveller, by personal acquaintance with the

language, or by means of competent assistance from interpret-
ers, can freely converse with the people, it will be desirable
that he should form some idea of their amount of intelligence,
their tone of mind with regard to social relations, as respects
freedom, independence, or subserviency, and their recognition
of moral obligations, and any other psychological character
which observation may detect ; and more especially such as

may contribute to an estimation of the probable results of efforts

to develope and improve the character.
                    NOTICES

                                      AND

      ABSTRACTS OF COMMUNICATIONS

                                      TO THE

BRITISH ASSOCIATION

                                     FOR THE

      ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE,

                                     AT THE

        GLASGOW MEETING, AUGUST 1840.
                          ADVERTISEMENT.

   The Editors of the following Notices consider themselves respon-

sible only for the fidelity with which the views of the Authors are

abstracted.
                          .

CONTENTS.

NOTICES AND ABSTRACTS OF MISCELLANEOUS
      COMMUNICATIONS TO THE SECTIONS.

MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

Dr. Forbes on the mean Apsidal Angle of the Moon's Orbit                              Page
Professor Nichol's Account of the Observatory erecting near Glasgow
                                                                                            1
Professor Airy on a New Apparent Polarity of Light                                          1
Sir Daviu Brewster on Professor Powell's Measures of the Indices
                                                                                          3
  G Hof Refraction for the lines and in the Spectrum
                                                                                          5
           - on the Decomposition of Glass                                                5

                                    on the Rings of Polarized Light produced in           Q
    specimens of Decomposed Glass
                                                                                          7
                                  on the Cause of the Increase of Colour by the           8
   Inversion of the Head
                                                                                          9
                                  on the Phaenomena and Cause of Muscse Volitantes
                                  on the Line of Visible Direction along the Axis of      g
                                                                                          9
    Vision                                                                              10
· on the Camera Obscura, and other Apparatus,                                           10
                                                                                        12
   used in making Daguerreotype Drawings                                                12
                                                                                        14
                            On a Method of Illuminating Microscopic Objects             14
                            On an Improvement in the Polarizing Microscope              14
                                                                                        14
Col. Reid's Letter to Sir David Brewster                                                15

Mr. Bowman on a remarkable Rainbow                                                      17
                                                                                        18
Rev. J. Fisher on remarkable Rainbows                                                   24
Mr. A. Bell on a new case of Interference                                              26
Dr. Joseph Read on the Iriscope
Professor Powell on an Experiment of Interference                                      27

                            on a point in the Wave-Theory as applied to Heat            28
Professor Kelland on the Conduction of Heat                                            30
Mr. Eaton Hodgkinson on the Temperature of the Earth in the deep                       40
                                                                                       40
    Mines in the neighbourhood of Manchester
                                                                                       41
Professor Jacobi on the Principles of Electro-Magnetical Machines ...                  43
                                                                                       45
Mr. C. J. Kennedy on the Theory of Electricity                                         47
                                                                                       48
Dr. Lamont's Account of the Magnetic Observatory of Munich
                    on a general statement of the System of Meteorological

    Observations carried on in Bavaria

Mr. Caldecott's Notice accompanying a Series of Meteorological Ob-
   servations made at Trevandrum

Mr. James P. Espy on Storms

Mr. Redfield's Letter to Sir J. F. W. Herschel
Dr. Anderson on the Dew-Point
Mr. Graham Hutchinson on a Method of Prognosticating the proba-

   ble mean Temperature of the several Winter Months from that of cor-
   responding Months in the preceding Summer
Professor Forbes on Excessive Falls of Rain
Mr. John Phillips's new Experimental Researches on Rain
Mr. G. A. RowELL on the Formation of Rain

                             on the Cause of the Aurora, &c
iv CONTENTS.

Mr. William Bald's Observations on the Tides in the Harbour of               Page
   Glasgow, and the Velocity of the Tidal Wave in the Estuary of the
                                                                              49
   River Clyde, between Glasgow and Port Glasgow                              50
Rev. Professor Kelland on the Theory of Waves                                  52
Mr. Shand on the Agency of Sound
                                                                               54
Mr. Graham on a Method of approximating to the Value of the Roots              54
                                                                               55
   of Numerical Equations                                                      55
Mr. Peebles on the Expressibiiity of the Roots of Algebraic Equations          55
Mr. Fowler's new Calculating Machine                                           55
                                                                               55
Mr. Walsh on a Mode of solving Cubic Equations                                 56
Mr. William Hoyle's new Logarithmic Calculations and Views
Mr. P. MacFarlane on a new Construction of Barometer

Mr. Espy on the four daily Fluctuations of the Barometer

Dr. Anderson on the Meteorology of Perth

                        CHEMISTRY.

Professor Thomas Thomson on the most important Chemical Manufac-             58

   tures carried on in Glasgow and the neighbourhood                         "4
. on the Minerals in the Neighbourhood of                                    65
                                                                             69
Glasgow                                                             ·_·;···  71
                                                                             72
Dr. Schafhaeutl on the Relation of Form to Chemical Composition              73
                          on a new Compound ofArsenious and Sulphuric Acids  74

          on a new Method of Photogenic Drawing                              74

Professor Liebig on Poisons, Contagions, and Miasms                          75

Professor Gregory on the Pre-existence of Urea in Uric Acid                  75
                         on anew Process for preparing Murexide
                                                                             76
          -- on the Preparation of Alloxan, AUoxantine, Thio-                76

nurate of Ammonia, Uramile, and Murexide                                     77
                                                                             77
Dr. R. W. Glover's Process for preparing Hydrobromic and Hydrio-             78
                                                                             78
   dic Acids
                                                                             79
Professor Andrew Buchanan on a Method of separating, by Filtra-
  tion, the Coagulable Lymph from Liquid Human Blood                         80

Professor Redtenbacher and Dr. Varrentrapp on the Constitution               81
                                                                             82
   and Products of the Distillation of Fat Bodies                            83
                                                                             83
Dr. L. Playfair on a New Fat Acid                                            83
Professor Bunsen on a New Mode of estimating Nitrogen in Organic
                                                                             84
    Analysis                                                                 86

         ,, on the Compound or Radical called Kakodyl

Dr. Ettling on the Identity of Spiroilous and Saliculous Acid

Dr. MoHR on a New Method of preparing Morphia and its Salts
Professor Frederick Penny on the Action of Nitric Acid on the Chlo-

   rates, lodates, and Bromates of Potassa and Soda

. on a New Salt obtained from Iodine and Caus-

tic Soda                                                         ;

Mr. Arthur Connel's Additional Observations on the Voltaic De-

composition of Alcohol

Professor Johnston on Resins

          on the Resin of Sarcocolla

                                on some Varieties of Peat

Dr. Clark on a Mode of Detecting Minute Portions of Arsenic
Dr. R. D. Thomson on the Tests for Sulphuric Acid when thrown on

   the Person

Mr. E. Solly on Bleaching Vegetable Wax
CONTENTS.                                                                            V

Mr. Sturgeon on a peculiar Class of Voltaic Phsenomena                               Page
Mr. M'Gregor's Experiments on Carbonic Acid thrown oflF from the                       86

   Lungs                                                                               87

Mr. Alexander Bryson's Description of a New Instrument for Mea-                        87
                                                                                       88
   suring the Refractive Power of Minute Bodies

Mr. J. J. Griffin on a New Method of Crystallographic Notation ...

GEOLOGY.

Mr. J. Craig on the Coal Formation of the West of Scotland                            89
Mr. A. C. Ramsay's Notes taken during the Surveys for the Construc-
                                                                                      92
   tion of the Geological Model Maps and Sections of the Island of Arran
Mr. James Smith's Observations on the Superficial Beds in the Neigh-                  94
                                                                                      95
   bourhood of Glasgow                                                                95
Mr. William Keir on the Geology of Castle Hill, Ardrossan                             97
Rev. J. M. Fisher on the Granite Formations of Newabbey, in Galloway
Mr. D. Milne on Earthquakes in Scotland                                               98
Mr. J. A. Knife on the Sandstone of the Vale of Solway, and the For-                  99

    mation of the Closeburn Basin, Nithsdale, Dumfries-shire                          99

Mr.RoDERiCKlMPEYMuRCHisoNonthe Fishes of the Old Red Sandstone                       100
Mr. James Yates's Account of the Footsteps of extinct Animals ob-
                                                                                     102
   served in a Quarry in Rathbone- street, Liverpool                                 103

Mr. J. E. Bowman on the great development of the Upper Silurian                      104

   Formation in the Vale of Llangollen, North Wales, and on a Plateau                105
   of Igneous Rocks on the East Flank of the Berwyn range
Mr. William Sanders's Account of a Raised Sea-beach at Woodspring-                   110

    hill, near Bristol                                                               110

Rev. David Williams on the Older Strata of Devonshire                                HI
Mr. Edward Forbes on a Pleistocene Tract in the Isle of Man, and
                                                                                     113
   the relations of its Fauna to that of the neighbouring Sea                        114
Mr. Roderick Impey Murchison and M. E. de Verneuil on the
                                                                                     115
    Stratified Deposits which occupy the Northern and Central Regions                118

    of Russia                                                                        118
Mr. R. Griffith on the Yellow Sandstone, and other points of the
                                                                                     121
    Geology of Ireland                                                               121
Mr. Charles Lyell on the occurrence of two Species of Shells of the
                                                                                     121
   genus Conus, in the Lias, or Inferior Oolite near Caen, in Normandy               121
                                  on ancient Sea Cliffs and Needles in the Chalk of  122

   the Valley of the Seine in Normandy
Professor Agassiz on Glaciers and Boulders in Switzerland
Capt. Baddeley on the Geology and Mineralogy of Canada
Mr. James Robb's Remarks upon certain Geological Features of IheRiver

   St. John in New Brunswick, with an account of the Falls upwards
   from the Sea, which occur near its Embouchure in the Bay of Fundy

Mr. James Smith on the Geology of Madeira
Mr. George Gardner on the Geology and Fossil Fishes of North

     Brazil

Mr. J. L. B. Ibbotson on the Daguerreotype, as applied to the Drawing

     of Fossils

Mr. G. H. Fbatherstonhaugh on the Geography of New Brunswick

 Sir J. E. Alexander's Outline of Three Expeditions which might be

    undertaken to explore portions of the interior of Africa

Rev.Dr.E.RoBiNSON'sAdditional Notes on the Wadi el 'Arabah in Syria
M. A. Raven8tein's Observations on Relief Maps
VI CONTENTS.

Mr. Mathie Hamilton's Observations on Great Earthquakes on the          Page
   West Coast of South America, particularly the great one of the 18th
                                                                        123
   of September, 1833, which destroyed the City of Tacna, and other     125
                                                                        126
    places in Peru
Mr. Julius Jeffreys on the Solvent Power exercised by Water at

   high temperatures on Siliceous Minerals

Mr. William Bald's Account of the Construction of the Models of the
   Island of Achil, Clare Island, and the South-Western district of

   Mayo, in Ireland

ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY.

Mr. Hugh E. Strickland on the true Method of discovering the Na-        128
                                                                        129
   tural System in Zoology and Botany
Professor Agassiz on the Development of the Fish in the Egg             129
                                                                        131
Dr. Martin Barry on the First Changes consequent on Fecundation
   in the Mammiferous Ovum, with special reference to a Communica-      131
  tion " On the Development of the Fish in the Egg," by Prof. Agassiz
                                                                        131
Mr. W. Danson on the Alpaca                                             133
Mr. G. T. Fox on the Subject of a Paper on the Structure of Whales,     134

   read at the Birmingham Meeting                                       135
Dr. Macdonald on the Structure of Fishes, so far as the analogies can   136

   be traced between the Limbs of the Mammals and the Fins of Fishes    137
Mr. James Wilson on the Salmon Fry
Dr. LizARS on the Organs of Sense in the Salmon                         139
M. ScHOMBURGK On the various Modes of Fishing employed by Indians
                                                                        141
   in the West of Guiana                                                142
Mr. James Wilson on some Persian Insects                                143
Mr. John Goodsir and Mr. E. Forbes on Pelonaia, a new genus of
                                                                        143
   Ascidian Mollusca                                                    144
                                                                        146
Sir John G. Dalyell on the Regeneration of Lost Organs discharging      146
  the Functions of the Head and Viscera, by the Holothuria and Am-
                                                                        147
   phitrite, two Marine Animals
                                                                        148
Mr. Edward Forbes and Mr. John Goodsir's further Researches on

    the British Ciliograda

Mr. R. Patterson on Medusae
Professor Agassiz on Animals found in Red Snow
Dr. Edwin Lankester's Notice of Plants and Animals found in the

   Sulphureous Waters of Yorkshire

Dr. Aldridge on the Pollen and Vegetable Impregnation
Dr. A. Burn on the Growth of Cotton in India
Mr. Felkin on the Growth of Cotton

Dr. G. A. Walker Arnott's Remarks on the Synonyms and AflSnities

   of some South African genera of Plants
Professor Robb on an Anomalous Form of the Plum, observed in the

   Gardens of New Brunswick

                       MEDICAL SCIENCE.                                 149
                                                                        ^^^
Dr. Allen Thomson's Account of some new Observations on the Struc-
   ture of the Gastro-intestinal Mucous Membrane, and more particu-

   larly of the Gastric and Intestinal Glands

Dr. John Reid on the Manner in which the Vital Actions are arrested

   in Asphyxia
CONTENTS.                                                                VU

Dr. John Reid on the Anatomical relation of the Blood-vessels of the     Page
  Mother to those of the Foetus in the Human Species
                     on the Anatomy of the Medulla Oblongata             153
                                                                         154
Dr. Sym on the Mechanical Functions of the Ear                           154
Dr. John Reid on the Connection between the Nervous System and
                                                                         155
   Muscular Contractility                                                155
                                                                         156
Mr. George Glover on Foreign Bodies in the CEsophagus
Dr. BucHANNAN on Fibrine of Human Blood                                  15G
Dr. N. Fowler on some of the Functions of the Fifth Pair of Nerves,      156
                                                                         156
   and of the Ganglia, &c
Dr. Rees on the Preservation of Subjects for Anatomical purposes         156
Dr. Jeffreys on the Uses of the Conglobate Glands                        157
Dr. Patrick Newbiggin on the Therapeutic Effect of Croton Oil in         157

   certain Nervous Disorders                                             157
                                                                         158
Dr. J. R. Cohmack on the Effects of Air when Injected into the Veins
Dr. MacDonald on Mnemonics                                               159
Dr. R. M. Glover on the Physiological and Medicinal Action of Bro-
                                                                         160
   mine audits Compounds
                                                                         160
Dr. Hannah on the Treatment of Pertussis by Cold washing of the Chest
Dr. Perry on the Circumstances which govern Local Inflammation, the      I6l
                                                                         163
   effusion of Coagulable Lymph, and the formation of Pus, as the Se-
   quelae of Disease, Accidents, Surgical Operations, &c                 163
Dr. Mackay on the Chemical and Medicinal Properties of the Matias        163
                                                                         164
   Bark, which is employed in Columbia, South America, as a substi-
                                                                         165
   tute for Cinchona
Dr. Perry on the Laws which govern Contagious Fevers, the circum-         165
                                                                         167
   stances which favour their diffusion, and the mode by which they are

   communicated from one individual to another

Dr. Charles W. Bell's Notice of the Disease known by the name of
   Mai d'Aleppe

Mr. A. Ure on the Operation for Squinting
Mr. K. Mackay's Description of a double Monocephalic Human Mon-

   ster, which was transmitted to this country from South America ...
Dr. Lawrie on the Results of Amputations
Dr. R. D. Thomson on Opacity of the Cornea produced bySulphuricAcid
Dr. H. Lonsdale's Notice of an Ossified Tendo Achillis, and of a Case

    of Exostosis

Mr. James Douglas on Dislocation of the Ankle-joint forward and back-
   ward ; and on the Reproduction of Bone after the Operation of Trepan

Mr. John Dunn on the Vital Statistics of Scarborough

STATISTICS.

Captain Millar on the State of Crime within Glasgow and City Police      169
                                                                         170
    Jurisdiction                                                         171

Mr. Leadbetter on the Normal School of Glasgow                           173
Mr. Alston on the Glasgow Asylum for the Blind                           1 73
Captain Millar's Comparative View of the State of Crime in London,       173

   Dublin, and Glasgow                                                   174

Mr. Watt on the comparative Vital Statistics of Edinburgh and Glasgow
Dr. Cowan on the Vital Statistics of Glasgow
Dr. Cleland on the Population, Trade and Commerce of the City of

    Glasgow
via CONTENTS.

Pvlr. RuTHERGLEX On the State of Crime within the Suburban Di-             Page
   stricts of Glasgow
                                                                           175
Mr. FrxDLATER OD the State of Crime in the Suburban Burgh of
                                                                           176
    Anclerston                                                             177

Mr. RicHARDSox on the State of Crime in the District of Gorbals            177
The Maxchester Statistical Society on the State of Education in
                                                                           181
   the Borough of Kingston-upon-Hull                                       184
Mr. Porter on Pawnbroking in Ireland, and on the beneficial results
                                                                           183
   which had followed from the establishment of a Mont de Piete, in
   connexion with a Loan Fund, at Tanderagee                               185
Mr. Leatham on the Bill Circulation of Great Britain                       185
Mr. Joseph Bextley on the State of Education and Crime in England
   and Wales                                                               185
Dr. Chalmers on the Application of Statistics to Moral and CEconomic
                                                                           186
    Science                                                                186
                       OD the Pauperism of Glasgow                         186
                                                                           186
Dr. Alison's Illustrations of the Practical Operations of the Scottish
   System of the Management of the Poor

Dr. Alcorx on the excess of Population, and on Emigration as a
   Remedy for it, in the Highlands of Scotland

Mr. WiLsox on the Population of Scotland
Professor Adrtax on the Libraries of Germany
Rev. P. Chalmers on the Parish of Dunfermline

MECHANICAL SCIENCE.

Mr. J. Scott Russell on the Temperature of most effective conden-          186
   sation in Steam Vessels
                                                                           188
. Additional Notice concerning the most CEcono-
                                                                           190
   mical and Eflfective Proportion of Engine Power to the Tonnage of the   190
   Hull in Steam Vessels, and more especially in those designed for long   I9I
                                                                           191
   Voyages                                                                 192
Dr. William Wallace's Notice of Properties of the Catenary and             193
                                                                           194
   Curves of Equilibration, with Tables for their Construction, contained  195
                                                                           I96
   in a Memoir entitled, "The Parallelogram Forces and Curves of           197
                                                                           198
   Equilibration ; together with Tables for their Construction, deduced    199

   from a Functional Equation

Rev. J. Brodie on a New Mode of Propelling Fluids, or an uniformly

   Propelling Wheel
Dr. Farqtjharsox on the Strongest form of Sea-borne Vessels
Professor Gordox on the Turbine Water-wheel

Mr. Joseph Whitworth on producing True Planes or Surfaces on

    Metals
Mr. ViGxoLES on the CEconomy of Railways in respect of Gradients

Mr. Wallace on Extinguishing Fire in Steam Vessels
Mr. ViGXOLES on Timber Bridges of a large size, in special reference to

    Railways

Mr. Hawkixs on the Safety Rotation Railway
Mr. Mitchell on Timber Bridges, with reference to their Application

    to the oeconomical construction of Railways

Captain E. J. Johnson on the Application of Native Alloy for Com-

    pass Pivots

Mr. Fairbairx on the Fan-Blast as applied to Furnaces
CONTENTS.                                                               IX

Mr. Williams on the Combustion of Coal, and the Prevention of the       Page
   Generation of Smoke in Furnaces
                                                                        199
Mr. Faihbairn's Experimental Inquiry into the Strength of Iron with
                                                                        201
  respect to its Application as a substitute for Wood in Ship-building
Mr. Eaton Hodgkinson's Experimental Researches into the Strength        202
                                                                        206
   of Pillars of Cast Iron, and other Materials                         207
Mr. Lothian on a Revolving Balance                                      208

Mr. Thom on a Water Filter                                              208
Mr. Wallace on a Smoke Protector                                        209
Mr. Matthias Dunn on an Improved Working Barrel for use in              209
                                                                        209
   sinking Pits, &c                                                     209
Mr. Rayners on a Machine Regulator                                      210
Mr. Smith on the Drainage of Railway Embankments and Slopes             210
                                                                        210
                 on Timber Bridges                                      210
                                                                        211
                 on Propelling Boats on Canals                          211

Mr. J. Hawkins on Mr. Bakewell's Anglemeter                             211
Mr. Smith on a New CanalLock                                            212
Mr. Fairbairn on Raising Water from Low Lands                           212
Mr. Thom on an Improved Rain Gauge                                      212
Mr. James Johnston on a New Rain Gauge                                  212
Rev. Dr. Paterson on an Improved Life-Boat                              213
Mr. Hawthorn on certain Improvements on Locomotive and other            213
                                                                        213
   Engine Boilers                                                       214
                                                                        214
Mr. Grime on Wrought Iron Wheels for Locomotive Engines
Mr. DiRCKs's account of a Railway Wheel with Wood Tyre
Mr. Coles on a new Step-Rail, and Railway Carriages
Mr. Lang on an Improvement on the Air Pump
Mr. GuLLiNE on Safety-Valves for Steam Boilers
Mr. James Milne on a Gas Regulator
Mr. Jeffrey on a new Hydraulic Apparatus
Mr. Ritchie on Warming and Ventilating Buildings
Mr. Grime on Dennett's Rockets for preserving Lives from Shipwreck
       NOTICES AND ABSTRACTS

                                           OF

MISCELLANEOUS COMMUNICATIONS

               TO THE SECTIONS.

       MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

On the mean Apsidal Angle of the Moon's Orbit. By Dr. Forbes.

   By limiting the terms in the expression of the integral equation to
the first four, viz. those depending on

-- ---- --cos c d a, cos 20 2?w0 + 2/3, cos 20 2me + 2/3 0c4- a

-- + --or the evection, and cos 2 d 2 w*     a, he derived the
                                 cii /i -|-

number expressing the ratio of the apsidal angle to the whole circle,

and found it to be "OOS^S ; the result given in the Mecanique Celeste,

Aby Laplace, being the same.  decided influence was ascribed to

the inclination of the moon's orbit to the ecliptic, and the corrections
that require to be made for it ; also, to the value due to h, or the space
described by the radius vector in the unit of time, in the disturbed orbit,
compared with the same in the simple elliptic theory. The circum-
stance that this quantity may be so easily determined presents a beau-

tiful evidence of the law of gravitation, and of the truth of the New-
tonian theory, and may 'te of material importance in the theory of the

moon.

An Account of the Observatory erecting near Glasgow. By Professor

                                              NiCHOL.

He stated that when he was appointed to the office he holds in the

University, the state of the Macfarlan Observatory gave him much anx-

iety, as in consequence of its age it was in nowise fitted to be of service

1840.                         B
2 REPORT 1840.

to astronomical science, nor did its site encourage any attempt to repair
it ; but the strong desire existing botli in tlie College and among the
citizens of Glasgow for the erection of a suitable establishment, speedily
relieved his embarrassment, and by the union of the two parties and
the patronage of Government, means were soon provided to accomplish
all good ends. The Professor then adverted at some length to the
principles on which the plan of the Institution was arranged. It was
his strong conviction, that although the repetition of the same obser^'a·
tions at different observatories was to a certain extent necessary for the

elimination of errors, this had been much overdone, and time and labour
thereby lost. He was strengthened by the opinion of all the eminent
men with whom he corresponded, in his resolution not to enter in Glas-
gow on the line pursued with such brilliant success at Greenwich, Edin-
burgh, Armagh, &c., but to devote the new observatory to investiga-
tions which lay for the most part out of the way of these other establish-
ments, and which in the present state of astronomy are numerous and
important. It was a first point with him therefore to see to the provi-

sion of an efficient equatorial, and, if easily attainable, a large reflector.
Circumstances had hitherto prevented the completion of the arrange-
ments in reference to the equatorial, but these would soon be over-
come, and he could venture to promise an instrument of this kind of

first-rate power. He had obtained almost by accident two reflectors, by

Ramage, one of 25 focal feet length, to which he meant to affix Sir John
Herschel's collimator, and another of 55 feet in length and 23 inches
diameter. This one was fit only for occasional observations, and he
did not in the mean time intend to attempt to give it more than a mere
meridional sweep. But although the instruments now referred to may
be the ones chiefly used in the researches to which the observatory
will in the first instance be devoted, a good meridian instrument was
clearly necessary, inasmuch as several of the inquiries about to en-
gage them depended upon the nicest determinations of this descrip-
tion. Accordingly, urged by the feeling that in so far as they could go,
every department of the institution should be equipped in the best
style, they ordered from Munich a transit circle, the telescope of
which is 8 feet focal length, and 6^: inches diameter. The Professor

described this instrument at length from diagrams. He culled particular

attention to the fact that it read by microscopes, and that as the circle
carrying the microscopes was not in the same place as the circle with
the graduated limb, the objection having reference to the hazard from
traction, forcibly urged by Professor Airy, Avas entirely obviated. The
 Professor then stated that a magnetical observatory, with the three in-
struments, at which Gauss's terms would be noted, was meant to be
attached to the other establishment, and that he hoped to be able to pay

attention to some of the more important problems in meteorology. He

 could not promise success, but this he could well promise, that his life

--should be thoroughly and singly devoted now that the means were
--in his power to the realization of objects of importance to astro-

 nomy.
                               --;

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  O

On a New Apparent Polarity of Light. By the Astronomer Royal.

    Sir David Brewster had, at the Liverpool and Newcastle Meetings,
stated a most extraordinary fact respecting the solar spectrum or
coloured image formed by the agency of a prism, when viewed through
thin plates of glass or mica. Most members of the Section were aware,
but to some it might be new, that the light in the solar spectrum could
be so managed as to be entirely free from all mutual intermixture or

jumble of different colours. When this was done, suppose this pure

spectrum to be so turned as that its violet end lay to the right hand and
the red end towards the left, and suppose the pupil of the eye to be half

--covered by a thin piece of glass or mica if the piece of glass or mica

be made to cover that half of the pupil which is towards the violet end
of the spectrum, numerous parallel bands are seen to cross the spec-
trum. This fact was long since observed by Mr. Talbot; but the
extraordinary fact observed by Sir D. Brewster was, that upon turning
the plate of mica so as to cover the half of the pupil next the red end
of the spectrum, all the bands completely disappeared. This fact ap-
peared so inexplicable to Sir David Brewster, that he pronounced it to
indicate a new and hitherto unobserved polarity of light. From this
opinion he ventured to dissent, and he should endeavour to explain to
the Section how complete a solution of the facts was afforded by the
undulatory theory of light. But before he proceeded, he must premise
that his own experience of the facts differed from that of Sir D. Brews-
ter, though so slightly, that the circumstances he deemed material

might readily be overlooked. He should only say that he had consulted

a friend respecting these discrepancies long before he was aware of
their important bearing on the explanation. The peculiarly short-
sighted character of his eye, was perhaps the occasion of their beco-
ming so perceptible to him. The facts, as he observed them, were :

1. When a spectrum is viewed out offocus, bands are formed by pla-

cing a piece of mica, of a proper thickness, so as to cover the half of

the pupil next the violet end. 2. No bands are formed with any
thickness of mica if it be placed on the side of the red end. 3. When

the eye is too distant to see the spectrum distinctly, upon moving the
mica from the violet end, bands are seen advancing in the same direc-

tion over the spectrum. 4. When the eye is too near to see the spec-

trum distinctly, the bands appear to move in the opposite direction.
5. If the eye be so far off, and the spectrum is consequently seen so
indistinctly, that the ruddy portions are nearly mingled with the blue,
upon covering with the mica half the pupil next the violet end, bands
are seen well-defined, but narrow. 6. If the eye and mica approach
the position of distinct vision of the spectrum, the bands become
broader, and near the position of distinct vision sometimes disappear
on approaching still nearer, the bands re-appear and become narrower,
but he thinks are not seen so distinctly as when the eye is too far off
(this may, however, depend on the practical difficulty of that part of
the experiment). 7. Bands which are visible when the mica is on the
violet side, and invisible when it is on the red side, never occur when

                                                     B2
--4 REPORT 1840.

tlie spectrum is pure. 8. Bands are frequently visible when the spec-
trum is pure ; but in that case they can be seen equally well, whether
the mica be placed on the violet or on the red half of the pupil. Mr.

--Airy then gave a rapid sketch of the leading features of the undulatory

theory, showed how a series of rays or a wave in passing through a
convex lens, being more retarded in passing through the middle of the
lens than through the edges, was bent so as to be convex to the lens
after passing through it, and thus was made to converge to a focus.
Next, if a thin plate of a transparent substance, like mica, were made
to cover half the lens, one half the waves were retarded ; and thus,
when the lens represented the eye, and the place of the focus the
retina, interference was produced, which, when the distance of the
retardation bore a certain relation to the distance of two waves (or the
wave length), might obliterate the light altogether. Next, if a lumi-
nous point be looked at, it never is seen as a point, but as a small circle
of light ; and if a retarding plate be intei^josed, under some circum-

stances bands or fringes parallel to the edge of the retarding plate are
generated in the circular image of the luminous point; and those bands
are not symmetrically arranged from the centre of the circular image;
and the amount of their deviation from symmetrical position depends
on the retardation of the ray in passing through the plate of mica,
&c. and therefore depends upon the colour of the ray, or upon its posi-

tion in a spectrum. Thus, if we examine the bands formed by different
kinds of light, similar to those from successive points in a spectrum,
the bands formed by these different kinds of light will be shifted suc-
cessively more and more to the right (or to the left as the case may be).
Now, if different luminous points be superimposed (as suppose points

 of the different coloured lights contained in white or solar light), in
general it would be easily understood that the bands belonging to one
colour would fall unsymmetrically between the bands in the circular
image of another colour ; and thus if a multitude of them were super-
imposed, they would tend to obliterate each other. But if the luminous
origins of the different streams of coloured light did not coincide, but
were arranged side by side in the same order as the order of their suc-
cessive retardations by the mica, (which supposition is exactly repre-
sented by supposing the origins to be the successive points of a spec-
trum, formed either by refraction or by diffraction,) then it might
 happen that the shift of the centre of each image, in proceeding from
one to the next, was exactly equal to the shift of the bands in relation
to the centre of the image ; and if this shift took place in the proper
 direction, the bands formed by the light from the different sources
would unite and would strengthen each other ; but if the shift took
place in the opposite direction, the bands would be more widely sepa-
rated than before, and would obliterate each other. It i*esulted from a
 mass of calculation to which he had subjected these conditions, that the
 relation of the wave lengths of the different colours, in passing from
the violet to the red end, was such, that, under favourable circum-

stances, a retarding plate being made to cover the half of the eye next
the violet end, the bands came together, and so strengthened each
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  5

other and became obvious to sense ; but on turning the plate to the
red end, the bands separated and obliterated each other. Thus the
phaenomenon became a simple consequence of the undulatory theory.

On Professor Powell's Measures of the Indices of Refraction for the

    HGlines and in the Spectrum. By Sir David Brewster.

   After noticing the discussion between Professor Powell and himself
on this subject, the author drew attention to another demonstration of
the accuracy of his former statements. In the diagram No. I. he had
drawn the group of lines round G, which is a single line well marked in
the spectrum, and distinctly delineated in Fraunhofer's map. The real

Gline is not situated in the middle of the group, but much nearer its

least refrangible side, and hence the index of refraction, as taken by

Prof. Powell from the middle of the group, must have a greater index
of refraction than the real line G, whose wave length in the interference

Hspectrum had been determined by Fraunhofer. In reference to the line

the error is much more serious, as appeared from the diagram No. II.,
in which Sir D. Brewster had represented the two remarkable bands in
the violet rays, the least refrangible of which is distinctly marked in
Fraunhofer's map with the letter H. Between the central lines of
these two bands there are no fewer than fourteen lines in the same
map. All the observations made by Fraunhofer, both on the camera

Hspectrum and the interference spectrum, apply to the central line of

the least refrangible of the two bands ; but the observations of Prof.
Powell, to which the author referred at the Newcastle Meeting, were

all taken from an imaginary line bisecting the interval between these

two bands, and therefore were of no value as physical data for testing
the new theory of dispersion. Prof. Powell has recently given new

Gmeasures for the real lines and H, thus admitting the accuracy of

Sir D. Brewster's former observations.

     On the Decomposition of Glass. By Sir David Brewster.

   The author has had occasion to examine the phaenomena of de-
composed glass, both of that which is found in Italy, of which he
has received the finest specimens from Dr. Buckland and the Mar-
quis of Northampton, and of other specimens recently found in
making excavations among the ruins of the chapter-house of the
cathedral of St. Andrew's. In decomposed glass the decomposition
commences in points, and extends itself either in planes so as to
form thin films, or in concentric coats so as to form concentric films.
When the centres of decomposition are near each other, the concen-
tric films or strata which they form interfere with each other, or ra-
ther unite, and the effect of this is that the glass is decomposed in films
of considerable irregularity, their surfaces having a finely mammillated
appearance, convex on one side and concave on the other. The films
6 K15PORT 1840.

thus fonued are of extreme beauty, and atfoid by transmitted light co-
lours of infinite beauty and variety, surpassing anything produced in
works of art. Tliey have the effect of directing, as it were, the com-
pound surface of the solar spectrum, or of sii'ting and separating the
superimposed coloui's, in a manner analogous to what is produced by
colours and absorbing media. Sir D. Brewster has succeeded indeed
in producing one or more bands of white light incapable of decompo-
sition by the prism, and there can be no doubt that they will be found
to exercise a similar or an analogous action on the heating rings of the
thermometric spectrum. In the decomposed glass from St. Andrew's
a change of a very different kind is effected. In some cases the sili-
ceous and the metallic elements of the glass are separated in a very sin-
gular manner, the particles of silex having released themselves from the
state of constraint produced by fusion and subsequent cooling, and ar-
ranged themselves circularly round the centre of decomposition ; while
the metallic particles, which are opake, had done the same thing in cir-
cles alternating with the circles of the siliceous particles. This restora-
tion of the silex to its crystalline state is proved by its giving the co-
lour of polarized light, and possessing an axis of double refraction.

   The preceding notice was illustrated by diagrams and specimens of

the different kinds of glass referred to.

On the Rings of Polarized Light produced in specimens of Decomposed

                     Glass. By Sir David Brewster.

In the course of a series of experiments on the connexion between

the absorption of light and tlie colours of thin plates, published in the

Phil. Trans., 1837, the author accidentally observed under the polar-

izing microscope certain phenomena of polarized tints, of great beauty

and singularity. These tints were sometimes linear and sometimes cir-

cular, and in some specimens they formed beautiful circular rings, tra-

versed by a black cross, resembling the phaenomena of mineral crystals,

or those produced by rapidly cooled cii'cular plates or cylinders of glass.

Having found in the decomposed glass from St. Andrew's that the sili-

ceous particles had resumed their position as regular crystals, and ar-

ranged themselves circularly round the centre of decomposition, he was

led to suppose that this was the cause of the phaenomena, and that

the rings were the effect of the double refraction of the minute cry-

Astals.  few experiments, however, overturned this hypothesis, and he

was soon satisfied, by a little further investigation, that the phaenomena

arose wholly from the polarization of the transmitted light by refrac-

tion, the splendid colours being entirely those of thin plates, which

were sometimes arranged so as to have the appearance of concentric

rings. The structui-e by which these effects were produced was com-

pared by the author to a heap of veiy deep watch-glasses laid one above

another. When the thin films were arranged longitudinally, and were

inclined to the general surface of the plate, so as to transmit the rays ob-

liquely, the light was still polarized, but only in one plane, namely, a
TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTIONS.  /

plane perpendicular to the plane of incidence. When a drop of water

or oil was introduced between the films, the phsenomena oi polarization,
as well as of colour, instantly disappeared.

   The preceding paper was illustrated by coloured drawings.

 On the Cause of the Increase of Colour by the Inversion of the Head.
                       By Sir David Brewster.

   " It has been long known to artists and tourists that the colours of ex-

ternal objects, and particularly of natural scenery, are greatly aug-
mented by viewing them with the head bent down and looking back-
wards between the feet, that is, by the inversion of the head. The co-
lour of the western sky and the blue and purple tints of distant moun-
tain scenery are thus beautifully developed. The position of the head,

however, which I have described, is a very inconvenient one, but the ef-

fect may be produced nearly to the same extent by inverting the head so

far as to look at landscapes backwards beneath the thighs or under the left
arm. It is not easy to describe in any precise language the degree of in-

crease which the colours of natural scenery thus receive, but an idea may

be formed of it from the fact, that the colours of distant mountains which

appear to me as if of a French-gray colour when viewed with the head

erect, appear of a brilliant blue or purple tint with the head inverted.

Upon inverting the landscape by reflexion I found that no increase of

colour took place. I then viewed the inverted landscape with the head
inverted and found the colour to be increased as before. Hence it ap-

pears that the increase of colour is not owing to the simple inversion
of the object and to our viewing it under unusual circumstances. That
the augmentation of tint is not owing to the impression falling upon a

part of the retina not so much accustomed to receive such impressions,
is obvious from the fact that the tint is the same upon whatever part of
the retina the image falls, and it is easy to see that the very same part
of the retina is affected whether we look at an object with the head up-
wards or downwards, or in any other position, provided we look at it
directly. In order to acquire some information on this subject, I re-

quested a friend who was unacquainted with any theoretical views that
had been advanced, to make some observations on the change of colour
of distant mountains. The result of these was to convince him that
the increase of tint arose from the protection of the eye from lateral
light, owing to the position of the head when inverted. On submitting
this opinion to examination, I found that the tint was not increased by
protecting the eye from lateral rays, even to a much greater extent than
is done by the inversion or inclination of the head, and therefore that

this could not be the cause of the increase of colour. In this perplexity
about the cause of the phsenomenon in question, I had an opportunity
of observing the great increase of light which took place in an eye in a
state of inflammation. This increase was such that objects seen by the
sound eye appeared as if illuminated by twilight, while those seen by
the inflamed eye seemed as if they were illuminated by the direct rays
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;

--8 REPORT 1840.

of the sun. All coloured objects had the intensity of their colours
proportionably augmented, and I was thus led to believe that the in-
crease of colour produced by the partial or total inversion of the head
arose from the increased quantity of blood thrown into tlie vessels of the

--eye-ball, the increased pressure thus produced upon the retina, caused

from the increased sensibility thus given to the vertical membrane.
Subsequent observations have confirmed this opinion; and though I
cannot pretend to have demonstrated it, I have no hesitation in ex-

pressing it as my conviction that the apparent increase of tint to which

I have referred is not an optical but a physiological phsenomenon. If

this is the case, we are furnished with a principle which may enable us

not only to appreciate faint tints which cannot otherwise be recognized
but to perceive small objects, which, with our best telescopes, might be
otherwise invisible."

On the Phcenmnena and Cause of Muscce Volitantes. By Sir David

                                           Brewster.

 --The following are the principal results described in detail in this

communication. 1. That in persons of all ages, and with the most
perfect eye, transparent filaments or tubes exist in the vitreous
humour, and at different distances from the retina. 2. That these
filaments float in the vitreous humour, moving about with the mo-
tion of the head. 3. That these filaments are seen by means of
their shadows on the retina, and are most distinctly visible in diver-
gent light, their shadows being bounded by fringes produced by dif-
fraction or inflexion. 4. That the real muscce, resembling flies, are
knots tied, as it were, on these filaments, and arising from sudden
jerks or motions of the head, which cause the long floating filaments

to overtop and run into knots. 5. By making experiments with the

head in all positions, and determining the limits of the motions of the
muscce, by measuring their apparent magnitude, and producing double
images of them by means of two centres of divergent light, the author
was able to determine their exact place in the vitreous humour, and to
ascertain the important fact, that the vitreous humour in the living
human eye is contained in cells of limited magnitude, which prevent
any bodies which they contain from passing into any of the adjacent
cells. Sir David Brewster concluded with the following observations.

    " I have dwelt thus hng on the subject of Muscce volitantes, not
only because it is an entirely new one, but also on account of its prac-
tical utility. Mr. Mackenzie informs us that few symptoms prove

so alarming to persons of a nervous habit or constitution as Muscce
volitantes, and that they immediately suppose tliat they are about to
lose their sight by cataract or amaurosis. The details which I have
submitted to you prove that the Muscce volitantes have no connexion
with either of these diseases, and are altogether harmless. This valu-
able result has been deduced from a recondite property of divergent

light, which has only been developed in our own day, and which might
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                 9

seem to have no bearing whatever of an utilitarian character. And this

is but one of numerous proofs which the progress of knowledge is daily
accumulating, that the most abstract, and apparently transcendent truths
in physical science will sooner or later add their tribute to supply
human wants and alleviate human sufferings. Nor has science per-
formed one of the least important of her functions, when she enables
us, either in our own case or in that of others, to dispel those anxieties
and fears which are the necessary offspring of ignorance and error."

ByOn the Line of Visible Direction along the Axis of Vision.  Sir

David Brewster.

   In Monsieur D'Alembert's Memoir " On Different Questions in

Optics," published in his " Opuscules Mathematiques," tom. i., he has
maintained the singular opinion, that distant objects, like the fixed

stars, when viewed directly with both eyes, are not seen in their true

direction ; that is, neither in the direction of the rays which they send
to the eye, nor of the line (coincident with it) drawn from the point
of incidence in the retina through the centre of visible direction. The
author pointed out the fallacy in D'Alembert's reasoning, and thus
established, in opposition to the opinion of that distinguished philoso-
pher, the law of visible direction, which he had explained at the New-
castle Meeting.

A Brief Account of the Camera Obscura, and other Apparatus, used in

   making Daguerreotype Drawings. By Sir David Brewster.

   The author exhibited a very perfect apparatus, executed for him by
Mr. Thomas Davidson of Edinburgh, who has made some essential
improvements on the process. Sir David also exhibited several draw-
ings taken by Mr. Davidson with that apparatus, of various buildings

and scenes in Edinburgh, He likewise explained to the meeting the

method of executing Photogenic Drawings on paper, as invented by
Mr. Fox Talbot, and exhibited to the Section a series of very beauti-
ful drawings executed by Mr. Talbot himself, and presented to him
by that distinguished philosopher.

            On a Method of Illuminating Microscopic Objects.

                       By Sir David Brewster.

   Considering a perfect microscope as consisting of two parts, viz. an
illuminating apparatus, and a magnifying apparatus, the author stated,
that it was of more consequence that the illuminating apparatus should
be perfect, than that the magnifying apparatus should be so ; and that
the essential part of his method consisted in this ; that the rays which
form the illuminating image or disc shall have their foci exactly on the
--10 REPORT 1840.

part of the microscopic object to be observed, so that the illuminating
rays may radiate, as it were, from the object, as if it were self-luminous.

Now this can only be well obtained by illuminating with a singlelens, ora

system of lenses, without spherical or chromatic aberration, whose focal
length, either real or equivalent, is less than the focal length of the
object-glass of the microscope. The smaller the focal length of the
illuminating lens or system of lenses, the more completely do we secure
the condition that the illuminating rays shall not come to a focus either

before they reach the object, or after they have passed it. When Dr.

Wollaston recommended for an illuminating lens, one of three-fourths
of an inch in focal length, in which the microscopic object was placed
in a vortex of foci, where the rays crossed in a thousand points both
before and after they fell upon the object, he could have had no
idea of the new method of illumination. In the construction of a per-
fect microscope, Sir David Brewster recommended that the illumina-
ting and magnifying apparatus should have separate and similar move-
ments along the same rod or bar, and that the stage for the objects
should be unconnected with either, and should have also a motion
independent of both.

             On an Improvement in the Polarizing Microscope.

                        By Sir David Brewster.

    This improvement consists in placing the analysing prism or simple
rhomb immediately behind the object-glass, that is, on the side of the
object-glass next the eye. The great inconvenience of placing it be-
tween the eye-glass and the eye, had induced several skilful observers
to reject the prism altogether as an analyser, or to substitute for it a
plate of tourmaline, which is quite unfit for any observations in which
colour is to be considered. The analysing prism may remain constantly
on the microscope behind the object-glass, without in the least injuring
the performance of the microscope, and it should have a motion of
rotation independent of the body of the microscope.

Extract of a Letter from Col. Reid to Sir D. Brewster.

                                              Bermuda, August 17th, 1839.

--Ueau Sir, I think the accompanying letter, which describes the singular ap-

pearance of the sun at Bermuda, which made white objects appear blue, cannot

fail to interest you; and if you are able to explain ihe cause of this, I should
be very glad if you would favour me with such explanation. The fact is one

familiar to every one here ; but I requested Dr. Harvey to put it in writing,

expressing what he saw himself, that J might send the account to you. The

present collector of the customs at Bermuda was at sea on the 1 1th of August, the

day the same hurricane was passing over St. Vincent; and to him and to the

other persons on board, objects appeared, they thought, of a light green or

hluisli o^reen colour, and the sun had this same appearance. Their vessel was

then fifteen miles east of Bermuda. The hurricane reached Barbadoes a little

bufoie midnight on the 10th of August, 1831.

                                                                                    j
          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  11

    Three days ago I had a fine opportunity of observing a waterspout under

my house, and could, with a spy-glass, distinctly observe that, at the surface

of the sea, it was revolving like the hands of a watch, and the same observation
was made at a telegraph station near Government House. This is the fifth

account, well authenticated, in north latitude : all five revolved in the same way.

                                                                    Bermuda, 3rd August, 1839.

--Dear Sir, Not having made any notes at the time, I can only proceed to

narrate the circumstances, which occurred liere in August, 1831, from memory.

On the 10th of that month the weather was i-emarkably fair, but as evening

drew near a change took place. The sky began to lower and put on an awful

and gloomy appearance. The clouds collected voluminously and very heavily

in every direction over the island, indicating a prodigious fall of rain. At this

time I do not recollect any threatening of a storm of wind, save a moderately

hollow sound of the sea dashing against the shore, but by no means equalling

that which we frequently witness at this season of the year when a storm is

impending, or has passed by us. Thunder and lightning began to be severe,

and the weather more threatening. Next morning, the tlth, I rose early, for

the purpose of writing, and soon discovered, the light was so dim, I could not

proceed. I removed to another room, and finding m\' situation not improved,

I said in the presence of one of my family, I apprehend a sudden failure of

sight. I was then asked if I had not observed a very peculiar appearance of

the sun's rays the day before. 1 had not ; but had perceived the iioor of the

room to look blue, especially where the sun shone on it : indeed every object

in the room appeared of a sickly blue colour. The next day, the 12th, a mail-

boat was put under weigh for the first time, with a party on board. The day

was so mild and tranquil we could only reach a few miles ; the sails, which

were new, and pure white, nevertheless appeared to be stained of a bluish

colour, and the sea was of a dingy yellow. On the first arrival from the West

Indies we heard of the devastation at Barbadoes ; but with us there were no

subsequent unusual appearances; on the contrary, we had very fair weather,

although I heard this singular blue colour was observed even to the coast of

America.

          (Signed)  Augustus Wm. Harvey, M.D.

   Sir David Brewster, who communicated Col. Reid's letter, observed,

that in the course of a series of experiments on the colour of mixed
plates, both as produced by the soft solids compressed between plates

of glass, and as exhibited in laminae of sulphate of lime, and other
minerals containing strata of minute cavities filled with fluids, he was

led to the opinion that the blue colour of the sun was produced in a
similar way by vapour or water in a vesicular state, interposed between
the sun and the observer. Owing to this cause, the sun may exhibit
any colour, and, in point of fact, he had once seen the sun of a bright
salmon colour, in which both red and yellow were mixed with the blue.

A similar effect is often produced when the sun is seen in a cold winter

morning through the windows of a carriage covered with hoar frost, or
when it is seen through vapour similarly deposited. Sir David referred
to observations of his own published in the Phil. Trans, for 1837, in
which he had shown that the colours of mixed plates were phaenomena

of diffraction produced by the edges of transparent bodies separating
media of different density.
12 REPORT-- 1840.

On a remarkable jRai?ibow observed by Mr. Bowman. Communicated
                            by Sir David Brewster.

" On Tuesdajr morning last, soon after sunrise, as the ' Commodore'

steamer, from Liverpool, was making her way up the estuary of the

Clyde, a very perfect and brilliant rainbow was observed by the pas-

sengers on deck, accompanied by a larger outer bow, with fainter re-

versed colours, as is not very unusual under the ordinary conditions of

rain and sunshine. Nearly in contact with the inner edge of the brighter,

or primary bow, were four distinct though smaller ones, parallel to and

equidistant from each other, not perfectly continuous, but formed of

interrupted segments of circles, the colours of each diminishing in in-

tensity, the faintest being the innermost. In all these minor bows the

red and orange were the only colours that were distinctly seen. The

water being smooth, the reflexion from its surface was so strong that

the normal and secondary bows seemed to be continued below the ho-

rizontal line, bending inwards till they almost met and formed nearly

two complete concentric circles, the reflected images being scarcely

less brilliant than the bows themselves. The rain drops were few,

though larger than ordinary, and the reflected image of the sun ap-

peared as a broad band of light on the smooth surface of the water,

scarcely less dazzling to the eye than his direct rays. (Above the sun

was a canopy of dark cloud, whose lower margin nearly touched his

upper limb, and was parallel to the horizon.) I first observed a faint

perpendicular light on the north side of the primary bow, and apparently

in contact with its outer margin, and as though diverging from it in a

tangent. By degrees this shot up higher, and acquired the prismatic

colours, which were clearly in the same order as in the primary bow,

though fainter. Shortly afterwards a similar tangent was seen on the

opposite side, in all respects corresponding, both extending upwards

Myto about the height of the large outer bow.  friend Dr. Black, of

Manchester, who was present, first suggested that the lengthened image

of the sun upon the smooth water might probably produce these up-

right lateral columns, the image in this case acting the part of the lu-

Weminary himself.  had soon an opportunity of testing the soundness

of this solution, for in a little time the upper limb of the sun came in

contact with the lower edge of the cloud, and as he very gradually dis-

appeared behind it the primary bow became fainter and fainter, till at

length it faded entirely away. But the upright lateral columns re-

mained, nay, for a short time appeared brighter and higher, and only

disappeared when the more complete obscuration of the sun destroyed

the reflexion of his light upon the water."

On remarkable Rainbows. By the Rev. J. Fisher, M.A., of Rosebank,

                                                 Dumfries.

   The observations were made on Monday, 1st of June, IS-iO, while
travelling by the coach from Glencairn Manse to Dumfries, nearly at
sunset (8 v. m.), the sun being bright and the sky only very partially
                               ;

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  13

clouded. "At first (observes the author), as we were passing over
an elevated part of the road, Killness, near New Bridge, a beautiful
rainbow was formed, remarkable for the width of its span, the elevation
of its arch, as the sun was then low, and also for its vivid colours
still, as the sky became more overcast, the brilliancy of this primary
bow increased, and forthwith an upper bow also assumed distinct-
ness, and though the colours were indeed inverted, as having un-
dergone a double refraction and reflection, was almost as bright as
the under bow, and besides seemed more remote from it than I had
observed before in the formation of the two bows. No sooner were
these two distinctly formed, than a supplementary bow began to form
to each. But the phaenomenon did not end here; for hardly had these
supplementary bows been formed, when there appeared within the arch

of the under bow, another, and another, and another, and so on to a
fifth, in rapid succession ; there being now no less than five supple-
mentary bows clearly and distinctly formed ; and in one part, particu-
larly where the shower above alluded to had been, though the rain had
then seemed almost to cease, I could trace the incipient stage of another
supplementary bow, but this only for a short space. The others, how-
ever, were distinctly formed throughout the whole arch, and the four

first especially, nearly as vivid as the under bow itself.
    " Such was the appearance with regard to the under bow; but upon

reviewing the upper one, not only was there the first supplementary bow,
but also two others, clearly and distinctly formed throughout the whole
arch, and only diminished, as to size, distance, and vividness of colours,
as in the case of the first lower bows ; only the spaces between each sup-
plementary bow belonging to the upper one, seemed larger than between

the supplementary bows belonging to the under one. And as in the

case of the under bow, its supplementary bows gradually diminished as
to the size of the arch and brightness of their colours, in a distinct ma-
thematical proportion ; so also with regard to the upper bow, its sup-
plementary bows, vice versa, though they exhibited the exact arrange-
ment of prismatic colours, as did the primary bow to which they be-
longed, increased their arch over the heavens, diminishing at the same
time in width or distance from each other, as well as in the brilliancy
of their colours, in the same exact proportion. This whole phsenomenon,
with ten distinct rainbows, and at one time part of the eleventh, stretch-
ing across the heavens, was indeed truly magnificent, and besides, took
in a much larger space than I had ever noticed before. The vale of
Nith may extend about nine or ten miles across, and in the case of these
bows, the one foot seemed near the Barhill, Inwald, and the other near
the White hill, Terregles. They first became visible as we were crossing
Killness, Ness, Holywood, and continued for nearly a mile without
much sensible alteration, only the arches ascending higher and higher
(till we arrived at Newton Lodge^ as the sun descended. As we ap-
proached Dumfries some of the bows gradually disappeared, probably
from our having moved out of the proper angle of reflexion. Soon
after this the sun sunk below our sensible horizon, and finally showed
only the upper part of the larger arches."
--14 REPORT 1840.

             On a new case of Inttrference. By A. Bell.

               On the Irisrope. By Joseph Read, M.D.

    After noticing the fact of the appearance of coloui's on plain glass
which has been washed and then breathed on, while breathing on the
same glass when perfectly dry yield only a gray vapour, the author
describes the following experiment.

    " Having procured a convex plate of black glass, such as that of a

perspective mirror, I smeared its surface with the top of my finger,

dipt in a strong solution of Castile soap and distilled water ; when dry
I polished with a coarse towel until no clouds appeared ; I now breathed
on it through a glass tube about a foot long and one-third of an inch
diameter, when a beautiful series of concentric and variously coloured
rings were formed."

   The author then notices the analogy of the coloured rings thus ob-
tained with those of Nobili, procured by voltaic agency, and offers
remarks on the theory of the subject. An instrument constructed for
the purpose of experiment was exhibited.

        On an Experiment of Interference. By Prof. Powell.

   The author refers to an experiment of Mr. Potter (in the Lond.
and Edinb. Journ. of Science, May 1840,) in which, under certain pe-

culiar conditions, the central stripe appears black, instead of ichite, as

required by theory, and in the ordinary form of the experiment. The

author repeated the experiment in the peculiar loay proposed, but still
found the stripe in question xvhite. His object was to bring it under
the notice of the Section, and induce others to examine the question,
especially by micrometrical measurements.

            On a point in the Wave- Theory as applied to Heat.
                             By Prof. Powell.

    According to M. Cauchy's theory, the relation between the refract-
ive index and the wave-length is expressed by the formula

and when X is very great, compared with Aa-, this expression is reduced

to its limiting value,  _ --= =P or, f*

                                       =-

This forms the limit of refraction for rays of all wave-lengths, ivhe-

iher of light or of heat. And as the value approaches this limit, consi-

derable changes in X will correspond only to small changes in ^.

This deduction is obvious, and has been before made. The limit is

easily determined from Mr. Kelland's calculation for all the media ex-

amined by Fraunhofer ; thus e. g. for flint-glass, No. 13, we have

B =For the ray                             1-6277
                        . . . . f^B

For the limit           =|ao 1-6090
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  15

   The present object is to remark the bearing of this point on the
theory of heat. If this theory be true, all refraction of heat ought to
fall within this limit, and probably a considerable portion of the heat-
ing rays would have an index not far removed from it. It will be parti-
cularly interesting to calculate it for rock-salt, and other diathermanous
media, and compare it with the index of the heating rays. The data
for rock-salt are given in Professor Powell's report on Refractive In-

dices, British Association Reports, 1839.
    This consideration also explains a difficulty which occurred to Prof.

--Forbes, who in his Third Series of Researches (§ 2. No. 45 46),

having arrived at the conclusion that a wave of heat has a length nearly
three times that of red light, regards this as a startling inference, and
difficult to reconcile with the small difference existing between the in-
dex of refraction for heat and for light. This is just what should re-
sult in the above theory.

        On the Conduction of Heat. By Professor K ell and.

   The author's object in bringing forward this subject at the present

time, he explained to be, to point out the state of our experimental
knowledge of the transmission of heat, and to exhibit its total inade-

quacy to serve as the test of any precise and accurate theory. The
following is a brief sketch of the laistory of the subject. Little had
been done before the time of Lambert, who, in 1755, solved one of the
most simple problems. Afterwards appeared the writings of Euler.
But it Mas left for Fourier, at the commencement of the present cen-

tury, to exhibit a theory having about it the characters of truth, ade-

quacy, and extension. For a long time Fourier's memoir was known
only to a few, and, as it was based on the Newtonian hypothesis, that

radiation is proportional to the diffisrence of the temperatures of the
radiating body and of the surrounding air, it happened that the
interval which elapsed between its production and its publication, to
a great extent destroyed its utility. In 1813 Dulong and Petit, by an
admirable series of experiments, established another law, taking the
indications of the air thermometer as the measure of temperature.

This law is, that the cooling of a body depends, not as Newton sup-
posed, on the difference of temperature of the body, and the space into
which it cools, but on the difference of exponential functions of the
temperatures. The difficulty of the appearance of this law deterred
philosophers from attempting its application to any but one of the pro-
blems. This one was that of the ring. M. Libri read, in 1825, to the
Institute, and afterwards published at Florence and in Crelles Journal
in Germany, his analysis of this problem. No one appears to have
doubted the accuracy of this solution, until, in 1837, the author ex-
pressed his conviction that the whole was founded on an erroneous
hypothesis relative to the resulting equation. The following year M.
 Liouville read a paper on the subject to the Institute, which he subse-
 quently published in his own journal. In this paper he points out
                                                  --

16 REPORT 1840.

clearly the erroneousness of M, Libri's solution, but does not propose
any other in its place. M. Liouville states in a note, that Professor
Kelland had preceded him in this matter, and promises to supply
a solution. Thus, then, one case of theory appears to be made out.
Last year the author again brought forward the subject of Dulong and

Petit's law, but as experiments were wanting to give solidity to
his views, he reserved the publication of his Memoir to a future
time. The design of that paper (of which an abstract appeared in
the account of the proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh) is
this : to show that all the formulae of Fourier are quite accurate
and applicable to physical phsenomena. It will be observed that
Fourier conceives the external and internal flow of heat to vary
as the difference between two quantities, which he calls the tempera-
tures. This hypothesis is not consistent then with nature ; but it is
not, therefore, altogether valueless ; although the difference of tempe-
rature does not determine the flow of heat, it does not follow that the
difference of no other quantities does so. It is highly probable that
the flow of heat is due to the difference between some two things.

Now Dulong found that for external radiation, the flow of heat de-

pends on the difference of two exponential functions of the tempera-

ture. May it not, then, be the fact, that these exponentials, and not

the temperature as measured by the air thermometer, are the elements

by which nature proceeds ? Why should it be supposed that tempera-

ture has any explicit connexion with the matter? Why, in fine, should
we desire to retain our preconceived notions relative to internal trans-
mission, when we find another law holds for external radiation ? The

author ventured on the hypothesis, then, that internal conduction fol-
lows the same law as external radiation, viz. that the flow of heat is
proportional, not to the difference of temperature, but to the difference

of two exponentials of the temperature. To obviate the confusion that

would be introduced into our language by such an hypothesis, he further
ventured to suggest that the term " thermature" should be adopted
as the expression for this exponential function on which the flow of
heat depends. This thermature would be the real measure of caloric
temperature of its effect on the thermometer. This quantity " ther-
mature" is nothing else than Fourier's v. All that remains, then, in
order to reduce the results of theory to those of experiment, is to sub-
stitute for V, on which theory is made to depend, its value in terms
of 6, the temperature as marked by experiment. It readily appears that

= A --v (l a~ ). The author has tested this result by all the expe-

riments which he could find. But he regretted that a want of experi-
ments rendered it impossible to decide the matter, thus leaving the
theory of heat in a most precarious state, whilst its pi'actical applications

are become so vastly important. He hoped by his comments to excite

some attention to the subject, especially among those who are labouring

in the kindred field of the theory of light*.

    * Professor Kelland has undertaken, at the request of the General Commit-
tee, to draw up a report on this subject, to be presented to the Association.
                                                                                                                     !

                                              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                          I'J

On the Temperature of the Earth in the deep Mines in the neiglibour-
            hood of Manchester. By Eaton Hodgkinson.

            ^^*^g'^'"^o" having                                                                         some years          ago received from Professor
                                                                                                       belonging to         the Association, was enabled,
i·^ohi^lvlips four thermometers

through the kmdness of the proprietors of the following pits, and
other parties connected with them, to institute experiments upon
the temperature of the earth in each of them. The salt rock pit,
112 yards deep, belonging to the Marston Salt Company, near North-
wich, Cheshire. The Haydock colliery, 201 yards deep, near to
Warrington The Broad Oak coal mine, 329 yards deep, near to
Uldham. In the latter pit a thermometer placed in a hole three
teet deep, bored in "metal," and closed at the aperture, was examined
weekly by Mr. Swain for twelve months, the temperature varving
trom 57 to 58J- Fahr., it being lowest from the beginning of" Fe-
bruary to the middle of May, and highest in September and October
mto themiddle
          1837                               of November.                                               The experiments above mentioned were
made                                         and 1838, and                                             the results mentioned at the Birmingham

meeting                                 but  the  Broad                                                Oak pit having been increased in  depth since
                                     ;

that time, a thermometer was inserted in it, in a hole bored in metal as
before. It was in a place 408 yards deep, and indicated a temperature
of 61 , remaining nearly constant for twelve months. Mr. Fitzgerald
being recently engaged in sinking a deep coal pit at Pendleton, two miles
trom Manchester, Mr. Hodgkinson conceived this to be a favourable
opportunity for getting additional information on the subject of sub-
terranean temperature
                                                                                                    ;  and, on  his  application to the proprietor,  the

engmeer, Mr. Ray, readily made for him, during the sinking of the
pit, and afterwards in the workings, the experiments of which the
results are below.

   At 418 yards from the surface, the temperature, in a hole from three
to four feet deep bored in dry rock, was 66° ; at 450 yards deep it was
67 , and at 480 yards it was 69°. In the workings, at 461 and 471
yards deep, it was in both cases 65°.

   The mean temperature of the air at Manchester, according to Dr

Dalton s experiments, is 48° Fahr. ; and as the pits above-mentioned
are not very far from Manchester, the mean temperature of the earth
at the surface of each of them, may be considered as 48°. With that sup-
position the distance sunk for each degree of Fahr. would be as below.

In the Rock pit                                                                                                             32 yards.

         ,, Haydock coal pit                                                                                                20 ,,

,,· Broad Oak do.                                                                                                    =33-71 3,,2«-5^

                                                                                                                     31.4 j",,         mean.

         ,, Pendleton do. (shaft) 23-2                                                                                                 = mean.

                                          23-7 A] 23-2 ,,

                                                                                                                     22-8]

         ,, Do.                                   (in workings)                                                 27*1                   ~ mean.

                                                                                                                27*7 V      "^ "

The mean                                from  the whole being 27 yards for each deg°ree of temp^e-

rature.

1840.
--18 REPORT 1840,

            On the Principles of Electro-Magnetical Machines.
                  By Prof. Jacobi, of St. Petersburgh.

   I have the honour to present to the British Association an historical
sketch of the laws which regulate the action of electro-magnetic
machines, laws which will enable us to determine in a precise manner
the important question of the application of this remarkable force as a

moving power. Since the commencement of my labours, which had partly
a purely practical tendency, I proposed to myself to fill up as much as

possible the blank which still remained in our knowledge of electro-

magnetism. With the assistance of M. Lenz, I prosecuted the labours,
which were the more arduous as they had but few precedents in the
direction which I considered it necessary to follow, and we began to
examine carefully the laws of electro-magnets. The report, Avhich
contains the results of our researches, was read in June 1838, before
the Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburgh. I take the liberty of
repeating here, very briefly, the contents of this first report. The
problem which we sought to determine may be stated as follows : If a

nucleus of malleable iron and a voltaic battery of a certain surface is
given, into what number of elements should this surface be divided?
what should be the thickness of the wire of the helix which surrounds
the nucleus ? and, lastly, what number of turns should this helix have,
in order to produce the greatest amount of magnetism ? I will not
dilate here upon the manner in which we have proceeded, or upon the
degree of certainty which belongs to the laws established according to
 our observations. I take the liberty of appending to this statement the
report in question, and will proceed to explain the particular laws : 1st.
The amount of magnetism engendered in malleable iron by galvanic
currents is in proportion to the force of those currents. 2ndly. The
 thickness of the wire twisted into a helix, and surrounding a rod of
 iron, is absolutely of no consequence, provided that the helix have the
same number of turns, and the current be of the same force. This law
 extends also to the case in which ribbons of copper were employed
 instead of wire. Nevertheless I must notice, that in order to obtain a
 current of equal force, it is necessary to employ a voltaic apparatus of
 greater force, if small wires which offer a greater resistance are employed.
 3dly. If the current remain the same, the influence which the diameter
 of the helix exercises may be neglected in the majority of practical
 cases. 4thly. The total action of the electro-magnetic helix upon the
 rod of iron, is equal to the sum of the effects produced by each coil
 separately. Adopting these laws, and submitting them to calculation

 according to the formula of M. Ohm, the importance of which formula
 has but lately begun to be appreciated by some British philosophers,
 we have established the formula which contains all the particular con-
 ditions required to obtain the maxinmm amount of magnetism, which
 may be expressed in the following extremely simple manner, viz. the
 maxitmim of magnetism is alicags ohtained when the total resistance of
 the conducting wire, whichforms the helix, is equal to the total resistance
 of the pile. On referring to the remarkable law of the definite action
                                                               --

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                      19

of the galvanic current, established by Mr. Faraday, it is found that

the magnetism of malleable iron divided by the consumption of zinc,

-- --a quantity which we have called economic effect is with reference

to the maximum of this magnetism, a constant, or an expression into

which neither the thickness of the wire nor the number of the elements

into which the total given surface of the battery is divided, enters, but

only the total thickness of the envelope.

Having finished these first researches, and having obtained these

results, which were highly satisfactory, not only for their simplicity,

but also for their practical value, we set about extending our inquiries

to iron rods of different dimensions. Is there, it may be asked, any

specific effect produced by the length or thickness of the nucleus ? oi

does the degree of magnetism solely depend upon the construction of

the helix, and the force of the current ? The solution of this new pro-

blem presents a greater difficulty than the problem which we had suc-

ceeded in completely solving. Now, we are obliged to take iron rods

of different dimensions, and consequently, in all probability of different

qualities. Similar conditions with reference to the action of the electro-

magnetic helices are likewise difficult to obtain ; and we soon perceived

that these circumstances rendered it impossible to attain so close an

accordance as that which we had obtained in our former observations.

Although these experiments were made two years ago, the results have

not yet been published, because, being occupied with other labours,

we have not been able to find the necessary time for their reduction

and arrangement, and for the requisite calculations. Nevertheless I

take the liberty of presenting to the Section some results, which are

not devoid of interest, and which are intimately connected with the

Wequestion of electro-magnetic machines.   submitted nine cylinders of

malleable iron, each eight inches in length, and of different diameters,

from three inches down to one-third of an inch, to the action of a

voltaic current of the same force in each case, and we obtained the

amount of magnetic force represented in the following table :

 Diameter     Magnetism                    Magnetism
of the rods.    observed.
                                           calculated.

3 447 442
2i 378 376

2 308 310

1^ 246 244
1 175 178

f 158 156
I 142 135
I 112 113
i 87 91

  m =This calculation has been made according to the formula

+131*75 d 46*75, in which the constants have been obtained by the

method of the least squares. The differences between calculation and

observation are not so large that they cannot be attributed to the

inevitable errors of observation, and to circumstances inherent in the

                                        c2
20 REPORT-- 1840.

Aqualities of iron, &c.  similar agreement is found between other

observations, which we shall describe in the report itself. I think,
therefore, we may admit the following law, namely, that the amount of
magnetism received by different iron rods of the same length, and sub-
mitted to the influence of a current of the same force, is proportional to
the diameter of the rods. I must remark, that the constant which
we have added in the formula depends upon the magnetic influence

which the helix exercises, independently of the nucleus of iron

which it encloses. The practical consequences which may be de-

duced from this remarkable law are of considerable importance.

Among these, however, I will at present mention only the follow-

ing. Having found that the amount of magnetism is proportional to

the surface of the malleable iron, and taking into account the quan-

tity of iron employed in the electro-magnets, it is ascertained that it is

more advantageous to employ in the construction of electro-magnetic

machines, rods of small instead of large dimensions ; or rather hollow

iron, in accordance with my own experiments of 1837, which are found

in ' Taylor's Scientific Memoirs,' vol. ii. &c. I cannot pass over in si-

lence the experiments of Prof. Barlow, who, as is well known, proved a

long time before that the induction of the terrestrial magnetism upon

malleable iron, depends only upon the surfaces, and is almost inde-

pendent of the thickness. In order to ascertain the law of electro-

magnets of different lengths, M. Lenz and I undertook numerous and

laborious observations, which were extended even to rods of thirteen

feet in length, and keeping in view at the same time the determination

of the particular distribution of magnetism in the rods. Among these

observations I shall only refer to such as seem most applicable to elec-

tro-magnetic machines, and which have yielded results as simple as

unexpected. The following table contains the results of some obser-

vations made with rods of the same diameter, but of different lengths,

covered with electro-magnetic helices, and influenced by a current of
Mthe same force.
                  being the magnetism of the extremities, and n the
--M =number of the coils of the helix, we have
                                  n             x, a, formula according

to which we may calculate the numbers contained in the third column.

The numbers in the fourth column are deduced from a series of other
observations, made with the same helix of 960 turns, which did not

cover the whole length of the rods, but were collected at the extre-

mities only, where they occupied a space of about two inches in length.

The helices being the same in all the observations, it was only neces-

sary to divide the magnetism of the extremities by 960, in order to

find the numbers of this column.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  21

Table of Experiments upon the Magnetic Forces of Rods of different lengths.
--22 REPORT 1840.

currents, he lias founded upon it a new method of measuring these

currents, and of determining the different elements or constants, which

enter into the analytical expressions, and on which depends the action

of any galvanic combination. It is principally to the measure of the

electromotive force, by those means, that Mr. Wheatstone has directed

his attention ; and he has shown me, in his unpublished papers, very

valuable results which he has obtained by this method.

While these purely theoretical researches were in progress, I did

not fail myself to enter directly upon the question of the practical ap-

plication of electro-magnetism. Unfortunately, I cannot here give the

details either of the experiments which I have made upon a very large

scale, or of the machines and apparatus of various kinds which I have

constructed. The necessity of multiplying the facts or tangible results

-- a necessity the more urgent, because the practical applications of
--this force increased so very rapidly this necessity, I say, has not al-

lowed me time or leisure to digest and arrange them. I can only here

express my readiness to afford any explanation of the details which

may be desired. I will, hoAvever, particularly notice the satisfactory

results of the experiments made last year with a boat of twenty-eight

feet in length and seven and a half feet in width, drawing 2J feet of
water, and carrying fourteen individuals, which was propelled upon the

Neva at the rate of about three English miles in the hour. The

machine, which occupied very little space, was set in motion by a bat-

tery of sixty-four pairs of platina plates, each having thirty-six square

inches of surface, and charged according to the plan of Mr. Grove,

with nitric and diluted sulphuric acid. Although these results may

perhaps not satisfy the exaggerated expectations of some persons, it is

to be remembered, that in the first year, namely, in 1 838, this boat

being put in motion by the same machine, and employing 320 pairs of

plates, each of thirty-six square inches, and charged with sulphate of

copper, only half this velocity was obtained. This enormous battery

occupied considerable space, and the manipulation and the management

of it was very troublesome. The judicious changes made in the dis-

tribution of the rods, in the construction of the commutator, and lastly,

in the principles of the voltaic battery, have led to the successful result

Weof the following year, 1839.  have gone thus on the Neva more

than once, and during the whole day, partly with and partly against

the stream, with a party of twelve or fourteen persons, and with a ve-

locity not much less than that of the first invented steam-boat. I

believe that more cannot be expected from a mechanical force, whose

existence has only been known since 1 834, when I made the first ex-

periment at Konigsberg, in Prussia, and only succeeded in lifting a

weight of about twenty ounces, by even this electro-magnetic power.

I must, on the present occasion, confess frankly and without

reserve, that hitherto the construction of electro-magnetic machines

has been regulated in a great measure by mere trials ; that even the

machines constructed according to the indisputable laws established

with regard to the statical eftects of electro-magnets, have been found

inctficieiit, as soon as we came to deal with motion. Being ahvays
                                                 ---- ;

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                23

accustomed to proceed in a legitimate manner, and feeling great regret

at the irregular attempts which were being made everywhere, without

any scientific foundation, this state of things appeared to me so un-

mysatisfactory, that I could not but direct all  efforts to ascertain clearly

the laws of these remarkable machines. I submit the formulas relative

to these laws, which appear to me to recommend themselves as much

by their simplicity as by the natural manner in which they develope

themselves. Let 11 represent all the mechanical resistances acting upon

the machine, and v the uniform velocity with which it moves : we
= RThave for the power or mechanical eifect, the expression
                                                             v.

Let n be the number of the coils of the helix which covers the rods

z, the number of the plates of the battery ; B, the total resistance of

the galvanic circuit ; E, the electromotive force ; k, a coefficient, which

depends on the arrangement of the bars, the distance of the poles, and

the quality of the iron ; we have then for the maximum of the me-

chanical eifect which will be obtained, the expression

For the velocity, which corresponds to this maximum,

                      II V = --'

For the resistance acting upon the machine,

                            m. R -.W2 22 E2

                                                   4B«

Lastly, for the ceconomic effect, i. e. the duty or the mechanical effect
divided by the consumption of zinc in a given time,

                                IV. 0=-^,-

                                                           2k

   These formulae may be expressed in the terms :
   1st, The maximum of mechanical effect which may be obtained
from a machine, is proportional to the square of the number of voltaic
elements, multiplied by the square of the electromotive force, and
divided by the total resistance of the voltaic circuit. There enters,
moreover, into the formula, a factor, which I have designated k, and
which depends upon the quality of the iron, the form and disposition
of the rods, and the distance between their extremities. The result is,
that with reference to some other investigations, which I have made
of voltaic combinations, and under similar conditions, the use of plati-
num, zinc, the resistance being the same, will produce an effect two or

three times greater than the use of copper, zinc.

   2nd, Neither the number of the coils of the helix which covers the
rods, nor the diameter or the length of the rods themselves, has any
influence upon the maximum of the power. It results, therefore, that
neither by adding to the length or diameter of the rods, nor by employ-
ing a greater quantity of wire, can the power be increased. There is,
--24 REPORT 1840.

however, this remarkable fact, that the number of coils disappears from
the formula, simply because the force of the machine is in a direct ratio,
and the velocity is in an inverse ratio, to the square of this number.
It is thus that the number of coils, the dimensions of the rods, and the
other constituent parts of an electro-magnetic machine, should be con-
sidered simply as occupying the range of the ordinary mechanisms
which serve for the transmission or transformation of the velocity,
without increasing the available power. So it would be possible to use,
instead of the ordinary wheelwork, rods of greater or less length, or a
greater or less quantity of wire, in order to establish between the force
and the velocity, the relation which the applications to manufacturing
processes may require.

   3rd, The mean attraction of the magnetic rods, or the pressure which
the machine can exert, is proportional to the square of the current.
This pressure is indicated by the galvanometer, which in this manner
performs the function of the manometer of steam-engines.

    4th, The economic effect, i. e. the duty or the available power,
divided by the consumption of zinc, is a constant quantity, which is ex-
pressed most simply by the relation between the electromotive force
and the factor k, which has been previously noticed. I may here repeat,
wliat I stated elsewhere, that by employing platinum instead of copper,
the theoretical expenses may be reduced in the proportion of nearly 23

to 14.

   5th, The consumption of zinc, which takes place while the machine
is af rest, and does not work at all, is double that which takes place
while it is producing the maximum of po\Aer.

    I consider that there will not be much difficulty in determining
with sufficient precision the duty of one pound of zinc, by its transfor-
mation into the sulphate, in the same manner that in the steam-engine,

the duty of one bushel of coal serves as a measure to estimate the effect
of different combinations. The future use and application of electro-

magnetic machines appears to me quite certain, especially as the mere

trials and vague ideas which have hitherto prevailed in the construction
of these machines, have now at length yielded to the precise and definite
laws which are conformable to the general laws which nature is accus-
tomed to observe with strictness, whenever the question of effects and
their causes arises. In viewing on the one hand a chemical effect, and
on the other a mechanical effect, the intermediate term scarcely presents
itself at first. In the present case, it is magneto-electricity, the admi-
rable discovery of Faraday, which we should consider as the regulating
power, or, as it may be styled, the logic of electro-magnetic machines.

           0)1 the Theory of Electricity. By C. J. Kennedy.

    The author shows in the commencement of his paper, that on the
 theory of a single fluid, the electrified aerial current proceeding from

 the positive wire nuist be superior in force to the electrified aerial

current proceeding from the negative wire. He describes various ex-
                                                                                         ;

         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                   25

periments with light wheels, and suspended gold leaf, in which this

appears to be a fact. He adverts to other experimenta crucis, all con-

curring in his opinion to establish the theory of a single electric fluid,

as the movement of a line of water, or saline solution, from the positive
or vitreous to the negative or resinous pole, as found by Mr. Porret
and M. de la Rive ; and appeals to ordinary experiments in which
cards are perforated by electrical discharge in confirmation of the same
view. The theory of a single electric fluid is capable of assuming two
forms, in which material idio-repulsion is entirely discarded. The one
form is that of an original theory adopted by Mr. Kennedy in the year
1825. It was deduced from a rather complicated fluxionary calculation,

by which a beautifully simple result was obtained. An exponential

fluxionary equation, involving all the possible powers and simple func-
tions of the electric force, was employed. The result of the calculation
was surprisingly simjile, namely, that electrical action varies in the

Ainverse ratio of the electric quantity ; or, OC -· Let A' represent the

                                                                  9

attraction of a material corpuscle for electricity, in any given electrical

condition, suppose the neutral state, and q the quantity of electricity

which that corpuscle then contains. The tendency of two material
=corpuscles c c' towards each other, may be denoted by T, and is 2 A'g
= +A' X q A' X q- Now, if the electrical quantities of c and c' be-
=come each

= -- = --XX--will become
      X, the attraction of each of these corpuscles for electricity

         A ' >y                                                   +A ' //      A' /7

           ", and T will become                                      i- x x       3 := 2 A' g,

          X

as before ; that is, the joint tendency of the two corpuscles to mutual
approach remains unaltered, so long as their electrical quantities are

equal to each other, whatever each of these electrical quantities may

be, whether a large quantity or a small. Suppose next, that the elec-

^trical quantity of c becomes x, and that of c' := i/, then their re-

-- -- Tspective attractions for electricity will be 3 and ^; and
                                                       A ' /7          A ' /7

                                                                                         will be

                                                                  Xy
= -- + -- -- + --A' q
       Nowi
      .  A' q X                           A' qi-y^     A' iq_x-.  -.j  ,, .  must,  ,be                                 ,

X  y                               ,  or            ,                  tins              greater

X y Xy

than 2 A' q, in every case in which x is unequal to y ; for if x is un-

--equal to y because A' and q are constant quantities                          2^ must be

-- --^. --unequal to
         If x be greater than y, i must be greater than
XX^^ ^^^^JJL. Now
         : A' ^ : : A' ? :^ll^'. Whence^^^ii^ +
                                                       y Xy

-- Tare greater than 1 h! q; that is, the least possible value of is 2 A' y
   in common language, the tendency of the two corpuscles to mutual

         * Euclid's Ek-mciils, Book v. prop. xxv.
        --

--26 REPORT 1840.

approach, is the least possible when they contain equal quantities of

electricity. It follows also, that the more unequal x and y are, the

-- --greater must the sum of
                   ^^ and i-- be ; that is, the more the
                   Xy

electrical quantities of tlie two corpuscles differ, the greater is their
tendency to mutual approach. The phcenomena of electrical attraction,
repulsion, and quiescence, may be explained on this theory, in a manner
perfectly satisfactory, and exceedingly easy.

   The author then exemplified this in the following cases :

                   1. Quiescence.

A B C DCase 1 Let  be four small balls, equal to each other,

homogeneous, equidistant in the same straight line, and all in the neutral

electrical state.
A C B DCase 2. Let
                   be electrified plus, while       remain in the

neutral state.
A BCase 3. Let be electrified minus, ivhile
                                               remains in the neutral

state.

                   2. Attraction.

A BLet be positively, and negatively, electrified.

Case 1.                            3. Repulsion.
Case 2.
            A BLet and be alike electrified plus.
            A BLet and be alike electrified minus.

          An Account of the Magnetic Observatory of Munich.
                                 By Br. Lamont.

   The author stated that the building had been undertaken in April
this year, and that the i-egular series of observations, comprehending
both the daily observations from two to three hours, and the term-day
observations, was commenced on the 1st of August. The Magnetic
Obsei-vatory of Munich differs in two respects from other establishments
of the same kind. In the first place, it is not a magnetical house, but
a subterraneous building, which is situated to the S.W. of the Royal
Observatory, and at a distance of about 120 feet, and connected with
it by a subterraneous passage. The depth of the magnetic observatory
below the surface of the earth is 13 feet, thus affording the advantage
of a temperature nearly equal at all times of the year, and rendering

--the corrections applied to magnetic observations in order to reduce

them to a fixed temperature corrections which are in general subject
to considerable uncertainty--if not unnecessary, at least sufficiently
small to be determined with the utmost degree of accuracy. In the
second place, the instruments are of greater dimensions than those
usually employed in magnetic observatories, and may be considered as
sufficient in all respects for the most delicate investigations. The mag-

netic bars weigh 251bs. each ; the theodolite has a circle of 2^ feet dia-
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  27

meter, and an achromatic telescope of 3^ inches aperture. It may be

remarked that the horizontal-force instrument difters from the bifilar
magnetometer, the force that holds the bar in a direction perpendicular
to the magnetic meridian being a spiral spring. Besides the instru-
ments fixed in the observatory, there are portable instruments for
making experiments with bars of ^Ib., lib., 41bs., lOlbs. and 25lbs.

   The munificence with which the king of Bavaria has been always
known to support the cause of science, and the liberality of the Crown
Prince, who takes peculiar interest in physical researches, have contri-
buted to render the magnetic observatory of Munich the most complete

establishment of this kind on the continent.

A general statement of the St/stem of Meteorological Observations carried

                    on in Bavaria. By Dr. Lamont.

   The Royal Observatory of Munich constitutes the central establish-
ment, and has the superintendence of all meteorological observations
made under public authority. There are meteorological observatories
at Ratisbon, Augsburg, and Hohen-Peissenberg, the latter being si-
tuated on the summit of a mountain 3000 feet above the level of the

sea. Besides, meteorological observations are registered partly by
members of the Royal Meteorological Society, partly by persons ap-
pointed by Government, at 260 towns and villages in Bavaria. The
observations thus obtained, though not equally complete, some of them
being registered only once, some twice, and but a comparatively small
number three times a day, Avill be found extremely valuable for the
purposes of meteorohgy. Hourly observations of the barometer and
thermometer have been made at the Royal Observatory of Munich since

May 1838, by means of accurate registering instruments, constructed
on a new principle. Dr. Lamont, in mentioning this extensive system

of observations, referred for the results and further particulars to the

annual publications of the Royal Observatory of Munich. He con-

cluded by remarking, that the great object of meteorology was to find
the causes from which the changes in the atmosphere arise ; to trace the
propagation of these changes from one place to another, and the mo-
difications they undergo on their way ; and to show what relation exists
between the states of the atmosphere at different parts of the globe, and
how the changes at one place depend upon, or are connected with,
simultaneous or preceding changes at another. This, he said, can
only be attained by combining observations made in different coun-
tries after a general and uniform system ; and in mentioning at that
meeting the extensive observations carried on in Bavaria, it was his
intention to show how far a general system, such as had been just
alluded to, was likely to be supported in that part of Germany, and
to express the hope that such a general system will be introduced at
no distant period, perhaps, by the same Association by whose exertions
a similar system of magnetic observations has now so successfully been

carried into effect.
--28 REPORT 1840.

Notice accompanying a Series of Meteorological Observations made at

                   Trevandrum. By Mr. Caldecott.

   The author commenced with observing, that having had an oppor-

tunity in India of forwarding an inquiry M'liich the British Association
has considered to possess great interest, viz. that into the thermome-
trical, barometrical, and hygrometrical condition of tiie atmosphere
within the tropics, it was with feelings of great pride and pleasure that
he was enabled, by his present visit to this country, to present to the
meeting a series of hourly observations of the thermometer, baro-
meter, and moistened bulb thermometer, carried on under his direc-
tion and superintendence, at a situation only 8^° north of the equator.

   The author then proceeded to describe the circumstances under

--which the observations were instituted in the following terms : " In

the beginning of the year 1837 it devolved on me to undertake the
direction of an observatory then recently established at Trevandrum

in the south of India, by His Highness the Rajah of Travancore, (a
young native prince of that country, of whom, for his liberal patronage
of science, his munificent encouragement of education among his sub-
jects, and above all for his beneficent rule, it is impossible to speak too
highly) and noticing among the recommendations promulgated by the
British Association, that a set of hourly meteoi'ological observations
within the tropics was considered highly desirable, I thought the
opportunity a good one for supplying this desideratum. I accordingly
explained the matter to His Highness, and with the liberal confidence
which I have always experienced from him, was immediately provided

with the necessary means for accomplishing my purpose ; I have there-

fore no other merit to claim (with respect to these observations) than
that of a diligent perseverance in the task I had imposed on myself."

    Mr. Caldecott then described minutely the building in which the
observations were made, the instruments used, and the registers which
accompany his communication ; these observations have been made
every hour since the commencement of June, 1837, are still in progress,
and are intended to be extended to a period of five years from their
commencement. The situation is described to be in latitude 8° 30' 35
north, longitude 5*^ 8" east of Greenwich, 170 feet above the level of
the sea, and distant from it in a direct line about 2 miles.

    Every precaution was taken to ensure accuracy ; and of the ob-
servers (all natives of India), Mr. Caldecott remarks, that " after the
first difficulty of instructing them is surmounted, their patient, diligent,
and temperate habits peculiarly fit them for the office here required
of them, and I have always found those who have been selected for
the duty fully as trustworthy as, I imagine, is any class of persons to

whom such observations are usually entrusted."
    The registers are anniirred in monthly tables, and contain, among

 other determinations, the following particulars clearly shown, and ready
for any investigation to which they may be considered applicable ; viz.

 1st, in "Temperature."

     1 . The mean of each hour for the n.onth.
.

         TRANSACTIOXS OF THE SECTIONS.                              29

   2. The mean of each day of the month.
   S. The same two means for each period often days.
   4. The mean range for the month, and for each ten days ; the extreme

            range, &c.

2nd, in " Pressure."

   1 The pressure of each hour for the month.
   2. The mean pressure of each day of the month.
   3. The same two means for each period of ten days,
   4. The maximum and minimum pressure of each day, with the extreme va-

         riation for each day ; the maximum and minimum pressure of the month,

           with the extreme variation for the month, &c.
   5. The four semi-oscillations for each 24 hours, with the mean values of

          them for the month.

3rd, in " Humidity."

   1. The temperature of the air each hour (repeated from the register of tem-

             perature).

   2. The depression of the wet-bulb thermometer for ditto.
   3. The dew-point for each hour, calculated from Professor Apjohn's formula,

            disregarding his correction for pressure.

   4. The mean of ail these for each day.
   5. The quantity of rain for each twelve hours.

Besides these monthly registers, the author exhibited two tables drawn
up in the form first adopted by Sir David Brewster, showing for the
complete year of the observations, viz. from June 1837 to June 1838,

1st, The daily and monthly mean temperature. ~j

2nd, The mean temperature of each hour for I         from 8760 obser-

   each month, and for the whole twelve                       vations.

                                         j

   months.                               J

Also two other tables, showing for the same period,

1st, The daily and monthly dew-points.   T

2nd, The mean dew-point of each hour for I

   each month, and for the whole twelve                   ditto,

                                         (

   months.                               J

The first two tables give for the mean temperature of the station

78'''89, and the other two give for the mean dew-point 71''*78.

The barometric registers give by a mean of all the diurnal semi-

oscillations for the same period the following results :

   Fall between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. 0*109 inch.

   Rise     4 P.M. 10 P.M. 0-108

   Fall     10 p.m.  4 a.m. 0-071

   Rise     4 A.M. 10 A.M. 0-073

Times of maxima between the hours of 9 and 10 morning and evening.

'J'imes of minima between those of 3 and 4 afternoon and morning.

   Mr. Caldecott concluded his communication by noticing that he was
about to return to his post in India amply furnished with meteoro-
logical, magnetical, and astronomical instruments, and added that,
should the committee of the Physical Section of the British Association
see fit to honour him with any suggestions as to points in meteorologj-,
or any other branch of the physical sciences which his local situation
:

80 REPORT-- 1840.

and means might enable him to elucidate, or be of any use in, he
would feel proud to receive its instructions, and would do all in his
power to forward its objects.

 --Note. At the meeting of the General Committee on the 24th Sept., a com-

mittee was appointed to consider the propriety of printing, in exteiiso, the hourly
meteorological observations communicated by Mr. Caldecott, together with
those made at Plymouth by Mr. Snow Harris, at the instance of the British
Association.

                  On Storms. By James P. Espy.

Mr. Espy commenced by stating, that he had found, by examining

simultaneous observations in the middle of storms, and all round their

borders, that the wind blows inward on all sides of a storm towards its

central parts, towards a point if the storm is round, and towards a

line if the storm is oblong, extending through its longest diameter.

He had been able to investigate within the last five years seventeen

storms, without discovering one exception to the general rule. As an
example of recent date, he described and illustrated by a map the

course of the wind in Great Britain on the night of the 6th of January,
1839, between the hours of 10 and 12. The observations were thus

stated

  --1. Romney strong at 8 p.m., S.E.

  --2. Thwaite strong from 10 to 12, S.S.E.

 --3. Southwold the Susannah driven on shore at 8 p.m., by a south-east wind.
  --4. Birmingham wind strong, E. of south, till one in the morning.

5. Manchester-- S.E. till 12 at night.
--6. Leeds ditto
                      ditto.

--7. Bridlington ^got round S.E. in night, and continued so, blowing a gale

till after midnight.

 8. Whitby--at lOi p.m. S. by E., high wind.

--9. Berwick changed from E. of south to S.W., at 10 p.m.
--10. Dundee on the night of the 6th and day of the 7th, N.W.
--11. Montrose all night of 6th and 7th a hurricane, N.W.

12. Aberdeen-- ditto  ditto.

--13. Cape Wrath--all 6th and 7th, N.W.

14. Scowrie evening of 6th till 12 at night, N.W.

15. Isle of Glan-- at 11 p.m., N.W.

1^. Lismore-- night of 6th, N.W. to N.

17. Corsewell-- 6 p.m. till 12, S.W.

18. Strangford, Ireland--at 12, night of 6th, S.W.

19. Mull of Galloway--south till lb 30TM a.m., of 7th.

Man--20. Calf of  S. S.W. till midnight.
--21. Liverpool changed from S.S.E. after 10.

22. Plymouth--S.W. till 12 at night of 6th.

   From this, and from documents which Mr. Espy proceeded to read,
it appeared that during those hours the wind was blowing a violent

gale on the north-western part of the island from the north-west, on the
south-western parts from the south-west, and on the south-eastern
parts a strong gale from the south-east and south-south-east ; and that
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  3tT

m the middle parts of the island it changed from south-easterly to

--south-westerly about those same hours the change taking place about

two hours sooner on the west side of the island than on the east side in

the central parts, but much sooner in the northern parts than in the
southern. The barometer also fell sooner in the northern and western
parts than in the southern and eastern. From these two circumstances
he thinks it highly probable that this storm moved not exactly towards
the east, but a little south of east, and if so, it would be similar to
some storms which he had examined in the United States.

   The barometer was at its minimum at Cape Wrath, in the north-west
corner of Scotland, two hours and a half sooner than at the Calf of
Man, five hours sooner than at Edinburgh, and thirteen hours and a
half sooner than at Thwaite, in Suffolk. Mr. Espy then stated that he

had examined the data furnished by Col. Reid, of several hurricanes
in the West Indies, and found conclusive evidence that the wind blew
inwards to a central space in all these storms. Diagrams of two were
exhibited : one on the 3rd of October, 1780, in which Savannah-la-

Mar was destroyed. In that storm, at its very height, the wind at
Savannah-la-Mar, on the south side of the island of Jamaica, was

--south, and nearly opposite to that point, on the north side of the

island, the wind was north-east, or nearly in an opposite direction, for

two hours at the time of the greatest violence of the storm at both
places. The other storm was on the 18th of August, 1837, off Char-

leston, south-east. On that day, the ship Duke of Manchester had the

centre of the storm passing over her, and, on the same day, the West
Indian and the Rmvlins, which were on the south-west of the Duke of
Manchester, had the wind all day from 2 a.m. south-west, and at the
same time the Cicero and the Yolof, on the north-east of the Duke of
Manchester, had the wind north-east and east-north-east, the Yolof &\\

day, till 8 p.m.
   Mr. Espy then stated that he had visited the tracks of eighteen tor-

nadoes, and examined several of them with great care, and found that

--all the phenomena told one tale the inward motion of the air to the

centre of the inverted cone of cloud as it passed along the surface of

the earth. From all these facts he inferred that there is an inward
motion of the air towards the centre of storms from all sides ; and
stated that this inference ought to be drawn from the well-known fact,

that the barometer stands lower in the midst of a storm than it does

all round its borders.
   Mr. Espy exhibited an instrument, which he called a Nephelescope,

which enabled him to measure the expansion of air with great accuracy,
and he found it to agree with calculations made on chemical principles.

He then proceeded to give an outline of his theory, premising that the

numbers he should introduce were not intended to be strictly accurate,

--and would be subject to many corrections, one in particular, in which

no notice had been taken of the specific heat of air under different
pressures. The following are extracts.

   " When the air near the surface of the earth becomes more heated or

more highly charged with aqueous vapour, which is only five-eighths
32 REPORT-- 1840.

of the specific gravity of atmospheric air, its equilibrium is unstable,

and up-moving columns or streams will be formed. As these columns
rise, their upper parts will come under less pressure, and the air will
therefore expand ; as it expands, it will grow colder about one degree
and a quarter for every hundred yards of its ascent, as is demon-
strated by experiments with the Nephelescope. The ascending columns
will carry up with them the aqueous vapour which they contain, and,
if they rise high enough, the cold produced by expansion from dimi-
nished pressure will condense some of this vapour into cloud ; for it is
known that cloud is formed in the receiver of an air-pump when the
air is suddenly withdrawn. The distance or height to which the air
will have to ascend before it will become cold enough to begin to form
cloud, is a variable quantity, depending on the number of degrees
which the dew-point is below the temperature of the air ; and this
height may be known at any time by observing how many degrees a
thin metallic tumbler of water must be cooled down below the tempe-
rature of the air before the vapour begins to condense on the outside.
The difference between the dew-point and the temperature of the air in
degrees is called (by Mr. Espy) the complement of the dew-point*.

   " As the temperature of the air sinks about one degree and a quarter
for every hundred yards of ascent, and the dew-point sinks about a
quarter of a degree, it follows that as soon as the column rises as many
hundred yards as the complement of the dew-point contains degrees

of Fahrenheit, cloud will begin to form ; or, in other words, the bases
of all clouds forming by the cold of diminished pressure from vip-

moving columns of air, will be about as many hundred yards high as

the dew-point in degrees is below the temperature of the air at the time.
If the temperature of the ascending column should be ten degrees
above that of the air through which it passes, and should rise to the
height of 4800 feet before it begins to form cloud, the Avhole column
would then be 100 feet of air lighter than surrounding columns ; and
if the column should be very narrow, its velocity of upward motion
Avould follow the laws of spouting fluids, which would be eight times
the square root of 100 feet a second, that is, 80 feet a second, and the
barometer in the centre of the column at its base would fall about the
ninth of an inch. As soon as cloud begins to form, the caloric of
elasticity of the vapour or steam is given out into the air in contact
with the little particles of water formed by the condensation of the
vapour. This will prevent the air in its further progress upwards
from cooling so fast as it did up to that point ; and, from experiments

with the Nephelescope, it is found to cool only about one-half as much

above the base of the cloud as below ; that is, about five-eighths of a
degree for one hundred yards of ascent, when the dew-point is about

* The height of the bases of forming cumuli may be ascertained by the fol-

^(f, iK    height of base in 100 yai-ds ; i being
   --p- \

the temperature of tlie air in degrees of Fahrenheit, and t' the temperature of
the wet bulb swung briskly in the air.
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.        33

70°. If the dew-point is higher, it cools a little less, and if the dew-

point is lower, it cools a little more, than five-eighths of a degree in

ascending one hundred yards.

   " Now it has been ascertained by aeronauts and travellers on moun-

tains, that the atmosphere itself is about one degree colder for every

hundred yards in height above the surface of the sea ; therefore, as the

air in the cloud above its base is only five-eighths of a degree colder

for every hundred yards in height, it follows, that when the cloud is
of great perpendicular height above its base, its top must be much
warmer than the atmosphere at that height, and consequently much

lighter. Indeed, the specific gravity of a cloud of any height, com-
pared to that of the surrounding air at the same elevation, may be
calculated, when the dew-point is given ; for its temperature is known

by experiments with the Nephelescope, and the quantity of vapour

condensed by the cold of diminished pressure at every point in its

upward motion, and of course the quantity of caloric of elasticity

given out by this condensation is known, and also the effect this
caloric has in expanding the air receiving it, beyond the volume it

would have if no caloric of elasticity was evolved in the condensation

of the vapour. For example, according to the experiments of Prof.

W. R. Johnson, of Philadelphia, a pound of steam, at the temperature

of 212°, contains 1U.W° of caloric of elasticity; and if the sum of the

latent and sensible caloric of steam is the same at all temperatures, it
follows, that a pound of steam being condensed in 1210 pounds of

water at 32° would heat this water up one degree ; and, as the specific

caloric of air is only 0-267, if a pound of vapour should be condensed

in 1210 pounds of air, it would heat that air nearly 4°, or, which is

the same thing, it would heat 100 pounds of air about 45°. And in

all these cases it would expand the air about 8000 times the bulk of

water generated ; that is, 8000 cubic feet for every cubic foot of

water formed out of the condensed vapour. And as it requires

between 1300 and 1400 cubic feet of vapour, at the ordinary tem-

--peratures of the atmosphere, to make one cubic foot of water if this

quantity be subtracted from 8000 it will leave upwards of 6600 cubic

feet of actual expansion of the air in the cloud for every cybic foot of

water generated there by condensed vapour.

"This great expansion of the air in the forming cloud will cause the

air to spread outwards in all directions above, causing the barometer

to rise on the outside of the cloud, above the mean, and to fall below

the mean under the middle of the cloud as much as it is known to do

in the midst of great storms. For example, if the dew-point should

be very high, say 78°, then the quantity of vapour in the air would

be about one-fiftieth of its whole weight; and if the up-moving column

should rise high enough to condense one-half its vapour into cloud, it

would heat the air containing it 45°, and the air so heated would occupy

^g more space than it would be if it was not so heated. And if we

assume a case within the bounds of nature, and suppose the cloud and

the column under the cloud to occupy three-fourths of the whole

weight of the atmosphere, or, in other words, if we suppose the top

1840.  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

--34 REPORT 1S40.

of the cloud to reach a height where the barometer would stand
at 7^ inches, and the mean temperatui-e of the whole column 40°
warmer than the surrounding air, then would the barometer fall under
the cloud at the surface of the earth, :^-^ of 22"5, or a little more than
2 inches.

   " Though the air may be driven up by the ascending column much

higher than the point assumed in the last article, the cloud will cease
to form at greater heights, because the dew-point, at these great

--elevations, falls by a further ascent as rapidly as the temperature and

at greater elevations, it will even fall more rapidly. If, for instance,
the air should rise from where the barometer stands at 6 inches to
where it stands at 3 inches, the dew-point would fall about 20°, but
the temperature would fall less than 20°, and therefore no vapour
would be condensed by such ascent.

   "When a cloud begins to form from an ascending column of air, it

will be seen to swell out at the top while its base continues on the
same level, for the air has to rise to the same height before it becomes
cold enough, by diminished pressure, to begin to condense its vapour
into water ; this will cause the base to be flat, even after the cloud has
acquired great perpendicular height, and assumed the form of a

sugarloaf. Other clouds also for many miles around, formed by other

ascending columns, will assume similar appearances, and will moreover
have their bases all on the same or nearly the same horizontal level
and the height of these bases from the surface of the earth, will be the
greatest about 3 o'clock, when the dew-point and temperature of the
air are the greatest distance apart. The outspreading of the air in
the upper parts of an ascending column will form an annulus all round
the cloud, under which the barometer will stand above the mean ; of
course the air will descend in the annulus, and increase the velocity of
the wind at the surface of the earth, towards the centre of the ascend-
ing column, while all round on the outside of the annulus there will

be a gentle wind outwards. Any general curi'ents of air, which may

exist at the time, will of course modify these motions, from the oblique
forces they would occasion. The up-moving current of air must of
course be entirely supplied by the air within the annulus, and that which
descends in the annulus itself. The rapid disturbance of equilibrium,
which is produced by otie ascending column, will tend to form others
in its neighbourhood ; for the air being pressed outwards from the
annulus, or at least retarded on the windward side, will foi-m other
ascending columns, and these will form other annuli, and so the process
will be continued. These ascending columns will have a tendency to
approach, and finally unite ; for the air between them must descend,
and in descending the temperature of the whole column M'ill increase,
for it is known that the air, at great elevations, contains. more caloric
to the pound than the air near the surface of the earth, because it is
the upper regions that receive the caloric of elasticity, given out in
tlie condensation of vapour into clouds. Therefore, when the air has
descended some time in the middle, between two ascending columns,
the barometer will fall a little, or at least not stand so high above the
TRANSACTION'S OF THE SECTIONS.  BS"-

  mean as it does on the outside of the two clouds, and so the columns
  will be pressed towards each other. If one of two neighbouring
 columns should be greatly higher than the other, its annulus may
  overlap the smaller one, and of course the current under the smaller
 cloud will be inverted, and the cloud which may have been formed
 over the column thus forced to descend will soon disappear ; for as it
 is forced downwards by the overlapping annulus of the more lofty
 column, it will come under great pressure, and its temperature will be
 thus increased ; and it is manifest, that as soon as its top descends as
 low as its base, it will have entirely disappeared ; and in the mean time

 the larger cloud will have greatly increased.
    " As the air above the cloud formed by an ascending column is forced

 upwards, if it contains much aqueous vapour, a thin film of cloud will
 be formed in it by the cold of diminished pressure, entirely distinct
 from the great dense cumulus below ; but as the cumulus rises faster
 than the air above it (for some of the air will roll off), the thin film
 and the top of the cumulus will come in contact ; and sometimes a
second film or cap may be formed in the same way, and perhaps a
third and fourth. When these caps form, there will probably be rain,
 as their formation indicates a high degree of saturation in the upper

 air.

   " When the complement of the dew-point is very great (twenty

 degrees and more), clouds can scarcely form ; for up-moving columns
will generally either come to an equilibrium with the surrounding air,
or be dispersed before they rise twenty hundred yards, which they must
do in this case before they form clouds. Sometimes, however, masses
of air will rise high enough to form clouds ; but they are generally
detached from any up-moving column underneath, and of course
cannot then form cumuli with flat bases ; such clouds will be seen to
dissolve as soon as they form, and even while forming they will gene-
rally appear ragged, thin, and irregular. Moreover, if the ground
should be colder during the day than the air in contact with it, as
sometimes happens after a continuance of very cold weather, then as the
air touching the cold earth will be colder than the stratum above it,
ascending columns cannot exist, and of course no cumuli can be
formed on that day, even though the air may be saturated with vapour
to such a degree as to condense a portion of it on cold bodies at the
surface of the earth. Neither can clouds form of any great size, when
there are cross currents of air sufficiently strong to break in two an
ascending current, for the ascensional power of the up-moving current
will thus be weakened and destroyed. This is one means contrived by
nature to prevent up-moving columns from always increasing until
rain would follow. Without some such contrivance it is probable that
every up-moving column which should begin to form cloud when the
dew-point is favourable, would produce rain ; for as soon as cloud
forms, the up-moving power is rapidly increased by the evolution of
the caloric of elasticity."

   Among the consequences of his theory, Mr. Espy describes in what

manner it happens that rain does not fall on the leeward side of very

                                     d2
--36 REPORT 1840,

lofty mountains ; and under what circumstances appear what are called
tornadoes on land and waterspouts at sea.

   " On visiting the path of a tornado, the trees on the extreme borders

·will all be found prostrated with their tops inwards, either inwards and
backwards, or inwards and forwards, or exactly transverse to the path.
The trees in the centre of the path will be thrown either backwards
or forwards, or parallel to the path ; and invariably if one tree lies
across another, the one which is thrown backwards is underneath.
Those materials on the sides which are moved from their places and
rolled along the ground, leaving a trace of their motion, will move in
a curve convex behind ; those which were on the left hand of the path
^v^ll make a curve from left hand to right, and those on the left hand
of the path will make a curve from right hand to left ; and many of
these materials will be found on the opposite side of the path from
that on which they stood on the approach of the tornado. Also those

--bodies which are carried up will appear to whirl, unless they arise from

the very centre those that are taken up on the right of the centre
will whirl in a spiral from left to right, and those on the left of the cen-

tre will whirl in a spiral upwards from right to left. On examining the

trees which stand near the borders of the path, it will be found that

many of the limbs are twisted round the trees, and broken in such a
manner as to remain twisted, those on the right-hand side of the path
from left to right, and those on the left-hand side of the path from
right to left. However, it will be found that only those limbs which
grew on the side of the tree most distant from the path of the tornado
are broken ; for these alone were subject to a transverse strain. The

houses which stood near the middle of the path will be very liable to
have the roof blown up, and many of the walls will be prostrated, all
outwards, by the explosive influence of the air within, and those houses
 covered with zinc or tin, from being air-tight, will suffer most. The
 floors from the cellars will also frequently be thrown up, and the corks
 of empty bottles exploded. All round the tornado, at a short distance,
 probably not more than three or four hundred yards, there will be a
 dead calm, on account of the annulus formed by the rapid efflux of air
 above, from the centre of the up-moving and expanding column. In this
 annulus the air will be depressed, and all round on the outside of it,
 at the surface of the earth, there will be a gentle wind outwards, and
 of course all the air which feeds the tornado is supplied from within
 the annulus. Nor is this difficult to understand, when the depression
 of the air in the annulus is considered, for any amount may be thus sup-
 plied by a great depression. Light bodies, such as shingles, branches
 of trees, and drops of rain or water formed in the cloud, will be car-
 ried up to a great height, before they are permitted to fall to the earth ;

 for though they may frequently be thrown outwards above, and may

 then descend to a considerable distance at the side, they will meet with
 an in-blowing current below, which will force them back to the centre
 of the up-moving current, and so they will be carried aloft again.

     " The drops of rain, however, will frequently be carried high enough
 to freeze them, especially if they are thrown out above so far as to fall
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  S'J

 into clear air, for this air will in some cases be thirty or forty degrees
 colder than the air in the cloud. In this case, if the up-moving column
 is perpendicular, the hail will be thrown out on both sides ; and on
 examination it will be found that two veins of hail fall simultaneously,
 at no great distance apart. It is indeed probable, that in all violent
 thunder-storms in which hail falls, the up-moving current is so violent
as to carry drops of rain to a great height, when they freeze and be-
come hail. It is difficult, if not impossible, to conceive any other way
in which hail can be formed in the summer, or in the torrid zone. In
those countries in which an upper current of air prevails in a particular
direction, the tornadoes and waterspouts will generally move in the same
direction, because the up-moving column of air in this meteor rises far
into this upper current, and of course its upper part will be pressed in
this direction ; as the great tornado cloud moves on in the direction of
the upper current, the air at the surface of the earth will be pressed ujt
into it by the superior weight of the surrounding air. It is for this
reason that the tornado in Pennsylvania generally moves towards the

eastward.
    " If a tornado should stop its motion for a few seconds, as it might do,

on meeting with a mountain, it would be likely to pour down an im-
mense flood of water or ice, in a very small space, for the drops which
would be carried up by the ascending current would soon accumulate
to such a degree as to force their way back, and this they could not
do without collecting into one united stream of immense length and
weight ; and of course on reaching the side of the mountain, this stream,
whether it consisted of water or hail, would cut down into the side of
the mountain a deep hole, and make a gully all the way to the bottom
of the mountain, from the place where it first struck.

   " As the air spreads out more rapidly above than it runs in below,
there will be a tendency in storms to increase in diameter, and this

tendency will be greater on the north side than on any other, for the
air in its efflux above finds less resistance on that side, for a reason
assigned in the next paragraph ; therefore it is probable that storms
become elongated north and south, and then, if they move towards
the east, they must travel side foremost.

   " At the equator, or at least those parts of it where the trade-winds
are constant from east to west, it is probable tornadoes travel from east
to west. For as the air in the torrid zone is about 80° in temperature
at a mean, and the air in the frigid zone is about zero, the air in the
torrid zone is constantly expanded by heat about ^^^ of its whole bulk
in the frigid zone. This will cause the air at the equator to stand
more than seven miles higher from the surface of the earth to the top
of the atmosphere than at the north pole. The air therefore will roll
off from the torrid zone both ways towai'ds the poles, causing the
barometer to fall in low latitudes, and rise above the mean in high
latitudes. This will cause the air to run in below towards the equa-

tor, and of course rise there. Now from the principle of the conser-

vation of areas, it will fall more and more to the west as it rises, and
of course the upper current of the air, at the equator, probably moves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

--38 REPORT 1840.
                                                                                                                .

towards the west. However, as the air rolls off above, towards the
north, it will be constantly passing over portions of the earth's surface,
which have a less diurnal velocity than the part from which it set out
and as from the nature of inertia it still inclines to retain the diurnal
velocity towards the east, which it originally possessed, when it reaches
the latitude of about 20 or 25 degrees, it will then probably be moving
nearly towards the north, and beyond that latitude its motion will be

noi'th-easterly.

    " If violent storm clouds, which necessarily rise to a great height into
the upper current, are driven forward in the direction of the upper
current, it is probable that the barometer will rise higher in that part
of the annulus which is in front of the storm, than in the rear, and if
so, a sudden rise of the barometer, in particular localities, may become,
when properly understood, one of the first symptoms of an approach-
ing storm. In consequence of the high barometer in front of the storm
in a semiannulus, the air will be forced downwards there, and cause, in
some cases, a more violent action of the air or wind backwards, meet-
ing the approaching storm, than will be experienced in the rear of the
storm. As the barometer will probably be highest in the centre of the
semiannulus, north-east of the storm, in middle latitudes, the tendency
of the wind to blow outwards on all sides from the centre may cause
the wind in the beginning of the storm to blow so as to appear to whirl
 from left to right, on the east side of the storm, and from right to left
on the west side.

    "As the air comes downwards in the semiannulus in front of the
storm, it will come under greater pressure, and any clouds which it
may contain will probably be dissolved by the heat of greater pressure,
 and therefore on the passage of the annulus it will probably be fair
weather. Also, as the air above always contains more caloric to the
 pound than the air below, there will be an increase of temperature on
 the passage of the annulus, partly from the increased pressure, but
 chiefly by the descent of the air. In very hot climates, this increase of
 temperature in front of the storm will be very sensibly felt. The in-
 creased pressure in the annulus round a volcano, when it suddenly
 bursts out, will sometimes, under favourable circumstances, be very
 great, and of course the air will be depressed from a great height ; so
 that some portion of the very air which has gone up in the central
 parts of the ascending column, and formed cloud by the cold of di-
 minished pressure, will be forced down to the surface of the earth,
 bringing with it the caloric of elasticity wliich it received from the
 condent^ing vapour ; if so, the heat experienced at the time of this

 descent will be very great.

    "These hot blasts of air will alternate with cold blasts; for the air
 which is forced down from great heights in the annulus will not only
 be very hot, but very dry, having condensed its vapour in its previous
 ascent. Now, when this hot dry air flows inwards again towards the
 volcano, and ascends, it will not form cloud, because of its want of
 vapour, and therefore the process of cloud-forming will cease, and con-
 sequently hail and rain will cease too, until more air from a greater
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  39

distance, that has not been deprived of its vapour, flows in and ascends.
Then cloud will again begin to form, and the violence and rapidity of

--the outflowing of the air above will be increased by the evolution of

the caloric of elasticity the barometer will rise rapidly in the annulus,
and fall in the central part of the ascending column ; and these alterna-

tions may continue while the volcano is in activity, more particularly

if the violence of the volcano itself should be increased periodically.

   "As air cannot move upwards without coming under diminished press-
ure, and as it must thus expand and grow cooler, and consequently
form cloud, any cause which produces an up-moving column of air,
whether that cause be natural or artificial, will produce rain, when the
complement of the dew-point is small, and the air calm below and

above, and the upper part of the atmosphere of its ordinary temperature,
    " Volcanoes, therefore, under favourable circumstances, will produce

rain ; sea-breezes, which blow inwards every day towards the centre
of islands, especially if these islands have in them high mountains,
which will prevent any upper current of air from bending the up-
moving current of air out of the perpendicular, before it rises high
enough to foi'm cloud, such as Jamaica, will produce rain every day;
great cities where very much fuel is burnt, in countries where the com-
plement of the dew-point is small, such as Manchester and Liverpool,
will frequently produce rain ; even battles, and accidental fires, if they

occur under favourable circumstances, may sometimes be followed by

rain. Let all these favourable circumstances be watched for in time
of drought (and they can only occur then), and let the experiment be
tried ; if it should be successful, the result would be highly beneficial
to mankind. It might probably prevent the occurrence of those de-
structive tornadoes which produce such devastation in the United
States ; for if rain should be produced at regular intervals, of no great
duration, the steam power in the air might thus be prevented from
rising high enough to produce any storm of destructive character."

   Independently of its utility in this manner, Mr. Espy pointed out in
what way a knowledge of this theory would be highly useful to the
mariner, to enable him to direct his vessel so, when one of these great
storms comes near him, as to use as much wind in the borders of the
storm as will suit the purposes of navigation; to know in what direc-
tion a great storm is raging when it is yet several hundred miles from
him ; and if the storm should be of such great length, moving side
foremost, as to preclude the possibility of avoiding it, to know in what
direction to steer his ship, so as to get out of the storm as soon as pos-
sible. The sailor also will be able to know when he is out of danger,
and by observing storm clouds on their approach to ascertain the di-
rection in which storms move.

   On this important subject the author added other remarks and

illustrations, which would lose their value by the abridgement rendered

necessary by the rules of the Association.
40 REPORT 1840.

Extract of a letter from Mr. lledfield to Sir J. F. W. Herschel.

                                                          New York, July 28, 1840.

--Sir, The interest which you have manifested in the progress of meteorolo-

gical science encourages me to commit to your care the accompanying plans

and memoranda relating to American storms and tornadoes.

The map which illustrates the direction of wind in the great storm of De-

cember 15, 1839, at noon, with its accompanying schedule of observations, I

--beg you to offer to the British Association at the September Meeting in Glas-

gow unless you should deem it inappropriate, or consider some other disposi-

--tion of the same as more desirable which I submit to your better judgement.

   The sketch of the various directions of prostration found in a section of the

track of the New Jersey tornado of June 19, 1835, with its schedule of obser-

vations, was designed to furnish you with some of the evidences of rotation

found in the track of the tornado. Some distinguishing facts, which are thus

presented, I deem to have been overlooked by others, or at least misappre-

hended in their bearing. But, although this single sketch of tornado action

was thus mainly intended for your private use, yet, on penning some remarks

to accompany it, I was reminded of the claims which Professor Bache had

upon me, growing out of my published remarks on the discussion at New-

castle in 1838 ; and as the subject is not unlikely to engage attention at the

ensuing meeting in Glasgow, I have thrown into short compass some of the

considerations which appear to me to establish the whirling action.

myFrom these, and various other observations in  possession, I trust to be

able successfully to meet (if necessary) any objections which have been, or

may be started against the whirlwind theory, as applicable to gales and tor-

nadoes. But for this, it is necessary that the objections should be made in a
printed and responsible form, in order that the true state of the case may not

be mistaken or evaded.

As regards the map and schedule of observations for the December storm,

perhaps I should not have taken the trouble to prepare them, had it not been

intimated to the public in reference to my former account of this storm, as it

appeared at sunset, that had the observations been given for the middle of the

day, the wind arrows at Nantucket, at Cape Cod, and at New Bedford, and

with the ship Morrison, would all have pointed in towards a central line.

   It has long been my intention to prepare and publish a more full examina-
tion of the phaenomena of the New Jei'sey tornado and other destructive whirl-

winds, but my avocations and habits are not the most favourable to the execu-

tion of this design. I beg you to make such disposition of the paper now sent

as you may deem most desirable and proper.

I am, with great respect.

                        Your most obedient servant,

                                                       W. C, REDFIELD.

   The documents to which this letter refers were not received in time
to be laid before the meetinar.

                 On the Dew-Point. By Dr. Anderson.

   The author explained the principles of the formula, which he de-
duced several years ago from the experiments of Dalton and Gay-

Lussac, for determining the various objects connected with the hygro-
metric state of the air ; and showed, by means of tables which he had
constructed from it, the facility and despatch with which the absolute
                                                                   --

                                               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                   41

as well as the relative humidity of the atmosphere, together with the

dew-point, might be obtained. He concluded his observations on the

subject by pointing out the exact coincidence which holds between the

dew-point and the minimum nocturnal temperature ; and proved that

the quantity of moisture in the state of vapour, which exists in the air

in every region of the earth, operates as a check upon the diminution

of temperature by radiation during the night ; for this obvious reason,

that the transition of the aqueous vapour to the liquid state evolving

its latent caloric, warms the circumambient air, and by giving birth, at
the same time, to clouds in the form of vesicular vapour, counteracts

the cooling processes to which the nocturnal air is exposed in the ab-

sence of the sun. This fact, so important in meteorology, affords an

illustration of the reason why the windward sides of continents and

large islands are warmer than their leeward sides, in the same parallel

of  latitude                                   and why dry and parched tracts of land are always found
                                            ;

liable to severe cold during the night. It also furnishes an explanation

of the causes which occasion the deflections of the isothermal lines,
when taken in connexion with the modifications which these lines re-

ceive from geographical position and elevation above the earth's surface,

On a Method of Progmsticating the probable mean Temperature of the
  several Winter Months from that of corresponding Months in the

  ·preceding Summer. By Graham Hutchinson, Esq.

    From the slowness with which the increased temperature of summer

penetrates the surface of the ground, it occurred to the author, that

the last portion absorbed during the summer half of the year, and
which descends to the least depth below the surface, should be the

first portion given off during the winter half; and in like manner, that
the first portion absorbed during the summer half, and which must
descend to a greater depth below the surface than any other portion,
should be the last to be given oflF during the winter half; and agreeably

to the principle above stated, the months in which an absorption of heat
takes place, should have corresponding months of retrocession, or some
approximation thereto ; and consequently that the mean atmospheric
temperature of any month in the summer half of the year, would afford
a means of prognosticating the mean temperature of its corresponding
month in the winter half, so far at least as that mean atmospheric tem-
perature depended upon the retrocession of heat absorbed during the
previous summer half. The corresponding months of temperature
assumed by the author, are as follows :

    August has October following"

    July                                       . . November  ..      ~ .^
                                               . . December  .
    June                                       . . January   ..  1^°^ '}^ corresponding month

    May                                                                ^^ temperature.

                                                                 [

    April                                      . . February  J. .

If, then, August be warmer than its average, the mean atmospheric
--42 REPORT 1840.

temperature of October following should likewise be warmer than its
average : on the contrary, if August be colder than average, October
following should likewise be colder than average. The same method

applies to the other months.

If there were no other cause for variations in the mean tempe-

rature of the winter months in different years, except differences

in the amount of solar heat absorbed during the months of cor-

responding temperature in the previous summer half of the year, the

mean temperature of each winter month would always bear a strict

relation  to  that  of  its  corresponding  previous  summer  month                                 and,
                                                                                                 ;

consequently, if the one were known, the other could with certainty be

predicted. But there are other causes which diversify the mean tem-

perature of the same months in different years ; and these being inde-
pendent of the one under consideration, may either be co-operating with

it, or acting in opposition to it. For instance, the proportion of north-
erly and southerly winds, and the amount of rain that falls during the
same winter months of different years, varies greatly. Whether, there-
fore, among so many other distinct causes of diversity of temperature,
the difference in the amount of solar heat absorbed during the summer
months does sensibly affect by its retrocession the mean atmospheric

temperature of the corresponding months of temperature during the
subsequent winter season, so as to afford any probable means of pro-

gnostication, can only be determined by reference to statistical tables of

the mean temperature of the different months in a succession of years.
   From tables then referred to, Mr. Hutchinson said, it appeared

that in Scotland deviations in the mean temperature of the summer

months have a visible influence in producing like deviations in their

corresponding months of temperature in the subsequent winter half of

the year. It appeared also, that in the generality of years, the other
disturbing causes which diversify the temperature of the same winter
months in different years, such as variations in the direction and
force of the winds, &c. have less influence, when averaged for a

month, than we would be apt, a priori, to suppose. And when the same
months, for a number of years, are grouped together, and compared as
is done in the tables, the disturbing causes, which may occasion a great
deviation from the mean temperature in any particular month in one

year, seem partially to neutralize each other, and render the influence
of unusual Avarmth or unusual coldness, in any summer month, in pro-
ducing a similar degree of unusual warmth or coldness in its corre-
sponding winter month, more apparent than could have been anti-

cipated.

   The author concludes by some observations as to the most suitable

hour of registering temperature for the purpose of testing and applying

his speculations (preferring 1 1 a.m.), and notices as an inference fVora
the simple consideration of the ratio of solar radiation in summer and
winter, that the dependence of winter temperature on summer heat,

according to the plan of examining it already exemplified, should be

greater and more obvious the higher the latitude of the place of obser-

vation.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  43

         On Excessive Falls of Rain. By Professor Forbes.

   " It appears, from the report of the Birmingham Meeting of the
British Association, as given in the Athenceum (No. 618), that doubt
has been thrown on the statement of the remarkable fall of rain

cited in my former report. I was not present at either of the dis-

cussions alluded to ; I therefore take this opportunity of stating
the authority upon which these very surprising falls of rain were ad-

--mitted into my report, authority so ample, that, as an historian of

science, I could not have omitted them, improbable as they do most
certainly appear. The fall of thirty inches of rain within twenty-four
hours, took place at Genoa [not Geneva, as printed in the report] on

the 25th of October, 1822. An assertion to this effect having appear-

ed in a Genoese newspaper, the editors of the Bibliotheque Universelle
wrote immediately to make the necessary inquiries as to an observation

so unprecedented. The reply which they obtained from M, Pagano,
' observateur exact*,' is given at length in their journal, and is
not, I think, the less satisfactory, because this result was obtained
by the most inartificial of rain-gauges. ' Deux sceaux de bois

presque cylindriques, dont I'un de vingt-quatre et I'autre de vingt-
six pouces de hauteur, qui m'avoient servi pour quelques experi-

ences sur la vendange, etoient restes vides dans mon jardin. La

pluie de Vendredi 95 Octobre n'avoient pas encore cesse de tomber

que deja ils en etoient remplis.' He then proceeds to state on

what grounds he infers that four inches more of rain fell after the
larger vessel had been filled, making a total of thirty inches French
(thirty-two English) ; and adds a statement of several facts, to show
that the effects of the deluge in the neighbourhood bore a proportion
to the magnitude of the cause. M. Arago, quoting the result, adds :
' Ce resultat inoui inspira des doutes a tous les meteorologistes, on
soup^onnait une erreur d'impression ; mais M. Pagano, observateur
exact, a ecrit aux redacteurs de la Bibliotheque Universelle une lettre
qui met le fait hers de toute contestation \.' Fortunately, however,
this local deluge (for it appears, by the letter of M. Pagano, to have
extended but a very short distance,) is nearly rivalled by a similar fact
recorded in the south of France by an experienced observer, who
seems to have been in the practice of measuring the fall of rain for
twenty-three years at least, M. Tardy de la Brossy, of Joyeuse, Dep. de
I'Ardeche. M. Arago, who records the observation, and gives it the
weight of his authority, does so in these words : ' Le 9 Octobre 1827,

dans I'intervalle de vingt-deux heures, il est tombe, dans la meme

ville de Joyeuse 29 pouces 3 lignes d'eau (vingt-neuf pouces trois
lignes). J'ecrisle resultat en toutes lettres, afin qu'on necroie pas a une

faute d'impression:]:.' When I add, that these two results, surprising,

and perhaps unexampled as they are in the history of science, have, on

                                  * Vol. xxii. partie Physique, p. 67.

                            t Ann. de Chini. et de Phys. xxvii. 407.
                                 X J7in. de Chim. et de Phys. xxxvi. 414.
--44 REPORT 1840.

account of the testimony by which they are establislied, been received
not only in France and Switzerland, but in Germany and England, I
conceive that they are undoubtedly entitled to stand part of the history
of meteorology. I proceed to add a notice of a few other remarkable
falls of rain, though there is nothing on record comparable to the two
preceding ones. Flaugergues, tlie eminent meteorologist of Viviers,
obtained, on the 6th of September, 1801, 13 inches 2-3 lines (li^

English inches) of rain in eighteen hours. On the 20th of May, 1827,
there fell at Geneva 6 inches of rain in three hours. At Perth, on the
3rd of August, 1829, there fell 4-5ths of an inch in half an hour. On

the 22nd of November, 1826, I observed at Naples a fall of 9-lOths of
an inch of rain and hail in thirty -seven minutes. Were the equatorial
records of the fall of rain as minute in respect of distribution as of total
amount, we should doubtless have records of enormous falls within

twenty-four hours ; none so recorded, that I am aware of, approaches
the results at Genoa and Joyeuse. From the total quantities measured,
it is evident that the result for particular days must be enormous. Don
Antonio Lago observed at San Luis, Maranham (^° S. latitude), a

fall of 23 feet 4 inches 9*7 lines in a year. Roussin states (his account
is confirmed) that at Cayenne (5° N. lat.), in February, 1820, there
fell, in ten hours, 1"25 inch of rain ; and between the 1st and 24-th of

February, twelve feet 7 inches. From observations in the Ghauts, it

appears that, in the eastern hemisphere, in lat. 18° N., 302*21 inches
of rain have been measured ; a quantity exceeding that stated on the
authority of Roussin, and which was once considered almost incredible

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

and of this quantity (25*2 English feet), nearly 10 feet fell in the month
of July alone."

    Col. Sykes communicated the contents of a letter from India, from
Capt. Aston, one of the diplomatic agents of the government of Bom-
bay, in Kattywar, on the subject of a recent singular shower of grain.

He stated that full sixty or seventy years ago, a fall of fish, during a

storm in the Madras Presidency, had occurred. The fact is recorded
by Major Harriot, in his " Struggles through Life," as having taken
place while the troops were on the line of march, and some of the fish
falling upon the hats of the European troops, they were collected and
made into a curry for the general. This fact for probably fifty years
was looked upon as a traveller's tale, but within the last ten years so
many other instances have been witnessed and publicly attested, that
the singular anomaly is no longer doubted. The matter to which he
had to call the attention of the Section was not to a fall of fish, but to
an equally remarkable circumstance, a shower of grain. This took
place on the 24-th of March, 1840, at Rajket, in Kattywar, during one of
those thunder storms, to which that month is subject ; and it was found
that the grain had not only fallen upon the town, but upon a consider-
able extent of country and round the town. Captain Aston collected
a quantity of the seed and transmitted it to Col. Sykes. The natives
                       --

         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  45

flocked to Capt. Aston, to ask for his opinion of this phaenomenon ; for
not only did the heavens raining grain upon them excite terror, but

the omen was aggravated by the fact that the seed was not one of the

cultivated grains of the country, but was entirely unknown to them.

The genus and species was not immediately recognizable by some

botanists, to whom it was shown, but it was thought to be either a

Aspartium or a vicia.  similar force to that which elevates fish into

the air, no doubt operated on this occasion; and this new fact corrobo-

rates the phaenomena, the effects of which had been previously wit-

nessed.

Neio Experimental Researches on Rain. By John Phillips, F.R.S.

   The author proposed, by a new train of researches on the quantities
of rain received on horizontal surfaces at different heights above the
ground, by a contemporaneous series of experiments on the direction

and angle of inclination of the descending lines of rain drops, and by
contemporaneous registration of wind, temperature and moisture, to
furnish additional data of importance in the theory of rain. Referring
to the results obtained in his former discussion of three years' observa-
tions on the quantities of rain on York Minster (212 ft. above ground),

the Yorkshire Museum (42 ft), and on the ground, made by Professor

Phillips and Mr. William Gray, the author noticed the statements of
Prof. Bache, Dr. Daubeny, and others, as to the inequality of the re-
ceipt of rain about the angles of a building and at small heights above
it, in consequence of local aerial deflexions ; and though in these re-
spects the experimental results obtained in the three years' York series
appeared liable to small objection, many reasons of importance decided
that in this new course of experiments, destined to last many years and
to include a variety of contemporaneous records, the rain gauges should
be placed in an open ground. It was further determined to place them
at heights above the ground, corresponding to the depths below the
surface to which the thermometers of Arago, Quetelet and Forbes, are
gunk; i. e. to 0, 3, 6, 12, and 24 French feet. At present there are
placed in the author's garden -ground four gauges at heights of 0, 3, 6,
12 French feet. The method of observation is of a peculiarly easy de-
scription, so that in the midst of rain the momentary rapidity of the fall
of rain can be perfectly ascertained in all the gauges. For example, in
a very heavy shower, the maximum rapidity of rain accumulation, was

=O'OIO inch in two minutes of time 0'300 inch in an hour. The gauges

are, in common language, of the same size ; but the author, not trusting
to this supposed equality, makes the four gauges pass through a circle

of positions, so that at the end of a year about 12 changes of position
will have occurred, and the error of size in any one or more of the gauges
be equally distributed over the various positions, and the registration be
finally correct, without any applied calculation. The results, from June
 1 to September 3 inclusive, in which period the changes of the gauges
 have not been sufficient to equalize their errors, are
--

--46 REPORT 1840.

    12 feet above ground                                    8206
     6 feet above ground                                    8249
     3 feet above ground                                    8314
         feet above ground                                  8408

   During this period it has sometimes happened that more rain fell in the
upper gauges, a circumstance apparently dependent on the dryness of the air,
which has been very remarkable in the early part of the period in question.

    June 30      1.            2.     3.                       4.
    July 12
    Aug. 14  1575           1547   1509                     1508
    Sept. 3  2018           2030   2046                     2022
             2347           2315   2300                     2260
             2468           2422   2394                     2416

                                            8408 8314 8249  8206

=maximum rate -0100 in 2' -300 in one hour.

   In the second part of his communication the author describes a new
construction of rain gauge for the purpose of determining the direction
in which rain comes, and the angle of inclination at which it descends.

   For this purpose a compound gauge is constructed, having five equal
receiving funnels and tubes ; one with a vertical tube and horizontal

aperture, the other four with tubes recurved so as to present the open-
ings of the funnels in four vertical planes directed to four quarters of

the horizon (see diagram),

where h is the horizontal funnel, v', v", v'", three of the four vertical
openings, and c' c" c'", three corresponding cocks for letting off the
water into a graduated tube.

   The rain which falls in the funnels h, v' v" v'" v"" being carefully
measured afier each shower, the observer is able immediately to deter-
mine the direction and inclination of the rain in each of the following

cases :

    1 . If the rain has fallen in a direction exactly coinciding with any one
of the vertical funnels, that and the horizontal funnel alone receive any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !

                                                              TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                      4^

rain.                                               The direction thus known by observation, the angle of inclina-

   J. It the ram has fallen (in quantities q and q') in                                        two of the vorti
cal gauges as well as in /. (in quantity H), then the                                          direction of the"
rain, intermedmte to the positions of the two receiving                                        verttaT.aLes

= ^ ^^ -^ foZttrahTieenCratdtitirooe'cbtreietotnwLeedTennv'ittaht^ee'sm^^fb^re'oim^ng^t^h"at^c^o'ot^fa^n"tg"he^en^tga^o"uf'g^teh^'ewhaincglhe
                                                                                                bv which the
                                                                                               reLfves most

-Vg^^ +a^verticaUunnel directly opposed to the rain, is also calculable, being

                  q>^; and, finally, the angle of inclination from the vertical,

=at which the rain descends, is calculable, its cotangent being                                E.

d^wewssfhicofteiemOhnccbetodhsuiemotnarongrvnpeaettrtrhphaicselioe,anrincevsaetlindoawndtigavitttoathnhrhdeyaitofthfaffiuetsrttrhoheheimnesontersqtevuhlraetaeunrosvmtyaie6ftt°unioi,ntoueen1snsqh3d.u°ao,avftleh1r7eiab°nie,adneniangnrnalemdtc^aieoiodifnnveseiodsnhnacaefidinsfcfaaat«tnsPhjfeornsnvgtg;eaoi'an,ufusr4eg^fe°Is"e

         On the Formation of Rain. By G. A. Rowell.

The author states his hypothesis, that vapour on rising carries with

tides of vapour

SSthe phajnomenon
                                                    attract   each other   and form rain   He      ?^
                                                     of rain   as follo».       Tkiri-ii
                                                                                          j    explains

morLubject to rain ^npw*^;;;I^to;h:i^attTMr",°h '·;'"«

Se-'ihe tjnSL-reLirri ^" ^^

s'^hXTrxi^'r/ti-n'ii^PF"-^^^^^^
vapour coalescing and form ng drons of rain .1.                                           ^^ t^e particles of

mulations                                           that the  changT ii?  weTht  of  tl  .T ''"T^ '""·'"' "^^"-

                                                 ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

48 REPORT 1840.

the atmosphere to be lighter ; that the greater quantity of rain falling
on the earth than at any elevation in the same locality, is occasioned
by each falling drop of rain attracting to itself every particle of invi-

sible vapour which may be floating within the sphere of its electrical
attraction, and thus increasing its bulk.

   The paper concludes with proposing the experiment of raising elec-
trical conductors to the regions of the clouds by means of balloons
which, in the author's opinion, would withdraw the electricity, and cause
clouds and rain to be formed.

         GOn the Cause of the Aurora, S)c. By A. Rowell.

  --The phienomenon of the aurora is explained thus : The vapour

rising at the equator, being greatly expanded, ascends to a great height
with a great accumulation of electricity ; is thence carried by the cur-
rents of air towards the poles, where the electricity again escapes to the
earth and rushes along its surface, and the vapour in the lower parts
of the atmosphere towards the equator is again carried off, thus cau-
sing currents of electricity ; this circulation continues freely while the

air at the poles is damp ; but during the severe frosts of winter in the

frigid regions, the air, near the earth's surface, is nearly or quite dry,
and the aurora is exhibited by the electricity passing through this
non-conducting medium.

    By these currents, and the supposition that magnetism is owing to
the attraction which the magnet has for electricity, which from some
peculiarity can pass through it in one direction only, and that there be
two sorts of electricity, one predominating in each hemisphere, the va-

--rious phaenomena of magnetism are explained thus : The direction

of the needle is owing to its being attracted in the direction from Avhich
the streams passing through it are derived, the streams in this hemi-
sphere converging to the north pole, and diverging or escaping from
the south pole to gain their equilibrium ; that the dip is caused by the
currents derived from the earth being stronger than those from the
air and vapour above the needle ; that the variation is owing to the
greater quantity of electricity received by the earth at the magnetic
poles, diverging east and west to gain its equilibrium in passing towards
 the equator; that the probable cause of the great quantity being re-
 ceived at these parts of the earth, is from the height of land conduct-
 ing the electricity to the earth, or because the temperature is constantly
 lowest at these points of the earth, thus causing a draught of air, vapour,
 and electricity, from the warmer parts of the earth through the upper
 parts of the atmosphere ; and that the daily variation is occasioned by
 the greater or lesser formation of vapour, according to the direct action
 of the sun on different parts of the earth.

    The repulsion of similar and attraction of opposite poles of the

--magnet is thus explained : The needle is kept in its magnetic meridian

 by the converging streams to the north pole: now if the north pole of
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.   4S^

a magnet be brought near the north pole of the needle, tlie streams on
that side are intercepted by the magnet, while the streams on the op-
posite side attract the needle with the appearance of its being repelled
by the magnet ; or, if the south poles be brought near, they appear to
repel, by the diverging streams being attracted in opposite directions
to gain their equilibrium ; but the opposite poles attract each other by
the streams from the south pole of the one being attracted by the north
pole of the other magnet.

   The probability that magnetism is owing to the passing of some
fluid through the magnet, is shown by the fracture of the magnet or
by magnetizing a ring, which shows no signs of magnetism until broken,
and which again disappears on the broken parts being brought into
contact, which is explained by supposing the fluid to circulate within
the ring, and therefore no magnetism can be exhibited till the line of

continuity be broken.

   The author supports his opinion by general reference to the obser-
vations on the aurora, &c., in the Appendix to Captain Franklin's
Journey to the Polar Seas, and concludes with proposing the experi-
ments of raising electrical conductors to the height of the clouds in
the frigid regions during the frosts in tvinter, which in his opinion
would cause the aurora to be exhibited, and lead to important discove-

ries in the science of magnetism.

Observations on the Tides in the Harbour of Glasgow, and the Velocity
  of the Tidal Wave in the Estuary of the River Clyde, between Glas-

  gow and Port Glasgow. By William Bald, F.R.S.E., 3I.R.I.A.,

    ^c.

The first series of observations made on the tides was commenced

the 26th of April, 1839, and extended to the 1st of October, 1839 ; it
has been tabulated, and contains 158 observations of the rise and fall

of the tides. It is necessary to observe that during the first portion

of the time these tide observations were only made during the day,

and did not extend to the night tides. These 158 observations assign

a mean rise and fall of tide in the harbour of Glasgow of 6 feet 7*20

inches.

The number of tide observations made from the 1st of October, 1839,

to the 27th of August, amounts to more than 1200. These are tabulated

and divided into months, but such of the tides as have been much dis-

turbed by floods have been rejected.

The mean rise and fall of these 1213 tides, assigns an average of

6 feet 8-98 inches.

Mr. Bald presented tables in which were contained the principal

results arrived at, by comparing the periods of new moons, first quarter,

full moon, and last quarter, and diagrams representing the observations

in a continuous line. He has also drawn out eight sections, showing the

perpendicular rise and fall of the tide for every fifteen minutes in the

harbour of Glasgow, at Clyde Bank, Bowling Bay, and Port Glasgow.

1840.                                 E
--50 REPORT 1840.

   He has also measured the velocity of the ebbing and flowing of the

tidal current in various parts of the River Clyde, from Glasgow Har-
bour to Port Glasgow.

    It appears from these observations that the tidal wave runs from Port
Glasgow to BoAvling at a rate or velocity of 14*56 miles per hour ; from
Bowling Bay to Clyde Bank at a rate of only 6*82 miles per hour ; but
from Clyde Bank to Glasgow Harbour at a rate of 10"85 miles per hour.
The diminished velocity between Bowling Bay and Clyde Bank arises
from the channel of the river being more crooked in that part than in
any other portion of the River Clyde, thereby shoeing the great neces-
sity of straightening and improving it.

     On the Theory of Waves. By the Rev. Professor Kelland.

   The objects of the present communication are twofold : first, to pre-
sent the subject of the Theorj' of Waves in its present form, and then
to point out the difficulty which appears likely to impede its progress.
1. The object of the theory is to account, on mechanical considera-
tions, for such phaenomena as are presented bj^ the destruction of
equilibrium of a fluid, and to obtain and to interpret mathema-
tical expressions which give the velocity, form, impulses, and other
circumstances of the motion. Our problem, then, divides itself into
two parts ; 1, the determination of the conditions which are pre-
sented by the nature of the fluid on the hypothesis that it is in motion ;
2, the investigation of the eff"ects which will immediately follow the
disturbance of equilibrium. The first of these problems alone pre-
sents no considerable difficulty ; at least the difficulties are not such
as to have deteri'ed many writers from engaging to solve it. Laplace
led the way, and was followed by Lagrange, Poisson, and others. As

far as the author knows, however, all the writers on the subject con-
fine themselves to two cases, viz. when the depth of the fluid is either
very great or very small, in comparison with the length of a wave.
Aided by their discoveries, he attempted, in a memoir read before the
 Royal Society of Edinburgh last year, and published in vol. xiv. of
their Transactions, to supply the deficiency, and to obtain the equa-
tions of motion of a regular set of waves, without imposing any restric-
tion on the conditions. This was effected by assuming that a recipro-
 cating function can always be expanded in a series of sines and cosines
 of multiples of the space through which the whole series of values
extends. This assumption, which is frequently made by Fourier and

others, leads directly to the complete solution of the problem. The

 author has since applied himself to the completion of this part of the
subject by solving the problem in cases in which the depth is variable,
 which had only been partially executed before. In the first place, he
 considers that case in which the depth is variable in the direction of the
breadth, but uniform in that of the length. In his former memoir he
 contented himself with an approximate solution, founded on a particu-

 lar hypothesis. The results, approximate as they confessedly were.
--

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  51

agreed remarkably well with the experiments of Mr. Russell. His
present more complete formulae are such, that, for all cases in which
the form of the canal is expressed by an equation between a power of

y and a power of x, they lead precisely to the results which he pre-
viously obtained. One remarkable circumstance he pointed out,
which is this ; that if the form of the wave can be expressed by a

single function, the velocity is the same in the middle of the canal as
at the edges. Perhaps this apparently anomalous conclusion may arise
from the circumstance that we assume the same form of wave to per-
tain to all parts of the canal. Another result of his analysis is, that
the height of the wave increases very rapidly as we proceed towards
the edge of the vessel, to the detriment, as it would appear, of the

height of the centre.

   He next endeavours to obtain the motion of a wave in a canal, the

depth of which is continually but slowly varj'ing in the direction of

the length. He here employs the method of the variation of parame-

ters, and obtains the following results :
    1. That the length of the wave is in direct proportion to the depth.
   2. That the velocity of transmission at any point varies as the square

root of the depth.

   3. The elevation of the crest of the wave varies reciprocally as the

total depth of the fluid.

   Lastly, he discusses the problem which Messrs. Poisson and Cauchy
had solved for the particular case, where the depth is very small or
very great. It is well known that these philosophers undertook the
solution of this problem in competition for the prize offered by the
French Institute. As neither of these memoirs is printed exactly as it
was originally delivered in, it would be hard for us to draw any con-

clusions from the judgement pronounced by the judges. We know

that M. Fourier found fault with Poisson's solution on the ground that
the function was limited in its value. The prize was accordingly
adjudged to Cauchy. The plan which Poisson adopts, it is very easy
to understand ; viz. he finds a solution of the general equation of wave
motion, and arranges it so as to make it coincide with a formula given
by Fourier, which expresses the relation between a function and a par-

ticular value of the function.

   M. Cauchy, on the other hand, demonstrates a formula slightly dif-
fering from Fourier's, and by means of it, he t^o expresses the general

function in terms of the particular. Now it happens that M. Cauchy's

formula does not render necessary any limitation as to the depth of
the fluid. Indeed, M. Cauchy himself discovered this, and published it
in a note, but he never, to the author's knowledge, made any further

use of it. Some of the results obtained by both philosophers, are found
by the author to be true without all the limitations which they have
imposed. But there is one point of the utmost importance, viz. the
determination of the length of the wave, for which their results are
not satisfactory. Those who are acquainted with the analysis employed
by the philosophers to whom he has referred, will remember that the
integrals to be obtained may, bv arranging in different forms, be made

                                          e2
--52 REPORT 1840.

to express different motions. Thus the ondes dentelees, and the waves

of constant transmission, are alike expressed, and their length is deter-

mined in a function of the disturbance, &c. Now it appears to the

author, that the same expansion which leads to the waves of constant

transmission, ought, when the circumstances of the motion are assumed

to be such as to admit of it, to lead also to the wave of solitary trans-

lation. If it do not, then it would appear that the theorems of Fourier

and Cauchy cannot give in terms of a; a discontinuous function of the

nature required, or such that its differentials with respect to x and y
shall vanish at the same time. If, on the other hand, the theorems

do suffice to express the requisite function, then shall we expect to find

not the velocity only, but the complete ybrw* of the wave, which results

Wefrom a given disturbance.   shall, in fact, be furnished with the

length of the wave. It ought to be stated, that the author has sought

in vain to deduce it from the equation which gives the velocity of

transmission, and with as little success from the value of the discon-

tinuous function which he used in his first memoir; but with the gene-

ral formula itself, although he has not positively discovered the impos-

sibility of discovering the thing sought for, he has yet found consider-

able difficulties. The principal of these is the multitude of series

which must be accurately summed before the equations can be formed.
He was in consequence led to point out such difficulties to the Asso-
ciation, with the hope that some member might take up the subject,

and, by removing them, render the subject susceptible of application

to the theory of the tides*.

               On the Agency of Sound. By Mr. Shand.

   The author commenced his paper by remarks on the neglect mani-
fested toward preserving or assisting our hearing ; and having laid
down, in a series of propositions, his views regarding the origin
and conduction of sound, observes, that it is difficult to reason on the
operations of nature and the motions and influence of matter not per-
ceptible to the eye. In the present case, however, we are enabled to
judge partly by our ocular faculty and in part from our sense of hear-
ing. That the vibratory and undulatory or oscillatory motions are not

only prevalent in the musical string, but in all matter in a state of

--agitation, is indicated by the following facts : 1st, In a musical string

of a given diameter and tension, when set in motion, the extent of the

--undulations is in the ratio of the length of the string each undulation

gives out a distinct sound, conformable in duration to the extent of
the undulation. 2nd. In the walls and ceiling of an apartment these
principles of action are also equally apparent ; wherever there is an
extended surface in any one place, the undulations are also extended,
and these produce distinct sounds in the ratio of their extent. If the

    * At the request of the General Committee, Professor Kelland has under-
taken to draw up a report on this subject, to be presented to the Association.
                                   tkaxsactionS of the sections.                             S3

reflections of the human voice, by this means, be prolonged, the re-

flection of one letter falls upon the original sound of another letter,
and occasions as much derangement as if one syllable or word were

intermixed with another syllable or word ; as one letter differs in sound
from another letter as much as do syllables or words. This is one

great and leading error in the construction of places for public speak-

ing                   and  it  is  alone  sufficient  to  show how fallacious  the  idea is  of
                   ;

relying on the mere form of an apartment, without attending to and

regulating this action, in not only the walls and ceiling, but in every

reflecting body in an apartment, especially in glass, which is the most

sonorous material. 3rd. The same rules of action are exhibited in

water. In the ocean, the reach of sound is regulated according to the

expanse of water : where there is an indent in the land, the wave is

extended, and the sound it produces is prolonged. Were this action

regulated by the current of air only, the waves would pass in one uni-
form direction ; but this is not the case. 4th. These principles of

action are, however, more perfectly defined in the atmosphere, through

which sounds are transmitted with least change, and are preserved

separate and apart from each other.

   Having in view mainly the economy of speech in apartments, Mr. Shand

stated the following facts and reasoning : An individual who is so deaf

that he is insensible to upwards of a thousand people singing in a church,

on applying one end of a forked piece of wood to his teeth, and the

other end to the ledge of the division of the seat before him, is enabled by

this to hear and join in the tune. Now it is not merely the partial agency

of this wood that is to be considered, as, by the spread of the atmosphe-

ric vibrations, the voice sets in motion every atom of every solid in the

church, and it is distributed throughout these with more rapidity and

intensity than by the air, which is incapable of communicating the
same measure of vibratory influence at any one given point ; and it

evinces that, being the more rapid and profuse conductor, it is the
wood that is most rapidly set in motion, and communicates action and

sound to the air in a room. If these observations be correct, nothing

can be more erroneous than to suppose that speech can be regulated

within the walls of an apartment without regulating the action of the

solids, which predominantly govern it in this case. If sound predomi-
nates more in the fibre of the wood of the stethoscope than in the

aerial passage in it, must not the same rule apply in a church, where

the seats and lathing are almost invariably of pine ?

   Mr. Shand proceeded to remark on the peculiarities with regard to
sound which he had observed in certain buildings. In the Albion Church,

in Glasgow, he heard the speaker with perfect distinctness when he spoke

in his natural tone, as his voice was mostly reflected by the walls, which

are of solid masonry ; but when his voice was raised so as to act with
more force on the ceiling, the longer excursions and undulations of

the then hollow ceiling produced prolonged reflections, which drowned

speech. In St. Andrew's Church very diff'erent effects are produced

in the galleries and lower part of it. In the galleries the ceilings are
--54 REPORT 1840.

low and curved, and the voice, acting within the curvatures, produces
prolonged and concentrated reflections (as in all such cases) inimical
to speech ; the windows are much exposed to the voice, and the divi-
sions of the seats rise too much above each other, all which occasion
lengthened reverberations, to the prejudice of speech. The asperities
presented by the ornaments on the walls, and the capitals of two ranges
of Corinthian pillars, occasion harsh reflections, which are unpleasant.
All these defects are, however, lost in a great measure in the lower
part of the building, where little inconvenience is experienced. In Dr.
Lee's church, in St. Giles's, Edinburgh, in which the General Assem-
bly met, but were obliged to abandon it as their place of meeting, the
arrangements are such that the preacher is very indistinctly heard at
the distance of twenty feet, and there are two galleries at the extremi-
ties of the church which are locked up as useless. Similar causes pro-
duce similar effects in St. Luke's Church in Liverpool. Here there is
a locomotive pulpit, for the purpose of rolling the preacher from place
to place ; but there is even a gross evil in this vehicle, which accom-
panies it and the speaker to whatever point he may be conveyed. The
canopy over his head is a deep hollow body, formed of thin deal ; it is

literally a drum, as may be understood by striking it, and produces

deep hollow sounds, operating in a transeverse direction, and most
prejudicially on the voice of a speaker. The author notices several
other cases, and states that it is not by creating additional or increa-
sing reflected sounds, but by bringing the action of the reflecting sur-
rounding solids to move in time with the mechanism by which speech
is produced, and by this means, reflected sounds to accord with every
distinct letter that the speaker pronounces ; it is by shortening the
action, and limiting the time of each distinct reflection from the glass,
thin deal boards, &c., to the time in which each letter is formed by the

speaker. This, in fact, however simple it may seem, must be eff'ected,

otherwise no form in the walls of an apartment for public speaking can
accomplish what is necessary for the economy of speech.

On a Method of approximating to the Vahie of the Boots of Numerical
                      Equations. By Mr. Graham.

        On the Expressibility of the Roots of Algebraic EquationSy
                              By Mr. Peebles.

     Since the function of the coefficients which expresses the general
 root of an equation must be such as to represent all the roots, the
 author seeks to discover that particular function of its quantities.
 After jjroving that various combinations will not suffice, he shows that
 certain others will do so in certain cases.
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                 55

Notice of Mr. Fowler's new Calculating Machine. Communicated by
                                        Professor Airy.

The origin of this machine was to facilitate calculations of the pro-

portions in which the several divisions of a poor-law district in Devon-

shire were to be assessed. The chief peculiarity of the machine is,
that instead of our common decimal notation of numbers, a ternary

notation is used ; the digits becoming not tenfold but threefold more

valuable as they were placed to the left ; thus, 1 and 2 expressed one

and two as in common, but 1 expressed (not ten, but) three, 1 1, four,

1 2, five ; but again 2 can be expressed by 3, with 1 taken from it.
Now, let T, written thus, with a small bar above it, mean that it is

subtractive ; then i 2 and 2 T are the same in effect, both meaning five ;
and, for a similar reason, replacing 2 by its equivalent i T, we have

five written in three several ways : i 2, or 2 T, or i T T; the last is the

form used. It is obvious, that by an assemblage of unit digits thus posi-

tively or negatively written, any number may be expressed. Thus the

number which decimally expressed is 70, becomes in the ternary system
2121 : and 2 being equal to i T, this may be made lOiTT. In the ma-

chine, levers were contrived to bring forward the digits i or T, as they

Awere required in the process of calculation.  full description of the

machine, drawn up by Professor De Morgan, was presented by the

author.

On a Mode of solving Cubic Equations. By Mr. Walsh.

New Logarithmic Calculations and Views. By Wm. Hoyle.

      On a new Construction of Barometer. By P. McFarlane.

   The author proposed to substitute the weighing of a mercurial
column, for the measure of its length, and by contrivances in accord-
ance with this principle, to reduce or extinguish the disproportion which
exists between the common barometrical linear measures, and the
variations of physical condition on which the change of these measures

depends.

   On the four daily Fluctwxtions of the Barometer. By Mr. Espy.
   When the sun rises the air begins to expand by heat ; this expansion

of the air, especially of that near the surface of the earth, lifts the
strata of air above, which will produce a reaction, causing the barome-

ter to rise ; and the greatest rise of the barometer will take place when
the increase of heat in the lower parts of the atmosphere is the most
rapid, probably about 9 or 10 a.m. The barometer froi» that time will
                                                   --

--56 REPORT 1840.

begin to fall, and at the moment when the air is parting with its heat

as fast as it receives it, the barometer will indicate the exact weight of
the atmosphere. The barometer, however, will continue to descend
on account of the diminishing tension of the air and consequent sink-
ing upon itself as the evening advances ; and its greatest depression

will be at the moment of the most rapid diminution of temperature,
which will be about 4 or 5 o'clock.

    At this moment the barometer will indicate a less pressure than the
true weight of the atmosphere. The whole upper parts of the atmo-
sphere have now acquired a momentum downwards, which will cause
the barometer to rise above the mean as the motion diminishes, which
must take place some time in the night. This rise will be small, how-
ever, compared with that at 9 or 10 a.m. As the barometer now
stands above the mean, it must necessarily descend to the mean at the
moment when it is neither increasing nor diminishing in temperature,
which will be a little before sunrise. If this is the true explanation of

the four fluctuations of the barometer in a day, it will follow that the
morning-rise ought to be greater at considerable elevations, provided
they are not too great, because some of the air will be lifted above the
place of observation ; and such was found to be the case by Col.
Sykes in India.

           On the Meteorology of Perth. By Dr. Anderson.

    Perth is elevated about 30 feet above the mean level of the ocean,

and situate in lat. 56° 23' 40" N., long. 3° 26' 20" W. Dr. Anderson

stated that the magnetic variation, which seemed to have reached its

maximum in 1815, was 26° 54' W. in Nov. 1836 ; and that the mag-
netic dip was 72° 10' in May 1838. The mean barometrical pressure,

 deduced from a period of six years of consecutive observations, con-
 tinued from 1829 to 1835, was 29*802, the time of observation being

nine o'clock in the morning. By a comparison of the means of each
 month, for the several years, with the mean of the entire period, it ap-
peared that the means in defect greatly exceeded those in excess ; from

 which he concluded, that the disturbing causes which produce a dimi-
 nution of atmospherical pressure are more sudden, as well as more

--powerful in their operation, than such as give birth to an opposite con-

 dition, a result which implies that the causes contributing to a low
 state of the barometer are of limited extent and partial influence,
 and may be explained by referring them partlj^ to the diminution of
 aerial elasticity occasioned by a rapid condensation of aqueous vapour,
 and partly to the combustion, by electricity, of large portions of car-
 buretted hydrogen in the upper regions of the atmosphere over the
 place of observation. Hence he inferred that an arithmetical mean be-
 tween two observations, the one expressing the highest and the other
 the lowest height of the mercury, will rarely give the true average
 height for the mean interval of time between the observations.

    The mean annual range of the barometer at Perth, derived from a

 period of nine consecutive years, is 2*189 inches; but the extreme
TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTIONS.  57

range for the same time, or the difference between the highest and
lowest altitude of the barometer, was found to be 2*821 inches. The
fluctuations or deviations from the mean state are greatest in December
and smallest in August. The mean temperature of Perth, derived
from the maxima and minima of each day, according to observations
continued from the beginning of 1829 to the end of 1834 inclusive, is
4'8°*14. The mean obtained from the annual means, by observations
taken at nine o'clock in the morning, and half-past eight in the even-
ing, is 47°'9; and the mean of the annual extremes, derived from the
greatest heat and greatest cold, for each year, is 48°*25. Lastly, the
mean of the highest and lowest temperature for the entire period of
years is 47°*5. By a comparison of the mean temperature of the seve-
ral months, it appears, that in different years the month of July pos-
sesses the greatest uniformity of temperature, and the month of January
the least. The temperature of March, April and May, especially that
belonging to the last of these months, has a considerable range in dif-

ferent seasons, on account of the variable winds in spring ; and the
temperature of August and September seems to be still more fluctua-
ting, a circumstance that occasions the late and early harvests, which
happen in different years. The lov,est temperature, within the period
to which the above observations refer, occurred on the 26th of Decem-
ber, 1830, when the instrument stood at 16°, and the greatest heat
took place on the 28th of July of the same year, when the thermome-
ter was at 79°. The greatest annual range for that year was therefore
63° ; but the mean annual range for the entire period was only 57°"5.
The most abrupt change of temperature occurs between the middle of
 October and the middle of November, and to this must probably be
 ascribed the increase of pulmonary complaints, which takes place at
that gloomy and disagreeable season.

    The mean hygrometric state of the air at Perth, is when the atmosphere

 is charged with about four-fifths of the entire quantity of moisture it is

 capable of holding in the state of vapour at the mean temperature. The
 dew-point, which corresponds almost exactly with the minimum tempe-

 rature, in the case of the different months, is depressed about 6° or 7°
 below the mean temperature in winter, and about 8° or 9° below it in

 summer. The month of April possesses the smallest relative humidity,
 and the month of November the greatest ; the former month being, in the
 ordinary acceptation of the term, the driest, and the latter the dampest
 month of the year. The mean quantity of rain which falls at Perth, de-
 rived from a period of six consecutive years, viz. from the beginning of
 1829 to the close of 1834, is 30*89 inches. The greatest anomalies,
 with respect to the quantity of rain which falls in diflerent seasons, hap-
 pen in July, in which month the difference between the greatest and
 least quantity is 4*65 inches ; and the smallest occur in November, when
 the difference is only *S1 inch. The maximum quantity of rain for a
 period of sixteen years is 31*01 in., and the minimum quantity 15*59 in.
  The annual number of fine days, deduced from a period of six conse-
  cutive years, is 253 ; and the number of days on which there was either
  rain or snow, 112; the former being more than double of the latter.
--58 REPORT 1840.

                                CHEMISTRY.

On the most iynportant Chemical Manufactures carried on in Glasgow

   and the Neighbourhood. By Professor Thomas Thomson, oJ

    Glasgoiv, F.R.S.

   " Glasgow being the seat of a great many interesting and important
chemical manufactures, it occurred to me (said Professor Thomson)
that it might be of advantage to those members of the Chemical
Section, who have come from a distance, to give a short catalogue of
the most important of these manufactures, that they might know what
the information is which they may expect, and where they are to look

--for it."
    1. Iron. The smelting of iron has been practised in the neighbour-
hood of Glasgow for more than fifty years. When the late Mr. Dun-
lop, of the Clyde Iron Works, first became proprietor of those works,
perhaps the only one then in the neighbourhood, the produce was only
fourteen tons a-week, or 728 tons a-year. At present the quantity of
iron smelted in Glasgow and the neighbourhood cannot be much less
than 200,000 tons, which approaches to a fifth part of the whole iron
smelted in Great Britain. The ore from which the iron is smelted is
the carbonate of iron, or clay iron-stone, as it is usually called by
mineralogists. This ore is very abundant all round Glasgow, and
especially in the neighbourhood of Airdrie, where the principal works
are now situated. Fortunately for the smelters, the iron-stone and

coal-beds are associated together, the iron-stone either occurring in

nodules or beds along with the coal. The rapid increase of iron smelt-
ing has been the consequence of a discovery of Mr. Nielson, manager of
the gas-works. This is now universally known under the name of the hot
blast. The air is heated to more than 607° before it enters the furnace,
by passing through a range of heated pipes. Under this treatment, it
is found that the coals may be used without previous coking ; and that

instead of seven tons of coal for every ton of cast iron, three tons, or
even two and a half tons will suffice. There is also a diminution in

the quantity of limestone necessary, and the produce of iron per week
from the same furnace is considerably increased. It is said, that
neither in Staffordshire nor in Wales is the hot blast attended with
the same saving of fuel. Till of late years, no bar iron was made in
Scotland, the smelters confining themselves to cast iron. About three
years ago, Mr. Dixon commenced the manufacture of bar iron near
St. RoUox, but, after some time, he abandoned the manufactory. It
is now conducted on a great scale, by Mr. Wilson, at Dundyvon, and
by Mr. Dixon, at Glasgow, and perhaps by other iron-masters. The
heat raised in the puddling furnace is much greater than it was in
Staffordshire, when Dr. Thomson witnessed the process there about
twenty-five years ago. There is an interesting manufactory of steel at
Holytown, not far from Airdrie, where the smelting and casting of steel
may be seen : the heat necessary for this process is greater than for any
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  59

other. It is curious, that the clay in the neighbourhood answers
perfectly for making crucibles for cast steel ; but it does not answer so

well as Stourbridge clay for making glasshouse pots. On analysing the
two clays, it was found that the Garnkirk contained much more

alumina and less silica than the Stourbridge ; showing that glass in
fusion acts more powerfully on alumina than on silica.

    2. Another manufacture of importance, and which is indebted to
Glasgow for the state of perfection which it has reached, is that of
sulphuric acid. It was begun by Dr. Roebuck, at Preston Pans, about
the year 1763, but it is not more than twenty years since his manu-
factory was abandoned. The sulphuric acid works at St. RoUox, on
the banks of theMonkland canal, were begun about forty-five years ago.
They were at first upon a very small scale, though tliey now probably
are the largest of the kind in Europe. Dr. Roebuck's method was to
mix together sulphur and saltpetre, and after setting the mixture on
fire, to introduce it into a leaden vessel or chamber, at the bottom of
which there was a quantity of water. This method was not oeconomical.

A portion of the sulphur would unite with the potash of the saltpetre,

and form with it a sulphuret, and probably a portion of the sulphuric
acid formed would also unite to the potash and form a sulphate.

When Messrs. Knox, Tennent, and Macintosh established their works

at St. RoUox, they separated the sulphur from the saltpetre ; the sul-
phur was burnt over a stove, and an iron cup, containing the requisite
quantity of saltpetre, mixed with the requisite quantity of sulphuric

acid, was placed over the burning sulphur. By this contrivance the

sulphur was completely converted into sulphurous acid, and the whole
of the nitric acid carried along with it into the leaden chambers. The
size of the leaden chambers was gradually increased, and the substitu-
tion of steam for the water formerly placed at the bottom of the cham-
bers, was a vast improvement. The acid which collects at the bottom

of the chambers has now a specific gravity of 1*75, or it is a compound
of one atom anhydrous acid, and two atoms water. This acid is con-
centrated by heating it in a platinum still till the second atom of water
is driven off. When this manufacture is at full work, the quantity of
sulphuric acid made in it exceeds 300,000]bs. avoirdupois per week.
When he first began to purchase sulphuric acid, about forty-five years
ago, it cost 8d. per pound ; the present price is under a penny a pound.

    3. One of the great purposes to which sulphuric acid is applied at
St. Rollox, is the manufacture of bleaching powder, or chloride of lime,
as it is now called. When the mode of bleaching by chlorine was
introduced into Great Britain, by Mr. Watt, in 1 787, the very offensive
smell and deleterious effects of that gas upon the workmen, was a
formidable objection to its use. Various methods were tried to remove
this objection. It was found that if potash or soda was dissolved in the
water before it was impregnated with the chlorine gas, the disagreeable

smell was destroyed ; but, unfortunately, this addition destroyed at the
same time the bleaching power of the gas. At last, Messrs. Knox,
Tennent, and Macintosh discovered that if lime were mixed with the
water before it was mixed with the gas, the disagreeable smell was
--60 REPORT 1840.

obviated, while the bleaching power still remained uninjured. They

took out a patent for this discovery ; but it was infringed upon by the
Lancashire bleachers ; a law-suit was the consequence, and the patent

was destroyed. It was then that Mr. Macintosh tried whether chlorine

would not be absorbed by slacked lime. The trial succeeded : a com-
pound was formed, which readily dissolved in water, and the solution

of which possessed great bleaching power; a patent was taken out for

the manufacture of this dry powder, which the patentees distinguished

by the name of bleaching powder. This patent was not infringed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;

the sale of it was at first small, and it was overlooked by the bleachers.
The consequence was, that the patentees had leisure to perfect their

method of preparing it, and to become able to sell it at so low a price,

that it gradually superseded all the old methods of bleaching by chlo-

rine. The process may be seen at St. Rollox in great perfection, and

on a very large scale. The requisite mixture of common salt, binoxide

of manganese and sulphuric acid, is put into a leaden still, and the

chlorine evolved passes through leaden tubes into air-tight stone

chambers, the bottoms of which are covered with a stratum of slacked

lime several inches thick. The lime absorbs the gas as it passes into

the chamber, and the process is continued till the absorption is

reckoned sufficient. Bleaching powder, supposing it pure, is a com-

pound of

          1. Chloride of calcium  7

          2. Chlorite of lime     10

          3. Water                3-375

                                                                                  20-375
    Half the lime loses its oxygen, and combines with chlorine, consti-

tuting chloride of calcium. The oxygen combines with chlorine,
which, in tiie state of chlorous acid, combines with the other half of
the lime, constituting chlorite of lime. Two atoms of the water were
in the slacked lime. The third atom must have come along with the
chlorine gas, or been absorbed from the atmosphere.

    4. After the chlorine has been extricated, there remains in the still
a semi-liquid mass, consisting partly of the impurities of the manga-
nese, and partly of sulphate of soda and svilphate of manganese. If
the manganese were pure binoxide, and only the quantity of salt and
sulphuric acid necessary for the decomposition were used, the sulphate
of manganese (abstracting the water) would weigh nine and a half,
and the sulphate of soda nine. But in order to save the stills by pro-

ducing the decomposition with little heat, twice as much sulphuric
acid is used as is necessary, and this excess is afterwards saturated by
means of common salt; so that the quantity of sulphate of soda in the

residue is at least twice as great as that of the sulphate of manganese.

To gel I'id of the sulphate of manganese, the residue from the stills is

fused in a reverberatory furnace at a red heat ; this drives off the sul-

phuric acid, and leaves the manganese in the state of sesquioxide. The
whole is dissolved, and the insoluble manganese thrown away. The
solution of sulphate of soda is evaporated to dryness, mixed with small
                                ;

TRANSACTION'S OF THE SECTIONS.  61 '

coal, and fused again. This destroys the sulphuric acid, and converts
the soda into sulphuret. This sulphuret being mixed with sawdust, &c.,
and exposed to an incipient red heat, the sulphur is driven off, and
carbonate of soda remains, which is obtained in crystals by solution and
crystallization, or in the state of soda ash, by a more rapid process.
The theory of the last step of the process, in converting the sulphate

of soda into carbonate, is not very obvious, and would require an ex-
perimental investigation to throw light on it.

   5. Another chemical manufacture, which may be seen, is alum-

making. There are two establishments, one at the Hurlet, about six
miles south-west, by the Paisley canal ; another at Campsie, about
eight miles off, near Kirkintulloch, on the Great Canal, and near the
foot of the Campsie hills. The alum is made from the shale, which
exists in great abundance in the exhausted coal beds. This shale is a
clay mixed with some coal, and with that variety of iron pyrites,
which undergoes decomposition, and is converted into sulphate of iron
by exposure to the air. The sulphate of iron, thus formed, acts slowly
on the clay, and in process of time converts it into sulphate of
alumina. The alum-maker washes this altered shale, and obtains a

solution of sulphate of iron and sulphate of alumina. When suffi-

ciently concentrated and cooled, the liquor yields an abundant crop of
sulphate of iron, which is removed, dried, and sold at a cheap rate.
The sulphate of alumina does not crystallize till it is mixed with sul-
phate of potash or sulphate of ammonia ; because alum is a double
salt, composed of three atoms of sulphate of alumina and one atom of
sulphate of potash, or sulphate of ammonia. Formerly, nothing but
chloride of poteissium, bought from the soap-makers, was used. But
of late years (at least at Hurlet), sulphate of ammonia, from the liquor

obtained during the preparation of gas, has been employed. In

general, the alum made at Hurlet contains both potash and ammonia
but the manufacturer can supply it free from potash. Such alum is
convenient to chemists, because when it is heated to redness, every-
thing is driven oft' except pure alumina. At Hurlet and at Campsie
the mode of concentrating the liquid by a current of heated air pass-

ing over its surfaces, deserves attention.

   6. At Campsie alum-works may be seen another interesting che-

mical manufacture, the fabrication of prussiate of potash, a beautiful
well-known yellow salt, which crystallizes in truncated octahedrons.
It was here that the manufacture of this salt, on a great scale, first
began. Before that time it was only prepared in laboratories for
scientific purposes, and sold at a high price. Mr. Macintosh intro-

duced it to the calico-printers, who used it extensively, to produce
very beautiful blues and greens. It is prepared by burning the hoofs
and horns of cattle in iron pots, along with a quantity of potash. The
hoofs and horns of a hundred head of cattle are consumed every day
in the works. For some time no iron was added, the requisite quan-
tity for forming the salt being corroded from the pots during the com-
bustion. But the last time that the author visited the works, he found
that iron was mixed with the hoofs, &c. during the combustion. The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

--62 REPORT 1840.

residue, after this combustion is lixiviated with water, and when the

solution is sufficiently concentrated, the prussiate of potash crystal-
lizes. Connected with this manufactory of prussiate of potash is

another, of Prussian blue. It is made by mixing sulphate of iron,
alum, and prussiate of potash, and precipitating the whole by
an alkali. The precipitate is at first light blue. But it is washed
with new portions of water every day for several weeks. At every
washing the colour deepens, and when it has acquired the requisite
shade, the Prussian blue is allowed to subside, the water is drawn off",
and the powder allowed to dry. The colour varies according to the
proportion of alum employed; and it has the finest colour of all, with
the coppery lustre which is so much admired, when no alumina what-
ever is mixed in it.

   7. Another beautiful chemical product may be seen at Shawfield,

near Rutherglen, about two miles from Glasgow, in the manufactory

of Mr. White. This is bichromate ofpotash, a salt very much used by

calico-printers, and forming the finest and most indelible yellows,
oranges, and greens. Its introduction constituted quite an era in
calico-printing. This salt was originally made by heating chromiron
ore with saltpetre, dissolving out the chromate of potash, and adding
tiie requisite quantity of nitric acid to deprive the chromic acid of

half its potash. When this process began, the salt was sold at a guinea

an ounce ; but now, when the price is as low as two shillings a pound,
it is necessary to prepare it by a cheaper method. It has been found
that common potash of commerce may be substituted for saltpetre
and Dr. Thomson believes the manufacturers now contrive to form the
bichromate at once, without requiring the use of an acid, which would
nearly double the expense. It is stated that all the bichromate used
by the calico-printers is made here and in Liverpool. In the same
manufactory may be seen a beautiful product, tartaric acid, which is
used by the calico-printers to a large amount, chiefly to disengage the
chlorous acid from bleaching powder, and enable it to destroy the
colour on particular parts of the cloth, either that these parts may
remain white, or that some other colour may be superadded. Tartaric
acid is obtained from cream of tartai-, by throwing down the tartaric
acid by means of lime, and afterwards decomposing the tartrate of
lime by means of sulphuric acid, and crystallizing the tartaric. At the
same manufactory may be seen a pretty and simple process, by which
the carbonate of soda is converted into the sesquicarbonate. By
simply exposing it dry, and in powder, in an atmosphere of carbonic

acid gas, it absorbs the requisite quantity to be converted into sesqui-

carbonate. And this sesquicarbonate is chiefly used by the makers of

soda water.
    8. It is hardly proper to mention the manufactory of acetic acid

from wood, which has been carried on for many years by Mr. Turn-

bull, because the first part of the process is carried on at a distance,

the distillation of the wood. To free the acetic acid from the tar,
which destroys its flavour and taste, the acid is combined with lime,

and the acetate of lime exposed to a heat sufficiently high to char the
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                       63

foreign bodies with which it is impregnated, the acetic acid being

capable of resisting a higher temperature without decomposition than

most compound vegetable bodies. The acetate of lime thus purified is

decomposed by sulphuric acid, and the acetic acid obtained by distilla-

tion. By this process it may be obtained very strong. The author

possesses it composed of one atom acetic acid, and one atom water.

When of this strength it crystallizes in winter, but becomes liquid

again in summer. In the same manufactory there is another liquid

Aprepared, namely, pyroxylic spirit, now well known.        most interest-

ing set of experiments on it has been made by Dumas, who has di-

stinguished its basis by the name of methylene, and has discovered

various new compounds which it is capable of forming.

9. Another chemical manufacture of considerable importance, and

Awhich the author believes to be peculiar to Glasgow, is iodine.      few

years ago there were no fewer than ten manufactories, in each of

which it was made to a considerable extent ; but as iodine is only used

in medicine, the sale is necessarily limited, and most of these works are

now abandoned. The process followed by all the makers was, Dr. Thom-

son believes, the contrivance of Mr. Macintosh. Iodine is made from

kelp, and it deserves attention, that those kinds of kelp that contain

most potash, contain, at the same time, the most iodine. The kelp is

lixiviated, and all the salts that can be extracted from the solution by

evaporation are separated. The mother water remaining is now mixed

Awith an excess of sulphuric acid.          great quantity of sulphuretted

hydrogen is evolved, the bad effects of which on the workmen are

obviated by setting it on fire, and allowing it to burn as it is extracted

from the liquid. To the liquid thus freed from sulphuretted hydrogen

and from muriatic acid, a quantity of binoxide of manganese, equal in

weight to the sulphuric acid employed, is added. The whole is put

into a leaden still, and heated to a temperature which must not exceed

190° or 200° at most. The iodine passes into the receiver, which con-

sists of a series of spherical glasses, having two mouths opposite to

each other, and inserted the one into the other.

10. It may seem superfluous to mention soap, because it is a manu-

facture universally known ; but soap of a very superior quality is made
in Glasgow. The number of soap-works amounts to seven, and one of

these, that at St. RoUox, is the third, if not the second, in point of

extent, in Great Britain. The ingredients of soap are soda, tallow,
and rosin, and sometimes palm-oil. Two kinds only of hard soap are

made here, namely, yellow and white. The yellow soap is made by

boiling 9*75 cwt. of tallow, 3*25 cwt. of rosin, 4 cwt. of soda ash,

equivalent to  2  cwt.  soda,  mixed  with  the  requisite  quantity  of water
                                                                                                         ;

the white, by boiling 13 cwt. of tallow, 4 cwt. of soda ash in the same

manner. Tallow, which is a compound of two oily acids and glycerine,

undergoes decomposition, and the soda combines with the acid and

forms soap. When the combination is complete, a quantity of common

salt is put into the hot liquor. It dissolves in the water, and the soap

separates, and swims on the top. It is now allowed to cool to 150° at

an average, and then taken out in a liquid state, and poured into
                                        --

--64 REPORT 18iO.

frames, where it is allowed to become solid, and then cut into the usual
parallelepipeds, or wedges, as they are called. It is customary, during
the cleansing of the soap, as the pouring it into the frame is called, to
mix it with a quantity of caustic soda ley. The soap made in Glasgow
is usually a compound of

1 atom oily acid  53 or per cent. 74'6
2 atoms soda
9 atoms water      8 ,, W2

                  10'125 ,,  14.-2

                                                           71-125

White soap is cleansed at the average temperature of 181°. Its con-
stitution is precisely the same as that of yellow soap.

  --11. Bleaching of cotton cloth is carried on here to a great extent.

It consists of four processes: 1st. The goods are boiled with lime, at
a temperature above the boiling point of water. The process is
curious, and deserves to be seen. 2nd. The cloth is steeped in a

solution of bleaching powder. 3rd. It is boiled with caustic soda or
potash. 4th. It is steeped in water acidulated with sulphuric acid.

    12. Turkey-red dyeing has been practised here for almost half a
century.

    13. Calico-printing is carried on here to a great extent; glass-ma-
king is carried on here or on the Clyde in all its branches ; for starch-
making there is only one manufactory. The manufacture of the dye
stuff called cudbear, employed in dyeing red, has long been carried on
here ; so has the distillation of spirits and the manufacture of aether.

 On the Minerals in the Neighbourhood of Glasgoio. By Professor

                               Thos. Thomson, F.R.S.

   The neighbourhood of Glasgow, including Lead Hills, is not even
inferior to Cornwall in the richness of its mineral species. The mines
at Lead Hills began to be wrought during the reign of James IV. under
the name of gold mines, and it is said by Boethius that he extracted
from them a considerable treasure. In the time of James V. Lead
Hills was a lead mine as at present, and is particularly described by
Agricola in his celebrated work de re metallica. Besides galena, no
fewer than nine species of lead ore occur at Lead Hills ; these are

    1. Sulphate of lead. 2. Carbonate of lead, anal3'sed by Klaproth in 1802.
3. Cupreo-sulphate of lead, described by Mr. So werby. 4. Sulphato-carbonate
of lead, analysed by Mr. Brooke in 1820. 5. Sulphato-tricarbonate of lead,
analysed by Mr. Brooke in 1820. 6. Phosphate of lead, analysed by Dr. T.
Thomson. 7. Cupreo-sulphato-carbonate of lead, analysed by Mr. Brooke in
1820. 8. Chromo-phosphate of lead, analysed by Dr. T. Thomson. 9. Va-
nadiate of lead, analysed by Dr. R. D. Thomson in 1834.

Lead Hills also affords fine specimens of blende, or sulphuret of zinc,
and also of silicate of zinc.

   In Kilpatrick, hills, which bound the valley of the Clyde from the
Stockey Muir to Dumbarton, and also the corresponding but lower
       --;

       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                     65

range on the south side of the valley, are composed of various trap-
rocks, among which amygdaloid is pretty common. The cavities of this
rock are filled up by crystallized minerals, most of them zeolites

these are

   1. Stellite, first analysed by Dr. T. Thomson and Dr. R. D. Thomson.
2. Thomsonite, named by Mr. Brooke after Dr. T. Thomson. 3. Natrolite.
4. Mesolite. 5. Scolezite. 6. Laumonite. 7. Chabazite. 8, Analcime.
9. Cluthalite, first analysed by Dr. T. Thomson and Dr. R. D. Thomson.
10. Stilbite. 11. Heulandite. 12. Harmotome or Cross stone. 13. Carbo-
nate of magnesia, at Bishoptown. 14. Dihydrous peroxide of u-on, at Gou-

rock. 15. Sulphate of barytes. 16. Calcareous spar. 17. Fibrous sulphate

of lime. 18. Arragonite. 19. Wollastonite, first analysed by Dr. T. Thom-
son and Dr. R. D. Thomson. 20. Prasolite, named by Dr. T. Thomson.

21. Fluor spar. 22. Prehnite. 23. Augite. 24. Amphibole. 25. Felspar,
26. Labradovite, one of the constituents of a variety of greenstone at Campsie
glen, and at Gleniffer. 27, Mica. 28. Epidote. 29. Steatite. 30. Iron pyrites.
31. Carbonate of iron. 32. Gray ore of manganese. 33. Kilpatrick quartz,
first analysed by Dr. T. and Dr. R. D. Thomson. 34. Sulphuret of cadmium,
rare, and lately discovered, occurring along with prehnite at Bishoptown. Single

crystals are now selling at 10^. each. It has been analysed by Dr. T. Thom-
son and Mr. Connel.

       On the Relation of Form to Chemical Composition,
                     By Dr. Schafhaeutl.

The author stated, that he had, in a former communication, given a

new method of procuring graphite, in which it was also shown that all

graphites owed their origin to the operation of the same causes ; namely,

the contact of bitumen (or any similar substance) with a silicate, under

a certain limited degree of heat ; it was further maintained, that the

compound nature of graphite might be satisfactorily demonstrated, by

subjecting it to the action of hydrofluoric acid, which, combining with

the silicon, liberated the carbon of the graphite as a hydruret, which

was then consumed in the flame of a lamp. The object of the present

paper was to explain the circumstances under which certain modifica-

tions of form take place in this peculiar substance (as also in others

generally considered to be elementary), and to prove their connexion

with changes of an entirely chemical nature,

  A beautiful specimen of a formation of graphite was exhibited to the

Section, obtained from the Neath Abbey Ironworks, in South Wales

it appeared to be composed of an infinite number of foliated scales

overlapping each other, after the manner of the slates of a roof, each

scale being so thin, as to be agitated by the slightest breath of air ; a

second specimen was exhibited of a graphite leaf, where it appeared as

a globule of much greater size, the laminated structure still, however,

existing in beautiful development. In a third stage, the scaly structure

disappeared ; the globule having assumed a more porous and coke-like

form. Dr. S. having premised an objection to any explanation of these

curious changes of form, founded merely upon molecular alterations,

proceeded to detail certain experiments, from which he deduced con-

clusions of an interesting and important nature.

1840.  F
--66 REPORT 1840.

   The discovery of a new mode of decomposing crystallized graphite, by
heating it in concentrated boiling sulphuric acid, and adding a little con-
centrated nitric acid*, afforded a series of singular and instructive phseno-
mena. After the evolution of binoxide of nitrogen had ceased, each scale
of graphite was converted into the globular substance before described ;

its external metallic lustre remaining unchanged, but its bulk so greatly
enlarged, that what befoi'e appeared a single scale, became, by the sepa-
ration anddivision of its component laminae, a thick spongy tissue, capable
of being restored to its former compressed foliated form by the pressure
of the finger-nail. That this change of form, however, was not merely

--a mechanical effect, appears from the following experiment : Graphite

scales having been repeatedly treated with hydrochloric acid, washed,
and again digested in a strong solution of caustic potash, in order to
remove all possible mechanical admixtures of iron, silica and alumina,
were then subjected to the process above described ; the evolution of
binoxide of nitrogen having ceased, an equal quantity of water was
added to the mixture ; immediately there succeeded a rapid evolution
of bubbles from the globules of graphite, which at first lay at the bot-
tom of the fluid ; becoming lighter, as this evolution of bubbles pro-
ceeded, they gradually rose to the surface, when the gas immediately
 ceased to be evolved ; the acid then, or the graphite, must have been
combined with hyponitrous acid, which being decomposed by the
water was disengaged as binoxide of nitrogen. The globules when
washed, dried, and weighed (at first weighing but 2*01 grs. j, had gained
5*02 grs. in weight. Being then put into a flat covered dish of brass,
and balanced accurately, the cover was removed, the globules imme-
diately lost weight, and so rapidly, that in merely removing them from
the dish, 0"18 gr. were lost ; the dish was covered with a dew, appa-
rently acid, as it acted on the brass. These globules, heated on paper
until it became slightly tinged with yellow by the heat, now disengaged
dense fumes, the paper being streaked with a blackish-coloured smoke
where it was in contact with the graphite ; 2*30 grs. were lost during
this process, which being repeated a second time, they were found to have
lost 2*25 more. Finally ignited in a platinum crucible, dense fumes,
without any perceptible odour, escaped, the weight of the globules being
reduced to 1*86 gr. After which, no further reduction took place during
the ignition for half an hour in the open air. The total loss of the two
grains thus experimented upon with the acid, was 6*96. In a paper by the
authorf, this loss was attributed to evolution of carbonic acid gas during
this conjoined action of the acids ; but it would appear from the last
experiment, that there is formed a compound of sulphuric acid, nitric
acid, carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, volatilized only at high tempera-

tures. The question here arises, how can the rapid loss of weight be
accounted for ? During the previous drying process, which was con-
ducted at 212°, the loss of water must have been accompanied by a
change of chemical composition, and the new compound, by attracting

        * See a description in the Philosophical Magazine, vols, xvi., xvii.
         t See Philosophical Magazine, cited above.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  67

water or oxygen when in the pah, must have formed an extremely vo-

latile combination, evaporating as rapidly as it was formed. By a

repetition of this treatment with the acid, graphite in the third stage,

as before described, was obtained ; the metallic lustre was entirely lost,
as also the laminated texture ; it now appearing as a porous mass, re-

sembling coke, and no longer capable of reduction to its original

foliated state by pressure, having undergone a decided chemical change.

The acid solution deposited at once a copious precipitate of silica and

alumina (slightly tinged by oxide of iron), upon the addition of ammo-

Ania to neutralization.  similar precipitate was obtained from the

acid of the first experiments, but less in quantity, and requiring a

longer time for its operation. Thus it would appear that the abstrac-

tion of silicon and the change of physical properties of graphite, are

corresponding and mutually connected phsenomena. In further proof

of the necessary connexion of silicon as a chemical combination, essen-

tial to the existence of the scaly metallic lustre of graphite, it will be

found that by repetition of the same experiments, the globules ultimately

disappear, and the remaining solution in acid neutralized by ammonia,

deposits only flaky silica, with traces of oxide of iron. On observing

attentively the specimen of graphite, as found in its natural state, and

comparing it with those treated with acids and alkalies, also exhibited,

it appeared that the scales, before being operated on, had a dirty gray-

ish appearance, described as owing to their being covered with spots,

consisting of microscopic six-sided flattened prisms of silicate of iron
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

the matrix of this graphite formation, in the blast-furnace cinder, es-

sentially composed of bisilicate of lime and alumina, deriving a yellow-

ish tint from a slight admixture of sulphuret of calcium, with a trace

of sulphuret of potassium. Scales of very different density may be

separated, the thinnest unaffected by the magnet, the thicker ones

decidedly so ; those in the middle of the mass, thicker and stiffer, not

easily broken, and showing a shining black fracture, like that of an-

thracite, form a variety of graphite, in which silicon and iron are

greatly predominant, developing when treated with hydrochloric acid a

fetid hydrogen characteristic of cast iron, and separating at the same

time yellow flocks of silica and alumina. Dr.Schafhaeutl then proceeded

to point out an analogy between the formation of gray iron in the blast

furnace, and that of graphite ; namely, that the same chemical condi-

tions occur during the change of white iron into gray ; this takes place

after having descended through the furnace, and reached the stratum

of slag covering the melted metal ; this slag being an earthy bisilicate

(in coke furnaces approaching to a trisilicate), and containing a small
quantity of protoxide of iron. As silicon is found in graphite only in

very small quantity, it has been considered an accidental imjjurity, just

as the small quantity of hydrogen retained by charcoal, sulphur, &c.

has been considered an impurity ; but as these foreign matters can by

no chemical means be separated, without destroying the state in which

graphite, charcoal and sulphur exist, it must be inferred that such

admixture is essential to their existence in that state in which they

ordinarily appear. Quitting now the individual consideiation of gra-

                                      f2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;:;

68 REPORT-- 1840.

phite, the author extended the principle here argued to certain other
substances, considered generally as simple bodies. For example, sul-
phur obtained by the decomposition of sulphurets by acids, is white in
colour, and invariably combined with a stable quantity of hydrogen
but obtained from hyposulphites, it is as invariably yellow, and the
presence of free hydrogen in the slightest quantity bleaches the pre-
cipitate. The known case of sulphur precipitated under the presence
of sulphuretted hydrogen, and cautiously mixed with metallic copper
in its utmost state of minute division, being found to combine directly,
evolving a dull red heat, has been considered an exception to the law,
that no two dry bodies unite without the intervention of a third ; but
sulphur precipitated from hyposulphites, will not thus combine, nor will
pure sulphur, though subjected to the minutest division possible. The
same sulphur, however, brought into contact with hydrogen, under a
pressure of four atmospheres, and then quickly mixed, is found to com-
bine, as in the first instance ; but if exposed to the air, its power of
combination is again lost ; thus a third body is proved necessary here,

as in all cases. And further, the author doubted if one of the two

different crystalline forms of sulphur is not owing to the presence of
hydrogen, which he found to be in combination with it in a very per-
ceptible quantity. These peculiar forms of combination, where a few
atoms of one body are combined with a high number of atoms of an-

other, may be considered, perhaps, as forming a class of compounds
intermediate between the inorganic and the higher organic compounds
thus the compounds of arsenic acid form a very striking example. In

the subarseniate of iron, 50 atoms of iron are combined with only 3
atoms of arsenic acid and 75 of hydrogen. So again, 24 atoms of
arsenic with 1 atom of sulphuret of potash in sulph-arseniate of

potash. By gradually passing from compounds of inorganic chemistry
to those of organic chemistry, we find di-acetate of copper with water,
48 atoms of oxide of copper combined with only 1 atom of hydrogen
and 12 atoms of water. And finally, in the field of organic chemistry
itself, we have, for example, margaric acid, composed of 67 atoms of
hydrogen, 35 carbon, and 3 of oxygen only. In the oleic acid, 120
atoms of hydrogen are combined witli 70 of carbon and 5 of oxygen
in the stearic acid, 134 atoms of hydrogen with 70 of carbon and 5 of
oxygen, &c. The author hinted in his paper in the Philosophical Maga-
zine, thatthe principal circumstance which tended to produce compounds
of such multiplicity of atoms, or, in fact, organic compounds, was the se-

paration of the molecules of bodies brought into action by the capillary
powers of the vessels of organic structures. It was probable that the che-
mical action of these separated molecules must be a different one from
their action, when arranged into one definite form ; and as proof that
once-received laws of affinity were exhibited only underpeculiar circum-
stances, he directed the attention of the Section to H. Rose's compound,
formed by direct combination of 29*97 per cent, of ammonia with 70*03
per cent, of sulphuric acid, which ought to have produced anhydrous sul-
phate of ammonia ; but after combination, neither sulphuric acid nor
ammonia could be detected in the compound. The same chemist found
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  69

combinations of anhydrous sulphuric acid with the chlorides of ammo-

nium, potassium, sodium, and the nitrate of potash. According to the
laws of affinity, for example, in the last case, the nitric acid ought to
have been displaced, decomposed, and driven away by the more pow-
erfully acting sulphuric acid ; but no tendency whatever was shown to
the displacement of chlorine or nitric acid, and new compounds, differ-
ent from all hitherto known, resulted. As no combination of anhy-
drous sulphuric acid took place at all with oxide of calcium, chloride
of barium, or chloride of copper, he concluded that these above-
mentioned combinations were formed only by replacing one double
atom of hydrogen, water, or chlorine, in order to form a bisulphate of
potash, soda, or ammonia. The author seemed to believe that there
existed two different states of chemical combination ; the first, in which
the chemical forces of molecular attraction were acting only according
to the relative quantities of matter ; the second, where, under the
always catalytic presence of a third, the elementary substances arranged

themselves, separating in groups according to the resultant electric
forces of the centres of action created by the above-mentioned presence
of a third, acting differently on the different molecules of bodies in

contact, in a somewhat similar way as a solution, which does not cry-

stallize unless the molecular equilibrium of the liquid is disturbed.

The first state of chemical combination might, perhaps, have some
distant relation to Dumas's law of types ; the second state, a mere con-
sequence of the first, would be represented by Berzelius's electro-
chemical combination. The author, at the same time, referred to
Prof. Graham's admirable papers, in which the Professor had so di-
 stinctly pointed out the great and ·peculiar part which water performs

in chemical solid combinations, and remarked, that during all chemical

combinations where a third body is separated, the precipitation only
would take place when a certain quantity of water combined with the
 body to be pi-ecipitated, which water separated in the relation to the
 separation and consolidation of the precipitate only, and could be

driven away from it only by applying a red heat.

           New Compound of Arsenious and Sulphuric Acids.
                          By Dr. Schafhaeutl.

   This was obtained from the escaping smoke of copper calcining
furnaces near Swansea, in South Wales. The new compound was
another singular instance where an anhydrous crystallized body was
deposited under the presence of water only, and was a remarkable
proof of the unlimited number of different forms of combination, which
might be produced even in inoi'ganic nature, by bringing chemical
substances in contact under varying circumstances. The copper ores
smelted in South Wales were, for the greatest part, copper pyrites,
mixed with iron pyrites, gray copper ore, &c. ; in fact, a mixture
in which the sulphurets of copper, iron, arsenic, antimony, cobalt,
nickel, zinc, and tin were invariably found together. The sulphur
and arsenic escape from these ores during the calcining process, as
--70 REPORT 1840.

sulphurous and arsenious acids, and liave been found to destroy all
vegetation for miles around the copper works, without affecting animal

life in the slightest degree. By bringing the escaping fumes in contact

with steam, and forcing it through burning charcoal, or subjecting it
only to a great pressure in contact with steam, the new solid compound
was deposited on the cool surfaces of the chambers connected with the
calcining furnace. It was deposited in beautiful crystallized leaves or
tables, perhaps belonging to the same class as Wohler's dimorphic
modification of the crystallization of arsenious acid, the regular form
of which belongs to the octahedron. It was found to consist, in 100

parts,

                  of 68'250 Arsenious acid.
                      27-643 Sulphuric acid.
                        3-029 Protoxide of iron.
                        0-420 Oxide of copper.
                        0-656 Oxide of nickel.

                         99-998

        Corresponding to 51-741 Metallic arsenic.
                                      11-095 Sulphur.
                                        2-339 Iron.
                                        0-336 Copper.
                                       0-516 Nickel.
                                   33-971 Oxygen,

                  99998

Tiiese crystals attracted moisture from the air with great rapidity and
Avith evolution of heat, corroding animal and vegetable substances as
powerfully as concentrated sulphuric acid. Their taste was pure, but

powerfully sour, similar to sulphuric acid, and, dissolved in water, the

remainder of 100 parts of these crystals was 17*4'36 grains only. The
shape of the crystals was perfectly retained, only their appearance was
changed from transparent into opake. Their chemical composition

was found to be,

                  16*778 grains of Arsenious acid.
                   0-656 Oxide of nickel.

                                  17-434

What the water had dissolved consisted of

                                   51-472 Arsenious acid.
                                    27-643 Sulplmric acid.

                                      3-029 Protoxide of iron.
                                    0-420 Oxide of copper.

                                        82'564 grains.

   One of the remai-kable changes during the formation of this com-
pound, was the conversion of sulphurous acid into sulphuric acid, as
well as the presence of iron, copper, and nickel in a deposit from
gaseous matter. No other definite compound of arsenic acid with
another acid seems to be known, except those with the organic tartaric

and paratartaric acids.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                71

On a New Method of Photogenic Drawing. By Dr. Schafhaeutl.

After some observations on the comparatively low value of all draw-

ings taken by means of the camera-obscura, in an artistical point of

view, and on the principal points on which Mr. Talbot's and M.

Daguerre's methods of fixing the drawings of the camera-obscura were

founded, the author proceeded to describe his peculiar methods of

producing photogenic drawings in Mr, Talbot's, that is, in a negative

way ; then, secondly, he described two new methods of obtaining

photographs in a positive way. His first method tended to obtain a

paper of very great sensibility by a comparatively short process. He

recommended Penny's improved patent metallic paper, and spreading

(HOa concentrated solution of the nitrate of silver  grains to 2i

drachms of fused nitrate to six tiuid drachms of distilled water), by

merely drawing the paper over the surface of the solution contained in

a large dish. In order to convert this nitrate of silver into a chloride,

Athe author exposed it to the vapours of boiling muriatic acid. coating

of a chloride of silver, shining with a peculiar silky lustre, was by this

method generated on the surface of the paper, without penetrating

into its mass ; and in order to give to this coating of chloride the

highest degree of sensibility, it was dried, and then drawn over the

surface of the solution of the nitrate of silver again. After having

been dried, the paper was ready for use ; and no repetition of this

treatment was able to improve its sensitiveness. The author's process

--for fixing definitively the drawing was as follows : He steeped the

drawing from five to ten minutes in alcohol, and after removing all

superfluous moisture by means of blotting-paper, and drying it slightly

before the fire, the paper thus prepared was finally drawn through

diluted muriatic acid, mixed with a few drops of an acid nitrate of

quicksilver, into the minutiae of the preparation of which we cannot

here enter. The addition of the nitrate of mercury requires great

caution, and its proper action must be tried first on paper slips, upon

which have been produced difierent tints and shadows by exposure to

light ; because, if added in too great a quantity, the lightest shades
disappear entirely. The paper, after having been drawn through the

above mentioned solution, is washed well in water, and then dried in a

degree approaching to about 158° Fahr., or, in fact, till the white

places of the paper assume a very slight tinge of yellow. The appear-

ance of this tint indicates that the drawing is fixed permanently. The

author's way for reversing the drawing is, in the principal points, the

same as that suggested by Mr. Fox Talbot.

In order to obtain a photogenic drawing in a direct or positive way,

the author uses his above-mentioned paper, allows it to darken in a bright

sunlight, and macerates it for at least half an hour in a liquid, which is

prepared by mixing one part of the already described acid solution of

Anitrate of mercury with from nine to ten parts of alcohol.  bright

lemon-yellow precipitate, of basic hyponitrate of the protoxide of quick-

silver, falls, and the clear liquor is preserved for use. The macerated

paper is removed from the alcoholic solution, and quickly drawn over the
--72 HEPORT 1840.

surface of diluted hydrochloric acid (one part strong acid to seven or ten
of water), then quickly washed in water, and slightly and carefully

dried in a heat not exceeding 212° of Fahr. The paper is in this state
ready for being bleached by the rays of the sun ; and in order to fix
the obtained drawing, nothing more is required than to steep the paper
a few minutes in alcohol, which dissolves the free bichloride of
mercury. The maceration must not be continued too long, as in that

case the paper begins to darken again.

   The author's second method of producing positive photogenic draw-
ings was by using metallic plates, and covering them with a layer of
hydruret of carbon, prepared by dissolving pitch in alcohol, and col-
lecting the residuum on a filter. This, when well washed, is spread as
equally as possible over a heated even metallic plate of copper. The
plate is then carbonized in a close box of cast iron, and, after cooling,
passed betwixt two polished steel rollers, resembling a common copper-
plate printing-press. The plate, after this process, is dipped into the
above-mentioned solution of the nitrate of silver, and instantly exposed
to the action of the camera. The silver is, by the action of the rays
of the sun, reduced into a perfect metallic state, the lights are expressed
by the different density of the milk-white deadened silver, the shadows
by the black carbonized plate. In a few seconds the picture is finished ;
and the plate is so sensitive, that the reduction of the silver begins even
by the light of a candle. For fixing the image, nothing else is required,
except dipping the plate in alcohol mixed with a small quantity of the
hyposulphite of soda, or of pure ammonia.

    On Poisons, Contagions, and Miasms. By Professor Liebig.

    Dr. Playfair stated that he had prepared, at the request of the author,
a statement of Professor Liebig's new views on the subject of poisons.
Poisons might be divided into two classes, belonging to the inorga-

nic and organic kingdoms. Many substances were called inorganic

poisons which had in reality no claim to be considered as such. Sul-
phuric, nitric, and muriatic acid, when brought in contact with the
animal ceconomy, merely destroyed the continuity of the organs, and
might be compared, in their modus operandi, to the action of a heated

--iron, or a sharp knife. But there are others and these are the true
--inorganic poisons which entered into combination with the substance

of the organs without affecting any visible lesion of them. Thus it is
known, that when arsenious acid or corrosive sublimate is added to a
solution of muscular fibre, cellular tissue, or fibrin, these enter into
combination with them, and become insoluble ; when they are intro-
duced into the animal organism the same circumstance must happen.
But the bodies formed by the union of such poisons with animal sub-
stances are incapable of putrefaction ; they are incapable, therefore, of
effecting and suffering changes ; in other words, organic life is de-
stroyed. The high atomic weight of animal substances explains the
pause of such small quantities being requisite for producing deadly
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  73

effects. After stating several chemical details on this subject, it was
shown that to unite with 100 grains of fibrin, as it exists in the human
body (in which it is combined with 30,000 parts of water), only 3f
grains of arsenious acid are necessary, or 5 grains of corrosive subli-
mate.

   The second class of poisons were those belonging to the organic
kingdom. For some such substances as brucia and strychnia, no data
exist by which it can be determined to what cause their action may be
assigned. But the morbid poisons, such as putrid animal and con-
tagious matter, appear to owe their action to a peculiar agent, which
exerts a much more general and powerful action than chemists are
aware of. Thus, when oxide of silver is thrown into peroxide of hy-
drogen, the oxide is reduced and metallic silver remains. Here there
can be no affinity, for oxygen can have no affinity for oxygen. It is
merely that a body in a state of motion or decomposition is capable of
inducting or imparting its own state of motion or decomposition to any
body with which it may be in contact. There is a disease frequently
produced in Germany by using decayed sausages as an article of food.
The symptoms attending the disease are remarkable, and distinctly
indicate its cause. The patient afflicted with the disease becomes
much emaciated, dries to a complete mummy, and finally dies. The
muscular fibre, and all parts similarly composed, disappear. The cause
of the disease evidently is, that the state of decomposition in which
the component parts of the sausages are, is communicated to the con-
stituents of the blood, and this state not being subdued by the vital

principle, the disease proceeds until death ensues. It is remarkable

that the bodies of the individuals who have died in consequence of

it are not subject to putrefaction.

    The cause of the action of contagious matter is similar. It is merely

a gaseous matter in the state of transformation, and capable of impart-
ing the state of transposition in which its atoms are to the elements of

the blood. It is capable of being reproduced in the blood just as yeast

causes its own reproduction in fermenting wort. The causes of the
action of yeast and of contagion were shown to be the same, and ex-
amples were produced in which similar reproductions take place in
common chemical processes. There are two kinds of yeast used in the
brewing of Bavarian beer. The fermentation caused by one is tumul-
tuous, that produced by the other is tranquil. They, therefore, induct
the peculiar state of transposition in which their atoms are upon the
elements of the sugar. The same was shown to be the case with the
vaccine virus of cow- and small-pox ; the one of which produces a
violent action upon the constituents of the blood, whilst the other
causes a gentle action quite distinct from the former.

On the Pre-existence of Urea in Uric Acid. By Professor Gregory.

   By the action of peroxide of lead on uric acid, Liebig and Wohler
obtained from it oxalic acid, allantoine and urea ; and they considered
the latter as existing in the uric acid combined with urile. The avithor,
74 REPORT 1840.

having found that urea, unlike most organic substances, resists tlie
oxidizing agency of permanganate of potash, thought that if urea could
be obtained from uric acid by the action of that salt, the argument for

its pre-existence would be much strengthened ; as, if only the elements
of urea were present, the oxidizing agency of the permanganate would
most likely prevent its formation. On trying the experiment a large
quantity of urea was obtahied, along with oxalic acid, and a new acid,
probably formed by the oxidation of allantoine. The author further
described the acetate of urea, a salt which was formed in his experi-

ments.

    Oti a JVeto Process, communicated hy Prof. Liebig, for preparing

                  Murexide. By Professor Gregory.

   The process described in this communication for pi-eparing the very
singular and beautiful compound, termed murexide by Liebig and
Wohler, and purpurate of ammonia by Prout, is quite certain, and very

productive. It consists in adding a boiling solution of seven grains of
alloxan and four grains of alloxantine in 240 grains of water, to 80

grains of a cold and strong solution of carbonate of ammonia. The
mixture instantly acquires a deep purple colour, and on cooling de-

posits the golden-green crystals of murexide.

On the Preparation of Alloxan, Alloxantine, Thionurate of Ammonia,

           Uramile, and Murexide. By Professor Gregory.

   To prepare alloxan from uric acid, Liebig and Wohler used nitric
acid, sp. gr. 1-42, and separated the acid liquid from the crystals by
means of a porous bi'ick, thus losing the whole mother liquid. The
author uses nitric acid of sp, gr. 1*35. The action of this acid on uric
acid must be kept moderate. When crystals of alloxan are formed,

the whole is thrown on a filter, the throat of which is stopped with
asbestus. That portion of the acid liquid which remains in the crystals is
displaced by a few drops of cold water, and the crystals are purified
by re-crystallization. The liquid is again employed in the same way,
and the crystals are collected as before. Five such operations may be
performed'with the same liquid, each yielding a large crop of crystals ;
while the mother liquid is preserved, and yields a large quantity of

parabanic acid, or oxalurate of ammonia. By this process the author

obtains from 100 parts of uric acid, 65 of anhydrous alloxan, or 90 of

+alloxan 6 aq. From alloxan, alloxantine is easily obtained by the

action of sulphuretted hydrogen. Thionurate of ammonia is easily
formed, by boiling a solution of alloxan with sulphite of ammonia and
free ammonia. Uramile is also easily obtained, by boiling a solution
of thionurate of ammonia with an excess of diluted sulphuric acid.
Murexide is obtained, as described in another communication by Prof.

Gregory. He now exhibited the last three processes. He also stated,

that the theory of the formation of murexide was of great importance
in reference to organic colouring matters.
   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  75

         Process for Preparing Hydrobromic andHydriodic Acids.

                  By Dr. R. W. Glover, of Newcastle.

    Dr. Glover having observed that the solid bromide and iodide of
barium are decomposed by sulphuric acid, with the evolution of hydro-
bromic and hydriodic acids, without bromine or iodine being set free,
proposed the employment of these salts of barium as very convenient
sources of the above-named hydracids in atomic proportions.

On a Method of separating, by Filtration, the Coagulable Lymph from

       Liquid Human Blood. By Prof. Andrew Buchanan.

   Dr. Buchanan showed several specimens of coagulable lymph sepa-
rated by filtration from human blood while yet liquid, immediately after

issuing from the vein. He thought the process for obtaining it might

not be without interest to those engaged in the prosecution of animal
chemistry, as it enabled them to obtain the fibrin of the blood in a per-
fectly pure state ; and he knew no other process by which it could be
so procured. The result obtained was also interesting, as serving to
illustrate the constitution of the blood itself. It showed the coagulum
to be formed not by the mere aggregation of the red particles, but that,

according to the views of Berzelius, and many physiologists in our own

country, the red particles were altogether passive in the act of coagu-
lation, and were merely mechanically enveloped by the coagulable
lymph, which existed in the liquid state in the blood as it circulates in

the blood vessels. Dr. Buchanan's process consisted in mingling toge-
ther one part of liquid blood just drawn from the vein with six or
eight parts of perfectly pure serum obtained from blood drawn the day
before. Certain precautions are indispensable to the success of the
experiment. If the blood be at once mixed with the whole of the serum,
the red particles of the blood pass through the filtering paper along
with the lymph and serum. Advantage must be taken of the superior
specific gravity of the red particles in order to separate them. For this
purpose, the liquid blood mixed with only a small quantity of serum is

cautiously added to the rest of the serum placed in the funnel. The
red particles subside, while the lymph mingles with the serum, and

filtrates perfectly pure through the layer of red particles at the bottom,

just as we filter any liquid through a stratum of sand. The mutual
action of serum and liquid blood has not been sufficiently investigated.
It has, indeed, been long known to physiologists, that the serum of the
blood has no action upon the red particles, and they have employed it
in their examination of the red particles under the microscope. They
do not, however, appear to have pursued the inquiry further, to ascer-
tain what becomes of the " liquor sanguinis," as it has been called, the
transparent part of the blood as seen by the microscope, and of the
fibrin which it holds in solution. To ascertain this, various proportions
of serum and liquid blood were mingled together. When equal mea-
sures of the liquids were used, or two or three parts of serum to one
of blood, the coagulum formed was merely more voluminous and

I
--76 REPORT 1840.

looser in texture than usual, but not otherwise altered in appear-

ance. When, however, six or eight parts of serum are employed,
the coagulation is much retarded, the red particles form a dense
layer at the bottom of the vessel, while the whole fibrin coagu-

--lates alone, forming a voluminous translucent mass, an artificial

" buffy coat," as it would be called by physicians. In this way, how-
ever, the fibrin is not obtained pure, but has more or less of a red
tinge, particularly in the lower half of the mass, owing to the red par-
ticles not having completely subsided before the coagulation took
place. The results corresponded to what the author had anticipated,
but he had no expectation of being able to obtain the fibrin perfectly
pure by filtration, as Miiller had done with respect to the blood of the
frog. Of the four specimens exhibited by Dr. Buchanan, one consisted
of the red particles gradually deposited, while the fibrinous coagulum,
with only a slight tinge of red at its lower part, floated above ; the
other three consisted of fibrin separated by the filter, one of the masses
floating in serum, the other two in water. These masses are very like
calf-foot jelly in appearance. They are of a cellular texture, and their
yellow colour is owing to the serum contained in their meshes, but by
ablution with water they become of a pure white colour.

On the Constitution and Products of the Distillation of Fat Bodies.

       By Professor Redtenbacher and Dr. Varrentrapp.

The object of this paper was to show that the composition of tlie

Afat acids has hitherto been erroneously stated.  variety of acids were

subjected to examination, such as stearic, margaric, oleic and sebacic

acid. Margaric and stearic acids were shown to possess the same radi-

cal ; the former being the higher, the latter the lower oxide of it. This

radical has the formula of 34 H.,3, and may be represented by the

Ma Ma +symbol
; thus stearic acid is 2       5 O, whilst margaric acid is

1 Ma + 30. They thus resemble sulphuric and hyposulphuric acids.

Margaric acid is one of the products of the distillation of stearic acid ;
the oxidation of the latter also causes the formation of the former.

Oleic acid was analysed by these gentlemen, having been obtained in

a pure state. The results were principally numerical, and are stated

in Liebig's Journal for IS^O.

             On a New Fat Acid. By Dr. L. Playfair.

   Dr. Playfair had examined some of the vegetable fats, for the pur-
pose of ascertaining whether the margaric acid contained in them pos-

sessed a constant composition. He remarked that the acid in the

butter of nutmegs was peculiar, and had not formerly been examined.
Pelouze and Bondet have stated in the Annales de Chimie, that it is
margaric acid. Dr. Playfair considered that the radicals of serecic and
cenanthic acid were similar ; in the former, however, one equivalent of
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                77

hydrogen is replaced by one equivalent of oxygen. It is a beautiful
white crystalline compound melting at 49° c, and is soluble both in
alcohol and aether. The combination of the acid with oxide of glyceril
exists in the butter ; it unites with metallic oxides and forms salts : these
were described, but the results are not susceptible of analysis, as they
were principally numerical. The formula of the acid is C^g H34 O3.

On a New Mode of estimating Nitrogen in Organic Analysis. By

                           Professor Bunsen, of Marburg.

The qualitative methods at present employed for the analysis of

azotized bodies were shown to be defective; for it is impossible to

employ these processes when the nitrogen and the carbon are in small

proportions to each other. Professor Bunsen's process consists in in-

troducing the substance to be analysed, after having mixed it with

Aoxide of copper, into a glass tube.  few slips of metallic copper are

then added, and the tube is fixed to Dobereiner's apparatus for produc ·

ing hydrogen. This gas is conducted through it until all the atmos-

pheric air is expelled, the tube having given to it a rotatory motion at

the same time, in order to dislodge any air which might be retained be-

tween the particles of the oxide of copper. The tube is now hermeti-

cally sealed, and introduced into an iron vessel filled with gypsum. The

gypsum must be still moist when the tube is introduced, in order that
it may be firmly wedged. Thus prepared, it is introduced into the
common oven used for organic analysis, and surrounded with red-hot

coals. If the tube be of strong green glass it never bursts. When the

combustion is completed the tube is placed below a graduated glass

receiver standing over mercury, and the point cut off. The gas, which

had a pressure of several atmospheres, now rushes into the jar. The

carbonic acid is absorbed by a ball of hydrated potash, which is intro-

duced into it, and the remaining gas must be nitrogen, for all the

hydrogen must have been converted into water by the oxygen of the
oxide of copper. The results obtained by this method agree with

theory to the second, and often to the third decimal place.

On the Compound or Radical called Kakodyl. By Professor Bunsen,

                                            of Marburg.

   The object of this paper was to describe a new radical resembling
alcohol, in which arsenic replaced the oxygen of that compound. This
radical enters into numerous combinations, forming, with oxygen, a
peculiar acid, called kakodylic acid. The oxide of kakodyl has so
great an affinity for oxygen, that when exposed to the air it imme-
diately inflames. The bodies produced by the combustion are ai-seni-
ous acid, carbonic acid, and water. By the further oxidation of the
oxide of kakodyl, kakodylic acid is produced. The sulphuret of kakodyl
is similar in composition to the oxide, and participates in many of its
properties. The telluret, selenuret, iodide and bromide of kakodyl
--7s REPORT 1840.

were also examined. The danger attending these experiments is very
great, and the poisonous eiFects produced by the inhalation of the
vapour were described as dreadful. Kakodyl is produced from the
liquor of cadet, and is extremely interesting as being a link connecting
organic and inorganic chemistry. Professor Bunsen is engaged in
further experiments on this subject, and has already obtained many
new combinations.

On the Identity of Spiroilous and Saliculous Acid. By Dr. Ettling.

   The oil discovered by M. Pagenstecher, and obtained by the distil-

lation of the Spircea Ulmaria, has already attracted considerable atten-

tion. Dr. Ettling had analysed it previously to the appearance of M.
Piria's valuable paper on Salicyl. The oil decomposes into two oils on

keeping, one of which is specifically lighter, the other heavier than
water. Dr. Ettling discovered that the latter possessed the same com-
position as hydrated benzoic acid. The action of ammonia on the oil
gives rise to some new interesting compounds. In order to obtain
these compounds it is indifferent M'hether saliculous or spiroilous acid
be employed. The final product of the action of ammonia upon these
is the amide of salicyl (salicylamide). This body evidently belongs to
the class of amides, for it does not evolve ammonia, on the addition
either of potash or of acids. The cause of its formation is as follows :
three atoms of saliculous acid unite with three atoms of ammonia, and
form saliculite of ammonia, whilst three of hydrogen and oxygen com-
bine together and form water. This salicylamide unites with copper,
iron, and lead, forming compounds.

         On a Ncio Method of Preparing Morphia and its Salts.

                       By Dr. MoHR, of Cohlentz.

   The plan adopted by the author for separating morphia from narcotin
and all other heterogeneous substances, consists in dissolving it in an
excess of caustic lime, and precipitating it by muriate of ammonia.
This method of precipitation is, in principle, very similar to the pre-

--cipitation of alumina from a solution of caustic potash. The process

is as follows : The opium is boiled in water, in which it readily dis-
solves ; the decoction is strained through a linen cloth, and the dregs
are pressed ; this operation of boiling and straining is repeated twice
on the same quantity of opium, and the solution of the whole concen-
trated until its weight is four times that of the opium employed. The
concentrated solution is, while still warm, mixed with milk of lime,

prepared with a quantity of dry lime equal to the fourth part of the
weight of the opium. The mixture is heated till it boils, and is filtered

through linen while hot. The filtered liquor has a light brown yellow
colour. While still hot it is mixed with pulverized sal-ammoniac in
excess ; the lime is saturated with muriatic acid, ammonia is set free,

and the morphia is precipitated. When the solution is greatly concen-
   --

   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  7^

trated the precipitation is instantaneous, and is almost equal in volume
to half the solution. When, however, the solution is less concen-
trated, there is at first no precipitation, but as the liquor cools, needles
appear, and at a certain point a large mass of precipitate is suddenly
formed. The peculiarity of this process is, that it aifords a well cry-
stallized and fine product of morphia, without requiring the use of
alcohol. This is owing to the circumstance that the ammonia is not
added in a free state, but is generated in immediate contact with the
substance to be acted upon. The morphia is nearly colourless : by
dissolving it in muriatic acid, and subjecting the solution to crystal-
lization, we obtain muriate of morphia in perfectly white crystals quite
pure. The milk of lime, it is to be observed, must not be added to a
boiling hot solution of the crude opium, otherwise the precipitate
adheres to the sides of the vessel, and does not afterwards re-dissolve
perfectly. The liquor containing the morphia should either be cold,
or only lukewarm when the milk of lime is added to it. If it is boil-
ing hot, it must be added to the milk of lime, and not vice versa.

On the Action of Nitric Acid on the Chlorates, lodates, and Bromates

          of Potassa and Soda. By Professor Fred. Penny.

   The present communication contains the details and results of some
experiments undertaken with the view of obtaining additional confirma-
tion of the correctness of the author's researches on equivalent num-
bers. In this he has been disappointed, as the action is attended by
circumstances which render it inapplicable to so delicate a purpose as
the determination of equivalent numbers. The results, however, that
he has obtained are new, and he considered them of sufficient interest
to be worthy the attention of the Section. In order to examine the
action of nitric acid upon chlorate of potassa, a known weight of the
salt was mixed in a retort with a measured quantity of the acid, and
the mixture heated on a sand-bath ; as soon as it became warm, chlo-
rine and oxygen were evolved in a state of mixture and not of combi-
nation, and the chlorate slowly disappeared. The solution was then
evaporated to dryness, and the saline residue was found to be a mix-
ture of hyperchlorate and nitrate of potassa, in the proportion of three
equivalents of the latter to one of the former. The author expresses

the reaction that takes place as follows :

4(K + Cl-h Ofi) and 3(N + O3) = (K + CI -F 0«) and 3(K + N + O^)

                                          and CI3 and O13,

    The action of nitric acid on chlorate of potassa differs, then, from
the action of sulphuric acid on the same salt. With nitric acid the
salt is decomposed tranquilly, and the chlorine and oxygen are liberated
uncombined ; whereas with sulphuric acid these gases are evolved in a
state of combination, forming that dangerous explosive compound,
chlorous acid. Nitric acid is therefore to be preferred for the prepara-
tion of hyperchlorate of potassa, as with it the operation may be con-
ducted without those violent detonations that are so apt to occur with
sulphuric acid. The action of nitric acid on chlorate of soda is the

I
--80 REPORT 1840.

same as upon chlorate of potassa. The chlorine and oxygen set free

are in a state of mixture, and every 4 atoms of chlorate yield 3 of ni-

trate and I of hyperchlorate. The hj'perchlorate of soda is a very

soluble salt, and crystallizes in small rhombs. It is readily decomposed

by heat, but is unacted upon by hydrochloric acid. It deliquesces by

exposure to the air. The action of nitric acid on an iodate is very

different from that on a chlorate, and is well illustrated in the case of

iodate of potassa. When iodate of potassa is boiled for some time

with a large excess of nitric acid, it is decomposed into potassa and

iodic acid ; the potassa combines with its proportionate quantity of

nitric acid, forming the nitrate, and the iodic acid is deposited from

the solution in minute, hard, and transparent crystals. If the acid so-

lution of nitre, containing the iodic acid, be then evaporated, a re-

action takes place ; the iodic acid decomposes half of the nitre, sets

free its nitric acid, and combines with the potassa, forming the binio-

date. This change is completed when the mixture is dry, and if the

heat be then withdrawn a definite mixture of biniodate and nitrate is

obtained. If the heat be continued, a still further change occurs, the

iodic acid expels the whole of the nitric acid, which is evolved as

nitrous acid, and oxygen and neutral iodate of potassa remain. By

adding a fresh portion of nitric acid to this iodate, the same changes

may be jiroduced by a proper regulation of the temperature. By act-

ing upon iodate of soda with nitric acid, Prof. Penny has obtained a

biniodate of soda, and by adding a considerable excess of iodic acid to

a solution of iodate of soda he has found a teriodate of soda. Both of

these salts are anhydrous. The biniodate of potassa contains 1 atom

Heof water.  also finds that crystals of iodate of soda contain differ-

ent quantities of water, according to the strength of the solution from

which they have deposited. From a hot and strong solution this salt

crystallizes in acicular tufts, and these crystals contain 2 atoms of

water. If the solution be rather weak, long four-sided prisms are ob-

tained, and these contain 6 atoms of water. If a solution of iodate of

soda be evaporated spontaneously, large irregular prisms deposit, and

these contain 10 atoms of water. They effloresce rapidly by exposure

to the air, and lose in this way 8 atoms of water. The action of nitric

acid upon bromate of potassa was next examined, and was found to

differ remarkably from the actions of this acid on the chlorate and

iodate. Neither hyperbromate nor bibromate is produced, but merely

nitrate of potassa. The nitric acid sets free the whole of the bromic

acid, and this, at the moment of its liberation, is resolved into its ele-

ments, bromine and oxygen. In conclusion, the author remarks that

the action of nitric acid on these tliree classes of salts affords a ready

method of distinguishing them from one another.

On a New Salt obtainedfrom Iodine and Caustic Soda. By Professor

                                          Fred. Penny.

   While examining the action of iodine on carbonate of soda a salt
was obtained, which crystallized in regular six-sided prisms, and which
                                                                       ;

       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                    81

gave by analj'sis sodium, iodine and oxygen, in proportions not corre-
sponding to any known compound of these elements. The same salt

was also prepared by saturating a solution of caustic soda with iodine,
and allowing the solution to evaporate spontaneously. At first this

salt was thought to be the same as that described by Mitscherlich in

his Elements of Chemistry, and to which he gives the following com-

Hposition, Na I -(- Na O, I O5 -h 0.^0 ; but the analysis gave very dif-

ferent results. Professor Penny gives the following characters of this

salt. It is white and inodorous, has a sharp saline taste, crystallizes in

short six-sided prisms, is soluble in cold and hot water, and is decora-

posed by alcohol into iodate of soda and iodide of sodium. It efflo-

resces by exposure to the air, and is very readily decomposed by heat

water in abundance is first evolved, and then oxygen with a trace of

iodine. Its solution is perfectly neutral to test papers, gives a pale

lemon-yellow precipitate with acetate of lead, yellowish white with

nitrate of silver, and a fine bright yellow with pernitrate of mercury.

It is not affected by solution of starch, but instantly decomposed with

the precipitation of iodine by nitric, sulphuric, acetic and hydrochloric

acids. The latter acid in excess converts it wholly into chloride of

potassium. He detailed a remarkable circumstance attending the for-
mation of this salt from iodine and caustic soda. When the solution

is evaporated spontaneously, long prismatic crystals of iodate of soda

deposit ; but as the evaporation continues these crystals are re-dissolved,

and are replaced by those of the new salt. In one experiment this

change was very striking. The solution on Saturday night had de-
posited an abundance of fine crystals of iodate of soda ; but on Monday

all these had disappeared, and a crop of the new salt had crystallized.

The prior deposition of iodate of soda generally occurs in the prepara-

tion of this salt ; and from other experiments of the author it seems

necessary that there should be excess of iodide of sodium present in the

solution, and that the solution should be strong in order that the salt

may form. When this salt is dissolved in water, and the solution eva-

porated spontaneously, crystals of iodate of soda deposit, but very few

of the new salt will form. The salt may also be procured by pouring

a saturating solution of iodide of sodium on crystals of iodate of soda,

and setting them aside for some days. The crystals will be dissolved,

and be replaced by crystals of the new salt. Professor Penny then

gave the details of his analysis of this salt, and the following formula

+ H Oas agreeing best Mith his result : Na^ I3 O.^^ 38    or regarding

                                                        ;

it as a compound of iodate and iodide, it may be thus represented;

+ + H3 Na I 2 Na 1 Ofi 38 O. According to this view it is the sesqui-

iodide of iodate of soda.

Additional Observations on the Voltaic Decomposition of Alcohol.

                     By Arthur Connel, Esq.

The author showed, a few years ago, that under powerful voltaic

agency, the water entering into the constitution of absolute alcohol was re-

solved into its elements, hydrogen being evolved at the negative pole, and

1840.                      G
 82 KEPOUT-- 1840.

 oxygen going to the positive, where it produces secondary effects of oxi-
 dation* ; and that tlie galvanic agency was greatly increased by dissolving
 minute quantities of potash in the alcohol, so small a quantity as xo^ooth
 part having a marked effect, by increasing the conducting power of the
 liquid. As it had been objected that the water of the hydrate of
 potash employed might contribute to the result, the author has since
 employed potassium instead of hydrate of potash, with precisely the
 same effects. It is known, that when potassium is dissolved by alcohol,
 it is oxidated with evolution of hydrogen, so that in this way we pro-

 duce the same consequences as if we added anhydrous potash. By
 adding small quantities of potassium, such as y^o "'^ 3oo' *" absolute

 alcohol (sp, gr. -7918, at 66° F.), and then submitting the liquid to
 voltaic action, hydrogen was given off at the negative pole ; and when
 the effect ceased, it was renewed by re-charging the battery, and again
 adding a similar small quantity of potassium ; and the usual secondary
 effects of oxidation were produced at the positive pole. In instituting
 a comparison between the quantity of hydrogen thus given off, and
 that evolved by the same electric current from acidulated water, it is
 necessary that a powerful current should be employed, and a some-
 what larger quantity of potassium dissolved ; because otherwise, from
 the inferior conducting power of the liquid, and from a little of the
 hydrogen entering into the constitution of the secondary products,
the quantity of hydrogen evolved from the alcohol is somewhat less
than that from the acidulated water ; and the comparison is best insti-
tuted during the early stages of the action, because the conducting
power of the liquid diminishes as the potash gets saturated by the
secondary products, and the electric energy declines also. The author
still regards these experiments as affording the only direct proof which
we yet have of the existence of water, as such, in absolute alcohol.

                  On Resins. By Professor Johnston.

    In this paper the author drew attention to the following facts, appa-
rently established by a table of analytical results, which he exhibited,
and has had printed. 1st. That the resins differ from each other in
the quantity of oxygen they contain. 2nd. That in those in which the
atoms of oxygen are the same, the hydrogen may vary, and that this is
another cause of difference in the properties of the resins. 3rd. That
in all the resins hitherto carefully analysed, the number of atoms of

carbon is constant. 4th. That the resins, as a natural family, may be

represented by a general formula containing two variables. 5th. That
the known resins divide themselves into two groups, possessing unlike
chemical and physical properties ; that of one of these groups colo-
phony may be considered as the type, and that it is represented by

i^40 H32 X Oy ; tbat gamboge, or dragon's blood, may be considered

+as the type of the other group, which is represented by C40 H44 , Oy

                     * Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinbuigh, vol. xiii.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                             8.3

On the Resin of Sarcocolla. By Professor Johnston.

The resin of sarcocolla of commerce is separated, by water, into three

portions.

  A1. gum A, which does not dissolve in water or alcohol, but which

is in a great measure washed out by means of the former solvent.

  A2. portion B, insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol, which is

of a resinous aspect, and is represented by C40 Hja 0,4.

HO+The hydrate is C40 Hj. O,^ 2  when dried at 60°.

This portion B is separated (decomposed?) by bases into two or

more organic compounds, the alcoliolic solution giving, with neutral

acetate of lead, a salt containing an organic constituent represented by

^40 -"25 '-'l(i*

   Ammonia throws down from the mixed solutions a second salt of

lead, the constitution of which has not yet been determined.
   3. The portion taken up by water from the crude sarcocolla when

evaporated to dryness, is separated by alcohol or aether into a solu-

ble (C), and an insoluble portion D.
   4. The soluble C, dried at 212°, gives discordant results, approach-

ing to C40 H33 Oi5, but when treated with bases, gives salts containing

organic constituents of a different constitution.

  A neutral acetate of lead throws down a salt represented by
OPb -|- C40 Hgg Oij ; and the subsequent addition of the neutral trio
Oacetate, a salt represented by 2 Pb -|- C40 Hg^ 0,g.

   5. The portion D, insoluble in alcohol, but soluble in water, consists
of a gum, and of a substance which is precipitated by neutral acetate

of lead in curdy flocks.

   The investigation is still in progress, and the results are to be con-

sidered as open to correction.

         On some Varieties of Peat. Sy Professor Joknstovi.

   The author exhibited some varieties of peat from the Moss near
Paisley, which he stated were illustrative of a transition from the

comparatively fresh vegetable matter to a substance resembling coal,

but which he affirmed to be ulmic acid. The author stated that the
same substance might be obtained from peat by digesting it in ammo-
nia, and afterwards precipitating the brown solution by an acid ; while
on the other hand, caustic potash extracts another, and which he pro-
posed to term humic acid.

On a Mode of Detecting Minute Portions of Arsenic. By Dr. Clark,

                              of Marischal College, Aberdeen.

   This mode has been applied by the author to the detection of arsenic
in commercial specimens of the metals, tin and zinc. Grain tin, made
in Cornwall, contains arsenic, which seems to be the occasion of the
peculiar smell of the hydrogen evolved from that metal by the action

                                                    G2
--84 REPORT 1840.

of acids. All the specimens of commercial zinc that the author had

happened to trj', were found to contain arsenic.

Pure muriatic acid, diluted with distilled acid, is poured upon the

metal, and the hydrogen evolved is passed first through a solution of

nitrate of lead, and next through a solution of nitrate of silver.

Nitrate of lead seems not acted upon by arseniuretted hydrogen, at

least when in very small proportion ; but were anj- sulphur present in

the metal, hydrosulphuretted hydrogen would be evolved in conse-

quence, and the solution of nitrate of lead would be blackened, which,

liowever, the author did not observe ever to occur. But nitrate of silver

seems inmiediateiy to be acted upon by most minute portions of arseniu-

Aretted hydrogen.       bluish-black precipitate is formed, which, to

judge from a qualitative analysis, appears to be an arseniuret of silver.

This bluish-black precipitate may be collected with remarkable facility,

from its falling readily from the solution, which it leaves perfectly

clear. Heated in a small tube, so that the matter heated comes into

contact with the air, the bluish-black precipitate evolves arsenious

acid, which, by the liquid tests, may be further satisfactorily recog-

nized. Antimony produces a similar precipitate, so that the mere

apjiearance of the precipitate is not enough, without the production

aii<l recognition, by the usual methods, of the arsenious acid.

By a few evident modifications, this method may be applied to

medico-legal investigations.

On (he Tests for Sulphuric Acid when thrown, on the Person.
                   By R. D. Thomson, M.D.

The object of the author was to discuss the accuracy of the modes of

testing sulphuric acid when employed for criminal purposes, and espe-

Acially when thrown on the person.  case had lately occurred to him

in practice, and which was brought before the last session of the

Central Criminal Court, which proved that the mode of determining

the presence o^free acid by 7uere testing was by no means satisfactory.

A woman, in a fit of rage, threw a quantity of oil of vitriol at the face

of a cabmaster in the neighbourhood of Euston-square, and before the

unfortunate sufferer could wash off the acid only two minutes had ex-

pired; yet the consequence was loss ofvision in the eye. The author stated,

that having attentively considered this case, and made a series of

experiments on the eyes of dead animals, he had discovered that this

kind of blindness was perfectly curable; and he had accordingly pro-

posed an operation for this purpose in a paper read at the Medical

Section. But, besides having his face injured, the hat of the man was

discoloured also with the acid. This article of dress was sent to the

author, to determine the nature of the agent in this work of destruc-

tion. The result of his experiments was, that both the injured and

entire  hat  contained  sulphuric  acid, as tested by nitrate  of barytes
                                                                                                                ;

and a solution of the soluble matter of both states of this article of

dress, afforded an acid reaction. It was therefore necessary to adopt
TUAMSACTIOXS OF THE SECTiOXS.  85

some method which would afford a discriminating test between tiie free
 and combined acid. The usual mode, viz. by boiling with carbonate
 of lead, and concluding, if any insoluble sulphate of lead was formed,
 that the acid existed in a free state, was found to be totally fallacious,
 because carbonate of lead decomposes sulphate of soda, contrary to the
opinion stated in works of medical jurisprudence. Besides, it was
shown that many of the usually so-called neutral sulphates exhibit in
reality an acid reaction upon test-paper, as in the instances generally
of sulphates of potash, iron, soda, barytes, and also in the case of
alum, &c. ; and hence the excess of acid attached to these salts, would
be apt to act as free acid upon the barytes test. The author, there-
fore, concludes that the only demonstrative proof which chemistry
affords, is a quantitative analysis. Thus he found the entire hat to
contain -356 per cent, of sulphuric acid, probably in the state of alum
or copperas, and the injured hat, 1*379 per cent., or in other words,
the hat had received by the injury 1-023 per cent, of free sulphuric
acid. Here then was afforded clear evidence of the nature of the
agent employed to effect the injurious object, which could not have
been conclusive if the matter examined had only amounted to a drop

or stain.

    The author directed attention to a point connected with sulphuric

acid in a medico-legal point of view, viz. that the oil of vitriol of

commerce always contains in this country nitric acid, in addition to

various other impurities. Barruel has stated that sulphuric acid is

capable of dissolving platinum. The author has not been able to
satisfy himself that it dissolves any sensible quantity of gold leaf.
Barruel attributes the property which he states it to possess, of dis-
solving platinum, to the sulphuric acid, assuming the function of
muriatic acid. But the author is not aware of any experiment which

would authorize this conclusion. He is rather inclined to attribute the

action, if such an occurrence taiies place, to the muriatic acid which is
present in all the oil of vitriol prepared from sulphur that he has
examined. It is given out in sensible quantities, when a solid oil, such
as cocoa-nut oil, is acted on by sulphuric acid. This he ascertained
several years ago, when examining some Indian oils ; and Dr. Kane
has since corroborated the fact of the existence of muriatic acid in oil
of vitriol. Although the author has not been able to observe the
solution of any sensible quantity of gold leaf by the action of oil of
vitriol, per se, yet if a few drops of muriatic acid be added, the ac:ion
becomes very powerful ; and by the administration of heat, platinum
also is dissolved. These facts, therefore, prove that wherever we have
oil of vitriol, we may expect also nitric acid. The author added that he
knew of no certain mode of detecting the presence of nitric acid, save
by the property which it possessed of dissolving gold and platinum,
on the addition of muriatic acid. Pure morphia has no action upon
nitric acid; it is the resin which generally accompanies that alkaloid
wliich produces the characteristic yellow colour. But the author found
tliat preparations of opium, in which the resin was excluded, afforded
no colour when nitric acid was added. From an examination
86 REPORT -- 1840,

of numerous cases of poisoning by opium, wliicli had appeared before
the Middlesex coroners, he had come to the conclusion that the resin
of opium test for nitric acid afforded only an auxiliary method of
arriving at the truth, as its characters were frequently verified by
other organic substances.

           On Bleaching Vegetable Wax. By Mr. E. Solly.

   In the course of the summer the author made a series of experiments
on the best method of bleaching vegetable wax, the green colour of
Avhich is very difficult of destruction, and of course a considerable ob-
jection to its use in the manufacture of candles. On trying most of
the methods usually described as being fitted for the purpose, he found
them all more or less objectionable, or inapplicable on a large scale.
Some were tedious, requiring a long time for their completion, others
expensive, whilst others again were inconvenient, from the difficulty with
Avhich the residuum of the materials employed in bleaching were sepa-
rable from the bleached wax. The author found that the best effect was
produced by chlorine ; but in this case it was necessary that the mate-
rials used to evolve the gas should be intimately mixed with wax, and
then of course the difficulty of separating the residue occurred, and when
a stream of chlorine was slowly passed through the wax, the process was
very slow and tedious. He subsequently found that strong nitric acid
was a very powerful decolorising agent, and it possessed the advantage
of leaving no residue which was at all difficult of separation ; the expense
of this process was, however, a great objection to its use. The following
method was ultimately employed. The wax was melted, a small quan-
tity of sulphuric acid was poured in, composed of one part of oil of
vitriol to two of water, and then a few crystals of nitrate of soda were
stirred in ; the whole was then agitated with a wooden stirrer, and kept
heated. Nitric acid was thus evolved in considerable quantity and
purity from a large surface, and in such a manner that all the acid
evolved must necessarily pass through the melted wax. This method
answered the purpose very completely ; the process was cheap and
rapid, and the residuum being merely a little solution of sulphate of
soda was very easily removed. When it is desired to employ chlorine
in place of nitric acid as the bleaching agent, the same process may be

adopted.

  On a peculiar Class of Voltaic Phcenomeiia. By Mr. Sturgeon.

    The author directed attention to some experiments published by
himself in 1830, and to his theory respecting the electro-chemical

action of the simplest metals on acid and other solutions. He stated

that the fact of iron not precipitating copper from its sulphate and
other solutions, as recently observed by Professor Schonbein, was one
of the many beautiful phfenomena discovered by Keir, and published in
the Philosophical Transactions for 1790.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  87

Experiments on Carbonic Acid thrown off from the Lungs. By Mr.

                                         M'Gregor.

    These experiments, performed by the author while resident in the
Royal Infirmary of Glasgow, were instituted with a view to ascertain
whether the quantity of carbonic acid thrown oiF from the lungs differed
in health and disease. The mean per cent, in health he found to be 3*5
per cent., a quantity which very nearly corresponds with that assigned by
Dr. Thomson of Glasgow, and Dr. Apjohn of Dublin ; that found by the
former being 3"72 as a mean ultimate result, while that of the latter
was 3*6. In the eruptive stages of small-pox, measles and scarlet fever,
the amount of carbonic acid evolved from the lungs was considerably
increased, in the former to from 6 to 8 per cent., and in the two latter
to from 4 to 5 per cent. During the aggress and climax of these dis-
eases, the per centage of carbonic acid showed the above increase,
while in proportion as convalescence established itself, and the skin
re- assumed its normal appearance, the per centage of carbonic acid
gradually diminished. Ten cases of each of the above specified diseases
were so examined. In chronic skin-disease an augmentation was also
observed, and in one case of ichthyosis the mean per centage amounted
to 7'2 per cent. The scaliness in that case was universal, and ulti-
mately proved fatal. In diabetes mellitus, a disease in which the ali-
ment is converted into sugar, and eliminated in the form of urea and
sugar, no normal aberration could be detected ; the carbon in that case
bemg eliminated in the form of sugar and urea.

Description of a New Instrument for Measuring the Refractive Poioer
    of Minute Bodies. By Alexander Bryson, of Edinburgh.

   While engaged in a series of experiments on the polarising proper-
ties of minute crystals, I found that when the microscope was focused
to the second surface of a plate of glass, on which some minute cry-
stals of Greenockite were placed, the addition of a thin film of Canada
balsam spread on the slip of glass, prevented entirely the appearance
of the Greenockite, until the body of the microscope was raised two
hundredths of an inch above its former position.

    This property of bodies, with parallel planes, affords a means of ascer-

taining the approximate refractive power of minute bodies. On this prin-
ciple Mr. Bryson has constructed an extremely simple microscope. On

its stage is placed a piece of crown-glass, the refractive power of Avhich
has been ascertained, having a few fine lines drawn upon its surface with
a diamond point. If a piece of topaz of ^ijth of an inch in thickness
is now placed above the lines, it will be found necessary to raise the
body of the microscope -045 of an inch higher than it was while view-
ing the lines before they can be observed after the interposition of the
topaz. This difference of focal length then becomes an index to the
difference of refractive power between the glass plate and the crystal
of topaz. All that we require is to procure the means of ascertaining
88 REPORT-- 1840.

minute differences of focal length, which is easily accomplished by a
scale and vernier, reading to the thousandths of an inch.

    Thirteen minerals were cut with parallel planes, all exactly yo*'^ ^^
an inch thick ; they were placed on the glass micrometer, focused in
every experiment at '210 upon the scale ; the difference of focus is there-
fore the remainder of '210 subtracted from the figures opposite the
name of each mineral in the annexed list.

Greenockite, Bishopton, Clyde        -275
Garnet, Ceylon                       ·2()0
Amethyst, Oriental                   -258
Prehnite, Bishopton                  -258
                                     -255
Topaz, New Holland                   -255
                                     -255
Quartz                               '255
Sulphate of baryta                   '245
Beryl, planes perpendicular to axis  '246
                                     -245
Opal, common                         -243
Rose quartz                          ·235

Amethyst, Brazil
Fluor spar
Arragonite

On a New Method of Crystallographic Notation. By Mr. J. J.

                                           Griffin.

The author classes the planes of ciystals into seven elementary sets,

which he calls " Forms." The planes of crystallized minerals consist

of these forms in various states of combination. Hence a natural

crystal, speaking crystallographically, is a " Combination." The seven

fundamental forms are named P, M, T, MT, PM, PT, PMT. These

symbols show the relations of the planes which constitute the Forms,

to what are termed the axes of a crystal. These axes are three matlie-

matical lines which cross one another in the centre of the crystal, at

an angle of 90°. The position of the first of these axes is perpen-

dicular, whence it is called the principal or pei'pendicular axis, and is

denoted by the sign p''. The second axis is called the minor or middle

m\axis, and is denoted by the sign  It passes from the front to tlie

back of the crystal. The third axis is the transverse axis. It passes

from the left to the right side of the crystal, and is denoted by the sign

t". All the planes of a crystal, when extended, cut one or two or

three of these axes, and they are denoted by letters referring to the

axes which they cut. Thus P means two planes that cut p" ; M, two
planes that cut m* ; T, two planes that cut t" ; MT, four planes that
cut m'' and t^ ; PM, four planes that cut p'* and m* ; PT, four planes
that cut p* and f*; PMT, eight planes that cut all the three axes.
When the axes are cut at different distances from the centre of the

crystal, the lengths of the respective axes are indicated by indices

placed between the letters, which constitute the symbol of the form.

M^TTims,  denotes a vertical rhombic prism, the diagonals of whose

cross section are as the numbers 1 and 2. And P^M^T denotes a
                               --

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  89

rhombic octahedron, whose three axes have the relation of ^il m,'
t*. Mr. GrifRn entered into various details to prove that the occur-
rence of planes, not representable by one or other of these seven forms,
was a mathematical impossibility, and that the proposed system of no-
tation was amply sufficient for all the purposes of the chemist and
mineralogist, while it had over other systems of crystallography the ad-
vantage of requiring but a small amount of mathematical knowledge.

   Prof. Jacobi made some observations respecting his discovery of
Galvanoplastics, or electrotype, from which, and from printed docu-
ments, it appeared that he had communicated a notice of the discovery
to the Petersburgh Academy on the 5th of October, 1838. In his
pamphlet, ' Die Galvanoplastik,' the date of this communication is 5th
of October, 1839; but it was stated that this was a typographical
error. The first published account of the discovery appeared, accord-

ing to Prof. Jacobi, in a Petersburgh journal of the 30th October,
1838*.

                                GEOLOGY.

On the Coal Formation of the West of Scotland. By Mr. J. Craig.

   Mr. Craig had surveyed this district at the suggestion of the Local
Committee of the British Association in Glasgow. After describing
the general features of the district, and the character of the superficial
deposits, and mentioning that he had found the Mytilus edulis, the
Littorina littoralis, and other recent sea-shells at the elevation of 360,
100, 80, and 40 feet above the present level of the sea, Mr. Craig pro-
ceeded* to describe the diflferent portions of the strata, as subdivided

and coloured in the Map and Sections. These he classed as follows :

   1st. The upper red sandstone series.
   2nd. The upper or fresh-water coal series.
   3rd. The upjDcr marine or limestone series.
   44h. The lower coal series.
   5th. The lower marine limestone series.
   6th. The old red sandstone.
   1st. The upper red sandstone, consisting of red and variegated
sandstones, shales, some thin seams of coal, and a very few traces of

coal plants, extends over very considerable portions of the regular coal

beds both in Lanarkshire and Ayrshire. On the south of the deposit

in Lanarkshire, it appears not to be conformable with the upper coal
series as on the north, but occurs in actual contact with some of the

                         * Der St. Petershurger deuischen Zeiluuy.
90 REPORT-- 1840.

lowest members of the lower coal series at Crossbasket. It is not tra-
versed in Lanarkshire as in Ayrshire by trapdykes.

    2nd. The upper or fresh-water coal series contains about thirty
seams of coal, seven or eight of which are workable. The first work-
able coal lies generally about forty-five or fifty fathoms below the red
sandstone ; but at Rosehall the red colour prevails as low in the series
as the third workable coal. The first or upper coal seam is from 2^
to 3 feet thick in the parishes of Old and New Monkland ; but in those
of Dalziel, Dalserf, and Hamilton, it sometimes measures from six to

ten feet. When so thick, it is probably a junction of the first and

second seams. The second and third coal, when separate, average
each about four feet ; when united, as is sometimes the case, they form
eight or nine feet of coal. The fourth coal is generally too thin to be
workable ; but in the neighbourhood of Glasgow it measures 2^ feet.
The fifth or splint coal measures from 2i to 6 feet thick. The coals

that underlie the splint are not so regular, either as to thickness or
geographical distribution. There are three seams workable in the

--Monklands the first is 2^ feet, the next four feet, and the lowest two

feet thick. Below these, in the parish of Shotts, there is a cannel coal.
The distance from the first or ell coal, to the fifth or splint coal, is
about thirty fathoms. The area in which these valuable beds of coal
occur, extends in Lanarkshire from Glasgow to Carluke, a distance of
twenty miles. In breadth it varies from six to fifteen miles : fifteen to
twenty square miles of this area is occupied by the upper red sand-

stone.

   The fossil shells found in this formation are all of fresh-water origin.
There are from seven to ten varieties of the genus Uhio. The difierent

species are characteristic of different portions of the stratification, the

larger species being lowest and the smaller highest in the series. The
remains of the 3Iegalichthys Hibbertii prevail from the lowest coal to
the upper black-band ironstone. This is also the case with the Gyra-
canthus formosus of Agassiz. The Ctenacanthus and two other species
not yet described, are also found in the upper ironstone, and in the roof
of the splint coal. These and other ichthyological remains are found in
great alDundance in the roof of the Shott's coal, which is the second
seam below the splint coal. The shales of this series abound in fossil
ferns, Stigmaria, Lepidodendra, Asterophyllites, Sigillaria, and other

coal plants.

   The Sternbergia approximata has been found in the roof of the
splint coal. It is worthy of remark, that the Stigmaria ficoides is very

frequently found in the shales, with the leaves attached to the stem
and spread out laterally, in a manner which never could have occurred
had the plant been drifted from a distance. The ripple-marks which
are observable on almost all the shales and laminated sandstones, not
only in the upper series, but through the whole of the carboniferous
formation, tend also to show that these portions of the coal strata, at
least, were deposited in shallow water. Fossil trees in a vertical situa-

--tion are rare. Mr. Craig had only seen them in three places, that at

Balgray Quarry, near Glasgow, is the most remarkable, as there Avere
                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  91

many stems seen in the stone, with their roots ramified through it, and

the stems quite vertical ; circumstances which clearly indicate that they
grew in their present position. Mr. Craig then described the different

carboniferous black band ironstones found in the upper coal formation.

These he classed as the upper, which is about fourteen inches thick,

and lies 24 fathoms above the first, or ell coal. It is only wrought in

the parish of Old Monkland, at a place called Carnbroe. The middle

or Airdrie black band lies about sixteen fathoms below the splint coal,

and measures from fourteen to twenty -two inches thick ; the lowest lies

much lower in the stratification, and is of about the same quality and

thickness as the Airdrie black band.

3rd. Below the coals and ironstones already noticed, we arrive at a

--marine series, containing three or four limestones, which, with their as-

sociated shales, contain Encrinites, Bellerophons, Nucula, Euomphali,

Orthoceratites, and other remains decidedly marine. This portion of

the strata contains only two or three very thin seams of coal ; it is

about 200 yards thick. This group is denominated the upper lime-

stone series.

We4th.         now arrive at the lower coal series, which contains no lime-

stones, but a number of coals, the lowest of which is the cannel coal,

measuring from two to three feet thick. The main coal lies fifteen

fathoms above the cannel coal. These and some other thin seams are

associated in some localities with valuable black band ironstones.

These are wrought at Keppoch, near Glasgow. The upper ironstone

measures from fifteen to sixteen inches. The under band varies from

four to ten inches in thickness.

The black band ironstones of the Glasgow coal-field contain very

little clay, and about as much carbonaceous matter as serves to calcine

it ; on which account it is considered more valuable than the clay iron-

stones hereafter to be noticed.

Below the lower coal series there occur several small groups of clay

ironstones imbedded in shale, each separated from the other by beds

of sandstone and an occasional stratum of limestone. Mr. Craig showed

a vertical section wherein all these beds were exhibited, the ironstones,

amounting to sixty-six in number,twenty feet of which might bewrought

in different winnings in the same pit.

5th and 6th. Underneath these ironstones, shales, &c. lies the main

limestone, measuring from four to six feet thick, beneath which is a

layer of aluminous shale, from which alum is manufactured. This bed

is followed by a seam of coal from four to five feet thick, of a sulphur-

eous nature, and containing nodules of iron pyrites. These beds are

succeeded by limestones, shales, and sandstones, and finally by an ex-

tensive formation of thin compact limestones imbedded in shale, and

finally by old red sandstone. Such is the general description of the

strata developed on the Clyde and its tributaries, from Lanark to the

Vale of Leven.

Mr. Craig then entered upon a description of the different coal-fields

in Ayrshire. The coal there appears in several basins, among which

are those of Irvine, Kilmarnock, Ayr and Dairy. These contain from
                                                   --

92 REPORT-- 1840.

four to six or seven workable coals, measuring from 2A to seven feet

thick each, a valuable black band ironstone, and a great many clay
ironstones, the whole based upon marine limestones of great thickness.

    Mr. Craig's paper was illustrated by large coloured maps, and by
sections of the various coal-pits and borings which had been made
through the extensive district, amounting to 3600 square miles, which
he had surveyed. These were taken at various points in the stratifi-
cation, and developed the whole in depth to the extent of above ICOO

yards.

Notes taken during tJie Surveys for the Construction of the Geolo-

  gical Model Maps and Sections of the Island of Arran. By

   A. C. Ramsay.

   The interior of the northern and more mountainous district of Arran
is a mass of granite, against \vhich recline various stratified formations,
ranging between the primary schist and slates, and the new red sand-
stone. Immediately resting on the central mass of granite lie tiu^
schistose and slaty rocks, which are sometimes much contorted, and
contain innumerable quartz veins minutely laminated and parallel to
the plane of stratification, and in other instances penetrating the slate
laterally, being sometunes two feet in thickness. On the slate repose
the old red sandstone and conglomerate, containing pebbles of schist
and slate quartz, &c. The fragments of quartz are of two kinds,
1st, well-rolled and polished pebbles, probably originating in some
ancient mass of quartz now totally destroyed ; 2nd, broken and angular
fragments, which seem to have been imbedded in the conglomerate
immediately after they w'ere detached from the original mass. These
last probably proceeded from the larger quartz veins already alluded
to, the softer materials in which they occur forming part of the cement
which binds the conglomerate together. The anticlinal line is in
the centre of the old red sandstone at North Sannox, and at either
extremity the coal measures dip to the north and south, being again
succeeded by what is genei'ally believed to be the new red sandstone.
The southern district of the island is composed of irrupted masses of
traps, porphyries, and syenites overlying the stratified sandstone forma-
tions. In general it is only where the action of the streams has worn
away the superincumbent igneous rocks that this sandstone is visible
in the valleys ; and in many of the deep guUeys dykes may be seen
penetrating, and thence overflowing, the strata to a great depth. In

such cases the trap usually assumes a semi-columnar form.

   Mr. Ramsay then proceeded to notice some of the phasnomena which
preceded and attended the elevation of Arran.

   The deposition of the various formations has generally taken place
under a gradual change of circumstances. Thus, in North Sannox
Water, we have first, slate ; next, a slaty conglomerate, or pebbles
of slate inclosed in slate ; then the common pudding-stone ; again
the slaty conglomerate, and so on, alternating several times. At
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  93

the north and south boundaries of the old red sandstone, between
Fallen Rocks and Corrie, it assumes a conglomerate form ; but before
passing into the coal measures, we find the same pebbles, of which it
is composed, inclosed in lime, forming a carboniferous limestone con-
glomerate ; after which succeed the various sandstones, limes, and
shales of the coal formations. It is equally impossible to define the
boundaries of the coal measures and the new red sandstone. As,
therefore, there is no sudden change from one set of rocks to the
other, Mr. R. inferred that they were regularly laid on each other,
without any material intervening change having taken place in the bed
of the sea where they were deposited.

   On the question, through what agencies did these strata attain

--their present elevation, the author states the following facts : There

are no fragments of granite in any of the overlying formations.
Granite often penetrates the slate in veins, but has nowhere over-
Howed the slate. Probably, before the deposition of the old red sand-
stone, the melted granite was formed under the slate, partially eleva-

ting it above the water and cracking it in many places. Into these
fissures the granite infused itself, cooled, and was subsequently up-

--heaved and protruded in its present crystalline form. In proof of this,

it is stated 1st, that rounded fragments of slate and schist are im-
bedded in the old red sandstone ; 2nd, that in many places a shallow
valley intervenes between the highest point of the slate and the central
granite ; 3rd, the separated edges of the slate dip towards the granite ;
4th, had the sandstone rocks completely overlaid the slate before its
first partial elevation, they would have occupied the low ridges which
now encircle the granite.

   There are in Arran two granites distinct in character, the one coarse
and crystalline, the other of a finer and softer texture. The fine granite
occupies the centre of the granitic district, the coarse forming the
external ridges next the slate. The fine granite also penetrates the
coarse variety in veins. Trap and pitchstone dykes penetrate the
coarse granite in many places ; but as no dykes have yet been found
in the fine granite, and as these dykes are always cut off by the fine
granite when they approach it in the coarse rock, it would appear that
the fine granite is even newer than the trap dykes ; and if these last
are contemporaneous with the traps and porphyries of the south end of
Arran, the fine granite must also be of later origin than they are. In
the year 1837, Mr. Ramsay discovered amass of fine-grained granite
to the west of Glen Cloy (called by M. Necker, who noticed it last
year, Ploverfield) associated with syenite, and sending veins into the

adjacent red sandstone.

   With regard to the more recent elevations, the author stated, that an
ancient sea cliff, the foot of which is about forty feet above the level
of the sea, surrounds great part of the island, and, gradually sloping
from this to the modern beach, shells are found similar to what are
now found on the shore. These shells ai'e even found at the entrances
of the water-worn caves so common in this cliff; and these caves,

instead of lying horizontally, dip agreeably to the anticlinal line, their
                                                                       ;

--d4 REPORT 1840.

pillars being at liglit angles to the plane of stratification, not to the

horizontal level, clearly showing that they were elevated into their

present position at an epoch subsequent to their formation. Between

this cliff also, and the sea, are numerous boidders of granite, which rest

not on the broadest and most solid parts, but on their apices, as if the

action of the advancing and retiring waves while they were within high

water-mark, had washed away the lower portions of the rock and left

Athem in their present position.  regular series of these forms may

be observed on the shore, and the further they are removed from ebb-

tide, the more do they assume the form of inverted cones.

Another evidence of a still more recent elevation is this, that near

the coal on the east coast, is a bed of red limestone ; and six or eight

feet above the level of the sea the surface is entirely honey-combed

with the perforations of a species of Pholas.

With regard to the phsenomena of the quartz veins in the slate and

schist, Mr. Ramsay said, that in part they appeared to owe their origin

to the influence of electric currents; but as, where this occurs, the

slate or schist is generally much contorted, it is perhaps probable that

these currents have been materially aided in their operations by heat

and the process of separating the particles and arranging them in

laminae, would be much assisted if the slate were so far heated and

expanded as to allow its component particles liberty of motion. That

it w^as heated to a great extent, is evident from the fact, that at the

distance of a mile and a half from the granite the slate exhibits the

most marked contortions ; and whei'e in immediate contact with the

granite, it has in some instances been partially fused.

During the Commonwealth, when Cromwell's soldiers were in Arran,

a number of the refractory natives retired into the woods. To gain
access to their retreat it w as found necessary to cut down many of the

trees. These trees were lately found perfectly fresh imder 6^ feet

of moss.

On another occasion a number of ancient w capons of war were found

under three feet of peat moss. These weapons are supposed to be as

old as one of the Danish invasions, a battle between the natives and

the Danes having taken place where they were found.

Observations on the Superficial Beds in the Neighbourhood of Glasgow.

                         By James Smith, F.G.S.

   The uppermost bed is a sand ; the next a brick clay, intcrlaminated
with sand, containing marine shells ; and then a bed, called in Scotland
"till", and containing boulder stones. These are evidently post-tertiary.
Between these and the sandstone are three other beds. Mr. Smith has
discovered, in elevations, often forty feet above the present shores, beds
of shells, containing about eighty -five per cent, of species now existing.
Those of extinct species resemble shells from Canada, and indicate a

colder climate at the time the animals existed. In the till, shells are of

very rare occurrence, although it sometimes contains large bones. The
                                                             TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                 95

bed of brick clay seems to have been frequently subjected both to ele-
vation and subsidence; the latter condition being more difficult to ob-
serve, from Its being often beyond our view. The brick clay of the
neighbourhood of Glasgow appears also to coincide in age with the
Carse clay of the east of Scotland, as may be seen in the valley of the
lay, where a singular phaenomenon is presented by a bed containing
stumps ot trees,
                                                             which is   covered by another containing littoral shells.
He mentioned,                                                that Dr.   Thomson, of Glasgow, had recorded a whin

dyke that penetrated the superficial sand of that city, but he was not
aware of the sand having been altered by it; also, that in Cumbrae a
great wearing away of the sandstone was proved by the dykes, as they
were now presented to the observer : allowing a foot in the century for

this destruction, it would require many centuries to effect what has been
done, which induced
be much longer than                                               Mr. Smith to consider        the  post-tertiary  period  to
                                                                  is generally supposed.

     On the Geology of Castle Hill, Ardrossan. By William Keir.

    It is  situated at the north-west extremity                                                of the great      Scotch coal
held.                                                                                                            the old red
           On the north side of Ardrossan quay                                                 may be seen

sandstone dipping, beneath the coal ; the pier is built on a trap dyke,
and the baths upon another; between them the coal strata run into
the sea at angles highly inclined. The Castle Hill is formed by an
eruption of trap, chiefly in the condition of claystone and clinkstone,
with a vein of green serpentine running through it, without rising to
the surface. In cutting for the railway, this vein has been exposed
and a portion removed. At first it was dark green, very brittle and
frequently coated with steatite ; it then became darker in colour,' and
more compact, and is now becoming like ordinary greenstone. The
claystone of the hill appears to have been fissured by the eruption of
the
     serpentine                                              the  fissures  are  filled with   drift,  in which  are  many
                                                          ;

ragments that bear such marks of fusion as to resemble scoria; · thev
liave often a ceiling of stalactite, and a floor of stalactitic conglome-
rate, formed of water-worn pebbles and recent sea-shells, proving the
Aelevation of the rock, the cavernous part being thirty feet above the
present tide-level.                                               little higher, in a sheltered spot, is a bed of re-

cent shells, Littorina vulgaris and Patella vulgaris, which have been
brought there in storms.

On the Granite Formations of Neioahhey, in Galloway. By the Rev

               J. M. Fisher, A.M., of Rose Bank, Durnfries.

" The parishes of Newabbey, Kirkbean, Colvend, and Kirkgunzeon,
he contiguous, and the chains or ridges pervading these, which are
wholly composed of granite, stretch in a direction from S.E. to N.W.
The granite, it is true, appears more distinct in the above-mentioned

parishes                               still  it             stretches  in a  sort  of  ridge  across  the  south  of the
                                    ;
96 REPORT--1840.

Stewarty, as far as the Dee, and even appears on the other side, giving
existence to the lofty Cairnsmoor.

   "At Criffel, which is a huge rounded mountain, towering above most

of the liills in the south of Scotland, so as to be seen at a great distance,

we have first, a ridge I'unning from S.E. to N.W., terminating in
another pretty lofty hill, called Lowters. Then commencing at Sham-
bellie, a little to the north of Criffel, we have another ridge running
nearly parallel with the above, consisting of Auchingray and Glen-

sone hills ; and further north still is another ridge, almost parallel in
like manner, commencing at Whinnyhill, and including Trostive and
Graizend ; these terminate in a pretty large sort of loch, called Loch
Arthur, where the granite formation terminates also ; and we find the
next hills, Dalscairth and Mabie, exhibiting a distinct stratification of
graywacke or clayslate. At the foot of Craigurd, the most northerly
of the above ridges affords little interesting. In a sort of morass,
interspersed with several large blocks of granite, as if they had rolled
down from the ridge above, is one large block, called the Rocking-stone.

    " Glensone Hill runs nearly S.E., and on the west side, around the
brow of the hill, is an extensive ridge of granite rocks, in a curved
form, quite bare and rugged ; many of the masses very large, disjoined
from the body of the hill, and presenting some of them a distinct
columnar formation. This is the more remarkable, as the dip of the
rock in this hill, and indeed in all the ridges, is westw^ard, at 60° to 70°.

To the west of Glensone lies Lowters, the highest of all except Criffel.
The east side, fronting Glensone, is steep and rugged ; the rocks crop-

ping out quite precipitously, apparently corresponding with the west

side of Glensone, though the valley between may extend to the width
of 600 or 800 yards, through which Loch Arthur discharges a small
stream, which flows into the Nith. On the other hand, the west side

of the hill, following the nature of the dip, slopes with a gentle de-

clivity, and is cultivated a considerable way up. This same circum-
stance is observable at Auchingray Hill, the S.E. side of which is
steep and precipitous, the rocks cropping out quite bare ; whereas the
west side slopes, according to the dip, and is cultivated almost to the
top. All these hills and ridges, besides having innumerable blocks of
granite scattered over their surface, in ample profusion, and in all di-
rections, seem entirely composed of this rock to a great depth ; at least
as far as any person has penetrated.

   " The highest ridge of the whole remains to be described ; that is a
hill called Knockandach, i. e. the ' Hill of Drink,' running in a direc-
tion nearly north and south, rising to the height of 1200 feet, and
which is continued till it finally terminates in the gigantic Criffel.
Criffel is certainly an immense mass of granite, changing into syenite
in some parts. As on the east side, the rocks crop out in several
places, still exhibiting the dip mentioned. Criffel has one principal
summit, with three knees or shoulders, one east, one south, and another
west ; and Knockandach, formerly mentioned, completes the formation
northward. On the principal summit has been erected, at different
times, and by different contributors, a large cairn of granite rocks,
from which the view is most extensive and splendid."
                                              ;

               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  97

       On Earthquakes in Scotland. By D, Milne, F.R.S.E.

    Since the year 1788, shocks have been remarked, and have been
partially registered. Three-fourths of these seem to have issued from
Comrie, in Perthshire, and most of the others from the Ijanks of Loch
Ness. The district of Comrie contains mica-slate, clay-slate, and gray-
wacke, with hills of granite and compact felspar, which have elevated
the other rocks, the conglomerate of the gray wacke containing no peb-
bles of granite or felspar ; but on the former rocks is old red sand-
stone, containing these pebbles. There are also some remarkable green-
stone dykes, which seem to run parallel to each other from sea to sea,
in east and west direction, and cutting the oldest and newest strata.
The shocks emanated from a granite hill, or from the junction between
it and clay-slate, about two miles from Comrie. In October 1839, there
were sixty-six shocks; November, twenty-one; December, nineteen;
January 1840, eight; February, six; Mai'ch, thirteen; April, eight;
May, five ; July, six ; the severest being on the 23rd of October, at
half-past ten p.m. It was felt as far north as Lochaber and Dingwall, and
as far south as Carlisle and Coldstream ; varying in intensity in diflPerent
places. The shocks appear to come from a central point, as their di-
rection is different at different places ; at Comrie being from the north,
at Dunkeld from the south-west, and at Loch Earn Head from the east.
There was an upward motion at Comrie, and at other places it was ob-
lique. There was, likewise, a diminution of intensity and sound as the
distance from Comrie increased ; and there was, in each place, a marked
difference in the damage done to houses. The shock was more se-
verely felt where the soil was alluvial ; although, in this case, the sound
was not heard, as in rocky places. Occasionally there was a fall of
fine black powder, and in some places there was a sensible smell. Va-

rious explanations may be given as to the rationale of these shocks
but one of the readiest is, the passage of water down to some heated
mass below, and its consequent conversion to steam. As bearing on
this, the shocks are found to have been more frequent at the time of
the year when the greater quantity of rain falls, and when the baro-
meter is lowest. During the last fifty years, 198 shocks took place in
the winter half-year, and sixty-one in the summer. At the present

time, observations are carefully taken with instruments for the purpose.

   D. Milne, Esq., in the absence of Lord Breadalbane, stated the sub-
stance of a notice respecting the metalliferous veins of Tyndrum, in
which a great variety of metals has been found.

Lord Greenock announced the discovery of lead on the estate of his

brother. Colonel Cathcart, on the borders of Galloway and Ayrshii-e.

The vein runs N.N.E. and S.S.W. ; it is far distant from granite. It

contains five ounces of silver to the ton. There is hematitic iron ore in

the vicinity.

1840.          H
--98 REPORT 1840.

On the Sandstone of the Vale of Solway, and the formation of the
   Closeburn Basin, Niihsdale, Dumfries-shire. By J, A. Knipe.

   The author refers the sandstone to the new red sandstone deposit,
remarking that it is a very thin deposit. At Aiket Muir the coal mea-
sures are found, and have been penetrated to a depth of 132 feet in
search of coal, but without success. At, or at least near Ecclefechan,

--the true coal measures are seen on the surface and in the immediate

vicinity, the carboniferous limestone. Near the limestone quarries at
Kelhead a bore has been put down to the depth of 199 feet ; this was
also unsuccessful in finding coal. The various strata passed through
appear to be analogous to the Cannobie pits, and are worked very

profitably.

   A zone of sandstone extends up the river Annan, from its entrance

in the Solway up to Moffat. Another and broader portion of this

sandstone extends up the river Nith for several miles north of Dum-

fries. At the Craigs Quarry are found numerous impressions of the
foot-prints of unknown animals. There is a bold escarpment near
these quarries formed of alternating beds of sandstone and conglo-
merate. The section at the Maiden's Bower does not afford so good a
specimen as nearer the Craigs House, where the sandstone and con-
glomerate beds succeed each other to the number of twenty or more.
The strata dip at an angle of about 30° to the west, though the
dip is very slight at the Maiden's Bower within a mile of these
quarries : this is formed by the sepai'ation and slip of an immense
mass of the strata, which forms a substantial table in this natural
alcove. At Kelliead the Orihoceratite, Productce, Spiriferce, Bellero-
phon apertits, Sec, are in abundance, and exceedingly perfect.

    About five miles north of the extreme end of the Dumfries sandstone
is the Closeburn Basin, in length about ten miles, and from three to five
in breadth ; between them is a zone or band of grauwacke or Upper
Cambrian rock. The northern terminus is near Collaine, at the base of
the Lowder mountains, which rise to an elevation of 3150 feet.

    The new red sandstone is the superior stratum, and is quarried in
several places. The dip is by no means regular. There are several
good sections, but the best afforded are in Cree-hope Linn.

    The carboniferons limestone is quarried to some extent at the eastern
out-crop at Closeburn, and on the west at Bajarg.

    The cabinet of Sir C. Menteith contains a fine collection of fossils
of this formation, from the Closeburn quarry, amongst which are the
 Orthoceras cordiforme, and giganteum. The heart-shaped specimen
measures nine inches and a quarter in length, and seven inches in
diameter at its broadest part. This formation rests unconforraably upon
the grauwacke or Cambrian rocks, which entirely surround the basin,
and at Comple Mill, where the superior beds are denuded, this rock
is again found. This basin is made further interesting to the geo-
logist by a basaltic dyke passing through it ; a good section of its
columnar structure is seen at Comple Water ; it is about twenty-two or
twenty-three yards wide, and ten high. Volcanic grit and altered sand-
stone are in immediate connexion.
          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                              99

   The Duke of Argyle read a notice respecting the occurrence of

copper veins in Ai'gyleshire, and exhibited specimens of marble from
various places in Scotland.

Fishes of the Old Red Sandstone. By Roderick Impey Murchison,

     F.R.S., F.G.S., General Secretary to the JBritish Association.

Mr. Murchison called the attention of the Section to the subject

of the old red sandstone of the northern counties of Scotland, the

general relations of which had been long ago pointed out, and some of

Onits fossil fishes desci'ibed by Professor Sedgwick and liimself*.  this

occasion his object was to mark distinctly the progress which had since

been made in our knowledge of the structure and contents of this sy-

stem in the same tract of country. In doing this, Mr. Murchison

referred to Mr. Hugh Miller, of Cromarty, who, unaided, had unra-

velled the complicated relations of the older stratified deposits around

his native place, and had first endeavoured to describe a singularly

formed animal with lateral M'ing-like processes, the Pterichthys f,
which with Coccosteus and other new genera of Agassiz have recently

been found in considerable quantities, on both sides of the Murray Frith.

Mr. Murchison then adverted to the general views of Dr. Malcolmson,

of Forres, who had re-examined all the fish deposits lying between the

Orkneys and Aberdeenshire, and had divided the old red sandstone of

these parts into three members, the middle and lower of which are

distinguished by forms of fish peculiar to each. This work, illustrated

by drawings, is now in the course of publication in the Geological

Society's Transactions, and will form an interesting subject of com-

parison with the work preparing by Professor Asmus, of Dorpat, upon

similar ichthyolites, to which Mr. Murchison adverted in his commu-

nication on the geology of Russia.

Account of the Footsteps of extinct Animals observed in a Quarry in

        Rathbone-street, Liverpool. By James Yates, F.R.S.

   " For more than half a century a stone quarry has been worked in

Rathbone-street, Liverpool ; but only within a few weeks have any

traces been observed in it of organic existence. On my way to the

Meeting of the British Association, I had occasion to stay a short time
at Liverpool, and was informed by Mr. Higginson, a surgeon in that
town, that he had found in this quarry footsteps of the same kind
which were discovered about two years ago at Stourton, in Cheshire.
I accompanied him to the spot, and found the appearances as follows.
The strata are moderately inclined, and of so great thickness as to be
well adapted for building. The workmen are at this time hewing out
of them a set of pillars twenty feet long, intended to form the colon-
nade of a public edifice. These thick strata alternate with others which
are very thin, and on which the ripple-mark is sometimes seen. Lumps

* Geological Transactions, vol. iii. p. 125.

+ On this occasion M. Agassiz named the pvominent species Pterichthys

Milleri.  H2
100 REPORT-- 1840,

of soft clay of the form of pebbles, such as are still formed every day
on the shores of the Mersey, are found imbedded in the sandstone, and
thin seams of clay are intei'posed between the sandstone strata. The
footsteps are found on turning up the broken pieces of one of these
strata ; for they occur on its under surface, and are in fact casts, not
original impressions. This under surface rests upon a seam of fine clay
about one quarter of an inch in thickness. Without the intervention
of the clay -which has been deposited between the beds of sand, it is
manifest that neither ripple-marks nor footsteps would have been pre-
served. But it appears, that soon after the deposit of a thin bed of
clay upon the soft sand, amphibious quadrupeds, probably allied to cro-
codiles, monitors, or other saurians, traversed the shore of the then
existing river, and left their footsteps impressed upon the clay. The
water having again overflowed the shore, deposited a bed of sand, fill-
ing the impressions of the animals' feet, and consequently, on the indu-
ration of the sand and its conversion into stone, producing those casts
which are now discovered.

    " It is almost unnecessary to remark, that the Liverpool sandstone
does not differ in its geological relations from that of Stourton, both

belonging to the new red sandstone formation."

On the great development of the Upper Silurian Formation in the Vale of
    Llangollen, North Wales, and on a Plateau of Igneous Hocks on the
   East Flank of the Berivyn range. By J. E. Bowman, F.G.S.

    In the course of a recent examination of the boundary line between
the Silurian and Cambrian rocks in North Wales, undertaken at the
suggestion of Mr. Murchison, the author came in contact with the for-
mations that form the subject of his jiaper, and which do not appear

on the latest geological maps. He showed, by the aid of two enlarged

sections, taken on the spot and rendered more complete by data libe-
rally furnished by Colonel Colby, of the Ordnance Office, that the
 shales and slates which compose the hills for some miles north and
 south of the vale of Llangollen, and extend westward nearly to Cor-
 wen, belong to the Upper Silurian formation. These rocks have here
 completely lost the character of the soft brown " mudstones " of Shroj^-
shire and Montgomeryshire, and in many places resemble the Cambrian
 series, slates and flags with perfect cleavage being extensively quar-
 ried at Glyn, Oirnant, &c. Their true geological position was satis-
 factorily proved, by their being seen rising from under the Upper

 Ludlow rock of Castell Dinas Bran, in which Mr. Bowman found

 Terebratida Navicula, Cypricardia, Sic, and by their lowest beds re-
 posing on the fossiliferous Lower Silurian rock of Cyrn y Brain. These
 proofs were confirmed by the no less conclusive evidence of fossils,
 Orthocerata, Graptolithus Ludensis, and Cardiola interrupta being
 found in some of the quarries.

    Unlike the soft and uniform equivalents of these rocks, made fami-
 liar to geologists by the labours of Mr. Murchison, they here consist
 of three principal groups, which insensibly pass into each other, and
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  101

are not separated from the Upper Ludlow by the usual Aymestry

limestone.
    1. Blue unfossiliferous shale, rising conformably from under the

Upper Ludlow, and passing into parallel thin beds of hard siliceous
schist. These form the bed of the Dee for several miles above Llan-
gollen, and their dip being in the direction of the stream, and their
projecting edges being opposed to it, they give to its dark waters those
alternate reaches of turbulence and repose which form the most inter-

esting features of that celebrated river.

   2. The middle group consists of a great thickness of uniform parallel
beds of light blue shale, some of which, on weatliering, assume a
whitish colour, and give the section a streaked or banded character.
These form the bold pi-omontory of Rhysgog, and are largely developed
on the steep west face of the Wriddiog, by the side of the great Holy-
head road. Their lower portion is interstratiiied with bands of hard
sonorous greywacke, and passes into the

   3rd or lower group, consisting of the slates and flags which are
quarried at the base of Cefn-uchaf on the south of the vale of Llan-
gollen, and in the chain of hills on the north, as at Oirnant, &c., and
are of great local and commercial value. At the north end of this chain
the lowest beds repose upon the Lower Silurian rocks of Cyrn y Brain.

   The total thickness of the three groups is estimated at about 3,100
feet. These rocks are compared with various recognised members
of the same geological age, and of an intermediate character, from
other localities, to show their connexion with the soft mudstones already
alluded to ; various other coincidences of dip, tendency to concretions,

structure of joints and cleavage are cited.

   Mr. Bowman next described an elevated plateau of igneous rocks,

occupying an area of about twenty square miles on the east flank of
the Berwyn mountains between Llanarmon Dyffryn Ceiriog and Llan-
saintfraid Glyn Ceiriog, not noticed in the latest geological maps. It
is divided by a deep picturesque gorge, through which the river Ceiriog
and the road between the two villages just named, pass. The igneous
matter varies from a pure white compact felspar to a gray or greenish
trap, which in places is stratified, and resembles grauwacke. It has
thrown off the sedimentary rocks on all sides, and burst through them
in various places, forming insulated hills of trap. Near the centre of
the plateau, at the top of the hill of Pen y Craig, is a column of com-
pact white felspar 20 to 25 yards deep and 16 to 18 yards wide, hem-

med in on each side by a wall of Lower Silurian rocks, which it has

rifted asunder, and overspread laterally to a considerable distance, its
hardened perpendicular masses crowning the precipice like a ruined

castle. Blocks of this felspar strew the surface to a considerable dis-
tance, mixed with others of stratified and amorphous trap ; and others

project from the rifted sides of the gorges. Some of the stratified

traps so repeatedly alternate with the schists, that it is difficult to avoid
the conclusion of their having been formed simultaneously ; while
others seem to have been forcibly injected between the hardened beds,

and to have taken the shape of the intermediate spaces. The rifted
--102 REPORT 1840.

appearance of the trap in the gorges, shows that after its consolidation,
the whole plateau has been broken up by a second uplift from below.

    In conclusion, the author adverted to the difficulties that attend the
investigation of the older stratified rocks, which are, 1st, the convulsions
which have broken up the beds ; 2nd, the great uniformity of the beds
through vast thicknesses ; 3rd, changes from igneous action ; 4th, the
extent to which the bedding has been obliterated by the cleavage planes;
5th, the general absence of organic remains ; and, lastly, the all but uni-
versal covering of diluvium that has filled up the fissures of dislocation.

Mr Bowman also visited the Bala lime quarries, and collected largely

of their fossils, which, with one exception, as far as they have been yet
examined, are similar to those in the Lower Silurian rocks. If, there-
fore, there be any boundary betweeu the Upper Cambrian and Lower
Silurian systems, it must be defined by other evidence than that of
fossils. In addition to the absence of the dividing limestones of the
Upper Silurian rocks, some peculiarities were pointed out in other
parts of the large section exhibited, viz. the old red sandstone is en-
tirely wanting in Montgomeryshire and Denbighshire, the carboniferous
limestone resting upon the Upper and sometimes on the Lower Silurian

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

while to the north of Cyrn y Brain, the limestone itself is deficient, and
the millstone grit reposes upon the fossiliferous Lower Silurian.

    Account of a Raised Sea-beach at Woodspiitig-hill, near Bristol.

                     By William Sanders, F.G.S.

    Woodspring-hill forms a part of the coast of the Bristol Channel,

about eighteen miles W.S.W. of Bristol, and two miles to the north of
Weston -super-mare. The name which it bears on the parish map is
derived from an ancient tower and other buildings, the remains of Wood-
spring priory. On the Ordnance map it is named Middle Hope. The
hill is about two miles in length from east to west, with a breadth of
about half a mile, decreasing to a point at the western end which is
called Swallow-cliff. The author then describes the geographical rela-
tions of this detached hill of mountain limestone, to the carboniferous
district included between the Mendip Hills and Tortworth. Within

this space he describes the principal lines of displacement of the rocks,
and from the evidence which he has collected concludes that, throughout
this district the evidence abounds of elevatory movements during the
formation of the magnesian conglomerate, and before the deposition of
the new red sandstone strata, as well as of elevations that afltect both

the new red marls and the superincumbent lias. Besides these there
have been disturbances on a much smaller scale and to a more limited
extent, but leaving uo other trace of the time of disturbance.

   The author then describes the phasnomena observed in this hill,
which mark the existence of an ancient sea-beach there. These may

be classed under the following heads.
    1. Blocks of several feet in diameter, composed of pieces of limestone,

large and small, with rolled pebbles, cemented together by broken
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  103

shells. At the same level (twenty-five feet above ordinary spring-
tides) a mixed mass of fine gravel sand and shells ( Tellina soliduhi,
Littorina communis, L. neritoidea, Patella vulgaris, but no extinct

species).

  A2. double range of terraces and declivities, the upper one most

conspicuous, which appear to correspond to the strikes of the shale and
limestone beds, which form in this hill the base of the limestone series.

On the upper of these, shells of the kind already noticed were found

by digging to the depth of a foot.

  A3. remarkable broken part in the brow of the upper terrace or

inner cliff, already mentioned, a fact inexplicable by modern agency,
but easily understood as the effect of an ancient slip, produced by

littoral action.

   From these phsenomena, combined with a careful survey of the geo-

graphical features of the vicinity, the author states his conclusion to be
that convincing evidence exists, that at some distant period since the

complete establishment of the present order of animal life, an elevation

to the extent of twenty or thirty feet has occurred along the northern
coast of Woodspring-hill ; and that there is also a probability that a
similar movement happened at some previous date, yet still within the
modern geological period. But although a connexion between the
event here described and the minor movements of the district, to which

allusion has been made, may be suspected, yet the author is unable to
trace such relationship from want of knowing what common evidence

of former position can exist under such varying conditions as are
implied by inland situation on the one hand, and on the other, close

contact with the sea-shore.

   (Maps and sections of the hill were exhibited in illustration.)

               On the Older Strata of Devonshire. By the

                        Rev. David Williams, F.G.S.

    The author stated that certain fossils had been discovered in the
culm and plant rocks in the neighbourhood of Exeter by Mr. Parker,
jun., of genera and species such as had not hitherto been found in any
part of the true coal measures of England. Mr. James Sowerby had
kindly examined them, and determined "five species, viz. Nautilus
subsulcatus, Goniatites spirorbis, G. reticulatus, G. striolatus, and G.
Calyx, all figured by Phillips." Mr. Sowerby stated that there were
about ten other species, and a Turbo or Littorina. Mr. Williams con-

tended that these reliquiae, coupled with the diametrically contrasted
mineral characters of the floriferous series of Devon, showed that they
could not be the true equivalents of the English coal-field. In con-
firmation of this he appealed to the organic remains of Petherwin and
Landlake, which he included beyond any doubt in the lower culm
measures, and of which Professor Sedgwick and Mr. Murchison, in the
London and Edinburgh Philosophical Journal for April, 1839, had
stated that there was " an unequivocal passage between those fossilife-
104 REPORT-- 1840.

rous slates and the overlying culm measures." He particularly requested

attention to the fact that the Petherwin slates and limestones, in the

examination of them by Professor Phillips, as reported by Mr. De la

Beche, had not been shown to contain one mountain lime species; and
the utmost that Professor Sedgwick and Mr. Murchison, aided by the
accurate discrimination of Mr. Sowerby, could elicit from them, was
that " one or two of them very nearly resembled mountain lime fossils."
Mr. Williams moreover stated that he had obtained the conclusive evi-
dence of the fact that the Cornish killas overlaid the plant and culm
rocks, which he contended annihilated at once the two hypotheses to
which he objected, viz. the proposed identification of those rocks with
the English coal-field, and the classification of the killas and Exmoor
group as the old red sandstone. That the plant and culm rocks were
subordinate to the killas, was shown not only by the fact of the former
being brought up through the northern borders of the latter, in a great
anticlinal line, but by observations made by Mr. Williams this summer,
that nearly the whole of Dartmoor was invested by the lower culm
measures, which everywhere dipped away from it below the killas and
coral limestones. The proportion of carboniferous fossils from the South
Devon slates and limestones, enumerated by Mr. Lonsdale in his late
valuable memoir on that region, Mr. Williams contended did not justify
the arranging those rocks, even in so close an approximation with the

mountain limestone as the parallel of the old red sandstone. He also

remarked on the total absence from the Devonshire strata of those
numerous and characteristic species of fishes which had been found in
the red sandstone so extensively in England and Scotland, and, as Mr.
Murchison's recent researches had proved, even in Russia.

    Mr. Williams referred to a diagram and specimens of the hitherto
considered " granite veins," from the bed of the Erme river, north of
Ivy-bridge, which he referred to a tranquil fusion and conversion of
the sedimentary rock, and not to injection.

On a Pleistocene Tract in the Isle of Man, and the relations of its Fauna

   to that oftlie neighbouring Sea. By Edward Foubes, F.L.S.

   Mr. Forbes stated that he did not appear as a geologist, but as a
zoologist desirous of contributing to the progress of geology. In
tlie course of his investigations with the dredge, he was frequently
led to compare the present state of the sea with that of the land
bordering it, and the results were such as mutually illustrated geo-
logy and zoology. The northernmost part of the Isle of Man, left
white in Mr. Greenough's map, is composed of a great bed of pleisto-
cene sand and marl, called by the people red marl, to distinguish it
from the white marl, which fills up basins in the former, and in which
the bones of the fossil elk are found. The red marl is marine, the white
marl of fresh-water origin. The pleistocene tract so composed ex-
tends from the slate mountains to the sea, terminating in high cliffs of
sand and clay. The portion immediately bordering the mountains is
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                  105

composed chiefly of sand, and in it there are no organic remains ; that
furthest from the mountain is red marl, and the remains of shells are
found in beds in it. These shells are associated together exactly as
those are Avhich at present exist in the neighbouring sea. There is
even an exact correspondence between the elevated tertiary tract and
the present sea bottom. The latter for from two to four miles
from the shore is composed of sand with groups of boulders, to which
laminariae are attached, thinly scattered in places. Beyond the sand
commences a great bed of living shells on a clayey or gravelly bot-
tom, exactly corresponding to the position and nature of that part of
the mai-1 in which the shells are found. In the marl the shells most
abundant and characteristic are NucuIcb ; which also occur on the shell
bank ; but there is also this important difference, that the species are not
identical. The Nucula oblonga characterizes the fossil bed, the Nucula
margaritacea the recent. The pleistocene bed ajjpears to correspond ex-
actly with those of Cheshire and the Clyde. Near Ramsay it is bordered
for about one mile by a triangular tract of gravel and clay. This tract
Was formed within the memory of man, in consequence of changing
the course of Culby river. It is most interesting in a geological point
of view, as it presents all the appearance of a pleistocene clay-bed, con-

taining shells now extinct on the Manx shores, for the diversion of the

course of the stream has caused the destruction of Listera compressa

and Tellina solidula, two shells not now found alive on that shore.
   Mr. Forbes concluded by illustrating the importance of the dredging

researches now going on, by the circumstance of the committee hav-
ing this summer settled the question of the identity of Phytocrinus

with Comatula, the sub-committee engaged in dredging on the coast of
Ireland having fully proved the former animal to be the young of the

latter.

On the Stratified Deposits lohicli occupy the Northern and Central
  Regions of Russia. By Roderick Impey Murchison, F.R.S.,

   F.G.S., General Secretary to the British Associatioti, and E. de
   Verneuil, Membre de la Societe Geologiqiie de France.

Mr. Murchison, accompanied by M. E. de Verneuil, having just

completed a tour of considerable extent in the northern and central

districts of Russia, undertaken with a view to determine the general

relations of the Palceozoic or older stratified deposits of that empire,

took this first opportunity of giving a brief outline of the chief results

at which his friend and himself had arrived, in anticipation of an ex-

tended memoir, which they purpose to prepare in the ensuing winter,

and which will be read before the Geological Society of London.

The geologist accustomed to the diversified outlines which charac-

terize those countries of Europe in which the older sedimentary rocks
exist, and who has often had great difficulty in working out their suc-

cession and classification, in consequence of the disturbances and alter-

ations to which they have been subjected, is surprised to find in

Russia these strata spread in horizontal, unbroken sheets over so wide

a portion  of  the  earth's  surface                                  each  great  formation  trending  for
                                                                   ;
            --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;

106 REPORT--1840.

immense distances, with few or no alterations in its mineral characters,
or organic remains.

  --Two great difficulties, however, are opposed to the examination of

this region, the sliglit altitude of the masses above the sea, and the
vast quantity of drift or superficial detritus, which obscures the funda-

mental rocks. To conquer these difficulties, the authors examined, in

succession, all the pi'incipal banks of the rivers between the longitude
of St. Petersburgh and that of Archangel, which, flowing from N.N.E.
to S.S.W., might be expected to offer the evidences they required
and having ascended the great Dwina, from the White Sea to Ous-
ting Veliki, they afterwards extended their researches to the south
of Nijnii Novogorod, and the edges of the province of Tambof, in order
to determine the relations of the secondary rocks to those older deposits
with which they had become familiar.

   The formations were found to succeed each other in the following

ascending order :

  --1. Silurian Rocks. The oldest stratified deposits of Russia (those on

which St. Petersburgh is situated) are clays, sandstone, limestone, &c.,
which, from the organic remains they contain, must be considered the
equivalents of the Silurian system of the British Isles. The detailed
order of these beds "joer se" was long ago accurately given by Strang-
ways; but at the early day when he wrote, the study of organic remains
was not sufficiently advanced to enable him to determine their place in
the geological series, nor to point out their true relations to the adja-

cent masses. Many of the organic remains have been described by the

native authors, Eichwald and Pander, and some very characteristic
forms very recently by M. de Buch, from specimens sent to him by Col.
Helmersen. These Silurian deposits occupy the islands of Oland, Goth-
land, &c. in the Baltic, and trend along the shores of Courland in a broad
band from W.N.W. to E.N.E., till they are lost under vast heaps of gra-
nitic detritus between the lakes Ladoga and Onega. Near the latter lake
these deposits are deflected to the north, and there meet with great ridges
of trappean rocks, which run from N.N.W. to S.S.E. In that region all
the deposits are in a metamorphic condition ; the limestones present few
distinct traces of fossils ; and the authors having satisfied themselves that
there was no chance of observing any further evidence of a descending
order between such rocks and the great primary granitic chain of
Scandinavia and Russian Lapland, the boundary of which they coasted,

--confined their attention to the ascending order of the strata.
   2. Old Red, or Devonian System. That the inferior strata were the
true equivalents of the Silurian system, was determined not only by
their aspect and fossil contents, but by their passing into other over-
lying rocks which are completely identical with the " Old Red System"
of the British Isles, as defined by Mr. Murchison*. This system is of
enormous extent in Russia ; ranging from the borders of Poland
Lithuania is chiefly composed of it, and Ddrpat is in its centre. It
thence passes by the lakes of Ilmen and the AValdai Hills, and is ex-
tended over a vast region to the E.N.E., where it constitutes a large

             * Sec Silurian Researches, p. 165, and Table with the Map.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  107

poi'tion of the shores of the White Sea. This system consists of flag-
stone, clays, marls, conistones and sandstones, the whole bearing a con-
siderable resemblance to the red deposits of the same age in our isles,
from which, however, they differ in containing copious salt springs, and
much gypsum. It was the occurrence of so much salt and gypsum,
that led previous writers to consider these deposits an equivalent
of our new red system, which, being found to contain these minerals
in our own parts of Europe, had been even termed by some, the salife-
rous system. That the red deposits (red and green) are, however,

the true equivalents of our old red sandstone, is demonstrated, not

only by order of superposition, but also by the many organic remains
which they offer. Fishes are the distinguishing fossils of this great
Russian system, and among these are species (notably the Holoptychius

Nobilissimus, Murchison, with Coccosteus,Diplopterus,)3iad other forms
which occur in deposits of the same age in Scotland. These fishes are

in abundance, and a beautiful work, illustrative of them, is now pre-
paring by Professor Asmus, of Dorpat. The authors have traced
these fish-beds for many hundred miles, and occupying several stages
in the system, each stage characterized by peculiar species*.

    The zoological contents of this system are also of great value in
illustrating and confirming the palaeozoic classification proposed by
Messrs. Sedgwick and Murchison ; or in other words, the evidences
found in Russia leave no doubt that the old red and Devonian systems

of rocks are identical. Terebratulce, Spirifers, Euotnphali, Bellerophons,
and other shells distinct from those of the carboniferous system, but
similar to those which occur in Devonshire, Westphalia, Belgium, and
other places (in deposits which have been shown by these authors to
be of the age of the old red sandstone), are associated in Russia with

--the fossilJiskes of the old red sandstone of the British Isles.
    3. Carboniferous System. In the northern regions of Russia, the
lower or calcareous part only of the carboniferous system exists, and

it is seen in many places to overlie the old red sandstone. The inferior
beds consist of incoherent sandstones and bituminous shale, which

sometimes contain thin beds of impure pyritous coal, and impressions
of several plants well known in the carboniferous system of our
own islands. These are surmounted by various bands of limestone,
the lowest of which only have occasionally some mineral ogical resem-
blance to the mountain limestone of Western Europe ; other beds being
lithologically undistinguishable from the magnesian limestone of En-
gland ; others from a pisolite ; a third and very prevalent band of
considerable thickness is milk-white, and not more compact than the
calcaire grossier of Paris. This white Productus limestone was traced

by the authors from the neighbourhood of Moscow to beyond Arch-

angel (and they ascertained that it ranged far into the country of the
Samoiedes), a distance of not less than 1000 miles. This formation

   * Professor Agassiz being present at the meeting of the Association, confirmed
the views of the authors. In the red and green beds which underlie the car-
boniferous strata, a remarkable bone-bed contains scales of Holoptychius,
Cocrosteus, Diploplerus, so characteristic of the old red sandstone of Scot-
land.
108 REPORT-- 1840.

has also a mineral resemblance to chalk, in being loaded with thin
bands of flints, sometimes concretionary, in which corals occur. As-
sociated with this formation, on the banks of the Dwina, about
200 wersts above Archangel, and south of Siisskaia, are splendid

bedded masses of white gypsum, which, for many miles, present at a
little distance all the appearance of white limestone. With these grand
gypseous deposits, in which are occasionally large concretions, alternate
two or three thin bands of limestone, in one of which the authors de-
tected fossil shells (^Avicula) which are new to them. This and other
peculiar bands near Ust-Vaga, which are rather higher in the series,
Avill be described hereafter, when the fossil shells have been examined.

   The carboniferous limestone of Russia is highly fossiliferous, and
from the normal and unaltered condition of most of the beds, the fossils
are generally in an excellent state of preservation. Among them are
many well-known British species, the lower beds being distinguished
by the very same large Productus hemisphericus, so well known in
the isle of Arran, and other parts of England and Scotland ; and the
white beds being loaded (among some new forms described by Fischer)
with many of the species published by Phillips and by Sowerby, as well
as by several characteristic corals ( Chcetites radians, &c.).

   Owing to its mineral aspect, this rock has also, till within the last
year, been much misunderstood ; but Colonel Helmersen having ob-
served its position in the Waldai Hills and its association with the
coal, and having ascertained the nature of the fossils from M. Von
Buch, he first gave out that, in that district, it must be considered the
true mountain limestone. The authors have completely confirmed this
view, by ascending and descending sections, and have very largely

--extended it.
   4. Newer Red Formations. The extent to which the authors are

inclined to believe in the existence of newer red deposits, and their
explanation of what they believed to be a vast basin in the govern-
ments of Vologda, Nijnii, Kostroma, &c., was reserved for a future

occasion.

  --5. Oolitic or Jurassic Series. When the authors visited Russia, it

was still a great problem whether there was, or was not, a series of strata
to connect the lower carboniferous strata above described with cer-
tain rocks of the oolitic series, which have been long known to exist
in the south of Russia, and some of the fossils of which were sent
to England by Mr. Strangways.

    Some of these beds, which rest at once on the great red formation along
the banks of the Volga, between Kostroma and Nijnii Novogorod, be-
long unquestionably to the middle oolite, as they coni&m Ammonites and
 Belemnites identical in species with those of the Oxford clay and "Kel-
loway Rock" of Smith. Other shells found near Jelatma and Kaccimof
 and Moscow had beert collected ; but on this point Mr. Murchison
 reserved his opinion till the examination and comparison of the organic
 remains had taken place in London.

    At Moscow, Jelatma and Kaccimof, however, there is no ambiguity,
 for there these shales of the oolitic system, some of the fossils of
 which resemble those of the lias, rest at once on the white carbonife-
TRANSACTIONS OK THE SECTIONS.  109

--rous limestone without the intervention of anj^ other strata, a fact of

great theoretical interest to geologists, and of practical importance to

--the Russian empire.
   6. Ferruginous Sands. The shales of the oolitic series are covered
by ferruginous sands, which here and there contain large flattened con-
cretions of grit, which, near Moscow, are used for millstones ; but never
having observed fossils in this rock, the authors are unwilling to hazard
an opinion regarding its age. With the exception of certain very recent

deposits, these grits are the youngest solid strata in the northern half
of Russia in Europe.

  --7. Chalk. The cretaceous system is largely developed in the south,

and in the Crimea ; but on this occasion the authors did not extend

their tour to the chalk districts.

  --8. Tertiary Deposits. The white shelly limestone of Crimea, and

its relations to the undei'lying chalk, have already been described by one
of the authors. Such deposits have not yet been discovered in any of
the northern or central regions of Russia.

  --9. Younger Pleiocene {Pleistocene^. It was formerly the general be-

lief, that the great masses of superficial detritus, whether clays, sands
or blocks, which cover so very large an area of the northern region, were
all referable to an epoch (diluvian) in which the bones of the great
extinct quadrupeds were also imbedded. The duration of their jour-

ney was not sufficient to enable the authoi's to make many distinctions

of age between these different masses ; but they have unquestionably
commenced this division by the discovery of beds of clay and sand on
the banks of the Dwina and Vaga, upwards of 200 miles south of the

White Sea, which contain fifteen or sixteen species of shells, many of
which still preserve their colours, and which, having been referred to
Dr. Beck, of Copenhagen, have been all pronounced to be of quasi
modern species. Mr. Lyell confirms this identification, and states, that
they are identical with the Uddevalla group. This discovery, in which
they were assisted by Count Kayserling, who accompanied the authors

in a part of their tour, is conceived to be of high geological interest, as
it demonstrates that, during the modern period, the whole of the vast flat
country of north-eastern Russia was beneath the sea for a considerable
time, the eastern boundary of that sea being the Ural Mountains.

  --10. Drift and Erratic Blocks. Overspreading all the formations,

and greatly obscuring them, is a vast mass of detritus, the large gra-
nitic blocks of which have excited much attention, from the days of
Pallas to the present time. This detritus, which has all been derived
from the north, was shown to have been deposited under the sea, since
it covers the above-mentioned shells. This portion of the subject was
slightly adverted to, its consideration and that of all the supej'ficial
phaenomena (including the parallel strise near Lake Onega, &c.) being

deferred to a future occasion. The important work, however, of M.

Botlingk was cited.
   In verbally illustrating this wide field of inquiry, Mr. Murchison took

occasion to state, that he was very much encouraged to undertake
the journey to Russia through the suggestions of M. L. von Buch,

                                        * M.E. de Verneuil.
110 REPORT-- 1840.

who, from an examination of certain fossils sent to him from thence,
had become convinced a priori, that the same palaeozoic succession
would there be found as in the British Isles. Mr. Murchison gratefully
acknowledged his obligations to the Baron A. von Humboldt, and dwelt
with pleasure on the assistance which his fellow-traveller and himself
received from the Baron A. de Meyendorf, now executing, by order
of His Imperial Majesty, assisted by M. Zenofief, a statistical survey
of parts of Russia, who endeavoured to make his tour correspond to
some extent with that of the authors, and who enriched his expedition
with two excellent naturalists, Count Kayserling and Professor Blasius.
Mr. Murchison further took this public opportunity of testifying his
sincere thanks to the Russian authorities who aided this geological in-

quiry, among whom he particularly enumerated their Excellencies the

Count de Cancrine, Count Nesselrode, Count Alexander StrogonofF,

Baron Brunnow, and General Tchetfkine*. And he further expressed

his sense of the value of the services of a zealous young geologist.
Lieutenant Koksherof, without whose aid the authors could not have
accomplished their task. Maps and a section illustrated the description,
and selections of the characteristic fossils of each group were laid upon

the table.

On the Yellow Sandstone, and other points of the Geology of Ireland.

                        By R. Griffith, F.G.S.

   Mr. Griffith exhibited his new corrected map of the geology of
Ireland, and a series of specimens in illustration and confirmation of

several changes, especially in the south of Ireland, which he had

Athought it right to make since the first appearance of the map.

feature of the map, of much impoi'tance, was the subdivision of the

mountain limestone series, and the extension of the colour for mill-
stone grit over districts formerly classed as true coal measures. The
yellow sandstone was particularly described in different districts, and
specimens, in a regular series, of the organic remains in the Silurian
and Carboniferous groups of Ireland, were exhibited to the Meeting.

On the occurrence of two Species of Shells of the genus Conus, in the
  Lias, or Inferior Oolite near Caen, in Normandy. By Charles

   Lyell, F.R.S. G.S.

   Fossil shells of Lamarck's family " Enroulees" abound in many

tertiary formations, but scarcely any examples are recorded of their
occurrence in older strata. The six genera comprised in this family
are Ovida, Cyprcea, Terebellum, Ancellaria, Oliva, and Conus. Four
of these appear never yet to have been found, either in the chalk or

any older rock. Of Cyprcea, one species has been discovered in the
upper chalk of Faxoe, in Denmark ; and M. Dujardin obtained from

the chalk, near Tours, a Cone, which he has called C. tuberculatus.

    * General Tcheffkine, Major-Geiieral of the School of Mines at St. Peters-
burgb, and Professor Jacobi, of the Imperial Academy of Sciences, were present
at the Glasgow Meeting.
TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTIONS.                                  Ill

Two other species of this genus, purporting to come from the lias near

Caen, were seen lately (June 1840) by Mr. Lyell, in the private collec-

Ation of Professor Deslongchamps and M. Tesson, of that city.  brief

notice had been previously given of their discovery in a report of a

meeting, held in 1837, by the Linnsean Society of Normandy. To

satisfy himself of the correctness of the alleged geological position of

these Cones, Mr. Lyell visited, in company with M. Deslongchamps,

one of the localities called Fontaine Etoupe-Four, about six miles south

of Caen. He found there a stratified limestone, containing Anmwnites,

Belemnites, Pleurotamarice, and other Mollusca and Crinoidea, resting

unconformably in horizontal strata on highly inclined quartzite and

talcose schists of the transition formation. Many deep rents occurring

in the fundamental rock were filled with the limestone, and in these

situations shells in great abundance, together with broken pieces of

quartzite, are united into a breccia by a calcareous cement. Most of

the Cones have been found in these rents, and the matrix in which they

occur constitutes the oldest portion of the incumbent or fossiliferous

formation. In regard to the age of this last, some of the shells, such

as Ammonites planicosta, and A. Bucklandi, occur in the lias of En-

gland ; others are met with in our alum shale, and inferior oolite. The

specimens collected by the author, or which were presented to him by
M. Deslongchamps, have been examined by Mr. Lonsdale, of the

Geological Society of London, who, judging by this evidence, consi-

ders the formation to be either an upper member of the lias, or to be

intermediate between the lias and inferior oolite. M. Alcide D'Or-

bigny has also collected forty or fifty species of fossils from the lime-

stone of the same place, and he refers them to the upper lias, although

a great proportion of the shells are new, and some do not even belong

to any genera hitherto established. The stone in which the Cones are

imbedded is of a pale brown ferruginous colour, like ordinary inferior

oolite, but precisely resembling, according to Mr. Lonsdale, the gritty

lias or corn-grit of Radstock. Some of these Cones were first dis-
covered by M. Deslongchamps, and M. Tesson soon afterwards ob-

tained the most perfect specimens, of which last drawings were made
by M. Deslongchamps, and presented to Mr. Lyell for publication.
The originals have also been examined by Mr. George Sowerby, and

they seem to be all referable to two very distinct species, one of which
has been named Conus concavus, in which the spire is so depressed

that the summit is concave. For the second, the name of Conus

Cadonensis is proposed. It approaches nearest to C. antediluvianus,

varying considerably in the height of the spire in different individuals.

On ancient Sea Cliffs and Needles in the Chalk of the Valley of the
           Seine in Normandy. By C. Lyell, F.R.S. G.S.

   The observations in this paper are principally confined to that part
of the winding valley of the Seine which extends from Andelys to
Elbceuf, a distance by the river of about thirty miles. This valley,
which is from two to four miles wide, has been excavated through
chalk with flints horizontally stratified, about 300 or 350 feet in thick-
112 REPORT 1840.

ness, and a mass of overljing tertiary sand, gravel and clay, from
30 to 100 feet thick. The last-mentioned deposit constitutes a level
platform, differing wholly in character from the chalk downs in En-
gland, but tlie slope of the hills bounding the Seine and its tributaries,
where the chalk crops out, corresponds exactly in character with the

escaqimcnts of the north and south Downs in England. There is

however, this distinction, that the escarpments of the valley of the
Seine, which are distant from two to four miles from each other, are
broken at certain points by ranges of vertical and even overhanging
cliffs of bare white chalk with flints, and by occasional needles and
pinnacles of chalk. Mr. Lyell first refers to several natural precipices
of chalk which occur, some on the right and some on the left bank of
the Seine, above Andelys, or between that town and Meulan, about
fifteen miles in a straight line from Paris. In one of these localities,

near Bonnieres, two distinct cliffs are seen one above the other. He

then described more particularly a great range of cliffs about tw"o miles
long at Andelys ; secondly, another range and some pinnacles at
Vatteville opposite Tournedos, and at Senneville ; and thirdly, the cliffs
of Elboeuf or Orival.

   In regard to the first of these ranges, it commences on the right
bank of the river at Le petit Andelys, and includes the rock on which
stands Chateau Gaillard. The base of the range is generally about
fifty feet above the alluvial jDlain of the Seine, from which it is separated
by a steep green slope, resembling in outline a talus of fallen debris,
but in many places composed of solid rock. The cliffs themselves vary
from fifty to 100 feet in perpendicular height, their continuity being
broken hj a number of dry valleys or combes, in one of which, near
Andelys, occurs a detached rock or needle called the Tete d'Homme.
The top of this rock presents a precipitous face towards every point of
the compass, its vertical height being more than twenty feet on the
side of the downs, and forty towards the Seine, and the average dia-
meter of the pillar being thirty-six feet. Its composition is the same
as that of the larger cliffs in its neighbourhood, namely, white chalk,
having occasionally a crystalline texture like marble, and layers of flint
in nodules and tabular masses. The flinty beds often project in relief
four or five feet beyond the white chalk, which is generally in a state
of slow decomposition, either exfoliating or being covered with white
powder like the chalk cliffs on the English coast, where, like them, the
surface of the rock Avas found in some places to be encrusted with
common salt. In regard to the origin of this superficial salt, it is
difficult to conceive that the influence of the sea breezes can extend so
far, as the distance is more than thirty miles from the nearest salt-
water ; but on the other hand, the author could not ascertain that any
saline matter was contained in the chalk itself.

    Other cliffs are then mentioned, situated on the right bank of the
Seine, opposite Tournedos, between Andelys and Pont de I'Arche,
where the precipices are from fifty to eighty feet high ; several of their
summits terminate in pinnacles, and one of these in particular is so
completely detached as to present a perpendicular face fifty feet high

towards the sloping down. On these cliffs several ledges are seen.
            TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  113

which in the author's opinion mark so many levels, at which the waves
of the sea encroached for a long period. There are also above the
summit of all the cliffs, three distinct parallel terraces and as many
cliffs, each about four feet high, which sweep round a small combe in

a semicircular form, like the seats of an amphitheatre.

   If we then descend the river from Vatteville to a place called Sen-
neville, we meet with a singular insulated needle, about fifty feet high,
perfectly isolated on the escarpment of chalk on the right bank of the

Seine.

   The third or last range of inland cliffs referred to, is situated
about twelve miles below on the left bank of the Seine, beginning at
Elbceuf, and compi'ehending the Roches d'Orival. Like those before
described, it is in part overhanging, exhibits a white powdery sur-
face, and consists entirely of horizontal chalk with flints. Its base
is only a few feet above the level of the Seine, its height in some
parts exceeds 200 feet. It is broken in one place by a pyramidal mass
or needle, called the Roche de Pignon, which stands out about twenty-
five feet in front of the upper portion of the main cliff, with which it is
united by a narrow ridge about forty feet lower than its summit. Its
height is about 200 feet, and like the detached rocks before mentioned
at Senneville, Vatteville, and Andelys, may be compared to those
needles of chalk which occur on the coast of Normandy, as well as the

Isle of Wight and in Purbeck.
   The author then states, that while there are in some places marks of

cliffs and terraces at six or more distinct levels, there is sometimes only
one range of cliff, which may be either a few feet, or more than 200 feet
in vertical height ; and on the other hand, there is often no outbreak
of bare rock or precipice, as is well exemplified in that part of the
valley where the Cote des Deux Amants faces that of Pont St. Pierre.
The cliffs, where they do exist, are usually confined to one side of the
river, whether on the right or left bank. Various causes are assigned
for this partial occurrence of cliffs, and the variety of their number and
elevation where they exist. It is assumed that the valley of the Seine
was excavated by the waves and currents of the sea, during the slow

and probably intermittent upheaval of the land. When the denuding

operations therefore were in progress, the valley constituted the chan-
nel of the sea between two islands or opposite coasts. Considerable
cliffs would be formed at those points only against which the waves

and currents set with peculiar force. Being thus originally partial,

they subsequently became more rare by the obliterating action of frost

Aand rain.  series of smaller cliffs would often be united into one

when the undermining force of the sea caused it to encroach greatly at

a certain point.'

On Glaciers and Boulders in Switzerland. By Professor Agassiz.

M. Agassiz particularly drew attention to facts relative to the man-

ner of the movements of glaciers, which he attributes to the introduction

and freezing of water in all their minutest fissui-es, whereby the mass of

ISiO.              I
--114 REPORT 1840.

ice is continually expanded. The effects of the movement, produced by
this expansion, upon the rocks beneath the ice, are very remarkable.
The bases of the glaciers, and the sides of the valleys which contain
them, are found to be polished and scratched by stones fixed in the lowest
region of the moving ice. The fragments of the rocks that fall upon
the glaciers are accumulated in longitudinal ridges on the sides of the
ice, forming deposits of stony detritus, which are called lateral mo-
raines. As these descend into lower valleys, they assume a central
place on the moving ice, and are called medial moraines. As the
glaciers are continually pressed forwards, and often in hot summers
melted back at their lower extremity, it results that the polished sur-
faces, occasioned by friction on the bottom and sides, are left un-
covered, and that terminal moraines, or curvilinear ridges of gravel
and boulders, remain upon the rocks formerly covered by the ice.
Thus we can discover, by the polished surfaces and the moraines, the
extent to which the glaciers have heretofore existed, which is much
beyond the limits they now occupy in the Alpine valleys. It is stated
to result from similar facts observed by Professor Agassiz, that enor-
mous masses of ice have, at a former period, covered the great valley
of Switzerland, together with the whole chain of the Jura, the sides of
which, facing the Alps, are also polished, and interspersed with angular

erratic rocks, disposed like boulders in the moraines ; but since the
masses of ice were not confined between two sides of a valley, their
movements were in some respects different, and the boulders were not
deposited in continuous ridges, but dispersed singly over the Jura at
different levels. Professor Agassiz proposes the hypothesis that at a
certain epoch all the north of Europe, and also the north of Asia and
America, were covered with a mass of ice, in which the elephants and

other mammalia found in the frozen mud and gravel of the arctic re-
gions, were imbedded at the time of their destruction. The author
thinks that when this immense mass of ice began quickly to melt, the

currents of water that resulted have transported and deposited the
masses of irregularly rounded boulders and gravel that fill the bottoms
of the valleys ; innumerable boulders having at the same time been

transported, together with mud and gravel, upon the masses of the

glaciers then set afloat. Professor Agassiz announced that these facts
are explained at length in the work which he has just published,
Etudes sur les Glaciers de la Suisse, illustrated by many large and
accurate plates, which were laid before the Geological Section.

                 On the Geology and Mineralogy of Canada.

                        By Capt. Baddeley, R.E.

   The object of the communication was to draw attention to the pro-
priety of undertaking a geological and mineralogical survey of Canada.
For this end the author pointed out the advantage of such surveys in
general, and the especial use of undertaking the survey of Canada,
whose mineral resources had received little development. Iron, lead
and copper exist in different combinations, and probably or certainly, in
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                 115

abundance, the most promising district for enterprise being that which is

Aconterminous with the known mining tracts of New York. specimen

of native gold, weighing two ounces and a half, and having a specific

gravity of 15*71, was found recently in the bed of a stream running

into the Chaudiere. It was nearlj- of the size and shape of a pigeon's

Aegg.  smaller specimen had been picked up a few years before near

the same place. The district contains talcose and clay schists, quartz in

veins or in mass, and greenstone. Except in a few spots bordering the

coal-field of New Brunswick, the newest rock of Lower Canada is

the carboniferous limestone. West of Toronto and toward Lakes

Erie and Huron in Upper Canada, saliferous and gypsiferous marls

appear, and shales with vegetable impressions and petroleum ; many

trials for coal through the saliferous band have been unsuccessful.

Remarks upon certain Geological Features of the River St. John in
    Neto Brunswick, with an Account of the Falls upiuards from the Sea,

   %ohich occur near its Embouchure in the Ray of Fundy. Ry James

    RoBB, M.D., Professor of Natural History, King's College, Neto

    Rrunsioick.

    There are rivers and lochs into which the tide entering gives rise
to a kind of fall upwards against the ordinarj"^ course of the stream,
but nowhere in the world is the phaenomenon of a fall up a river
to be so clearly seen as at the falls near the mouth of the river St.

John, in the province of New Brunswick. The steamers from and

to Fredericton (the head quarters of the executive government in

New Brunswick) pass through the falls, but passengers always go to

and from them above the broken water. The rocks of the vici-
nity consist of graywacke or transition slates, alternating with lime-
stone, sometimes crystalline, and rarely holding any fossils. Above
the falls a mass of sienite protrudes and alters both the chemical na-
ture and mechanical arrangements of the stratified rocks. The slates
and limestones are almost all vertical, and the strike is about N.E. and
S.W. The St. John River cuts these across almost at right angles.
Further up the river are stratified rocks corresponding in part with

those of the coal measures in England. These are nearly horizontal,

and lie upon the more inclined slaty strata mentioned above. When

the river runs over the sandstones and grits, its course is equal and
slow ; but when it gets among the slates, disturbed and tormented by
granite and sienite, its flow is violent and impetuous. About 250
miles higher up there is a very fine fall of seventy-five feet, and a head-
long rapid of more than a quarter of a mile at the bottom of a most
magnificent ravine. These upper falls are over black calcareous slates,
highly inclined, and so easily acted on by the water, that the line of the
fall can be readily ascertained to have been carried back for a consider-
able distance. For the remaining 300 or 4^00 miles of its course there are
no falls on the river St. John, but there are several powerful rapids.
The headwaters rise in a flat country among swamps and sandy plains,

                                                      I2
IIG REPORT--1840.

where a rise of ten or twelve feet in the level of the water would flood
a district of, perhaps, forty or fifty square miles, so flat is the country.

A most remarkable feature in this great river-valley is the distinctness

and regularity of the alluvial terraces to be seen wherever the banks
are not too rocky and precipitous. This holds in regard both to the

main river and to all its tributaries. Where these latter join the main
river they are always to be seen ; and what is equally remarkable, most

of the tributaries, as well as the principal river, have falls at or near
their embouchure.

   The author has seen such terraces on all the other rivers of New

Brunswick, on the salt marshes at the head of the Bay of Fundy, on
the rivei's of Nova Scotia, on the St. Lawrence, on the Ottawa, on the
Great Lakes, upon the Hudson, the Potomac, and on all the Atlantic

--rivers of the northern and middle States, terraces formed of loose de-

trital mattei's, and evidently indicative of the levels at which the water
formerly stood in these rivers. The author views these terraces, and
the numerous and well-known examples of the same phenomena in the
Old World, as affording the most palpable evidence of a recent and ge-
neral rising of land in all the countries where thej' occur, or at least
where their existence cannot be explained upon other and ascertainable
grounds. The author then describes more minutely the circumstances
attending the falls of the river St, John, from notes taken by the Rev.
?>Tr. Coster, Rector of Carleton, who has had daily opportunity of exa-

mining the facts.
    1. 1. The river St. John takes rank among the third or fourth class

of American rivers, and among the first or second class of European
rivers. It rises far in the interior of the province, among the high-
 lands which form the N.E. termination of the Alleghany Mountains.
 The Chaudiere, St. Francis and Etchenine fall off' on the Canadian side ;
 the Connecticut, Penobscot and Kennebec again fall off" toward the
 Atlantic ; while the St. John, after a course of 500 or 600 miles, and
 draining about two thirds of the whole province, falls into the Bay of
 Fundy. The flourishing city of St. John is built on a projecting mass
 of slate and limestone rocks, on the left bank, just where the river falls

 into the bay.
     For the first seventy miles it is navigable for vessels drawing any

 depth of water : after passing the shoals at the mouth of the river Oro-
 mocto, which in dry seasons become rather shallow, it again becomes

 navigable for schooners for a further distance of thirty miles ; after this
 it is still navigable for two or three hundred miles for small boats and
 canoes. Ships of six hundred tons burden are sometimes built about

 Fredericton, which is eighty-three miles above St. John. Some idea
 may thus be formed of the quantity of water which the St. John river

  contains.

     2. At the confluence of the St. John and Kennebekasis, about five
 miles above the falls, and for about five miles further up, the St. John
 spreads itself into a very spacious bay of an irregularly triangular figure,
 which, at its greatest breadth, will probably measure ten miles. Below
 this bay, which is called Grand Bay, the river makes an al)rupt turn
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                                                                                               Il7

and pursues its course through the Narrows, after this it agaiu forms a
lake-like basin called Above the Falls. The outlet of this basin, which

is contracted on one side by the projection of a point of land, and on the

other by several islands to a breadth of less than a quarter of a mile,

form what is called the Upper Falls. Through this the water forces
its way and then forms a circular basin, vulgarly called The Pot, the

transverse and conjugate diameters of which each measure nearly three

quarters of a mile. The outlet of this basin is a narrow opening, mea-

suring, at low water, 310 feet between the two opposite calcareous cliffs

called East and West Head. At the foot of the latter is a large piece

of rock projecting beyond the cliff, and called the Split Rock, which

affords a passage for the water within it, at and after one-third tide.

This small outlet is the Lower Falls, and through it all the waters of
this magnificent river, which at the distance of 100 miles up measures

nearly a mile across, and averaging ten or twelve feet in depth even
there, rushes with inconceivable strength and grandeur. Below the

falls the river again turns abruptly and increases to a breadth averag-

ing from 800 to 1200 feet. About a mile and a half below the falls an

island, called Navy Island, divides it into two channels, the smaller of

which is dry at low water : below this island again lies the harbour of
the city of St. John, though in this paper the whole space below the

falls is designated as the harbour. About five miles below it the river

enters the Bay of Fundy.

   3. Like all rivers the St. John is at some times more full than at others.
In the spring of the year, however, it is always remarkably swollen by

--the Freshet the melted snow from the forests and high grounds in-

creased by the periodical rains of the season. At that period the river

rises thirteen or fourteen feet above its summer level, and this rise ex-

ercises a very great influence on the direction of the motion of the

water at the falls.

  AII. large body of the immense current called the Gulf Stream, is

forced up the Bay of Fundy. As this bay is fully wider at its southern

end, high tides are formed along the coast, and those get higher, ac-
cording as the place is further up the bay. The tide outside the bay

rises about seven to ten feet, and at the top of the bay, at spring-tides,

with a high S.E. wind, the rise is as much as forty-five or fifty feet.
The ordinary account in books of the tides of the Bay of Fundy is ex-

aggerated. The sea water then rushes with great force into the tide

rivers : at the top of the bay, where the Peticodiac enters, the violence
of the tide is irresistibly great. In fact, at one place on this river,

called  very  properly  The Bend, the                                                                                                                     tide  advances  with  a  noise  like
                                                                                                                                                       .

thunder, and often overtakes animals, or upsets and buries schooners

not prepared to ride the Boar's back, as they say, that is, to run on with

the moving wall of water. In the harbour of St. John the tide rises at

neap-tides to the height of twenty-six feet, and at spring-tides to that

of twenty-five feet.

   III. When the river is at its greatest height in the spring, and when

the harbour is also at its greatest height from the prevalence of spring-

tides, at high water the water of the river above the falls will be on a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;

--118 REPORT 1840.

level with that of the harbour below the falls. It will therefore happen,
that at the tiraeof low water, the water in the harbour having sunk thirty-
live feet, there will be a fall downwards at the falls to the extent of
thirty-five feet, partly at the upper fall, but mostly (on account of the

greater contraction) at the lower fall. As the tide flows the fall will

diminish gradually ; and again during the ebbing of the tide from the
bay, the falls will gradually increase until low water. So rapid and
violent is the motion of both currents, when the tide is rising, that the
river stream is lifted up, as it were, above the salt water, and flows away
down the harbour, while the salt water forces itself upwards below the
river current. The river stream only loses itself in the salt water five
 or six miles further out to sea. In the height of summer the water in
 the river is at its lowest, that is, fourteen feet lower than in the preced-
 ing case, being twenty-one feet above the harbour level ; there will of
 course be a fall downwards to that extent, and this fall will continue to
set down until the tide shall have raised the harbour-level twenty-one
 feet : at this period there will be a level and no fall either way. But
 as the tide rises the harbour-level continues to rise with it till a fall up-
 wards takes place, the measure of which is the difference between the
 two levels. The fall upwards will be greatest at high water, after that
 it will decrease until, by the ebbing of the tide, the river is on a level
 with the harbour, then the fall will be downwards, and so continue till
 low water again.

    The fall upwards seldom exceeds six feet, but owing to the irregular
 course of the rocky ravine in which the river runs, and to the great vo-
 lume of Avater, it is an exceedingly striking phsenomenon. The river
 level is not raised more than fifteen or eighteen inches at high water
 but the water in The Pot is six feet above the level of the water above

 the falls.
     There is a difference of nine feet in the rise of the tide at spring-

 tides and neap-tides ; the tides rising rather more than four feet higher
 at the former than at the latter period, and falling off" rather more than
 four feet also. At neap-tides, when the river is full, there will be a fall
 downwards to the extent of rather more than four feet ; on the other
 hand, when the river is at its lotvest, that is fourteen feet lower than in
 the preceding case, there will be at high water a fall upwards to the
 extent of nearly nine or ten feet, alternating upwards and downwards

  as before described.

        On the Geology of Madeira. By James Smith, F.G.S.

 On the Geology and Fossil Fishes ofNorth Brazil. By Mr. George
   Gardner of Glasgow. Communicated by 3. E. Bowman, F.G.S.

     The province of Ceara, which forms a portion of North Brazil, is
  situated between the 3rd and 8th deg. of south lat., and the 37th and
  ilst of west long. It is of an oblong form, its greatest length being
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  119

 about 100 leagues from north to south ; and its width varying from 50
 to 70 leagues. It is bounded on the north by the Atlantic Ocean, and
 on the west by a low mountain range, which separates it from the
 great inland province of Piauhy, and consists for the most part of

 sandy or gravelly plains, which remind the traveller of the descriptions
 of the Pampas of Buenos Ayres. Boulders of granite, gneiss and quartz,
 sometimes of four feet diameter, and more or less rounded, occa-
 sionally occur ; and here and there a low ridge of gneiss rocii crops out,
dipping at a very high angle to the N.W. For many leagues from the
coast, the characteristic and prevailing vegetation of the plains is a
beautiful species of palm, called Carnahuba by the Brazilians {Corypha
 cerifera of Martius), while that of the ridge of gneiss consists of
various Cactese (of the genus Cereus) and a large Bromelia. At a dis-
tance of about eighty leagues from the north coast, and ten leagues
below the Villa do Ico, the nearly monotonous level of the country is
broken by a mountain range, which makes its appearance to the east-
ward. This is the Serra de Pereira, which runs S.W. and N.E., and
is sixteen leagues in length, and its greatest height about 1000 feet
above the surrounding plain. Its S.W. extremity is entirely of gneiss,
but at its base is a coarse red conglomerate, containing rounded frag-
ments of both primitive and secondary rocks.

    The country between Ico and the small Villa do Crato, thirty-four
leagues to the S.W., is of a more hilly undulating character ; more
abundantly wooded, and only occasionally opening into the large
campos or plains of the north. In this tract, gold has been found in

small particles interspersed in a dark-coloured diluvial soil, near the
Rio Jaguaribe, but not in sufficient abundance to repay the speculators.

At about eighteen leagues south of Crato, the gneiss rocks are replaced
by a gray-coloured primitive clay slate, and at the termination of this,
the secondary stratified series begins, the few rocks occurring from

thence to Crato, consisting of a white coarse-grained sandstone. Crato

stands in the middle of a large undulating valley among hills, which
are the flanks or lateral spurs of the long chain which separates the
provinces of the coast from that of Piauhy to the west, and which here
receives the name of Serra de Araripe. The highest parts of this range
do not rise more than from 1200 to 1500 feet above the town of
Crato; their tops are perfectly level, and continue so for many leagues
to the W. and S., forming what the Brazilians call taboleiras or table-

lands. In all directions these hills consist of a white- coloured sand-
stone, which has sometimes a reddish tinge. In the bed of one of the
largest streams, a section of the strata, to a considerable depth, exposes
a bed of limestone three feet thick, beneath the sandstone, and resting
upon a seam of impure coal two feet thick, which in its turn is placed
upon another and lower bed of limestone. In these limestones no

fossil remains could be found ; the strata are all perfectly horizontal,
and the level appearance of the whole Serra makes it probable they

are so throughout.

   About fourteen leagues to the south from Crato, is a branch or spur
of this Serra, which projects ten leagues to the eastward, on the south
side of which is a small villa called Ban-a do Jardim, situated in a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;

120 REPORT-- 1840.

small valley upwards of a league in length, and about half a league
across in its widest part. The deposit of fossil fishes (from which those
now exhibited were chiefly obtained), is in an open place of the gently
sloping ridge north of the villa ; there the ground is covered with
great abundance of rounded stones of various sizes, from that of an
egg, to blocks of several feet in circumference, consisting of a light-

coloured, rather impulse limestone, in which lines of bedding may
often be perceived, and sometimes minute shells. They split very
easily, and contain portions of fishes in a more or less perfect state
by far the greatest number, however, being so much broken, that it is

with considerable difficulty that tolerably perfect specimens can be
obtained. The space to which these limestone nodules are confined,
is not more than one hundred yards square, and scarcely any other

kind of stones is to be found among them ; but on every side of it, the
ground is covered with other rounded pebbles of sandstone, similar
to the rock of which the Serra is composed. Three other deposits of

fishes occur in the neighbourhood, one about half a league to the
south, a second at Macape, five leagues to the east of Jardim, and a

third at Mundo Novo, three leagues to the west. These are all on the

declivity of the low hills, between the valley and the Serra, and per-
fectly resemble the one described, in consisting only of the rounded
fossiliferous limestone nodules.

   On breaking these nodules, many of them exhibit abundance of a
minute bivalve shell. At Mundo Novo Mr. G. found in the same nodule

a very perfect specimen of what he believes is a species of Turrilites,a\>out
I5 inchlong, and a single valve of a Venus about half an inch in length,

and in very excellent preservation. He was told by a person at

Jardim, that a few years ago he found a small serpent coiled up in a

stone which he had split, but this, no doubt, was a species of Ammo-

nites. In the several hundred stones, however, which he broke in
search of fish, he met with nothing of this description. These speci-
mens Mr. G. had not sent over; neither has he accompanied those
submitted to the Section by any of the sandstone of the Serra de

Araripe ; but from the fact communicated by M. Agassiz, that he has
not yet met with cycloid fishes in any older formation than the chalk,
and as far as can be inferred from the minute bivalves, it is probable

that the sandstone hills in which the deposits occur, belong to that

geological epoch. He states that he could nowhere find in the neigh-

bourhood of Barra do Jardim any limestone in situ. This circum-
stance, taken in conjunction with the fact that the fossiliferous
nodules show indications of stratification, and are found in detached
localities, and not intermixed with those of the sandstone, which
surrounds them on every side, leads to the conclusion that they occur
as a bed or layer of detached concretions in the sandstone, each fish,
or portion of one (for many seem to have been imbedded after being
broken), having attracted round it a suflScieut quantity of the lime
disseminated tlirough the mass to form a nodule*.

   * Tliis paper has since been ])ublishcd entire in the New Edinburgh Philo-

 sophical Journal for January 1841, with a Notice of the Fossil Fishes by Pro-

 fessor Affassiz.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  121

      On the Daguerreotype, as applied to the Drawing of Fossils.

                       By J. L. B. Ibbotson, F.G.S.

   The process proposed by Mr. Ibbotson for this purpose was ex-
plained, and specimens of its successful results were exhibited.

          On the Geography of New Brunswick. By G. H.

                          Featherstonhaugh, F.G.S.

   The communication related principally to the methods employed in
a recent survey by the Commissioners, whose report on the boundary
question has been presented to Parliament. The barometers employed
in measuring the heights were those made by Bunten (on the siphon
construction) ; and towards the end of the operation, others, made by
Newman, with iron cisterns.

   Dr. Hannah exhibited a section of the bed of the Clyde, made by
the late Mr. Logan.

Outline of Three Expeditions which might he undertaken to explore

   portions of the interior of Africa. By Sir J. E. Alexander.

   The first to land at Cape Coast Castle, Gold Coast, proceed thence
to Comassie, the capital of Ashantee, seventy miles distant, there com-
municate with Arab traders who come across Africa from the Red Sea,
and arrange to accompany them eastward.

   The second to land at Zanzibar, and accompany a caravan which
arrives there annually from central Africa to trade with the warm
friend of the English, the Imaum of Muscat and Zanzibar.

   And the third to land at Natal, and with horses, to be procured

there from the English and Dutch settlers, proceed to Delagoa in the

healthy months, from May to October, and then travelling north-west,

reach the Cape Colony by Lattakoo.

Additional Notes on the Wadi el 'Arabah in Syria. By the Rev. Dr.
                         E. Robinson, of New York.

   " The interest attached to that very remarkable fact in physical
geography, which has not yet been cleared up, namely, the depres-
sion of the surface of the Dead Sea, below the level of the Mediterra-
nean, and the drainage, probably dependent upon this depression, of a
large tract of country including numerous lateral valleys, extending to
the southward for upwards of 100 miles through the district termed
Arabia Petraea, from the south point of the Dead Sea nearly to the
Gulf of Akabah, induces me to offer a few words on the line of sepa-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;

--122 REPORT 1840.

ration of waters between these two basins, which may be termed a
postscript to some remarks I formerly had occasion to make on M. de
Bertou's account of his journey in 1838 through the Wadi el 'Arabah,
from the Asphaltic lake to the Elanitic gulf*. At that time I took it
for granted that the Wadi Talha of Bertou (according to his own map)
was identical with the great Wadi Jerafeh, with which we had become

acquainted while travelling through the western desert to Hebron, and,
again, as seen from the pass of Neniela, north of Mount Hor. But on

a careful construction of Bertou's itinerary by M. Kiepert, of Berlin, it
appears that his Wadi Talha must be situated about two hours south of

the Jerafeh, and has no connexion whatever with the latter. It would

seem, therefore, to be the Wadi Abu Talha of Burckhardt. The effect
of this is to move the place of the water-shed, as specified by Bertou,

to a point some six miles further south than I had supposed him to
mean ; and if this correction be well founded, it follows that the travel-
ler passed before, and probably across the mouth of the Jerafeh, with-
out noticing it ; although this is the great drain of all the adjacent parts
of the western desert, and one of the most important and remarkable
features of the whole region."

    In connexion with Dr. Robinson's recent travels through Palestine,
Capt. Washington exhibited a newly-constructed plan of the city of

Jerusalem, correcting many former inaccuracies, pointing out several
ancient sites, and showing the shading of the hills within the city, a
feature not represented on any former plan.

   Some Observations on Relief Maps. By M. A. Ravenstein, of

                                                  Frankfort.

   " The obvious advantages of maps stamped in relief for representing
the great physical features of a country, and the probability that such
maps will soon be very extensively used, induces me to offer a few

words in reply to a request I have received, to state my opinion on the
relief maps of M. Kummer, of Berlin. With regard to their invention,

I must claim to have been the first who introduced the method of rais-
ing the hills, by means of the press or stamping, as may be seen by my
"Plastic Atlas," published in 1838 ; it would be unjust, therefore, to
attribute to Berlin that which was first made at Frankfort. It must be
observed, that these are quite distinct from M. Kummer's " Globe en
relief," published some years since, as that was made of papier mache.
M. Bauerkeller, of Paris, also made public, in 1 839, his " Environs de
Paris," in the stamped relief method, with the difference, however, that
the colours are put in after the Congreve manner. In the preface to
my Plastic Atlas, I anticipated that great improvements would be made
and it is due to M. Kummer to state, that he has so far succeeded, as
to lead me to hope that these maps will shortly reach still greater per-
fection, and, when made on a large scale, will come into general use,

                                    » Sec the Athenaeum, No. 658.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  123

--and supersede all other maps, and especially physico-geographical

maps, without reference to political divisions ; and I feel that I do but
express the feeling of all interested in the advancement of physical

geography, by saying that I heartily hope that M. Kummer will per-

severe in his efforts."

   These observations were illustrated by M. Ravenstein's " Plastic At-
las," several stamped maps by Kummer, of Berlin, and a specimen of
Bauerkeller's stamped and coloured plan of the city of Frankfort.

  A letter was read from the Rev. Mr. Selvester, who had resided above

fifty years in the Faroe Islands, expressing an opinion that the level of
the coast had there undergone a depression. This was inferred from
encroachments made by the sea at several points, and particularly from
the fact, that on the 6th of January, 1828, full two thirds of the sun's
orb had been visible above a hill near his house from the same spot,
where, in 1801, he had only been able to see the upper edge of the disc.

Observations on Great Earthquakes on the West Coast of South Ame-
   rica, particularly the great one of the I8th of September, 1833, which

  destroyed the City of Tacna, and other places in Peru. By Mr.
   Mathie Hamii^tojh, formerly Surgeon to the Potosi Mining Com-

  pany.

   Tacna, an Indian town of some antiquity, now capital of the province
of the same name, lies in the midst of a desert tract of about fifty miles
broad, between the mountains and the sea. The port of Arica, about

forty miles distant, had, since the first arrival of the Spaniards, been
five times destroyed by earthquake, while Tacna had enjoyed a happy
immunity, and was supposed beyond the reach of this calamitous visi-

tation. After 1826, however, very frequent and severe shocks were
felt, particularly a few weeks before the great one of the 8th of October,
1831, which reduced Arica to a heap of rubbish ; yet it continued nearlv
uninjured till the evening of the 16th of September, 1833, when there
occurred a single loud report, with an upward movement of the ground.

On the morning of the 18th, there was a much more violent movement,

the earth heaving at once up and down, and also laterally, accompanied
by a frightful subterranean noise. The falling of houses all around,

the cries of the people, the howlings of animals, produced a scene that
cannot be described. The agitation seemed to have reached the utmost
possible height, when suddenly the earth, as if striving to get rid of
some mighty load, made a more terrible movement than ever, in every
direction, and in one minute the work of destruction was completed.
The cathedral in falling destroyed a numerous congregation of females,

who had assembled there, and were endeavouring to escape ; but the
priests, who remained under an arch, were saved. It is remarkable,
that while some quarters had nearly every house demohshed, others
were comparatively uninjured. This great movement was succeeded
124 REPORT 1840.

by a series of slight shocks, which continued during many days. Rain
(here a phEenomenon) fell almost every day during six weeks ; and at
Arica, on the first week of October, there came down a deluge, such as
had not been witnessed for half a century. The river which supplies
Tacna with water, remained undisturbed ; but others were changed in
their courses, and one altogether disappeared. The earthquake was
felt many hundred miles to the south, as far as the Desert of Atacama.
At Luto, about forty miles distant, fissures were made in tlie ground,
whence issued a dark-coloured fluid. In the province of Tarapaca,
villages were overthrown, and one, which stood in a ravine, was buried,
with all its inhabitants. To the north, its ravages were equally exten-
sive. The villages of Samo, distant thirty miles, and of Loquumbo,
distant sixty, were both destroyed. Moquegua, 120 miles off, suffered
severe damage ; and Arequipa was violently shaken, but with little in-
jury. The' effects extended even to the lofty peaks of Upper Peru.
Tacora, 15,000 feet above the sea, had its church thrown down. When
the atmosphere cleared after the calamity, that mighty range, as seen
from Tacna, presented in many parts a new outline. Large masses
had been detached or slid down into the valleys or ravines, leaving
many elevated peaks denuded of their most prominent features. Mr.
Scott, engineer, then employed at Ochozumo, about 14,500 feet high,
describes the shocks there as terrific, and the noise, as if an immense
mass of porcelain had, after being raised in the air, been then let fall
and dashed to pieces. By his telescope, he saw the masses falling from
the mountains, one of them leaving a space as large as St. Enoch's
Square, Glasgow. On the 20th of January, 1834, a terrible earthquake
occurred in New Granada, by which the large towns of Popayan and
Pasto, were entirely demolished, and many thousands perished. On
the 21st of September, 1834, Mr. Hamilton experienced a most severe
shock, in which the movements of the earth were entirely vertical, and
seemed to take place twice every second. He mentions also, the ter-
rible earthquake on the coast of Chile, the 5th of February, 1835, by
which the sea-port of Concepcion, and Talcahuano, the capital of the
province, were totally destroyed. The sea then retired several times
to a great distance, and returned in immense billows. It is believed,
that new banks were then thrown up from its bottom, and that it was
on one of these that the Challenger, ship of war, a few months after,
was wrecked.

   Mr. Murchison exhibited several new geological maps of different
parts of Germany, and specially directed attention to two inedited
maps, which had been prepared for the author's use, and which he pro-
posed to avail himself of in subsequent researches. The first of these
was a map of parts of Silesia, Moravia, and Bohemia, by Leopold Von
Buch ; and the second a very large unpublished map of Germany, by
M. H. Von Dechen, which he stated to contain a greater mass of im-
portant detail as regards geological and mineral distinctions than any
map of tlie present period.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  125

On the Solvent Potver exercised by Water at high temperatures on
              Siliceous Minerals. By Julius Jeffreys.

   " The few remarks I have to offer have reference to a paper read
before the Royal Society of London last spring. It briefly related an
experiment made to determine the action of water, in the form of its
vapour, upon siliceous minerals at very intense heat. The experiment
was upon a large scale, and consequently very costly, and the re-
sults were curious, as establishing a very powerful action by water
on siliceous minerals, when the temperature is sufficiently high." Mr.
Jeffreys exhibited an enlarged drawing to the Section, showing the
construction of a large boiler, erected near Furrukabad, a large city
800 miles north-west of Calcutta. It was the only one of the kind in
India, and was employed for vitrifying brown stone ware, the manu-
facture of which Mr. Jeffreys had succeeded in introducing into
that country. It was heated by four exterior furnaces, each six feet
long and five wide. The kiln inside was fifteen feet in diameter and
twenty-four feet high. The fuel was wood, and the utmost effect any
alkali which might be supposed to rise in its vapour ordinarily pro-
duced, was a slight glazing of some of the brick surfaces in the kiln,
near the entrance of the flame ; an appearance which is also seen
with other fuel, and with which all manufacturers are familiar. " For
the sake of experiment, I pulled down the four furnaces and rebuilt
them, after having made between each and the kiln a deep pit as wide
as each furnace, and only nine inches from front to back. About
three feet of water was put into each pit, and was renewable from
without. Some felspathic and siliceous minerals were placed in the
way of the current, just inside of the kiln, and upon some of the arches
a few articles of ware were placed, that any action upon them might
be observed. Below a full red heat little effect was perceived, but at
a heat above that of fused cast iron a rapid solution of mineral matter
took place. This heat was continued ten hours. When the kiln was
opened, more than a hundred weight of mineral matter, though in a
very dense and refractory form, had been dissolved, and carried away
in the vapour. The wall was eaten away, as shown by the dotted line,
and presented a rough, and quite unglazed surface, like loaf-sugar
partially melted by water, or as if eroded by some animal ; and nothing
of the smooth glazed surface, which invariably attends the action of
alkali on a siliceous surface. Some articles of ware in the hottest
situations were partially eaten through ; but on the uppermost arch,
 where the heat was only a full red, a curious phasnomenon appeared.
 The articles there had received, exterior to their own brown gloss, and
 loosely encrusting it, a complete frosted coat of silica, having the ap-
 pearance of a candied surface. It was manifestly a precipitation from
 the mineral vapour, and in fact a hoar frost of silica. There was pro-
 bably from half an ounce to an ounce on each vessel, and several
 pounds altogether were thus precipitated ; but by far the greater part
 of the mineral vapourized was, as might be supposed, carried away in
 the current. Since this powerful action was apparently entirely due
--126 REPORT 1840.

to the presence of water, there being at all times the same quantity of
alkali present in the fuel, whatever that might have amounted to, pro-
ducing no such effect, the experiment seems to establish, at very high
temperatures, a powerful action of water on siliceous matter. To attri-
bute the action to alkali would not lessen the difficulty, both because
under perfectly similar circumstances, when there was no water, no
effect was produced, and because each pound of alkali would have had
to dissolve, perhaps, forty pounds of silica. Mr. Jeffreys was informed

by a military engineer of distinguished ability, to whom he related the

experiment, that he had once observed a similar destructive effect upon
the brick casing of a kiln, by moisture getting in at an intense heat,
though no scientific notice was taken of it at the time ; and as coal
was the fuel in this case, there was still less ground for supposing the
action to be alkaline. Lastly, if alkali did play an appreciable part,
the experiment would remain still sufficiently curious, as it showed an
abundant vapourization of silica, by a fraction of its weight of alkali,
without the aid of fluorine, a phaenomenon which has, so far as the
author is aware, been only obscurely manifested in minute quantities,
as noticed by the late Dr. MaccuUoch.*

An Account of the Construction of the Models of the Island of Achil,

    Clare Island, and the South - Western district of Mayo, in Ireland.

  By William Bald, F.R.S.E., M.R.I.A., S)-e.

" The chief object of this paper is to call attention to the cultivation

of an art hitherto but little practised in Great Britain or Ireland, in

representing the irregularities of surface, i. e. the rise and fall of

ground in a country by modelling, and also to give an account of some
models which I have constructed of parts of the West of Ireland,

since 1815.

   The first work of this kind I made, was a model of Achil, the largest

island on the coast of Ireland ; it contains fifty-eight English square

miles of lofty ground, and has been deposited in the museum of the
College of Edinburgh. The second model made was that of the

Barony of Murrisk, containing nearly two hundred square miles, and

which occupied me at intervals for a period of nearly five years ; it

was formed of putty, white-lead and cork.

I also constructed a model of Clare Island, on the west coast of Ire-

land, an island which is four English miles long, by two and a quarter

Ain its greatest breadth.  cast of this model was deposited, on the

26th of April, 1830, in the French National Institute, and another one

in the model department of the Bibliotheque du Roi, at Paris, and

were on a scale of eight inches to the Irish mile ; but the models of

Achil Island and Murrisk Barony were on scales of four inches to the

   * Professor Johnston and Mr. Jeffreys have been reqiiested to prosecute re-
searches on this subject.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  127

English mile. The perpendicular scales, or those of height and depth,
were the same as the horizontal."

   The author thus describes his method of modelling : " I dretv out upon
the smooth surface of a prepared board, made of deal-timber, an

exact outline of the coast, lakes, rivers, roads, &c., &c., of the district
to be modelled ; and the different heights taken by the level, theodolite,

sextant, and barometer, were correctly marked upon the board in their
exact positions, by driving down small iron pins, the summits of which
indicate the elevations, measuring the heights from the surface of the
board as the level of the sea, at ordinary high water spring-tides ; and
all the spaces between the respective heights marked out by the iron
wires were filled up with the putty ; but where the elevations were
considerable, cork, cut into thin pieces, was used in combination with
it, so as to give firmness, and prevent sinking, which would have been
the case if large quantities of putty were used without adopting this

precaution.

   The lakes are represented by diflPerent pieces of painted glass, the
outlines of which were first traced upon the painted sides, which ap-
peared like a fine hair line through them when laid in their positions,
and the putty was wrought forward over the edges of the glass to the
outlines of the lakes so traced out, but it was always necessary to keep

the putty from touching any part of the painted glass underneath, for
if it did the oil of the putty soon disfigured the water colour of the

lakes.

   The model of Murrisk, containing, as before mentioned, nearly two
hundred square miles, was formed of putty and white-lead ; the poison-
ous qualities of which nearly destroyed my health, and I mention this
circumstance as a caution to those who may hereafter be engaged in

similar works.

   I found it extremely difficult to model in putty ; and again much
more so when combined with white-lead. What I found best and
most easy to work with was pipe-clay, but then, when it dried, it
always split into pieces. The best substance to construct or form

models with is large blocks of chalk, closely joined together, and then
to carve out the various forms of hill and vale ; and when finished, to
shade the surface over several times with prepared linseed-oil, by
which means it will become highly indurated.

   The composition used by General Pfeffer for modelling was a mix-
ture of charcoal, lime, clay, a little pitch, and a thin coat of wax."

   To the communication from which the above extracts are taken, Mr

Bald appended a notice of the rise of Topographic Maps.
--128 REPORT 1840.

                   ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY.

On the true Method of discovering the Natural System in Zoology and

             Botany. By Hugh E. Strickland, F.G.S.

   The object of this essay is to show that the true system of nature is
not to be discovered by any a priori or theoretical considerations, but
solely by an inductive process similar to a geographical survey. As-
suming the reality and permanence of species, the natural system is
defined to be, the arrangement of species according to the degree of
their mutual resemblances. These degrees of resemblance are to be
estimated by the physiological importance of the points of agree-
ment, combined with their numerical amount in the objects compared.
It is these essential and important points of agreement which constitute
affinity as distinguished from analogy. The method proposed is to
take any one species A, and ask the question, " What are its nearest
affinities?" Those other species (whether one or many) which are
closely and equally allied to A, are then to be placed on each side of

Weit. are then to take one of these latter species and ask the same

question. By a repetition of this process it would be possible ulti-
mately to survey and construct a map of the whole organic creation.
And as in a map the physical surface of the ground is divided for con-
venience sake into provinces and kingdoms, so may the species when

so arranged in their true position be divided into families, genera and
groups, which may themselves be mapped in the same manner as

species.

    In following out this plan it will be found that species or groups do
not form a continuous or linear series, but frequently ramify in various
directions. It will be further found that they do not ramify according
to any regular figure or numerical property, but resemble rather the
irregular branches of a tree. The irregularity of the details of the
natural system is maintained in this paper, and it is inferred that we

are consequently unable to predict what species or groups may yet

remain undiscovered. If this be true it follows that all those systems,
whether linear, circular, quinary, or otherwise, which follow a sym-
metrical and regular figure, must be, not natural, but artificial. Such
systems possess certain practical advantages in the arrangement of
museums, &c., which are incompatible with the inherent ii'regularity
of the natural system ; but the latter is not on that account to be disre-
garded or confounded with the artificial systems above alluded to.

    In further proof of the amorphous and unsymmetrical figure of the
natural system, it is shown,

    1st. That the analogies of the external world, such as the positions
of the fixed stars, the distances of the planets, the forms of mountains,
rivers and islands, &c., indicate that amorphous variety, and not geome-
ti'ical or numerical symmetry, is the prevailing law of nature.

    2nd. That as organic structures are created not for the purpose
of being classed in nmseums, but for the discharge of certain offices
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  129

in the external world, it follows, that if the conditions of existence,
such as soil, climate, locality, &c. be indefinitely various, the forms of
animals and plants which are adapted to those conditions must be inde-
finitely various also. Perfect symmetry would only be compatible with
the natural system on the supposition that all the variations of the
earth's surface, the mountains, rivers, islands, soils, currents and winds
were absolutely symmetrical in their situations and regular in their

influences.

On the Development of the Fish in the Egg. By Professor Agassiz.

    Professor Agassiz gave an account of his researches on the develop-
ment of the embryo in the ova of fishes, more especially of the family

of Salmonidae. He detailed at great length the successive changes

undergone by the various systems of organs. The object he had in
view in these investigations was to ascertain if there existed any rela-
tion between the forms of fish of the present day, during the succes-
sive stages of their development, and the permanent forms of fish
found in the older strata of the earth.

On the First Changes consequent on Fecundation in the Mammiferous
  Ovum, with special reference to a Communication " On the De-
  velopment of the Fish in the Egg" by Professor Agassiz. By. Dr.
  Martin Barry, F.R.S.

The remarks were intended as an outline of a memoir, communicated

by Dr. Barry to the Royal Society of London in March last. The

memoir itself being now in the course of publication in the Transactions

of that Society, Dr. Barry stated that he could not, with propriety,

anticipate its appearance by further details than had been already

published, as an abstract, in the Society's " Proceedings." He had

had no intention indeed of offering a paper on the subject to the

British Association until yesterday, when a communication was made

by the celebrated naturalist of Neufchatel, which called for some re-

marks at his hands.

Nearly every author on the ovum allows the germinal vesicle to be

its most essential part. The office which this vesicle performs, how-

ever, and its destination, had been subjects of speculation only.

Purkinje, the discoverer of this vesicle where it was first found,

namely, in the bird's egg, supposed it to burst ; and either the same

opinion, or else that it dissolves, flattens down, or becomes otherwise

destroyed, had been conjectured by most subsequent observers. All,

however, including the eminent naturalist whose observations Dr.

Barry had now more particularly in view. Professor Agassiz, were

agreed that the germinal vesicle disappears about the period when the
ovum leaves the ovary. The question is, its mode of disappearance.

1840.                K
130 REPORT-- 1840.

Dr. Barry then read, from the Royal Society's " Proceedings," a

portion of the abstract above referred to, from which it appeared, that

should the statements there made be confirmed, this very important

Wequestion had at length been solved by actual observation.  refer

to the abstract itself for an account of the remarkable results obtained,

from which also it appears that the centre of the germinal spot is the

point of fecundation, and the place of origin of two cells which consti-

tute the foundation of the new being ; results, however, which if con-
firmed, must modify the views recently advanced on the mode of origin,

the nature, the properties, and the destination of the nucleus in the

physiology of cells.

Dr. Barry's observations were made on ova of the rabbit ; and he

afterwards confirmed them by an examination of ova of the dog.

He had stated that the ova of birds, batrachian reptiles, and some

osseous fishes, afford evidence of the operation of the same pro-

cess : and it was very gratifying and important now to find, in

the minute and beautiful delineations of such an observer as

Agassiz, on the ovum of the salmon, what he (Dr. B.) could not but
regard as a confirmation of his own observations on the ovum of

Mammalia ; though that observer would hear with surprise the expla-

nation Dr. B. was giving of them.

But such a process is not limited to the Vertebrata. It was to be

recognized in the description given by authors of certain of the Mol-

lusca ; for instance, in that of Sars, on the development of the ovum
of Tritonia, Doris, and others of this class of animals. What Sars

supposes to be transformations of the yelk, however, will no doubt turn

out to be successive generations of cells, the first pair of which arises

within the germinal vesicle, as in the ovum of Mammalia. Shuttle-

worth had discovered that red snow contains animal structures ; and

two days since, Professor Agassiz, having extended this observation,

made known the very interesting fact, that the so-called Protococciis

nivalis consists of the ova of one of the Infusoria. Dr. Barry had now

to mention, that while the drawings, Avhich the Professor had given of

these ova, were circulating among the members of the Section in that

room, he had recognized in them traces of what seemed to him to

have resulted from essentially the same changes as those in the germi-

nal vesicle elsewhere. Further, the germ of certain plants passes

through states so much resembling those occurring in the germ of

mammiferous animals, that it is not easy to consider them as resulting

either from a different fundamental form, or from a process of deve-

lopment, which even in its details is not the same. In the growth,

indeed, at all periods, and this both of healthy and of morbid tissues,

there is to be recognized the same process, which consists, not merely

in the origin of cells in cells, but in the origin of cells in the central

part of what had been the nucleus of cells.

In a paper published in the " Philosophical Transactions," Part II.,

1839, Dr. Barry had shown that the mammiferous embryo is no part

of a so-called blastoderma, but the metamorphosed nucleus of a cell.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  131

                  On the Alpaca. By Mr. W. Danson.

    Since the meeting at Birmingham, about thirty of these interesting
animals had at different times been imported into Liverpool, and upon
the present occasion four of the animals were exhibited in the court-
yard of the college at Glasgow, and others at the neighbouring Zoolo-
gical Gardens. The Alpaca is remarkable for having extraordinary
long wool, samples of which were shown, the staples measuring from
twenty to twenty-four inches in length, and of various colours, some
pure white, that take good dyes. This wool is naturally free from
grease, in which respect it differs materially from that of the sheep,
a circumstance attributable to its not perspiring through the skin, and
consequently not requiring the artificial protection of smearing with
tar and other substances, injurious to the wool as far as the manufac-
turer is concerned ; and in the shearing the animal requires no washing
preparatory to that operation.

   Mr. Danson particularly pointed out the hardy character of the
Alpaca from the circumstance of its flourishing immediately under the
line of perpetual snow in the mountains of the Andes (Peru) ; and a

not less singular or valuable fact, that of their peculiar coat of silky
wool, proving a complete protection against an atmosphere at all times
excessively humid, and against the deluging rain that continues to fall
upwards of four months in the year, rendering them, in his opinion, well
suited to the Grampian, and other mountainous districts of Scotland.

   The animal is not only capable of undergoing great fatigue, but like-
wise of living on mountain herbage, little better than withered grass,
and in times of scarcity has been sustained several days without water,
taking only a handful of maize. The flesh is considered equal to
venison, being commonly eaten by the Peruvians, who state the

slaughter of the animals for food to be equal to four millions annually.

The importations of the Alpaca wool, Mr. Danson states to be in 1839
one million pounds, and within the last year to have increased to

three millions.

On the Subject of a Paper on the Structure of Whales, read at the
               Birmingham Meeting. By G. T. Fox, Esq.

   The Section of Natural History were informed that the letter stated
to have been written by the Bishop of Durham *, was a fabrication of
the individual from whom Mr. Fox had received it as a genuine docu-
ment, and that no such original letter exists.

On the Structure of Fishes, so far as the analogies can be traced
  between the Limbs of the Mammals and the Fins of Fishes. By
   Dr. Macdonald, F.R.S.E., 8)-c.

   It has hitherto been generally considered that the pectoral fin of the
fish is the analogue of the wing of the bird, or anterior extremity of

                            * See Reports of Association for 1839, p. 89.

                                                  K2
--132 REPORT 1840.

man and higher Mammals, and that the ventral fins are the analogues
of the pelvis and posterior extremities. The error of this opinion it is

the object of this communication to point out.

Tabular view of the names of the several parts of the skeleton of
                 fishes analogous to the limbs of higher Vertebrals.

Dr. Macdonald.                  Ichthyological                                                                                                        Cuvier.          St. Hilaire.
                                       Names.
Scapulo-clavicular arch. T                                                                                                                            r Pre-opercular bones.
                                 j^ , r.
Arm or Wing  .\                                                                                                                                       Opercular.           Stapes.
                                ^-?"''"<^"^«'' ^''"^*-
Fore-arm.. . . .                                                                                                                                      i Inter-opercular. Malleus.

Hand                      f                                                                                                                           L Sub-opercular. Orbiculare.
                         J

Pelvis                   -1                                                                                                                             Scapula, or Supra-scapula.

                                                                                                                                                      C

fS: a;^.: : : :
                                sectoral fin.

Tibia                    J                                                                                                                            L Clavicle and humerus.

Tarsus                          Fin-rays.                                                                                                              ("Radius.

                                                                                                                                                          Ulnar.
                                                                                                                                                      <I Carpus.

                                                                                                                                                          Metacarpus.

                                                                                                                                                        I

                                                                                                                                                       (_Phalanges.

                         -|                                                                                                                            f Pelvis.
                                                                                                                                                         Femur.
Belonging to the ex- i
                                                                                                                                                        j
ternal skeleton.                                                                                                                                FIN.
                                                                                                                                                         Fibula.
                                                                                                                                             |
                                                                                                                                                      ^ p[^^^]{^
VENTRALPubis, or the cartilagi- >
                                                                                                                                                      I Tarsus (7 bones),
nous extremities of the                                                                                                                                1 Metatarsus.
                                                                                                                                                       l_ Phalanges.
laminae.                     |

                         J

   By referring to the table, it will be seen that Geoffroy St. Hilaire

proposed the opercular bones as the analogues of the bones of the in-
ternal ear in a very expanded state. This theory, however, was scarcely

tenable, and was never generally received. The author showed that,
viewing the whole animal on a zoological scale, or even restricting the
survey to the class of fishes alone, it will be more in accordance with
analogy of structure and function to consider, that in the osseous fishes
the opercular bones are the analogues of the shoulder and arm, which, in
the cartilaginous rays are found so greatly enlarged and developed as
to form nearly the whole body, acting like wings, as organs of motion.
In the skeleton of the Lophiiis Piscatorius, exhibited through the kind-
ness of the venerable Professor Jeffrey, it will be seen that there is a
set of fin-rays attached to the opercular bones ; but as these are only
developed in the substance of the skin, and have never protruded be-
yond, the surface, this fiii has never been noticed by systematisers and
naf'ralists, who disregarding characters established on organic struc-
ture, are satisfied with the useful, but more superficial characters of fin,

scale, or feather.

    The constant connexion between the anterior extremity and the
respiratory organs assists in tracing the analogies ; and when the organ
of motion is provided by the tail, as in osseous fishes, then the usual
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  133

limbs are restricted to assist the function of respiration, which is
 branchial in fishes and amphibia in their earlier life ; but when the
 pulmonic system is found in air-breathing animals, the respiratory
 limb is more fully developed, for the purpose of locomotion ; and where
 both systems of respiration by lungs and gills exist, as is seen in the
Proteus, we find both the opercular arch and the scapulo-clavicular
 arch having a limb attached, as the plates of the Axolotl, published in
the work of the illustrious Humboldt, clearly exhibit.

    In regard to the pectoral fin, an examination of the table will show
a more equally balanced accordance with the parts of the limb in the
higher Vertebrals, in the analogies proposed in this communication, than
in those of Cuvier, where two bones of different laminae are called
parts of one bone ; and on the other hand, one bone is called on to
represent two belonging to different laminae. The beautiful articular
joint between the pelvis and femur (such as is never found with
scapula, even when that bone exists in two pieces, as in the ribless
frogs), first showed the key to the explanation ; and being on the inner
aspect of the pelvis, the leg has been turned with the fibula (or coracoid
bone of Cuvier) on the inside, and the largely developed malleolus of
the tibia on the outside, meeting on the mesial line below the respira-
tory organs. This change of the limb will cause the sole of the foot to
be placed anteriorly ; and we find that the most common action is to
balance the animal, and enable it to back out, while the whole progres-
sive motion in the osseous fishes is produced by the tail. The ar-
rangement of the tarsal bones, in man, resembles very much that of the
arm and fore-arm, and in fishes has tended to the mistaking the tarsus
for the whole anterior extremity.

  A very opposite system was obtained in the case of the ventral fins,

where one bone on each side support the fin-rays ; these bones seem
the analogues of the cartilages of the ribs or pubis of the Vertebrals,
or perhaps the additional limbs on the ventral rings of the Crustaceae

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

here one bone on each side represents the two circles or laminae

entirely.

   The author therefore considers that the anterior extremities of

higher Vertebrals have their analogues in the opercular bones of
osseous fishes ; and the analogue of the posterior extremities is to be
found in the pectoral fins of the same class.

         On the Salmon Fry. By James Wilson, F.R.S.E.

   The author laid before the Section a series of specimens of salmon
fry, with a view to illustrate Mr. Shaw's recent discoveries regard-
ing the early condition of that important species. It was the in-
spection of that series which first convinced Mr. W. of the accuracy
of Mr. Shaw's views, and he felt anxious that those who might still
entertain any doubts upon the subject should have an opportunity of
removing those doubts by the examination of a suite of specimens pre-
pared by that ingenious observer. The prevailing opinion upon the
--134 REPORT 1840.

subject had previously been, that young salmon hatched in the spring
of any given season made their migration to the sea in the course of
that same spring, that is, when they vveie only a few weeks old, and
that they consequently bore no relationship to that other small fish
commonly called the parr, wliich was known to inhabit our river waters
during all seasons of the year. Mr. Shaw, however, has proved that
both those views are erroneous, and that the fiy continue for about
two years in the river, during which they are actually the parr, and are
converted in tiie course of the second ensuing spring into smelts or
young salmon, as usually recognized. The specimens exhibited by
Mr. Wilson demonstrated the occurrence of that change.

      On the Organs of Sense in the Salmon. By Dr. Lizars.

   After demonstrating the structure of the skin, the author showed that
the colour of the animal depended not merely on the rete mucosum, as
in the dark varieties of the human race, but that the superficial fascia
exerted a great influence, from its colour and the transparency of the
dermis. The rete mucosum was a soft gelatinous layer, presenting a
number of minute black points, which were verj^ abundant in the dark,
but few in the light parts of the skin. The superficial fascia bore the
closest resemblance to the rete in the greater part of its extent ; but in
some situations it exhibited the appearance of adipose tissue. From
the arrangement of the nerves, the skin appears far from being highly
organized for the function of touch. The same remark applies to the

tongue and the sense of taste ; first, from the state of the mucous mem-
brane, and second, from the small size of the gustatory nerves. The

organ of smell was very highly developed. It is contained in an
elongated cavity placed in the upper and fore part of each side of the
head, leading to each of which there are two apertures placed close
together, the septum between them serving the purpose of a valve to
the anterior, so that water could enter, but could not escape by it.

Upon examining the posterior opening with the microscope and with
bright sunshine, a number of minute white filaments, bifurcated at

their extremity, were observed : they were supposed to be cilite ; one
or other of their minute extremities was seen bending and extending

itself. On the inner wall of the cavity were twelve delicate folds

of membrane, attached to a slight prominence, and receiving the

filaments of the nerve of smell. He supposed the water, loaded with

the odoriferous particles, to enter by the anterior orifice, flow be-
tween the olfactory folds, impress the nerve, and escape by the pos-
terior aperture ; the cilice in the last producing tlie current in that
direction. In the description of the eye, a peculiar thickening of the
cornea was pointed out a short way from tiie circumference, and more
extensive at the lower than at the upper part. The sclerotic coat he
found very thin, single, and having a thick, strong layer of cartilage
extending from near tiie cornea to within three or four lines of the
optic nerve. The ciliary ligament is very soft and delicate. The
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  135

appearance of an outer and an inner circle in the iris %vas seen, but no
muscular fibres : the delicate membrane described by Jacob on the
posterior surface of that body, he found to be reflected from its
external circumference to the fore part of the hyaloid membrane,

which it accompanied to the capsule of the lens. The choroid mem-

brane, single in front, is double posteriorly, inclosing between its
layers the choroid body, which was supposed to consist of erectile
tissue, and to enable the eye to adjust itself to vision at different dis-
tances. The ciliaiy processes are wanting. The retina extends from
the optic nerve to where the choroid membrane forms a continuity
with the iris. The humours are similar to those of other fishes ; and
in examining the fibres of the lens with the microscope, the serrated
appearance described by Sir David Brewster was seen. The organ of
hearing consists of a lower and upper sac, and three semicircular tubes

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

the sacs are lodged in the interior of the skull, and the tubes con-
nected with the upper, in canals formed partly of bone and partly of
cartilage. The interior is filled with fluid, and in each sac there is a
dense calcareous mass or otolite ; that in the upper being small and
round, that in the lower large and triangular. The auditory nerve
divides into a number of branches distributed to the sacs and canals.

      On the various Modes of Fishing employed by Indians in the
                West of Guiana. By M. Schomburgk.

    Although the Ichthyology of South America be little understood by
European naturalists, yet the native Indians are practically well ac-
quainted with the various tribes that are found in the magnificent

streams of the New World. An acquaintance with about eighty
species has thus been made by M. Scliomburgk. Tlie Indians in

their fishing excursions use canoes, which are propelled and directed
by paddles in a peculiar manner. The canoes on the Essequibo are
mostly formed of a hollow tree, and small corials are used formed in
the same manner. Another kind of boat is also used, called a pakasse,

and formed out of the bark of a tree. " When we ascended the river
Berbice," says the author, " two Wauawai boys belonging to our party
navigated one of those pakasses. They we're perhaps not more
than eight years old, but we were highly delighted to see how ably
they managed it. The boat seemed to fly through the water, and the

juvenile steersman directed its course with such judgment and precision
that it never grounded, though it went over places where there were
not more than eight or nine inches of water. They were equally ex-
pert in the use of the bow and arrow ; and, wherever they observed
one of the finny tribe, the pakasse was halted, the bow strung, and ofl
flew the pointed arrow, and when taken out of the sand, which the
water barely covered, we generally observed a fish struggling for
liberty." After describing the descent of the rapids, in which these
rivers abound, and the appearance of a band of travellers halting on
the shores of the river, he adds, " During night commenced the fishin^
--136 REPORT 1840.

of lan-lan and others of the family Siluridse. After the hooks have
been baited with fish or animal flesh, they are carried out in the
stream ; the line to which they are attached Ijeing about thirty to forty
fathoms long. If the Indian feels inclined, he keeps the end on the
land in his hand, but frequently he takes a forked stick, which he
drives into the ground, and, after having tied some dried bushes to the
fork, he leads the stray line over it. If a fish should bite, the line
being drawn by the baited fish, will disturb the dry leaves, make a
noise, and the Indian hurries to seize the line and to haul the fish in.
If it be a lan-lan (^Silurus) or a large paramima {Phractocephalus bi-
color^, some considerable skill is necessary to haul the fish in without

breaking the line or the hook. Many of the Siluridae issue a sound
when taken out of the water, but few so loud and so continued as the
paramima. The Indians have always a bludgeon in hand, with which

they beat in the thickly armed skull, and each blow is sure to produce
a loud grinding sound ; so that we who were lying in our hammocks
knew whether a lan-lan, paramima, or any other fish had been secured.
The Indian considers that a large fire kindled at the water's edge is
sure to attract such fishes as take the bait only during night, and they
never fail, therefore, to have a fire or a large brand when they are
fishing for lan-lans or paramimas. If large blocks of granite impeded
the river near our corials, all hand-lines which could be spared or pro-
cured were set in requisition to fish for pirais (Serra-salmon). The
avidity with which they take the bait ensures success to the least prac-
tised, and if the place proved a haunt of the pirai, the Indian was sure
to secure his dinnei'. The natives possess great ai't in throwing tiie
hand-line from the shore into the stream ; and it is a pretty sight to
see the line circling in the air and descending into the water at a great
distance from the bank or rock which the angler has selected for his
stand." The detail of other modes of fishing was also entered into,
and drawings of the paddles, hooks, rods, lines, and instruments used
in fishing were exhibited.

    Mr. Smith, of Deanston, exhibited a model and gave a description
of a Salmon Stair. The object of this construction was to allow of the
passage of salmon up streams where mills or other impediments existed.
After various efforts, Mr. Smith succeeded in erecting one near his
own residence, which answered the purpose. The salmon, by means
of a dyke constructed by the side of the mill-stream, were enabled to
pass up the stream, whilst a wire defence kept them from falling into

 the mill-stream.

       On some Persian Insects. By James Wilson, F.R.S.E.

    The author exhibited to the Section a small collection of insects
from Persia, which he presumed would interest those members who

 devote themselves to entomology, as so few entomological products
 had ever been transmitted from that part of Asia. These insects
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  137

were collected chiefly in a district of Persia, about thirty miles N.E. of
Tabriz, and were transmitted by Mr. Robertson, a Scotch gentleman,
employed by the late Shah in the capacity of mining engineer. Mr.
Wilson observed, that the interest of this collection arose from two
sources ; first, from the occurrence of several singular forms of new and
rare species ; and secondly, from the occurrence of many species well
known in the southern and eastern portions of Europe, but with the

progress of which, in a still more southerly direction, we had been
hitherto unacquainted. Mr. W. had always been of opinion that the
elucidation or completion of the history of previously known species
was equally interesting and important as the discovery of new species,
and he regarded the occurrence in this collection of so many of the

insects of southern Europe as a valuable fact in the history of those
species. Several African insects may also be observed, such as the

Ateuchus sacer, or sacred beetle of the Egyptians, a species so often

found sculptured on the symbolical monuments of that nation. On

the whole, however, so far as can be judged from this collection, the
aspect and character of Persian entomology seem to present a strong

affinity to that of the southern pans of Europe.

  A letter was received from M. J. F. Brandt, Director of the Zoolo-

gical Museum of St. Petersburgh, accompanying printed extracts and
notices of his recent zoological labours. In this communication, M.
Brandt notices that his investigations in Myriapoda lead him to rank
them as an order of the class of insects, and not as an independent class
of animals, and to divide them into mandibulate and suctorial tribes.
Of the genus Iiilus of Linnaeus, M. Brandt has arranged in the Museum
of the Academy of St. Petersburgh forty species ; he notices the mid-

dle part of the lower labium as atibrding excellent characters for speci-

fic, subgeneric, or even generic distinctions ; the joints of the antennae,
the hind margin of the penultimate body-ring, the oval scale, the
pediferous laminae, also afford useful aid, and in the specific distinc-

tions the first dorsal ring is not to be disregarded.

   M. Brandt is especially desirous of obtaining specimens of British

Myriapoda for comparison, and in exchange for the Russian species.
Being also engaged in the study of the group of Cormorants (Carbo),
he requests similar aid from members of the Natural History Section
of the British Association in respect to this group of birds.

   Mr. Adair exhibited specimens of Patella ancyloides found on the
coast of Arran.

         On Pelonaia, a new genus of Ascidian Mollusca. By

                    John Goodsir and E. Forbes, F.L.S.
   The authors have lately met with two undescribed marine animals,
which are referable to a new genus of Ascidians. One of these was
138 REPORT--1840.

found in the mud-filled cavity of a dead bivalve, from thirty fathoms

%vBter, in the Frith of Forth ; two specimens of the other were dredged

near Rothsay.

The appearance of these animals was so peculiar, that the authors were

unable to determine their position in the system, till anatomical exami-

nation displayed their relation to the Tunicata, and revealed the inter-

esting character of the genus to which they belong.

The animals of this genus are free, elongated, dilated posteriorly,

with the respiratory and excretory orifices approximated, the first being

at the anterior end, in the axis of the animal.

As both the species were found in muddy ground, the genus is

named Pelonaia {tttjXos vatw).

The Frith of Forth species, P. corrugata, is characterized by trans-

verse, somewhat irregular rugae ;  dark brown                                                      length 2^ inches.
                                                                                                ;

The other species, P. glabra, smooth, with slight villosity grayish-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;

white ; length 1 inch.

   The author found the two species to possess the general structure of

--the other Ascidians. The peculiarities were 1 . The respiratory open-

ing has no radiated folds or papillary fringes. 2. The respiratory sac

is elongated, median, exhibits transverse folds, which contain the

primary branches of the branchial artery and vein, and are tied to the

internal surface of the muscular sac, and to the reproductive tubes, by

a longitudinal row of thread-like bands on each side. It gradually

contracts posteriorly into the oesophagus. 3. The digestive tube

floats free in the capacious cavity of the muscular sac, except where it

is tied down by vascular bands, and it terminates in free, floating, and

radiating extremities in the interior, and half the length of the animal

from the excretory opening of the sac just mentioned. 4. The vascular

system exhibits no heart ; and in consequence of the peculiar relative

position of the respiratory sac and the other viscera, the system is

symmetrical, the blood flowing backwards in the branchial vein and

systemic artery, and forwards in the systemic vein and branchial

artery, these two systems forming a dorsal and ventral trunk. 5. The

reproductive organs consist of two elongated tubes, shut at one extre-

mity, opening at the other into the cavity of the muscular sac, and

closely attached to its inner surface. The orifices of these tubes are

situated at the anterior third of the animal, and one-third of the poste-

rior extremitj' of each is turned inward and forward, so as to become

parallel to the rest of the tubes and to the branchial artery. Along

the whole length of these tubes, close-set parallel caeca open into their

cavities, a simple form, in fact, of the more complicated reproductive

organs in the other Ascidian genera. 6. The principal peculiarity of

the muscular cloak is firm adhesion to the whole internal surface of

the tunic. In consequence also of the attachment of the viscera to

its internal surface along the lateral lines only, its cavity is made more

capacious, resembling, in this respect, the water-filled cavity of certain

AEchinodermata.  strong band is situated just behind the excretory

orifices.

   From what has now been stated, it appears that external and internal
                 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                       139

symmetry is the leading peculiarity of Pelonaia. It is this symmetry
which renders the genus valuable to the comparative anatomist, as it
reveals to him the relations of the different organs in the unsynimetrical
Ascidians, and enables him to refer each of the former to its proper

position in the series of organs in the animal kingdom. He is now

enabled to state, with certainty, that the branchial vein, heart, and
systemic artery of the typical Ascidians correspond to the dorsal
vascular system of the annulose animals, and the systemic veins and
branchial artery to the ventral vascular system in some of the latter.
The annulated respiratory sac, and its lateral longitudinal attachment
to the parietes of the body and to the symmetrical reproductive
organs, the ventral position of the nervous centre, and excretory
opening, all point to the same conclusion. The genus is equally
valuable to the systematic naturalist, as it indicates the relations of the
MoUiisks to the annulose animals on the one hand, and to the Echino-
dermata on the other.

On the Regeneration of Lost Organs discharging the Functions of the
  Head and Viscera, by the Holothuria and Amphitrite, two Marine

  Animals. By Sir John G. Dalyell.

The adult Holothuria resembles a cucumber, or a sausage, from six

to twelve inches long, purple, yellow, gray or white. Some thousand

suckers cover it like a shaggy coat, or disposed in rows according to

species, affixing it firmly to solid substances, where it remains quiescent

in a crescent form during the day ; but when evening comes, a tuft,

protruding from the larger extremity of the crescent, unfolds into

a capacious funnel, composed of eight, or ten, or twenty beautiful

branches, implanted on a shelly cylinder, in the centi-e of which is the

mouth. Each branch now begins to sweep the water in succession,

and descends almost to the root Avithin the mouth, in a contracted

state, whence it arises to enlarge anew. These evolutions are pro-

tracted until the latest hour ; but as morning dawns, the whole

apparatus is withdrawn, the skin close and compact as before, and a

fountain begins to play from the opposite extremity. This singular

animal is liable to lose all the preceding organic apparatus, consisting

in the Holothuria fusus of eight longer and two smaller branches

(tentacula), together with the cylinder, mouth, oesophagus, lower

intestinal parts, and the ovarium separating from within, and leaving the

body  almost an  empty  sac behind                                         yet it does  not perish.  In three or
                                                                        ;

four months all the lost parts are regenerated, and a new funnel, com-

posed of new branches, as long as the whole body of the animal, begins

to exhibit the same peculiarities as the old one, though longer time be

required to attain perfection. Other species of the Holotlmria divide

spontaneously through the middle, in two or more parts, all becoming

perfect ultimately, by the development of new organs. Yet the

anatomical structure of the whole genus is so complex as to defy the

skill of anatomists in discovering the proper functions of some of the
--140 REPORT 1840.

Aparts.  single Holothuria has produced 5000 ova in tlie course of

a night. The young resembles a white maggot, when of the size of a

barley corn. The animal may lose and regenerate its organs more

than once ; it is very rarely to be procured entire ; nor until the draw-
ings now laid before the Association, has it been ever represented

alive and perfect. The specimen survived with Sir John about two

years.

'I'he Amphitrite is an animal still more interesting, from the faculties

it possesses and the properties which it enjoys. Various species inhabit

the Scottish seas, all occupying tubes, either of their own manufacture,

by a process truly mechanical, or a thin silken sheath formed by an

exudation from the whole body, or they rest amidst a thick tubular

mass of transparent jelly, also of animal secretion. The body of the

Amphitrite ventilabrum extends twelve inches or more in a serpentine

form, consisting of 350 segments, crowned by a beautiful varied-

coloured plume of eighty or ninety fleshy feathers, and terminated by a

double gland. These (the branchiae) are arranged as a funnel or shut-

tlecock, three inches deep, and resembling the finest flower, with two

spines in the centre, and each feather is bordered by at least 500 ciliae

or fleshy hairs along the shaft. This, which is the most timorous of

creatures, dwells in a black leathern-looking perpendicular tube, two

feet high, entirely of its own manufacture, rooted by the lower

extremity. The observer possesses the ready means of inducing

the humble tenant to display its powers. If, while stretching its

beautiful plume above the orifice of the tube, and spreading
it to enjoy the circumambient element, he drops a little muddy

matter from above, an interesting spectacle ensues : immediately all

the feathered apparatus is seen in action, though the animal be ap-

parently still. Forty thousand cilias are at work, and a mass is soon

discovered accumulating at the bottom of the funnel. Being thence

transmitted to the mouth, it is imbued with gluten, and discharged as

paste on the edge of the orifice of the tube. There the creature

having raised itself still higher, performs a slow revolution while

moulding the paste into proper form by means of two organic trowels,

prolonged from a fringe around the neck. With these it beats down the

paste, and clasping over the edge of the tube, smooths its materials

into symmetry, as if it were by tlie operation of human hands ; but on

the slightest alarm the plume collapses, the artist sinks below in an

instant, and remains with the orifice closed, until believing the danger

over, it may rise to resume its task in security. As specimens occur

of all different dimensions, let the observer cut a fragment off the lower

end of the tube, which is always longer than the tenant ; it will be

affixed again where desired. Treating a number thus, and tossing them

into a glass jar of sea water, a grove will arise before him from the
animals fixing them anew, and protruding like so many revolving

flowers to collect muddy drops from above, with which he provides

them. The adhesion is accomplished from a glutinous or silky sheath,

which the double terminal gland seems instrumental in producing.

Should the Amphitrite be mutilated of the anterior part, the whole will
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                             141

be regenerated ; nay, should a fragment of the smaller or posterior ex-
tremity be sundered from the body, an entire plume, spines, mouth
and trowels will be generated to crown the anterior part of this frag-
ment, and render it a perfect animal. It is very remarkable that the
powerful reproductive property of the genus is not confined to the

vicinity of the lost organs, the elements of others reside in different

and distant parts of the body, from whence human perception cannot
discover any likelihood of their evolution by means of their own ener-
gies. The adult Amphitrite bombyx, which obtains a silken sheath
merely by spontaneous exudation from the body, is about three inches

long, of which a third part is the plume, consisting of sixty or seventy

feathers (branchiae). Two artificial sections of the body, of a vigorous

specimen, speedily invested themselves with a sheath, wherein they re-

posed quiescent. The organization of the upper portion remained in
its original state ; the middle section acquired the wanting parts, and
a plume of eight feathers was generated by the lower section, though
this section had been only two lines, or the sixth part of an inch in
length. Thus three plumes existed at once, with all their appurte-
nances, on what had been a single animal. Young animals have few
branchiae ; their number augments with age ; and both these and the
number of segments in all the Annelides seem indefinite. In all their
ciliated branchiae, likewise, the rib or shaft is originally bare, and

clothed with the ciliae developing successively upwards.

   The paper was illustrated by numerous drawings of living specimens.

Fttriher Researches on the British Ciliograda. By Edwakd

                      Forbes and John Goodsir.

Since the last meeting of the British Association, the authors have

continued their observations on these animals ; no additional species

have been discovered, but several interesting facts, elucidating their

structure, have been brought to light. The species examined were

the two forms of Cydippe, designated C. pileus, and C. Flemingii.

They have repeated the observations of Mr. Garner on the ciliation of

the walls of the stomach and vessels, and can bear testimony to their

accuracy. The cilise toward the base of the stomach are larger than

Athose on the oval portion.  row of very minute ciliae surrounds the

mouth, but none of these organs are seen on the filamentary tentacula,

or on the walls of the filamentary cavities. The ciliae which are placed

on the longitudinal ridges are linear-lanceolate in form, flat, and not

hollow. They are not webbed together, and have no communication

with the vessels which run beneath the ciliary ridges. Each row of

ciliae is mounted on a transverse base of a more solid texture, and less

transparent than the rest of the body. The substance of this base

consists of globules irregularly imbedded in a homogeneous substance.

A similar structure is seen to exist in the filaments of the Cydippe, and

the bodies of the hydroid zoophytes and of the simpler trematoid

worms are composed of a like substance. When one of the ciliae of a
--14 2 REPORT 1840.

Cydippe is cut off, it has of itself no power of motion, but if the smallest
portion of the substance of its base remain attached, it moves with
great vivacity. Hence the observers concliide that the ciliary motion
is effected by undulatory movements of this peculiar tissue, which
explanation will also account for the rotatory appearance of the circles
of cilise on certain animalcules, and on a remarkable apparatus which
they have discovered in the breathing sacs of the Echiurus, a vernii-
grade Echinodermatous animal, allied to the Sipunculus. They reject
altogether the explanation of the ciliary motions given bj- Professor
Ehrenberg, Dr. Grant, and M. Raspail. From observations made on
the circulating system of the Beroidese, they are led to conclude that
the usual definition of that tribe, as acalephous animals having two
openings to their intestinal canal, the one anterior and the other pos-
terior, is incorrect. They believe the supposed anus to be imperforate,
and a great portion of the supposed intestinal canal to belong to the

circulating system.

   The tongue-shaped organ which Mr. Forbes formerly described as
existing in the stomachs of many of the Cydippes, has proved to be a
remarkable parasite trematoid worm, fixing itself by means of four
suckers or mouths to the walls of the stomach, and of the vessels of
the Cydippe, often interrupting the circulation of its fluids. For this
strange parasite Mr. Forbes has constituted a new genus, and desig-
nated it Tetrastoma Playfairei, in honour of Major Playfair of St.
Andrews, who first drew attention to its parasitic nature. The authors

--summed up their paper by stating the results : 1st. That ciliary

motion was effected in the Ciliograda by means of a granular tissue,
similar to that forming the bodies of the Hydroidae and the lower
Entozoa, on which the cilise are placed : 2nd. That the Ciliograda are
not Acalepha, having two openings to their digestive canal (as has
hitherto been stated), but similar in structure to the other Medusae :
and 3rd. The discovery of parasites infesting the Acalepha.

                On Medusae. By R. Patterson, F.L.S.

    After briefly noticing some of the specific distinctions of two species
of Medusne common on the Irish coast ( Cyanea LamarcMi and Aurelia
mirita), Mr. Patterson stated, that his object in bringing forward the
present communication was, principally to direct the attention of the
members to the Acalepha of the British shores, a portion of our Fauna
hitherto uninvestigated. With this view he described at some length

their habits and appearance. He next proceeded to detail some of

their pecuHarities of organization, especially the difference observable

in their filamentary appendages, and the varying number of the mouths
and arms. Our ignorance of their physiology Avas exemplified by a

series of questions relative to the organs of sensation whicli they pos-
sess, and the origin and uses of their luminosity, their stinging powers,
their means of defence and propagation, their length of life, and their

 peculiar parasites.
TRANSACTION'S OP THE SECTIONS.  143

   It was stated that we are ignorant not only of the structure of the
Acalepha, but even of the species which frequent our shores ; an igno-
rance arising from the necessity of studying these animals in a living
state, and also from the want of proper descriptions and figures.
Those wliich may be confided in, are given by Miiller; Sars, Mertens,
and Eschscholtz, in comparatively scarce works ; and as two are written
in German, and one in Danish, they are sealed books to those who are
ignorant of these languages. In consequence, we are in continual
danger, if we venture to name one that appears unknown, of adding to
the existing confusion. He next proceeded to mention the points of
intei'est presented by the Acalepha, in consequence of their analogies
in several respects, both to other classes of animals and to the corolla
of phsenogamous plants.

     On Animals found in Red Snow. By Professor Agassiz.

   It was stated that our countryman Shuttleworth had lately demon-
strated that beside the Protococcus nivalis, the red snow contained

several species of Infusoria. He had, however, now to lay before the

Section the result of his own observations, from which he had come to
the conclusion that the red snow was altogether an animal production,
and that the so-called Protococcus nivalis was the ova of a species of
rotiferous animal called by Ehrenberg Philodina roseola. This animal-
cule he had found dead in the red snow, and occurring abundantly
in ditches in the neighbourhood, at the bottom of which its ova pro-
duced a red deposit. Under the microscope the coloured ova in the

ovaries could be distinctly seen. He had also seen the Infusoria de-

scribed by Shuttleworth. Drawings of the Philodina roseola, and the
other animalcula of the red snow, were exhibited to the Section. The
Professor also announced the discovery of a new species of Podura
in the clefts of the glaciers of the Alps. Specimens and drawings of
this insect were also exhibited.

   Dr. Lankester exhibited some coloured water brought from the
Baltic by Mr. Murchison. The colouring matter consisted of a fila-
mentous, unarticulated, probably not vegetable, but animal substance.
The sea was covered with filaments for miles in extent, so as to be dis-
coloured, and to appear of a dirty white.

  Notice of Plants and Aiiimals found in the Sulphureous Waters of

          Yorkshire. By Edwin Lankester, M.D., F.L.S.

   Under the terms glairine, zoogene, baregine, humus-extractive,
resin, animal, and vegeto-animal matter, &c., the existence of organic
substances in cold and thermal mineral waters has been often referred
to, but in most instances the origin of these matters is involved in ob-
scurity. Professor Anglada referred glairine, which he found in sul-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

--144 REPORT 1840.

phureous waters, to a chemical origin, whilst Dr. Daubeny, in his
Report on Mineral Waters, laid before the British Association at Bris-
tol, maintains that this substance is in all cases an organic production.
The existence of organic matter, with a definite form, was first pointed
out by Willan, which was examined by Dillwyn, and referred to the
vegetable kingdom under the name of Conferva nivea. This plant has
been recorded as existing in the sulphureous waters of Harrowgate,
and has been found by the author in the same kind of water at Askerne
in Yorkshire. In its young state it answers to the character of the
organic fibres described by Daubeny, and in a more mature state to
the plant as described by Dillwyn. This plant is of exceeding rapid
growth, appearing in water impregnated with sulphuretted hydrogen
after standing for a few hours. It also rapidly decomposes, giving rise
to secondary combinations which closely resemble the characters of
glairine, as stated by Professor Anglada. In the waters of Harrow-
gate, another species of Conferva abounds, which, in its structure,
resembles the species of OsciUatoria ; it collects in large quantities
around the sides of the wells, and with deposits of inorganic and ani-
mal matters form layers of a dark green, white and rose colour. In
decomposing, these plants give out a more powerful odour than the
water itself, a circumstance which has probably given rise to the opinion
that a sulphuret of azote exists in these waters. These plants seem
peculiar to sulphureous waters, and probably have their existence de-
termined by the suphuretted hydrogen they contain.

   In many places where sulphuretted hydrogen is given out, a deposit

is frequently found at the bottom of the waters, varying from a light
pink to a deep rose colour. These deposits are sometimes exceedingly
abundant throughout a large district around Askerne, where sulphureous
springs abound ; they are always found in water or sand, impregnated

with sulphuretted hydrogen. On an examination being made of these

deposits, they were found to be produced by two species of animalcula
one oblong, with from two to ten or twelve stomachs about the xoooo*'^
of an inch long, the other having about the same number of stomachs,
but much longer than the first, and having the motions of a Vibrio.
The first resembles the Astasia hcematodes of Ehrenberg, which he
describes as having been found in Siberia, producing a blood-coloured
deposit at the bottom of a lake, but does not appear to possess a tail,
which is a character of the genus Astasia. These animalcules live in
water artificially impregnated with sulphuretted hydrogen, but do not
die immediately in fresh water. The author has never seen them
naturally without sulphuretted hydrogen, and in many instances has
detected this gas by their presence in places in which it would not
have been previously suspected.

   On the Pollen and Vegetable Impregnation. By Dr. Aldridge,

                                                  of Dublin.

   The author having discovered that nitric and other inorganic and
organic acids produced the dehiscence of pollen-grains, in the same
                                                                      --

       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.             145

manner as if placed on the natural stigmatic surface, instituted a num-

ber of experiments, of which the following are the general results :

1. The spores of cryptogamic vegetables, which some botanists consider

analogous to pollen, do not dehisce under the influence of acids. 2.
The pollen of the Grasses is spherical, both when dry and placed in

water ; with acids it bursts, protruding one long cylindrical mass, which
remains afterwards unacted upon by the liquid. 3. The pollen of the

Aroideae, Colchicaceoe, Smilaceae, Liliaceae, Commelinaceae, Buto-

maceie, Amaryllidaceae, Iridaceae, and Cannae, are, when dry, oval,

and marked with a dark neutral line, but become, when placed in

water, more broadly oval or circular, the long diameter remaining

the same, and the opake line disappearing, after the addition of acid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;

the external membrane of the pollen or peripollen dehisces by a chink

or suture sufficiently broad to permit the contents or endopoUen to

escape without any alteration in its form, after which the endopoUen

remains unacted upon by the liquid. 4. In the Salicineae, Salicariae,

Leguminosae, Rosaceac, Crassulaceee, Saxifragace^, Hypericace^, Ruta-

ceae, Hippocastaneae, Resedacese, and the tribe Helleboreae of the

Ranunculacese, the pollen when dry, oval, and marked with a dark

central line, becomes, when placed in water, round, or nearly so, the

dark line disappearing ; and when acted upon by acids, assumes a
triangular form, and protrudes at three equidistant points cylindrical

or club-shaped masses, very similar at their origin to tubes, and pre-

senting the appearance of being enveloped by a membrane. 5. In the

greater number of the remaining Dicotyledons examined, the dry

pollen is opake, and either broadly oval or spherical. 6. In the

Ericaceae and Epacridaceae, the pollen grains, when dry, appear trian-

gular or oval in some instances, triangular or rhombic in others,

according to the position in which they are examined. Having ascer-

tained the results of acids on the pollen, the author was induced to

examine the stigma, and in every case found that the stigmatic tissue

gave indications of an acid re-action upon litmus paper. The next

question to be examined was, in what manner is the fertilizing influ-

ence of the male organs communicated to the ovule ? After quoting

the opinions of Amici, Brown, Fritzche, Corda, Treviranus, Brongniart

and others, the author came to the conclusion that the hoyau, or

intestine-like protrusion from the pollen grains, was the result of the

action of acids upon the fluid which contained the fovilla in the pollen

grain ; and he inferred this from the fact of this tube, or hoyau, never
being formed when the pollen grain is placed in water, but being

constant when the grain is placed in acid. After describing and ex-

plaining the anomalous character of the pollen grains in Orchidaceae,

Fumariaceae, Asclepias, &c., the author presented the following con-

--clusions as the result of his researches : 1 , The stigma is invariably

acid. 2. It is in consequence of this acidity that the pollen bursts. 3.

That by the same means the fluid contents of the pollen become coagu-

lated, enveloping the fovilla, and assuming, according to the method

of dehiscence, different and very remarkable forms. The memoir was

illustrated by an extensive series of drawings.

1840.  L
--146 REPORT 1840.

         On the Growth of Cotton in India. By Dr. A. Burn.

    Samples were presented of four different kinds of cotton, besides some
produced from Egyptian seed, all of which were cultivated last year at
Kaira in Gujerat, the object being to show that, in the produce of the
cotton plants indigenous to India, great variety existed. The cotton
differed in several important points, the chief of which were, the length,
colour, softness, dryness, evenness and strength of fibre. These being ad-
mitted, together with the fact that all attempts have failed during the
last twenty years to introduce successfully the culture of foreign
varieties of cotton into India, it was argued, that the grand desideratum,
the improvement of the staple, so as to equal American cotton, would
best be attained by attention to the selection of indigenous seed, and
improving it by cultivation, a point which has hitherto been entirely
overlooked or neglected. The Egyptian cotton exhibited was remark-
ably fine ; it had been valued in Glasgow at fifteen pence per pound ;
of all the specimens it alone had been raised by irrigation. Dr. Burn
remarked, that his experience had led him to the conclusion, that
without the command of artificial irrigation no great quantity of
cotton, superior in staple to Surat, could be produced in the Bombay
presidency. The facilities, however, for irrigation in India were very
great, and antiquarian I'esearch, aided by local tradition, and the
scattered remains of tanks and canals, now everywhere observable,
demonstratively proved that in former times irrigation was the means
by which a vast population subsisted, or were protected from famine,
consequent on the capricious failure of the annual monsoon rains.
Surat cotton is all cultivated as an annual. The Gorea cotton is a
perennial plant ; none of it is ever exported to this country, being all
consumed in the country.

   On the Growth of Cotton. By Mr. Felkih. Communicated by

                                      Br. Lankester.

   The subject of the growth of cotton-wool in British India engaged the

attention of this Section last year, Major-General Briggs having then read

a paper on the subject. At present, hopes are entertained that the Ameri-
can long-staple wool may be replaced by a long staple from Sea Island
seed, to be grown in the Sunderbunds of Bengal, situated at the mouth of
the Ganges, a district now jungle, but similar, in respect of its marshy
soil and exposure to warmth, moisture and the influences of the sea, to
islands on the American coast ; which are circumstances that seem from

experience to be absolutely necessary to the production of the length,
fineness and general quality of the fibre in question. The seed of the

plants of that class of Gossypium, known commonly as Sea Island, and
picked with extraordinary care, were laid upon the table of the Section,
in the hope that members who had the means of giving to an experi-
ment the necessary care, and securing to the plants sufficient Avarmth,
pure air and light, might be disposed to sow a few seeds and report
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  147

the results. Pods, grown from this seed in a factory in Manchester,
the heat of which varied from 100° to 56° Fahr., unripe, because of
insufficient heat and a bad atmosphere, were laid upon the table. They
were of good size as compared with those grown in the Sea Islands of
the American coast, and if fully ripened the staple would be of great

length. These pods were stated to be of twice the size of those of
Bengal producing the short staple. The object of the experiment was
to ascertain if the length of the staple could be secured elsewhere than
in the Sea Islands, the other circumstances attending the growth of the
plant being made as similar as possible. It was conducted by Thomas
Bazley, jun., Esq., Boroughreeve of Salford, an eminent cotton-spinner

of Manchester.

   The following particulars relating to the course of the experiment,
were offered to the notice of the Section. The seed was sown in April
ISiO; but if sown the preceding winter it might have been better.
Transplanted in May. The earth was formed of two-fifths river-sand,
two-fifths light soil, one-fifth horse-manure ; fifteen inches in depth was
found too shallow, and thirty inches is recommended as preferable.
This soil was kept in a decidedly moist state by frequent sprinklings
of the plants with a solution of one ounce of common salt in a gallon
of water. The plants in America are found in the driest season
saturated in the morning with dew. The plants in Manchester are
five feet high, well spread out; showed in July the usual bright
scarlet and yellow-coloured flowers, and became full of pods in August.

A number of male and female plants grow together.

Remarks on the Synonyms and Affinities of some South African genera

            of Plants. By G. A. Walker Arnott, LL.D.

 --The object of these remarks was to prove, 1st. That the Flacourtia

rhamnoides of Eckl. and Zeyh., and perhaps also of Burchell, was the
Doryalis zizyphoides, E. M., and approached more to Euphorbiaceae
than to either of the orders with which it has been associated. 2nd.
That the genus Schmiedelia (or Oriiitrophe) does exist in South Africa,
although omitted from the floras ; and that several of Thunberg's and
E. Meyer's species oi Rhus belong to it. 3rd. That Hippobromus is also
a Sapindaceous genus. Mh. That Eriudaphne of N. ab Esenb. is iden-
tical with Phoberos, Lour. 5th. That Trimeria of Harvey has been

already but erroneously described by Sprengel as a Celastrus. And 6th.

That Ophira of Linn, is the same as Gruhbia, Linn.; but that Ophira of
Lamarck's 'Illustrations des Genres' is a very distinct genus, which
has been lately described by Dr. Klotzsch of Berlin under the name of
Strobilocarpus ; and that the true structure of these genera appears to
ally them on the one hand to Hamamelidese, and on the other to San-

talacese, to which last, if Dr. Klotzsch's analysis were quite correct,

they would decidedly belong.

                                                        1.2
--148 REPORT 1840.

On an Anomalous Form of the Plum, observed in the Gardens of

             New Brimsivick. By Professor Robb.

New Brunswick is not favourably situated for the development of

Rosaceous fruits. In the summer of 1839, the author had an oppor-

tunity of observing the progress of destruction among the plums.

Before or soon after the pieces of the corolla had fallen, the ovarium

had become greenish yellow, soft and flabby ; as the fruit continued
to grow, its colour became darker and of a more muddy yellow,

and, at the end of a fortnight or three weeks, the size of the abor-

tive fruit was fully greater than that of a ripe Avalnut, and resembling,

in appearance, apricots. When examined they were hollow, contain-
ing air, and consisting of a distended skin, insipid, and tasteless. By

and bye a greenish mucor or mould is developed on the surface

of the blighted fruits, which becomes black and shrivelled, and, at

the expiration of a month from the time of blowing, the whole are

rotten and decomposed. The flower appears about the beginning of

June, and befoi'e August there is hardly a plum to be seen. The

changes producing these anomalous forms of the fruit were explained

on the admitted principles of morphology. The differences from a

--normal form of the fruit Avould be found as follows : the exocarp is

yellow and wrinkled, not smooth and red or black ; while the meso-
carp is as little developed as if the protophyllum had become a leaf.

Its cells are loose and dry, while the vessels, large and very prominent,

are discerned passing through it. The two largest sets of vessels run

up along the inner surface of the groove or suture, corresponding to

the line along which the edges of the protophyllum are united, and

those which correspond with the radicle in the protophyllum. They

all anastomose and converge towards the apex, where all contribute to

form portions of the style and stigma. The endocarp was small ; it

was attached by vascular fibres, but sometimes adhesions existed be-

tween it and the mesocarp, on which it lay. Sometimes it was attached

near to where the style was given off", in other instances it was mid-
way between that point and the peduncle. In some cases it was

empty ; mostly one or two ovules might be seen ; and one was gene-
rally smaller than the other, indicating its deficient nutriment. Each

ovule was made up of three transparent shut sacs, the innermost of

which (the tercine) contained a transparent fluid, and nothing more.
The author supposed this anomalous form of fruit to be influenced in

its production by cold winds and long-continued rains at that season at

which the flower is open, and the reproductive organs the most exposed

to atmospherical vicissitudes.  It was  popularly attributed to  insects
                                                                                            ;

but, from not having observed any, he did not think this could be the

cause.

   Mr. Babington stated that he had found the Cuscuta epilinum, or
Flax Dodder, at Burrishoole, in the County of Mayo, in Ireland ; and

also ill a field near to the Crinnan Canal, in Scotland. He also stated,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  149

that it had been introduced into this country with the seed of the flax
from the North of Europe, and that there was no doubt of its being
distinct from the C. europcea of Linnseus.

    Sir T. Phillipps, Bart., communicated to the Section a notice of

minutely-filamentous roots of the beech, which had grown through the
sides of a brick-tank and absorbed the water therein.

   He also drew attention to some curious remarks on natural history
contained in a MS. History of Wexford, written in 1684, now in the

possession of Sir T. Phillipps.

                        MEDICAL SCIENCE.

An Account of some new Observations on the Structure of the Gastro-

    intestinal Mucous Membrane, and more particularly of the Gastric

   and Intestinal Glands. By Allen Thomson, M.D., Professor of

   Anatomy in Aberdeen.

    This paper was illustrated by a large series of preparations of the
gastric and intestinal glands of Man, and some of the lower animals,
amounting to upwards of sixty specimens, which were exhibited to the

Section.

   The author began by giving a short sketch of the recent progress of

Hethe investigations of anatomists respecting the subject of his paper.

referred more particularly to the observations of Boyd, Boehm, Bischoff,
Purkinje, Henle and Wasmann, from which the tubular structure of the
whole gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, and the covering of every
part of that membrane with a layer of nucleated particles or epithelium,
has been ascertained, and stated some additional observations of his own
in confirmation and extension of these facts. The author then alluded to
the very recent observations of Wasmann and of Baly, tending to prove
the occasional closed condition of the minute tubes composing the mu-
cous membrane of the stomach in some parts of that organ ; and to the
observations of Henle, on the closed vesicular condition or cellular
acini of the extremities of the ducts of the salivary, buccal, and some
other mucous glands ; and made some remarks on the theory of secre-
tion founded by Henle on these observations, viz. that the matters se-
creted from the mucous membranes are formed in close cavities or cells,
and are discharged by the rupture or solution of the coats of the cells.
The theory now mentioned was applied by Henle to the explanation of
the closed condition in which the vesicles of the glands of Peyer are
usually found ; and Dr. Thomson (without adopting the theory of se-
cretion offered by Henle in its full extent) conceives that the observa-
--150 REPORT 1840.

tions, which he had made at first without an acquaintance with those
of Henle, lead to the same conclusion respecting the mode of secretion,
in all the gastro-intestinal glands, whether of a simple or more com-
pound structure.

   The author gave an account of the structure and general distribution
of the gastro-intestinal mucous glands in the human subject under the

following heads.

   1st. The glands of Lieberkuhn, or minute tubes which constitute the
greater part of the mucous membrane.

   2nd. The simple follicular glands occupying the greater part of the

stomach, or simple gastric glands.

   3rd. The more compound gastric glands, observed frequently round
the cardia, and more rarely toward the pylorus in the liuman stomach.

   ^th. The compound duodenal glands, or glands of Brunner.
   5th. The aggregated glands of the small intestine, or glands of

Peyer.

   6th. The solitary glands of the small intestine.
   7th. The solitary glands of the large intestine.
    The author also described the structure and distribution of these dif-
ferent sets of glands in various animals ; viz. the pig, sheep and ox,
horse, dog, cat and lion, badger, porpoise.
   The author then entered into a detail of some observations which he had
recently made on the gastric glands, and on the solitary glands of the large
intestine, from which he arrives at the conclusion, that at an early period
of life these glands have all the form of closed vesicles. This closed
condition of the follicular glands he has observed in the stomach of a
child eight months old, and in the large intestine of the child at birth.
The author adverted to the occurrence of minute vesicles in the stomach
of the adult, an appearance mentioned by Boehm and Henle, but one
from which the vesicular condition of the gastric and intestinal glands
observed by the author is to be distinguislied. At the age of sixteen
months, a few of the gastric glands are still to be observed in the com-
pletely closed condition. At the age of four years they appeared all to

be open.
   The author found that in the pig two weeks old, only two of the

gastric glands were open ; all the rest constituted minute closed vesi-

cles.

   The author observed that the closed condition of the solitary glands
of the large intestine, which belongs to them all at the period of birth,
becomes less general and less distinct as age advances ; but at the age
of two years and upwards he has found occasionally some of these

glands closed.

    Dr. Thomson then referred to the various opinions of anatomists
respecting the existence or absence of apertures in the vesicles com-
posing the aggregated and solitary glands of the small intestine, and ad-
verted more particularly to the observations of Boehm and Krause on
this point ; he stated that he had frequently observed distinct central
apertures in the vesicles conposing the glands of Peyer in the pig, sheep,
horse, and occasionally, but more rarely, in the adult human subject,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                            151

but not in the child nor young subject. These apertures, which in
their general appearance might be compared to the opening of the
pupil in the iris, are visible with the unassisted eye, and more easily with
a lens of half an inch focus : the vesicles in which they exist are gene-
rally empty, or nearly so, of the gray granular matter with which the
closed ones are filled. In the pig some of the patches exhibit no open
vesicles ; others contain entirely open ones ; and a third set of patches,
which are those most favourable to the observation, contain open vesi-
cles mixed with the closed ones. The open vesicles are more fre-
quently found towards the lower part of the ilium than in its upper
part or in the jejunum. The author regards the zone of apertures
which surrounds each vesicle of the aggregated glands as merely the
openings of the small mucous tubes, and not as excretory ducts of the
vesicles, between which and the apertures of the zone he has not been

able to trace any communication.
   The author entered into various details regarding the minute struc-

ture of these glands, and concluded by directing the attention of the
Section to the three distinct points which had been the subject of his

inquiry, viz.

   1st. The closed vesicular origin in the child, and occasional vesicular
condition of the gastric glands at a more advanced period of life.

   2nd. The closed vesicular condition of the solitary glands of the
large intestine at the period of their origin, and the occasional occur-

rence of this condition at a more advanced stage.
   3rd. The occasional open condition of the vesicles of Peyer's glands.
   The author further adverted to the bearing of these observations on

the theory of secretion in general, on the probable uses of the glandu-
lar secretions of the intestine in the ceconomy, and on the changes of

these glands in the diseased state.

On the Manner in which the Vital Actions are arrested in Asphyxia.
                            By Br. John Reid.

   The two points in the physiology of asphyxia which have of late
years principally attracted attention, are the nature of the impediment
to the circulation of the blood through the lungs, and the consequent
stagnation of that fluid in the right side of the heart, and the large

veins leading to it, and the cause of the arrestment of the sensorial

functions.                                               tube,

  AThe following experiments were made on this subject.

with a stopcock on it, was fixed into the trachea, and one of Poiseuille's

h^modynamometers was introduced into the femoral artery, for the

purpose of obtaining definite information of the force with which the

blood was transmitted along the arterial system. The stopcock of the
tracheal tube was then turned, and when the state of asphyxia was m-

duced, and the mercury had begun to fall in the hsemodynamometer,

a bladder full of pure nitrogen gas was fixed upon the tube secured in

the trachea, and the stopcock turned. After the effect of this gas had
--152 REPORT 1840.

been ascertained, a bladder of similar size, containing atraosplieric
air, was substituted for the nitrogen, and the results compared. The
difference between the effects of the respiration of the nitrogen gas and
the atmospheric air was most marked ; for while the mercury continued
to fidl in the instrument during the respiration of the nitrogen gas, it
rose very rapidly soon after the atmospheric air had entered the lungs.
In this experiment, the mechanical movements of the chest, which
failed to renew the free circulation through the lungs when nitrogen
was inspired, rapidly effected that object when atmospheric air Avas
permitted to enter the lungs even of the same animal, tried subse-
quently to the failure of the nitrogen, and consequently at a more ad-
vanced period of the ^jrocess of asphyxia. This experiment was re-
peated several times, and when care was taken to procure pure nitrogen,
invariably with the same result. In performing these experiments, a
very unexpected phaenomenon presented itself. The mercury actually
stood higher in the instrument, and the arteries were more distended
and tense for about two minutes after the animal had ceased to struggle,
or, in other words, had become insensible, and when the respiratory
jjrocess was nearly brought to a stand, than when it was breathing freely
through the tube introduced into the trachea. It was suspected that
this arose from an impediment to the passage of the venous blood
through the capillary arteries of the tissues generally, by which the
force of the left side of the heart was principally concentrated in the
arterial system; and on placing a hsemodynaraometer in the vein of the
opposite limb, and comparing its indications with the other fixed in the
artery, this supposition appeared verified. In these experiments it was
repeatedly observed, that however rapidly the respiratory movements
were performed, provided they were not more forcibly exerted than in
natural respiration in the quiescent state, this had no obvious effect
upon the force with which the blood was sent along the arteries.
Though there can be no doubt that violent movement, either of the
muscles of the trunk or limbs, exerts a very marked influence upon the
force with Avhich the blood is sent along the arteries (in one experi-
ment the mercury stood nine inches higher in the tube during a violent
struggle and a forcible expiration, than during the opposite circum-
stances of deep inspiration and intermission of the struggle), yet it is
obvious, from these experiments, that the impediment to the passage of
the blood through the lungs does not depend upon the arrestment of
mechanical movements of the chest, but upon cessation of the chemical
changes between the blood and the atmospheric air in the lungs.

   The explanations which have been given of the cause of the arrest-
ment of the sensorial functions, are two in number, viz. 1st, the circu-

lation of venous blood in the arteries of the brain ; 2nd, that it princi-
pally depends upon the blood being sent to the brain in diminished
quantity, in consequence of the impediment to its passage through the
lungs. It has already been stated, that the arterial pressure is not di-
minished at the time that the animal becomes insensible, and the same
thing was repeatedly ascertained in experiments on the veins. The in-
sensibility cannot, therefore, depend upon any diminution in the vascu-
TBANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.              153

lar pressure upon the brain. It was also ascertained, that though the

pulse begins to diminish much in frequency about the time that the

insensibility occurs, yet that this has not taken place to such an extent

at the precise time when the insensibility has supervened, as to lead us

to believe that it depends upon any diminished transmission of blood

through the vessels of the brain. From these facts it is concluded, that

the insensibility principally, if not entirely, depends upon the circulation

of venous blood in the vessels of the brain. It was remarked, that the

blood in the exposed arteries was of a decidedly dark hue before the

struggles preceding the insensibility occurred, and thus showed the in-

conclusiveness of those experiments in which unsuccessful attempts

were made to induce coma by injecting venous blood slowly into one

of the four arteries leading to the brain. In performing experiments

upon this subject, it is necessary to bear in mind the exact period at
Awhich the insensibility presents itself.
                                           dog generally becomes in-

sensible in about two minutes, to two minutes and a half, and a rabbit

generally in about one minute and a half, after the complete exclusion

of air from the lungs ; so that any experiment made upon the quantity

of blood which flows from the cut arteries at periods posterior to this,

cannot with safety be adduced in explanation of effects which have

previously happened.

On the Anatomical relation of the Blood-vessels of the Mother to those
      of the Foetus in the Human Species. By Dr. John Reid.

   In this communication it was proved, by preparations laid on the
table, that numerous tufts of the placental vessels pass through the
decidua and enter by the open mouths of many of the uterine venous
sinuses of the mother. Some of these tufts only dip into the open
mouths of the sinuses, while others extend their ramification half an
inch, and even in some rarer cases more than an inch from the point at
which they enter. That these tufts found bathed in the maternal blood
of the uterine venous sinuses are prolongations of the foetal placental
vessels, was proved both by injection and by microscopic examination.
Dr. Reid then proceeded to point out that each minute placental artery
was bound up with a placental vein, and that they terminated in blunt
extremities, where these two sets of vessels communicated. The in-

tervals left between the branches of the tufts of the placenta are not
filled up with cellular tissue, but the surface of every branch of a tuft
is covered by a prolongation of the inner coat of the vascular system
of the mother, or at least by a thin membrane continuous with it.
This membrane constitutes a kind of sac, with numerous and intricate
folds or fringes projecting into its interior. These folds are formed by
the covering which it affords to the numerous branches of the placental
vessels. Into this sac the blood of the mother is poured by the curling

arteries, and is returned by the prolongations of the uterine veins.
Each of the uterine sinuses into which the placental tufts project, may
be considered a miniature representation of the structure of the placenta;
               .

--154 REPORT 1840.

for we have there foetal placental vessels, resembling the branchial ves-
sels of aquatic animals, covered by a prolongation of the inner coat of

the vascular system of the mother, and hanging in a cavity filled with
maternal blood.

  On the Anatomy of the Medulla Oblongata. By Dr. John Reid.

   The object of this communication was to point out the relative posi-
tion of the motor and sensitive columns of the spinal chord, as they
pass through the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii, and the attach-
ment of the different motor and sensiferous nerves to these columns.
Dr. Reid produced preparations of the medulla oblongata to show that
the decussation of the pyramidal bodies is formed by the greater, and
in some cases nearly the whole, of the fibres constituting each of these
eminences passing into the posterior part of the middle column of the
opposite side. None of these decussating fibres run into the anterior
column of the opposite side, nor is there any decussation in the me-

dulla oblongata besides this. On tracing the column which is con-
nected with the olivary body, and which may be termed the olivary

column, Ave find that as it passes downwards it approaches closely to
the anterior median fissure immediately below the decussation of the
pyramidal columns, and affords attachment to many of the roots of the

motor nerves. On tracing this olivary column upwards it is found to

expand over the olivary body, affording origin to the hypoglossal and
abducens along its anterior margin, and to the porta dura along its
posterior margin. Part of this column passes upwards to the corpora
quadrigemina, affording origin to the smaller root of the fifth and to the
trochleator. Dr. Reid also pointed out how the spinal accessory, and

part of the filaments of the par vagum, may be connected with the

motor column.

        On the Mechanical Functions of the Ear. By Dr. Sym.

   The following is a general summary of the contents of this paper.
   1 The external ear protects the membrana tympani, and contributes
to a knowledge of the direction of sounds.
   2. The membrana tympani is a passive medium of communication
of vibrations, and the impulses of the air draw its apex outwards.
   3. The ossicula of the tympanum form a system of levers, by which
the extent of the undulations falling on the membrana tympani is di-
minished, whilst their momentum is preserved.
    4. Vibrations communicated from the larynx through the temporal
bone to the styloid process of the malleus and long crus of the incus,
have their extent increased, whilst their momentum remains the same.
    5. The base of the slopes is drawn outwards by the impulses of the
air, and performs the action of a piston.
    6. The muscles of the tympanum antagonize the impulses, and re-
store the membranes and bones to their quiescent positions.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.   155

   7. The membrana rotunda receives the pressure of the atmosphere
through the eustachian tube, so as to enable the slopes to be raised.

   8. The water of the labyrinth received the full momentum of the
impulses of the air on the membrana tympani without loss from con-
densation, because the difference of the areas of the membrana tympani

and fenestras ovales, combined with the difference of range of motion of
the point of the malleus and base of the slopes, is equal to the difference
of specific gravity between air and luater.

   9. The perilymph oscillates between the two fenestras, and its alter-
nate fluxes and refluxes over the membranous labyrinth excite the

sensation of hearing.

   10. The cochlea regulates the extent of the oscillations of the peri-
lymph by the expansion of its spiral laminae.

    11. The aqueducts of Cotugno are diverticula, by which the peri-
lymph is removed to the cavity of the cranium during the expansions

of the spiral laminae.

    12. The petrous bone deafens the internal ear, so as to prevent any
vibrations from acting on the perilymph, except those which have been

previously adjusted for creating accurate oscillations by being trans-

mitted by the ossicula.

On the Connection between the Nervous System and Muscular Con-

Bytractility.  Dr. John E,eid.

   This communication was an extension of that made by Dr. Reid to

the Association at Edinburgh. In the former communication facts
were adduced to show, that when the contractility of a muscular bun-

dle is exhausted in the cold-blooded animals by the application of gal-

vanism, this property of contractility will again return, though all com-
munication between the central organs of the nervous system and the
muscles experimented upon had been cut off, by the complete division
of the nerves passing between them. In the present communication it
was stated that the same fact had been verified upon the warm-blooded
animals. The same experiment has also been four times successfully
repeated after section of the nerve upon the posterior extremities of
the same frog. Dr. Reid then made some observations for the purpose
of showing that the experiments made by Miiller, and adduced by him
in opposition to the Hallerian doctrine of contractility, are liable to a
known source of fallacy. The disappearance of the contractility wit-
nessed by Miiller in the muscles supplied by the sciatic nerve in a rab-
bit five weeks after that nerve was divided, was in all probability de-
pendent upon the imperfect nutrition consequent upon inaction. Dr.
Reid stated, that he found the muscles of the limb of a frog retain their
contractility and their usual size two months after the section of their
nerves, when they were daily exercised by sending slight shocks of
galvanism through them.

On Foreign Bodies in the (Esophagus. By Mr, George Glover.
--156 REPORT 1840.

         On Fibrine of Human Blood. By Dr. Buchannan.

   The author presented to the Section the fibrine of human blood,

separated from serum, and perfectly free'd from every particle of the
colouring matter ; he detailed his mode of preparing this constituent,
Avhich was by carefully introducing a given quantity of recently drawn
blood into separated serum placed on a filter: the red particles rapidly
fall to the bottom of the fluid, and the fibrine of the introduced blood
is free'd from its portion of serum by the filtration of this fluid through
the coloured particles, or through sand spread on tlic bottom of the

filter.

On some of the Functions of the Fifth Pair of Nerves, and of the Gan-

                glia, Sfc. By N. FowLEK, M.D., F.B.S.

   The following subjects were discussed.

  A1. sensation (probably in the adductor muscles of the eyeball)

induced by approaching a metallic point to the forehead, between the

eyes.

   2. Whether muscular adjustments do not in all the senses precede

distinct sensation ?

    3. "Whether thought and adjustment are not reciprocal ?

  A4. demonstration of a re-transmission through the lenticular gan-

glion to the iris.
    5. Moisture necessary to sensation.
    6. Instances of re-transmission from one organ of sense to another.
     7. Facts in proof that a brancli of the fifth is the nerve of taste.
    8. Facts in proof that sensibility and contractility are not supplied

by the brain, but by the local arteries.

        On the Preservation of Subjects for Anatomical purposes.

                               By Dr. Rees.

      On the Uses of the Conglobate Glands. By Dr. Jeffreys.

    The object of this paper was to show that these glands aided in pro-

 pelling, like little hearts, the fluid through the lymphatics.

 On the Therapeutic Effect of Croton Oil in certain Nervous Disorders,
               By Dr. Patkick Newbiggin, of Edinburgh.

    In this paper Dr. Newbiggin demonstrated that, independent of its
well-known purgative properties, Croton oil possessed specific influence
in epilepsy, and in the various forms of neuralgia, as in tic-doloureux,
sciatica, &c. Dr. Newbiggin was induced to form this opinion in
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  157

consequence of his experience of the treatment of such complaints at

the New Town Dispensary of Edinburgh, as well as in private practice,

where he had administered the oil of theCroton Tiglium in a large num-
ber of cases. The author selected some of the cases, particularly of
epilepsy, wherein he had produced entire relief from that very grievous

malady, and he mentioned especially one instance where a cure had
been effected after this disease had existed for upwards of twelve years.

            On the Effects of Air token Injected into the Veins.

                         By Dr. J. R. Cormack.

   The author objected to the theory published by Sir Charies Bell,
who ascribes death, when it takes place, to the effect which the air
produces on the medulla oblongata. This Dr. Cormack denied, and

stated that it requires a large quantity of air to be injected in order to
produce death, when, in every instance, the heart was found distended

in its right cavities, and its functions arrested from this cause. Dr.
Cormack communicated some notices of the diseases occurring in
Tangier in Barbary, the principal of Avhich are elephantiasis, inguinal
hernia and hydrocele, with every form of dropsy. Intermittents are

frequent, typhus rare. When cholera broke out, upwards of one-tenth

of the native inhabitants perished in a few months ; the Moors, being
fatalists, took no precautionary measures, whilst of the 300 Christian
inhabitants not more than two or three perished.

                 On Mnemonics. By Dr. MacDonald.

    The object of the paper was to show grounds for a new and more
philosophical classification and treatment of insanity. It is incapable

of abridgement.

On the Physiological and Medicinal Action of Bromine and its Com-

  pounds. By Dr. R. M. Glover, Lecturer in the Medical School of

   Newcastle. Commmiicated by Dr. J. Reid.

   The study of the physiological action of remedies bears the same

relation to therapeutics as physiology itself to pathological science;
and thus, as the investigation of this subject seems well calculated to
throw light on the physiological actions of chlorine and iodine, which
cannot, like bromine, be exhibited pure in experiments, it seems worthy
of being pushed as far as possible.

   Whether bromine be taken into the lungs in the form of vapour, or
in the fluid form into the stomach, or injected directly into the circu-
lation, it acts purely as a corrosive and irritant. Its action on the
primae viae is different from that of hydrobromic acid, into which
bromine is converted when absorbed into the circulation. The author
extends this observation by analogy to chlorine and iodine, and their

respective hydracids. -
--158 REPORT 1840.

    Bromine exerts an action on the rectum like that of iodine ; it is
also tonic and diuretic. Its remedial virtues are chiefly conspicuous as
an external application in the treatment of scrofulous, syphilitic, malig-
nant and specific ulcers. In these cases it appears to act as an ex-
citant, and by diminishing the fcetor, and perhaps as a mild caustic. It
appears also, from some cases observed by the author, to be a useful
remedy in some chronic diseases of the skin.

   The bromides of potassium, sodium, barium and mercury, resemble
much more the chlorides of those bases than the iodides in their phy-
siological action. The bromide of potassium is a good tonic. The
bibromide of mercury has no advantage as a remedy over the bichloride,
contrary to what has been asserted in France.

   The bromide of cyanogen has a double action ; in a powerful dose it
acts like prussic acid ; in a more moderate dose it occasions most vio-
lent symptoms of irritant poisoning, and is perhaps the most powerful
irritant known. Ammonia is its best antidote.

   The chlorides and bromides of olefiant gas, likewise chloroform and
bromoform, exert a very remarkable physiological action, whether in-
troduced into the stomach or injected into the circulation. In the
former case they produce in a large dose death by coma ; in a smaller
dose loss of power over the voluntary muscles, sensibility being re-
tained, along with symptoms of obstructed respiration, arising from
effusion into the lungs. In such cases the mucous membrane of the
stomach is found blackened, and the lungs congested ; the bronchi filled
with frothy serum, and here and there spots of pulmonary apoplexy in
the substance of the lung. When injected in large quantity into the
blood, these substances cause almost instant death, producing great
congestion in the lungs, and destroying the irritability of the heart.
In smaller doses they produce death in the course of a few hours,
with much the same symptoms as those which attend their introduction

into the stomach.

On the Treatment of Pertussis by Cold washing of the Chest.
                       By Dr. Hannah.

The chest is to be freely yet rapidly washed with the coldest water,

to which a little vinegar, alcohol or Eau de Cologne is added, and

immediately rubbed most firmly with a hot towel, to produce verj' de-

cided reaction on the surface ; to secure this the washing is to be

done in an apartment of at least comfortable temperature, or the pa-

tient put into bed. By this, repeated three or four times daily (at

least morning and evening), the disease, he averred, is cut short, in

many instances mitigated, and its course abbreviated in others. Seve-

Heral cases illustrative of this were read.  advises it in all stages,

and would not be deterred from using it in bronchitis ; and though not

certain of the propriety of it in peripneumonous complication, he is

not inclined to regard that as a decided contra-indication of the remedy

Hein question.  referred its usefulness in this disease to its rendering

the system unsusceptible to cold (one great, nay, the greatest cause
                               ;;

TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  159

of danger during the persistence of pertussis), to its power of allaying
febrile heat, its well-known efficacy in chronic bronchitis, its rubefa-
cient power when done in the manner he directs, its tonic and invigo-
rating action, particularly on the digestive organs, and regarded its
efficacy in allaying spasmodic action, as essential in explaining its

virtues in this disease.

On the Circumstances which govern Local Inflammation, the effusion
   of Coagulahle Lymph, and the formation of Pus, as the Sequelae of

   Disease, Accidents, Surgical Operations, ^c. By Dr. Perry.

    After pointing out the phsenomena of inflammatory action, its depen-
dence upon nervous energy, and the various opinions entertained
by pathologists respecting this and the formation of pus, none of which
appear to the author to account in a satisfactory manner for the phae-
nomena, all being either unsupported by facts or positively contradicted,
reference was made by him to the tables of the appearances presented
on post-mortem inspections. It was found, that out of 1078 cases of
fever, all males, 155 died, and before being dismissed, 93 were seized

with local affections, of which 44 died. On inspection it was found,

that in the head the membranes were more vascular than usual in 85
that an effusion of serum in the subarachnoid membrane, amounting to
from I oz. to 5 oz., existed in 99 ; and at the base of the bi'ain, and in
spinal canal, in 83 ; and of purulent effusion into ventricle or surface, 3 ;
there was recent effusion of coagulable lymph in the right side of chest
in 24 ; in left side, 8 ; in both sides, 13 ; recent pneumonia and hepati-
zation of right lung, 14; of left, 8; of both lungs, 3 ; of gangrene of
lungs, S ; old adhesions of right side, 30 ; of left, 24 ; of both, 21 ; heart
softened in 72 ; blood dark and fluid in 87 ; vascularity of stomach in
69 ; of small intestines, 60 ; of colon, 33 ; enlargement of aggregate
glands of intestines, 66 ; of solitary glands, 19 ; of mesenteric glands, 25
spleen softened, 99 ; enlarged, 30 ; and so of other organs.

   From the universally admitted facts, that whenever the patient was
much reduced in strength, or of a weak and strumous habit, or had
been weakened by long confinement or severe suffering, irritative fever,

with suppuration, was often the result : thus in local inflammation, the
effusion of coagulable lymph, or the deposition of pus, occurred most
frequently after adynamic fevers, when the brain and nervous system
had suffered severely ; so often other contagious exanthematous fevers
(none of which the author considered in the first instance as inflam-
matory) were viewed as the result of a change produced upon the
blood and the capillary vessels by the previous shock, or over excite-
ment. In fact. Dr. Perry thought that the congestion of the vessels, the
effusion of coagulable lymph, serum and pus, were the result of inner-
 vation ; and the rapidity with which such products were formed might
 be taken as a test of the extent to which innervation of the blood and

 of the vessels, local or general, existed. To remove this state by restor-
 ing the equilibrium of action, was the object of the physician.
--160 REPORT 1840.

On the Chemical and Medicinal Properties of the Matias Bark, which

    is employed in Columbia, South America, as a substitutefor Cinchona.

   By Dr. Mackay.

    The nature of the tree which produces this bark has not been as-
certained, but from an examination of the properties of the bark, it is

in all probability correctly supposed to be of the family Winteraceae.

The bark is sent to this country in pieces, which differ much in
size and form. Its colour is either a pale fawn or brown internally,
and brown externally. It has an agreeable and aromatic smell, and a
bitter and rather pungent taste.

   When distilled with water it yields a considerable quantity of essen-

tial oil, which sepai'ates into two distinct portions, one floating upon the
surface of the water which distils along with it, while the other sinks
to the bottom of the receiver. These oils differ in colour, in smell,
and in specific gravity.

    Eight pounds of bark yield one pound of watery extract, which has
an intensely bitter but agreeable taste, and a deep black colour. By
acting upon this extract with aether, adding a large quantity of distilled
water, then filtering and evaporating to dryness repeatedly, the bitter
principle was, it is conceived, obtained free from impurity, with the ex-
ception of colouring matter, which it has been found impossible to se-
parate, on account of both being simultaneously taken up by animal

 charcoal.

    The bitter principle, as thus obtained, is a brown extractive sub-
stance, soluble in aether, alcohol and water, which possesses neither acid
nor alkaline properties, but has an intensely bitter taste.

   From the investigation Avhich has been made into the properties of

this bark, in several public institutions, they are ascertained to be tonic,
febrifuge and carminative, or stimulant. It has been successfully ad-
ministered in intermittent fever, in convalescence from continued fever,
in hemicrania, in dyspepsia, and in a variety of chronic affections in

which tonics and stimulants were indicated. As an adjunct to diuretic

medicines it has been found eminently useful.
   The author exhibited specimens of the bark, of the oils, bitter

principle, watery extract, and essence obtained from it, and concluded
by expressing his deep obligation to R. Mackay, Esq., British Consul

at Maracaibo, and to Signor Gonsales, for having devoted much time
and attention in procuring for him the valuable substance, which he
had now the honour to introduce to the notice of the profession.

On the Latos which govern Contagious Fevers, the circumstatices tohich
  favour their diffusion, and the mode by which they are communicated
  from one individual to another. By Dr. Perry.

   After some remarks showing that there was nothing peculiar to
Glasgow in the site or want of cleanliness that was not to be met with
in other large cities, he concluded that the chief cause of the diffusion
of contagious fevers arose from the poor crowding into Glasgow from
                                                                                                                       ;

                                               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                           161

country districts where these contagious diseases did not prevail, when
they became the victims of contagious fevers by mixing with that class

among whom they were seldom absent. He ' then considered those

laws by which contagious fevers were governed : such as, that when
once the disease had commenced it could not be checked, but must run

its course                                     that at a certain period of the disease             it  was  characterized
                                            ;

by an eruption upon the skin ; that this eruption was diagnostic, and

that, as a general rule, an individual having once undergone the disease

was secured against a second attack ; that these laws were as certainly

applicable to typhus fever, as to any of the other exanthematous fevers.
These pomts were illustrated by carefully drawn up statistical tables of

«ie patients admitted into the Fever Hospital under the care of the author.
These tables show that about 90 per cent, of those admitted had the dia-

gnostic  eruptions                                          of the  10  per  cent, who  had  not,  5|  per cent, were  af-
                                                         ;

fected with diseases chiefly local, which were not typhus ; 2| per cent,
were admitted at a period when the eruption had disappeared; and in the

remaining 2 per cent, the eruption was so scanty and evanescent, or the

skin so brown and dirty, that it could not be detected, though the pa-
tient had the other symptoms of the disease ; rather less than 2 per cent,
were stated to have a second attack. Other tables were given of the

diiferent ages and the comparative mortality at each period, the coun-
try to which they belonged, showing that the Scotch formed about

66 per cent, the Irish about 35 per cent., and English and foreign about
22 per cent. With respect to the mode by which it was communicated
from one individual to another, he believed it was not communicable

before the tenth day, and gave a number of cases to show that it was
always during the convalescent stage that the infection was spread,
which he supposed was the case with all the exanthematous fevers, by
the desquamation of the cuticle, as in measles, scarlatina and small-pox
and this he thought accounted for the difficulty of tracing the contagion,'

persons being capable of communicating the disease as long as the de-
squaniation was going on. He had made some attempts to inoculate

the disease in young persons by scraping off the cuticular eruption

with a lancet, but had failed, which he considered would be a desidera-

tum, as he found the disease in the young mild in character, and at-

tended with little danger, and was quite satisfied, that could means of
communicating the disease be accomplished, it would be found as ef-

fectual in securing the patient against a second attack of typhus, as

inoculation does against small-pox. The means of preventing the dis-

ease from spreading, is by isolating the patient during the convalescent

state, thoroughly washing the body, cleansing the clothes and exposing
them to a high steam heat ; and Dr. Perry recommended the establish-
ment of Boards of Health in the different cities and counties by the
Government.

Notice of the Disease known by the name of Mai d'Aleppe. By Dr.
    Charles W. Bell, Phijsician to H. B. M. Legation in Persia.

Dr. Bell having had opportunities of observing this curious disease
during his residence in Persia and Arabia, thought that a notice of

18iO.                                                                        M
--162 REPORT 1840.

some of its peculiarities might be interesting ; for though frequently
mentioned by travellers in Syria, Arabia and Persia, under the names
of Aleppo button, Bagdad boil and Date mark, and also lately met
with in the north-west provinces of India, no full description of the
disease is to be met with in any of our systematic works. In Arabic it
is called Khorma, or the date disease ; in Persian Salek, or the disease of
a year ; and is so prevalent in these countries, but especially in the
towns of Arabia, that scarcely any one, whether native or European,

escapes its attack.

   The disease commences like small pimples, which very gradually in-

crease in size till they appear as ulcers covered with a dry crust, resem-
bling that of Rupia syphilitica, with a small quantity of pus under the
scab. These occur on different parts of the body at the same time,
chiefly on the hands and legs of adults and the faces of children, but

generally attended with little pain. They have always so much of the

character of syphilitic sores, as to mislead any one previously unac-
quainted with the disease, and as they continue to increase in size for
a year, they occasionally present a horrible carcinomatous appearance.

At the expiration of twelve months from its commencement the differ-
ent ulcers suddenly heal of their own accord, leaving an ugly indelible

scar.

   The natives make an absurd distinction of the disease into male and
female, the sores of the former kind being larger and enduring for a yeac
those of the latter smaller and healing in six months. Dr. Bell con-
sidered the disease worthy of attention, not only on account of its great
prevalence and the disfigurement produced by it in these countries, but

as an instance of a disease attacking the constitution without fever or
other symptoms, wearing itself out in a certain time, unaffected by treat-
ment, by local applications, never appearing a second time in the same
person, and occasionally driven out of the system by the attack of a
more powerful disease, such as plague or typhus.

    In the treatment of the disease he has found the internal use of iodine
and sulphureous baths beneficial, but has never succeeded by the use of
any external application ^to a single sore in causing it to heal a day
sooner than the other coexistent ulcers purposely left untreated.

    Dr. Bell conceives that the extreme dryness of the atmosphere in

all the countries where this disease is prevalent may exert a predispos-

ing influence, but considers it strictly a contagious disease, propagated

chiefly by the use of the public baths. It is difficult to say how long it
may lurk in the system without making its appearance, but instances
are numerous in which it has not shown itself till several months after
the return of persons to this country from their travels in Syria and

Arabia.

    By the natives it is not attributed to contagion, but to fanciful causes,
 such as eating dates, and is believed by them incurable till its destined

 period be expired, and they consequently very seldom submit to medical
treatment, using only a few ineffectual local applications, a prejudice

which unfortunately very much limits the means of ascertaining by
experience the most efficacious mode of treatment.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  163

   On ike Operation for Squinting. By Mr. A. Ure, of London.

   As a diversity of opinion prevails among surgeons as to the ultimate

success of Professor Dieffenbach's operation for the cure of strabismus,
Mr. Ure was induced to lay before the Meeting the result of seventy-
two cases (thirty-two males and forty females), in which the section of
one or other of the muscles of the eye had been performed by himself.
These were drawn up in a tabular form, including age, duration of the
infirmity, cause, eye affected (right twenty-nine, left thirty-seven, both
six), state of vision before operation, state of vision after, colours of
iris (hazel twenty-eight, gray thirty-one, grayish blue two, blue ten),
and result (cures sixty-six, of which nineteen are ' perfect,' and twenty-
one have fullness or other slight affection). In six cases the result was

' amendment.' The author described his process and after-treatment.

A Description of a dovhle Monocephalic Human Monster, which loas

   transmitted to this country from South America, by K. Mackay, Esq.,

    British Consul at Maracaiho, Venezuela.

   The subject of this paper was born at Maracaibo, Venezuela, South
America, in the month of March 1 840. Tt is the offspring of a negress,
and is reported to have been born alive, but to have died a short time
after its birth. It is of the female sex, and seems to be composed of
two equally developed bodies united together from the umbilicus up-
wards, bearing four arms and four legs, and having only one neck and
head common to both.

  A minute account of the dissection was given, of which the following

is a summary.
   The spinal and ganglionic nervous system were double, while the

central was single, each corresponding with the organs which they were
destined to supply.

   The organs of mastication and of deglutition were single, as were

also those of digestion, with the exception of the inferior portion of the

alimentary canal, which at a certain point became double. The re-
spiratory organs were the least developed and the most anomalous in
their character, there being two lungs situated in their usual position,
and a third lung lying upon the posterior sternum, which seemed to be-
long equally to both bodies. With the exception of the heart and the
vessels which supplied the head, neck, and such organs as were single,
there were two complete arterial and venous systems, which, with in-
significant varieties, were disposed in the usual manner.

   The urinary and genital organs were double, and well developed.

           On the Results of Amputations. By Dr. Lawrie.

   In this paper Dr. Lawrie gave tables stating the results of 276 am-
putations which took place in the infirmary of Glasgow, during several
years. The cases were classed according to the sex, the limb operated

                                   m2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;

164 REPORT-- 1840.

on, and the causes rendering the amputation necessary, whether from
disease previously existing or from accident. Some of these results

Hwere as follows : of the 276 cases, 216 were males, of whom 86 died ;

60 were females, of whom died ; 153 were from previous disease, of
whom 35 died. In operations at the shoulder the deaths were equal to

the recoveries ; of the arm, the deaths to recoveries were as 3 : 14; of
the leg, as 1 : 2 ; at the wrist, at one period, as 1 : 29 ; in another pe-
riod as 8 : 22.

        On Opacity of the Cornea produced by Sidphuric Acid.
                         By R.D. Thomson, M.D.

    The rapid destruction of vision, when sulphuric acid is brought into
contact with the cornea, has long been known to surgeons. The sub-
ject came under the author's consideration from having attended a
case along with Dr. Maddock, in which the vision of the right eye was
destroyed, in consequence of a woman having thrown a quantity of oil
of vitriol at a man in a fit of passion. The corrosive fluid, according
to the statement of the sufferer, was only in contact with his eye about
two minutes, when he had an opportunity of washing it off with water
yet permanent opacity of the cornea had taken place. It naturally
occurred, from a consideration of this statement, that the agency of
the acid could not have extended to any very considerable depth.
The anatomical structure of the cornea likewise favoured this conclu-
sion. The author described the laminar structure of the cornea, and
the additional investment of the conjunctiva, and drew attention to the
effects of heat, nitrate of silver, &c. on these structures. When sulphu-
ric acid or common oil of vitriol is brought into contact with the dead
 cornea of the sheep, in three or four seconds, if the experiment be
 watched under the microscope, the acid, which appears to swim about
 freely on the surface of the cornea, produces a milkiness ; in half a
 minute a white opacity ; and in from one and a half to two minutes all
 translucency is destroyed. If the cornea, which has been previously
 extended on glass, be now plunged into water and washed free from
 sulphuric acid, a permanent opacity will be found to have taken place,
 precisely as in the case of those unfortunate individuals who have been
 deprived of vision by sulphuric acid in the manner already described.
 If we now make a section of the cornea which has been acted on by
 the acid, we shall find that the action has been very superficial, and
 that the upper and under surface of the opake portion are parallel,
 and hence the influence of the acid would appear to have extended
 equally. If the section be now made at right angles to the axis of the
 eye, so as to separate the opake from the uninjured portion, the trans-
 parency of the cornea appears to be perfectly restored, and the only
 defect, when a careful examination is made by the microscope, appears
 to proceed from the uneven surface produced by the section. But the
 opake portion may likewise be readily separated by scraping it with
 the point of a knife, so decided is the limit between the uninjured and
opake surfaces. It would appear from these facts, that the action of
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.    165

the sulphuric acid is to produce a new or false membrane, which is no
removed by nature, as some other false membranes are, in consequence
of its forming part of a solid body ; they serve also to confirm the opi-

--nion stated by the author in a communication read at the Bristol meet-

ing that false membranes, as in croup, balanites, bronchitis, &c., are
the consequences of the presence of an acid preternaturally secreted in
the fluids of the mucous membranes where these deposits occur,
the organization of the albumen taking place under the coagulating
influence of the acid. The treatment of opacity of the cornea produced
by the action of sulphuric acid, appears to be elucidated in no small
degree by these facts ; if the acid be neutralized in the course of a
few seconds, little or no injury is sustained by the cornea; but as in

thirty seconds considerable opacity has occurred, and some portion of
false membrane has been formed, it will be necessary to have recourse
to the knife, which may be safely employed to scrape off the preterna-
tural deposit. The author observed, that he intended to propose the

operation to the patient described, so soon as the granulating action

now affecting the eyelids had been subdued.

    Notice of an Ossified Tendo Achillis, and of a Case of Exostosis.

                 By Dr. H. Lonsdale, of Edinburgh.

   The author considered the former preparation unique, not being
aware of any similar preparation in the museums of this country.

   The latter preparation illustrated osseous deposits in the tendon and
muscular fibres of the crureus muscle, and an extension of this ossifica-
tion to the femur itself, resembling an exostosis, but differing from the
common exostosis in growing to, and not from the bone. The author
designated it by the term Exostosis from without.

   The object which the author had (as stated in a brief communication)
in exhibiting this latter preparation to the Section, was to counteract
those exclusive opinions which many entertain on the subject of ossifi-
cation ; and lie considered that it was of value in showing that bone may
be formed by vessels belonging to the soft parts, even in muscular
fibres adjacent to one of the long bones, and more especially in point-

ing out the caution which physiologists ought to observe in placing a

limit to nature's poAver.

On Dislocation of the Ankle-jointforward and backward ; and on the
  Reproduction of Bone after the Operation of Trepan. By James

  Douglas, Lecturer on Anatomy, Glasgow.

There is no satisfactory example on record of dislocation of the ankle-

joint without fracture of one or both malleoli. There is no case on

record of complete dislocation of the tibia forward, so that the inferior

articular surface of that bone shall be completely in front of the articu-

Alar surface of the astragalus.  case has occurred to the author of this
166 REPORT-- 1840.

very rare accident, exactly similar to that described by Mr. Adams in the

Cyclopaedia of Anatomy, article Ankle.

  A woman aged sixty died in the Glasgow Royal Infirmaiy in 1 834, having

an unreduced dislocation of left ankle forwards, of two years standing.

The toes were pointed down, the ankle being stiff, in a state of complete

Aextension.  deep curve is seen behind, where the tendo achillis

should be straight ; the heel is lengthened, and the fore part of the foot
is shortened. The anterior edge of lower end of tibia makes a projec-

tion in front, and a notch exists below it, between it and dorsum of

foot. Outer ankle is in its proper place, but inner one is thrown for-

ward about fths of an inch. On dissection, tibia is found above Jths of

an inch further forward than natural ; its anterior edge being exactly over

articulation of astragalus with os naviculare, and nearly fths of an inch
above it, so that a small part of scaphoid cavity of tibia behind still

rests on the pulley of the astragalus. The tendon of the tibialis anticus

by this means runs in a straight line to its insertion at the internal cu-

neiform bone, instead of curving forward. Behind, the astragalus pro-

jects so much, that the flexor longus pollicis does not run in its groove

on the tibia at all. Astragalus and os calcis are in their proper rela-

tion to each other. External malleolus remains in its place, with the

Aligaments entire.  hollow mark runs upward and backward from its

anterior edge, showing where fracture had occurred ; the superior por-
tion being thrown forward along with the tibia. Some new bone is de-
posited on their junction. The peronseal tendons preserve their proper

relations. Internally, the deltoid ligament has been ruptured.

Neither Sir A. Cooper nor Dupuytren has ever seen a dislocation

backward. Those cases which have been supposed to be such, have

probably been fractures close to the joint, like the following.

  A man aged forty -one M^as admitted into the Glasgow Infirmary in

1834<, having injured his left ankle three years previously by a fall,
being struck on front of leg, immediately above joint, by a plank. Some

portion of tibia was felt attached to astragalus, while shape of tibia was

thrown backward. Considerable doubt existed whether fibula was

fractured or dislocated. Leg was ^ths of an inch shorter than right, and
foot was very long in front, and very short behind. When he walked,

lower end of shape of tibia pressed against tendo achillis, making it

project backward, and causing acute pain. The foot was amputated.
   On dissection, tibia and fibula are found fractured transversely, imme-

diately above ankle-joint. Each malleolus remains in its proper situa-

Ation.  thin arch of the tibia, not a quarter of an inch in thickness,

remains over astragalus, and has formed a ligamentous connexion with

its articular surface. Fractured surface has become smooth, and co-
vered with a periosteum. The shafts of the bones pass backward and

downward ; their extremities are covered with cartilage, and have re-
ceived new fibrous capsules, derived from the deep fascia of the leg, in
front and on each side of the tendo achillis. End of tibia does not

rest on os calcis, but presses downward and backward against the ten-

don.

Mr. Douglas has since seen another case precisely similar to the above.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                       16?

It is stated by Professor Cooper, in his Surgical Dictionary, that re-

production of bone in the cranium is rare, and that the deficiency of

Abone is never entirely obviated.  portion of the frontal bone which

the Author laid before the Section exhibits a trepan-hole completely

filled up with bone.

   The man from whom it was taken died at forty years of age. " I ob-

served a conical scar on his forehead, and felt a depression, and in-

quired its history. When a lad of twelve or fourteen he had got his

head fractured in a fight, and was trepanned twenty-six or twenty-eight

years before his death. I found the edge of the trepan-hole well

marked by a regular depression of about frds of an inch, while below the

depression was irregular, probably from some splintering having taken

place in that direction. The bone which fills up the hole is compact

and translucent, except at lower part, where it is thickened, and pro-

jects a little internally. The mark is just above the upper termination

of left frontal sinus, and in situation of frontal eminence, which is de-

stroyed by it. This preparation, of course, settles the question of the

complete filling-up with bone in the affirmative."

 On the Vital Statistics of Scarborough. By John Dunn, Surgeon.

   As Scarborough is the principal watering-place in the North of En-
gland, it is of great importance to know accurately the prevailing causes

of death, their relative proportion, the least and most healthy periods
of the year, the ratio of mortality according to age, the climate as to
temperature, variation, atmospherical pressure, fall of rain and prevail-
ing winds. These are illustrated by tables, proving among other points
that the deaths from typhus and scarlatina are very low, the former

being as 4 to 11*64? of the same mean population of the kingdom. As

to pulmonic diseases, so generally dreaded on the sea-coast, the author
observes, " It is a gratifying, and in some measure an unexpected fact,
that diseases of the respiratory organs, so fatal in general, do not bear
so large a proportion in Scai'borough to the general mortality as in the
mean population of the whole kingdom. With us they amount to 1
in 5*09 of the whole deaths, in the kingdom they form the prodigious
number of 1 in 3*67. The relation to the number of inhabitants is
also in our favour, being 1 in 197*91, whUe in the mean population of
the kingdom it is 1 in 181*65. With respect to consumption a remark-
able fact must be noticed, that only 5 cases are registered in the month
of March for the three years, and 4 for April ; it must be further ob-
served, that in the first year there is but one death in March from
this cause, and none in April, either of the first or second years. In-
stead of the spring months being so fatal to phthisical people, it appears
that the greatest number of deaths took place in July, the hottest month

of the year."

   "As to the chance of attaining longevity at Scarborough," Mr. Dunii
states, that, " In every 1000 deaths in the whole kingdom there are 145
at the age of 70 and upward; in the same number in London 105,
--168 REPORT 1840.

Birmingham 81, Leeds 79, Liverpool and Manchester 63. In Scar-
borough it ascends to the high number of 195, giving to its residents
more than double the chance of" attaining old age over many of our
populous towns, and three times the chance over Manchester.

    " Turning our attention from the oldest periods of life to the youngest,

we shall find that the deaths under one year for 1000 of all ages are
214 for the whole kingdom, 277 for Leeds, 237 for the East Riding,

191 for the North Riding; and notwithstanding the fatality of the

measles in the first of the 3 years, only 181 for Scarborough."

   In the notes on the climate he says, " The remarkable mildness of the
winter and summer months here is deserving of attention. It might
scarcely be imagined, that in the severe winter of 1838 we had only 40
daj's or nights in which the thermometer was ever seen at or below
the freezing point, M'hile in London there were 44 and in York 70.
There were also only two days in which it did not rise above 32° during
some part of the day, in London there were 18. The thermometer on
the 19th of January 1838, was 30° at Scarborough, 2° at York, and 13°
in London. For the last eight years the thermometer has never fallen

lower than 20°, nor risen higher than 83°.
   "In the hottest year, 1834, the thermometer will be found in the Tables

to have been 39 days from 70° and upward, and 76 days above 65°.
This was one of the most sickly seasons I ever knew. One of the
healthiest was perhaps the last, which was the coldest, only giving 4
days for 70° and upward, and 27 above 65°. So remarkably mild are
the winters in general at Scarborough, that there have been only 5 days
in the eight years (including that of the severe frost) in which the ther-
mometer was as low as the freezing point during the whole day, and
202, or 25*16 in a year, in which it descended to it during the lowest
range in the night or day." The mean temperature for the year is 47°,
and mean daily range 8° to 9°. The prevailing winds are westerly, being

Westerly, 612.  North, 137.
Easterly, 367.  South, 121.

   " The mean annual fall of rain is 22*10 inches."
   Tables were given, illustrating the number of deaths under different

conditions of the atmosphere.

   Sir David Dickson communicated descriptions of several cases,
which were read to the meeting by the Secretary.
                                  --

         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                      169

                                  STATISTICS.

On the State of Crime ivithin Glasgoio and City Police Jurisdiction.
                            By CaiHain Millar,

    The following are extracts :

    "Population of Glasgow,       within  the  Police  Jurisdiction,")      ^1^7^o,,,U,,UO
           supposed to be
                                                                         1

    Population beyond Police Jurisdiction, and witliin the"l qh. y,,Q
         Parliamentary boundary, supposed
                                                                   J'

                                                                            272,000

    --" Extent of Crime. During the year ending the 31st of December

1839, the number of persons brought before the Magistrates of the city,

including parties charged with contravening minor police regulations,

as well as parties charged with crimes and offences, was 7687, the

males being in the proportion of three to one of the females. Of the

total number, 468 were discharged, 5410 summarily convicted, 661

sentenced to Bridewell, 46 sentenced tojail, 179 acquitted, 1178 admo-

nished, 72 ordered to find bail, 306 transferred to the Burgh Criminal

Court, 72 to the Sheriff Court, 55 to the Justice of Peace Court, and

20 were sent to other counties. The estimated value of the property

stolen within the police bounds, and reported at the office during the

year 1839, including watches and money taken from the persons of

individuals in a state of intoxication, was 7653/. 105. ; the estimated

value of property recovered 1260/. 10^.; the number of attempts at

housebreaking, discovered by the police, 84 ; the number of criminal

informations lodged in the course of the year, 3725 ; and the number

of cases actually^brought into court, 5047. The aggregate number of
offenders includes many parties who re-appeared. The preceding state-

ment and relative table apply solely to the city of Glasgow Police juris-

diction, exclusive of the suburban districts ; but it is right to state, that

a very large number of the offenders within the city truly belonged to

the suburbs. Nearly all the thefts of watches and money taken from

the person, and those by domestic and other servants, were committed

in circumstances beyond the control of the police, and where they

could not act in a preventive capacity.

    " Notwithstanding the increase in the population of the city and

suburbs, the amount of crime has of late years diminished. This is
satisfactorily shown by the diminution of the number of police cases of

every description, with the amount of fines levied for petty assaults,

disorderly conduct, &c. The number of persons sent to the Glasgow

Bridewell from the Justice of Peace Court for offences of every kind,

in  the  year 1836,  was  224  ;  in  1837,  412 ;  in  1838, 401  ;        in  1839,       498
                                                                                                            ;

and for the period ending 18th of August 1840, 535, Of those

offenders, during the two years ending 18th of August 1840, 137

were sent to Bridewell for periods of from 5 to 60 days, for the

non-payment of fines, varying from 5s. to 5l. The number of persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;

--170 REPORT 1840.

sentenced to be executed in GlasgOM', from the years 1820 to 1840,

both inclusive, was 66, of whom 45 were hanged, and 21 had their
sentences commuted to transportation for life. Of the persons ex-

ecuted, three were females. There have been only four executions in
Glasgow since 1833 ; three for murder, and one for throwing vitriol
with intent to murder.

   " The number of houses of bad fame within the royalty is 204. The
total number of females ascertained by the police to frequent houses

--of bad fame within the royalty, is 1475.
   " Fires. The number of fires in the city and suburbs, from 1st of
January 1836 to 31st of January 1839, being three years, was 268.
Of these, in nineteen instances, the premises were totally destroyed
in sixty-four considerably damaged ; and in 1 85 slightly damaged. In
232 instances the causes were ascertained, and were very varied ; in
thirty-one the causes were not ascertained ; and in five the fires were
considered wilful, the parties having been taken into custody, and the
cases reported to Crown counsel. The most frequent cause was found

--to be from flues and stoves taking fire through carelessness.
    " Publicans In the year 1839, there were within the royalty of
Glasgow 1220, and within the suburbs 1080 licensed public-houses

--and other places for the sale of excisable liquors in all 2300.

  --"Pawnbrokers. There are 33 licensed pawnbrokers, and about 400

small unlicensed brokers within the royalty.

  --" Health In the very centre of the city there is an accumulated

mass of squalid wretcliedness, which is probably unequalled in any
other town in the British dominions. In the interior part of the square,
bounded on the east by Saltmarket, on the west by Stockwell-street,
on the north by Trongate, and on the south by the river, and also in
certain parts of the east side of High-street, including the Venals,
Havannah, and Burnside, there is concentrated everything that is
wretched, dissolute, loathsome, and pestilential. These places are
filled by a population of many thousands of miserable creatures. The
houses are unfit even for styes, and every apartment is filled with a

promiscuous crowd of men, women and children, all in the most re-
volting state of filth and squalor. In many of the houses there is

scarcely any ventilation, and, from the extremely defective sewerage,
filth of every kind constantly accumulates."

     On tJie Normal School of Glasgow. By Mr. Leadbetter.

   The Glasgow Educational Society's Normal School was established
in 1826-27, first, for the training of infants, and since 1831 for the
children of all ages from two to fourteen. At present the number
attending is 500 ; the children receive Bible and secular training, and
at play they are superintended by the masters ; the lessons are received
by them in a gallery simultaneously. There is also a school of in-
dustry for females, and lately a private model class for the wealthier
classes has been established.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SKCTIONS.  1^1

   The brajiches taught are English, reading, grammar, geography,

history, elementary outlines of science, Bible training, writing, arith-
metic, mental and by pen, mental and written correspondence, architec-
tural drawing, to which are added in the private classes, Latin and
practical mathematics. Fee for the infants, 2*. per quarter, and for juve-

nile classes, 3s. per quarter. The private model class for the middle
society, 1/. 1*.; initiating, and others more advanced, 21. 2s. per

quarter.

   The period of attendance by the teachers who receive instruction

in the art of teaching is six months, but it is intended to extend it to
twelve months ; tlie average number attending is between forty and
forty-five, and G02 male and female teachers have been instructed, and
received appointments in Great Britain, Ireland and the Colonies.
Fee, 3/. 35. each student.

   The various classes are under the charge of masters, and a rector
and four masters are specially appointed for the instruction and the
training of the Normal students. The students are required, previous
to admission, to jjroduce certificates of moral character.

   The Normal Seminary is under the same superintendence in reli-
gious matters as the parochial schools of Scotland, and the children
of parents of all religious denominations are freely admitted, and no

questions asked.

   The Normal Seminary has cost 15,000/., of which Her Majesty's
Government granted 4500/. ; 3500/. has been obtained by private sub-
scription, and the remaining 7000/. stands as a debt on the property.

      On the Glasgow Asylum for the Blind. By Mr. Alston.

   By the .system of printing in relief in Roman letters, adopted in this

institution, an easy method is opened of communicating information to
the blind. After the pupils have acquired a knowledge of the shape of
the letters of the alphabet, words of two or three letters are submitted
to their touch. They are then made to feel the words with two or
three of their fingers on adjoining letters, by which means they are
able to decipher two or three letters at once, which, by practice, will
give a dexterity and fluency to their reading. They are then taught
orthography, and next proceed to study the derivation of words and
their relation to each other. By this system of tuition, the sense of
touch becomes the channel through which instruction is conveyed to
the understanding and the memory. The branches of education taught
in this Institution are reading, English grammar, arithmetic, geography,
and the elements of astronomy and geometry, music, &c. At present
there are above twenty individuals, whose ages vary from ten to
twenty-two years, who can read ; and the attainments of some of them
will bear a comparison with those of the same age and time under
tuition who are in possession of every natural advantage. One of these
is a young woman, who, after being educated in the Institution for the
--172 REPORT 1840.

Deaf and Dumb here, lost her sight about seven years ago. She may

now be seen daily I'eceiving instruction from one of the more advanced
blind children, tracing by the touch the form of the letters, Avhich she
still remembers, and then indicating them by spelling the words on the
fingers to her blind companion. Afterwards she takes her slate and
writes down the passage she has read. The restoration of this inter-

esting individual to intercourse with the rational world, is a source of
exquisite pleasure to herself, and of gratification to all connected with

her.

   The following table shows how the inmates were occupied during
the year 1839 :--
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  ifB

A Comparative View of the State of Crime in London, Dublin, and

                   Glasgow. By Captain Miller.

Cities.

         ts
                      --

--174 REPORT 1840.

 1837, a j'ear of destitution, when they fell to 1 in 120-76. From the
table of births, it appeared that the ratio of males to females was as 22

 to 20, a proportion mucli above that of any country in Europe. In
 1831 the proportion of still-born Avas 1 in l^'iQ, a remarkable fact, as
the ordinary average is about 1 in 20. The tables of deaths gave the
mean annual mortality in Glasgow from 1 822 to 1 830, both inclusive,
as 1 in 38-275; and from 1831 to 1839 as 1 in 31-896. The deaths
under five years of age, for the nine years ending in 1830, were 42*91
per cent. ; and for the same period ending in 1839, they were 43*32
per cent. It also appeared that the rate of mortality generally in
Glasgow had increased during the last nine years, which was attributed
to the increase of population beyond the suitable means of accom-
modation, the fluctuations of trade, &c. The number of deaths from
smallpox was very great, amounting to 406 in the year 1839. The
prevalence of epidemic disease was illustrated by several tables, from
which it appeared that their advance had been slow, unless when ex-
treme destitution prevailed.

   On the Population, Trade and Commerce of the City of Glasgow.
                             By Dr. Cleland.

   The following are extracts :

              Increase of the Population, Revenue, Sfc. of Glasgow.
    " Popidation In ] 801 tlie population, according to the Government
census, was 83,769, and in 1840, according to the three subsequent
decennial returns, including the nine years from 1831 to 1840, the

--population amounted to 271,656, showing an increase in 39 years of

187,887 souls a rate of increase, it is believed, unprecedented in this

--country.
    " River Clyde. In 1800 the revenue of the River Clyde was
3319^. 16s. 6d. In 1839 it amounted to 43,287/. 16*. lOrf., being an

--increase during 39 years of 39,968/. Os. 9d.
    " Shipping in Glasgow. In 1651, a Committee of the Scotch Parlia-
ment appointed Commissioner Tucker to report on the Revenue of the
Excise and Customs in Scotland, Avho stated that there were 12 vessels
belonging to Glasgow ; that the aggregate tonnage amounted to 957
tons. In 1840 the house of Messrs. Pollock, Gilmour and Co., of this
city, who are engaged chiefly in the North American timber trade,
are owners of 21 ships, register 12,005 tons, navigated by 502 seamen.
The house has eight different establishments that ship annually up-
wards of six millions cubic feet of timber, to cut and collect which,
and to prepare it for shipment, requires upwards of fifteen thousand

--men, and six hundred horses and oxen in constant employment.
   " Steam Vessels. On the 1st of January 1812, there was only one
Bteam vessel in Europe, the Comet of Glasgow, of 30 tons burthen,
with an engine of three-horse power. Now almost every river teems

with them. It appears from the Parliamentary Steam Vessel Inquiry,
that on 11th February 1839, there were 766 steamers connected with
--

TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  l75

the United Kingdom. Including the four North American mail steam-
packets, the steam tonnage of Glasgow, in 1840, may be estimated at

--13,491 tons.
    " Custom House. In 1812, the custom duties collected in Glasgow
amounted to 3124/. 2s. i^d. ; and in 1839 to 468,974/. 12*. 2d., being

--an increase during 27 years of 465,850/. 95. 1 1 ^d.
    " Post Office. In 1810, the revenue of the Glasgow Post-office
amounted to 27,598/. 6s.; and in 1839 to 47,527/. Is. Id., being an in-
crease during 29 years of 19,929/. Is. Id.

  --" Supply of Water. Prior to 1806, the city, comprehending the

ancient royalty alone, was supplied by about 45 public and private
wells. As some of these were frequently dry, and others contained
water of a bad quality, it may be near the truth to take the average

supply of each well at 120 gallons of useful water, thus making the
aggregate supply of 5400 gallons per day. The Glasgow and Crans-
tonhill Water Companies, now incorporated by Act of Parliament,
produced, in 1840, 8,218,000 imperial gallons. The revenue of these
two companies, for 1836, amounted to 25,302/. 135. 9c?., and they
laid out in conveying water from the Clyde to the city the sum of

349,808/."

   The population in 1831, when the last census was taken, consisted
of 163,600 Scotch, 35,544 Irish, 2919 English, and 353 foreigners.

   The following is a description of the householders :
   " Married men, 30,032; Widowers, 1790; Bachelors, 1437; Male
Householders, 33,259 ; Widows, 6824 ; Spinsters, 1882 ; Female

Householders, 8706; Total Families, 41,965.

   " The births, including 471 still-born, being 6868, and the population

202,426, there is one birth for every 29*47 persons.
   " The marriages being 1919, there is one marriage for 105*48 persons.
   " The burials being 5185, there is one burial for 39"04 persons.

   " The number of families being 41,965, there are 4*82 persons to

each family.

   " The births being 6868, and the number of marriages 1919, there

are 3*57 births to each marriage."

   On the State of Crime within tJie Suburban Districts of Glasgou).
                          By Mr. Rutherglek.

   The supposed population of Calton, in September 1840, was 28,210.
The police force consists of 1 superintendent, 6 Serjeants, 14 watchmen,
and three lamp-lighters, who also act in the capacity of scavengers.
Expenses of the establishment for the year ending September 1839,
including salaries, wages, lighting, cleaning, Bridewell, and other

--charges, 1324/. 17s. ll^c?.
   Extent of Crime. During the year ending 30th September 1839,
2601 persons were charged with crimes, offences, and with contra-

--vention of police regulations. Of this number 1799 were found

guilty, and sentenced 208 to confinements of various durations
                                                          --

176 REPORT-- 1840.

in the Burgh Bridewell, and 1591 to pay fines, which amounted to
207^. 25. 8d. ; the remainder were disposed of as follows : 56 were
transferi'ed to the Sheriff, 63 to the Justices, 5 to the Glasgow police,
1 to the Lunatic Asylum, 5 to the House of Refuge, 430 were re-
proved and admonished, and 242 were dismissed. The criminal popu-
lation is less by one-half than it was in 1835-6 ; and although in 1839
there were 2601 charged, and 1799 convicted, it is proper to mention
that the same person has been charged and convicted as often as three
times with petty thefts, and with other crimes and offences twenty times
in the course of the year ; and it is not in one, but in many cases, that

--this has occurred.
   House of Refuge. The establishing of this Institution has had a
beneficial effect in tlie repression of crime, by withdrawing from the
streets of the city and suburbs several hundreds of destitute boys, who
lived almost by thieving alone ; and it is not an over-estimate to say,
that 250 of them stole property averaging Vs. each per day when loose
upon society.

  --Paw7ibrokers. There are two licensed within the burgh.
 --Brokers. In 1835 there were 120 brokers in Calton ; in 1839 they

were reduced to 88, and the following is their classification :

Dealers in old metals                                         4

Furniture Brokers                                         16

Dealers in old weaving utensils                               4
Dealers who buy all their goods at public sales               4

Dealers in old clothes                                     4
                                                          56
Bundle-brokers, or " Wee Pawns"

--Publicans. There are at present 119 licensed publicans within the

police bounds ; and during the year ending September 1839, 38 cases
were brought before the magistrates of disorderly houses.

 --Lochjing Houses ai'e generally of an exceedingly wretched de-

scription, but the Police Act gives powers for the I'egulating of those

houses.

 --Health. The state of health is anything but satisfactory^ Fevers,

pulmonary complaints, rheumatism, and influenza prevail.

      On Oie State of Crime iii the Suburban Burgh of Anderston.
                            By Mr. FiNDLATER.

   From the tables produced, it appeared that the cases brought before
the magistrates of the burgh of Anderston were of the most trivial kind.
Last year there was not one charge of robbery ; out of 101 cases of
theft, only one Avas sent to the sheriff, while 62 petty cases were re-
mitted to the justices. The number of cases brought before the police
court for the year ending 21st September 1840, were 1 205, and the num-
ber of persons 1900, among which there were about 300 for dirty closes
alone, besides a corresponding number for exi^osing articles outside of
shops, encumbering streets, and other minor contraventions of the
Police Act, and about a fourth of the remainder are offenders from the
                                                                     ;

            TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                         177

--city. The cases were disposed of as follows : 879 were fined in vari-

ous sums, amounting to 190/. ; 64 were confined for short periods in

the police cells ; I sent to the sheriff; 75 to the justices ; 1 to another
town ; 1 escaped ; 2 policemen discharged ; 4 reproved, and 1 77 dis-
missed. Total, 1205.

            On the State of Crime in the District of Gorbals.
                          By Mr. Richardson.

                                         Gorbals.              Glasgow.
                                                               175,000
Population                               65,000                2s. 21<f.

Average assessment for each inhabitant   \s. l^rf.                 7,687
                                                                1 in 22
Number of offenders brought before magistrates 4,009
                                                                    1/. 5*.
Proportion to the population             1 in 16^
                                                                   1,879
Expense to the public for each offender              9*.           6,570
                                                                 7,653/.
Number of persons admonished                    903               1 ,260/.
Number convicted                              3,106
                                                                        12
Reported value of property stolen           500/.                      59
                                            300/.                     149
Amount of property recovered
Number of supferior officers                      3                      6
                                                  8
   -- ordinary officers                        29                9,568/.
   -- watchmen
   -- criminal officers                                1

Cost of the above department of police   1,833/.

On the State of Education in the Borough of Kingston-upon-Hull.
           By the Manchester Statistical Society.

The present report contains the result of an inquiry carried on in

the months of March, April, May, and June, 1839. The whole of the

facts were collected by the same agent to whom the previous investiga-

tions of the Society of a similar kind had been intrusted, and of whose

perseverance and accuracy the Society have had ample experience.

The object was twofold : first, to throw light upon the physical,

moral, and religious condition of the great body of the inhabitants

and secondly, to ascertain the state of education, both in its results, as

apparent in the acquirements of the people, and with respect to the use

which was made of the existing means of education for the younger

portion of the community. In regard to the Sunday schools, very

complete information was obtained throughout the whole borough of

Hull, containing a population of at least 52,000 inhabitants. The

township of Kingston-upon-Hull, containing a population of 37,885,

was examined from house to house ; it presents a remarkable contrast

with the large towns visited in Lancashire in the character of the

dwellings of the working classes. It was found that of 8757 dwellings

visited, only 15 were cellars, and their inmates amounted altogether to

44 persons. In Liverpool nearly one-fifth, and in Manchester and

Salford about one-tenth of the working classes were found to be living

in cellars, while in Hull there are only 15 for every 10,000. The

1840.       N
                                 --

178 REPORT 1840.

system of living in lodgings is also less extensive in Hull, and there are

only 6239 heads of families occupying houses, as distinguished from

chambers, out of the total number of 8757 heads of families ; whereas
in a corresponding table for the township of Pendleton, near Man-

chester, about nine-tenths of the heads of families are recorded as

occupying houses. Under 10 years of age, only 43 children were

found at work in Hull, while in Pendleton, with one quarter of the

population, there were 37- Between the ages of 10 and 15 there were

twice as many at work in Pendleton in proportion to the population,

and between 15 and 21 years of age the proportion was also somewhat

larger. One-third of the adults whose occupation was recorded in

Pendleton were females, as also were about nine-twentieths of the

minors at work ; while in Hull little more than one-third of the minors

at work were females, and not quite one-fourth of the adults. The

proportion of persons under 21 years of age is smaller in Hull than in

Pendleton, and there is also less employment for children and females

in Hull. The relative proportion of the sexes does not differ mate-

rially. But the most remarkable contrast between Hull and the Lan-

cashire towns appears in the country from which the people spring. In

Hull above 95 per cent, of the heads of families were English, only 2

per  cent.  Irish,  and  1^ per  cent.  Scotch                                 and  taking the whole  adult
                                                                            ;

population, the proportions are

     English                                                                         95*08 per cent.
     Irish
     Scotch                                                                          --2-24
     Foreigners                                                                      --1-36
     Welsh                                                                            --'84
                                                                                      ---48

                                                                                    100-00

In Liverpool and Manchester the Irish form no inconsiderable portion
of the whole working class. In Manchester more than one-sixth of
the heads of families amongst the labouring population were Irish ; and
taking Manchester and Salford together, the Irish constitute one-
sixth, the Welsh one-thirtieth, and the Scotch one-fiftieth of the whole,

while in Liverpool the proportion of Welsh is much greater than in
Manchester. Among the day schools of Hull the agent remarked the
existence of a large number of charity schools. There were two
proprietary schools, one chiefly supported by churchmen, the other by
dissenters. The poor-house schools appeared both clean and orderly,
and were conducted on a system somewhat assimilating to that of Dr.
Bell. The infant schools, of which there were several, were of com-
paratively recent establishment. So far as the opportunity was afforded
for observing the condition and management of the dame schools, they
appeared to be equal to the same class of schools in Birmingham, and
superior to those of Liverpool and Manchester. They were generally
tolerably clean, and not so confined as in the large manufacturing
towns. The following statement of the proportion of day scholars to
the total population has been prepared, showing, by comparison with

the numbers in other districts previously examined, that the result for
                                               --

                                    '

                 TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                                                                                                                 179

 Hull closely approximates to York and Rutlandshire, which have been
 the most favourable examples hitherto brought to light by the inquiries
 of the Society. The ascertained cases, in a population of 32,500, are
 here taken, and they furnish a proportion of

 16'45 per cent, of the total population attending day or evening schools.
   3'33 per cent, were under 5 or above 15 years of age; leaving, therefore,

 13'12 per cent, as the proportion of the total population, being children be-
                tween the ages of 5 and 15, then in attendance at day schools.

 In Hull it was ascertained that the proportion of individuals of this age
was 21 per cent, of the entire population ; it is therefore proved that
7'88 per cent., or rather more than one-third of the children between
5 and 15, were not in attendance at the day schools. The actual number

counted, corresponding with this proportion, was 2573, of whom 306

were between the ages of 5 and 10, and 1566 between 10 and 15.

    58 were under instruction at home.
1872 had been at day schools at sonae period.

  238 were, or had been, at Sunday school o)ily.
  405 had never been at any school, and appeared not to have been instructed

               at home.
2573

   The following table, drawn up from earlier reports of the Society, in
York, Rutlandshire, Liverpool, and Manchester, shows that the pro-
portion of children not in attendance at school, is smaller in Hull and
York than in Liverpool and Manchester :

   Proportion of Children attending Day and Evening Schools, as

                           compared with the total Population.

Per-centage of children attending.                                                                                                 York     Rutlandshire  Liverpool     Manchester
                                                                                                                                                      in           in   and Salford,
                                                                                                                                       in                               1834 and 5.
                                                                                                                                     1836.         1838.  1835 and fi.  Population
                                                                                                                               Population    Population   Population    estimated,
                                                                                                                                estimated,   estimated,   estimated,
                                                                                                                                   28,000.                                 255,000.
                                                                                                                                                 20,000.    230,000.
                                                                                                                                                                             7-33
Day schools supported exclu-                                                                                                   7-18         6-77          6-70
                                                                                                                                            8-05                            2-35
sively by the scholars                                                                                                         9-63         0-37          5-87
                                                                                                                                                          0-24             0-78
Ditto supported or assisted by"                                                                                                015

the public                          ^

Evening schools

                 Total.                                                                                                        16-96        1519          12-81         10-46

Proportion to the total popula-

tion of day and evening scho-                                                                                                    2-74         3-06          2-14        1-95
                                                                                                                               14-22                                    8-51
lars under 5 and above 15                                                                                                                   1213          1067
                                                                                                                                n2
years of age

Proportion to the total popula- T

tion of day and evening scho- I
lars between 5 and 15 years f

of age                           J

Proportion of children between "|

5 and 15 years of age estimat- I

ed not to be in attendance at

                                                                                                                            (

day or evening schools, about J
180 REPORT-- 1840.

   The number of adults who can both read and write and cipher,
amounts to nearly two-thirds of the ascertained cases, of whom at

least nine-tenths can read ; while at Pendleton, in Lancashire, only
about one-third of the ascertained cases amongst the adults were able
to read, write and cipher, though nearly the same proportion as in
Hull were able to read only. In Pendleton, 405 adults out of 4855
ascertained cases had never attended a day school ; but some few of
these had acquired the power of reading, and even of writing. In
Hull, 417 only, out of 14,526 ascertained cases, had never been at a

day school, and none of them had learned even to read. Those who

could read were in the proportion of fifty-five in Pendleton to sixty in

Hull ; those who could write were twenty-four in Pendleton to thirty
in Hull ; and those who could cipher were twelve in Pendleton to

twenty-two in Hull.

   An attempt was made in Hull to ascertain the age at which the

children had been taken away from school, and the information was
obtained in about three-fifths of the cases. The result obtained on

this subject shows, that out of about 2798 children, only

131 had remained at school after reaching the age of 13.

1108 left at 12 and 13 years of age.

964 ,, 10 and 11  ,,

595 left before 10; about one-half of whom had been removed before they

were 9.

Hardly any of those who had left school before the age of nine had
acquired any knowledge of figures or of writing ; and for ninety of
them who were able to read, there w ere as many more who did it very
badly, and above 120 who could not read at all. Out of 5250 children
who were at school at the date of this inquiry, 305 cases occurred in
which no satisfactory account could be obtained as to the regularity of
attendance ; and the attendance in 997 cases was admitted to be very
irregular ; so that in 3948 cases alone can it fairly be assumed that the
children were deriving from their attendance the whole of the benefit,
little or great, which the schools were capable of affording. In the
case of the children who had left school, the result was still more un-
favourable ; out of 4097 ascertained cases, only 2426 had attended re-
gularly, and 1671 irregularly ; 628 cases occurred in which no satis-
factory information on this point could be obtained. Taking the whole
of the minors who either had been, or were, at the time of the inquiry,
at school, 6374 were stated to have attended with regularity, and 2668
irregularly; and in 943 cases no information on the subject could be
obtained. The number of children who could read with ease corre-
sponds very nearly with the number of those who had been regular in
their attendance at school. The former amounted to 6166, the latter
to 6374, and the number of those who could write and cipher was much

--smaller the number of those who could write amounted to 3038, and

the number of those who could cipher to 2207- It may with tolerable

certainty be inferred from the Hull tables, that there is the greatest
regularity of attendance between the ages of eight and eleven.

    Amongst the number of parents whose children were of an age to
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  181

be at school, but who were not attending any, 133 gave the following

as reasons for their non-attendance :

            35 Poverty.
           32 Irregularity of their employment.

         19 Want of decent clothing.
            6 The children living with their parents in boats on the river.

            13 111 health of pai-ents.
           15 Death of the father.

               2 Desertion of the father.
            1 1 Largeness of the family.

          133

   Of the 4735 minors who, at the date of this inquiry, had completed

their education, such as it is, 823 were unable to read a whole sen-
tence; 1870 were unable to write; and 2282 unable to cipher. In

the same class of children, those who had been irregular attendants at
school amounted to 1671.

   In a classification of the answers given by the heads of families, as
to their religious denomination, no less than eighteen different Christian
sects were enumerated ; and ten of these support their separate Sunday

school.

 Proportion per cent.
                                 --

182 REPORT 1840.

article of clothing, and received duplicates or tickets, each bearing a
number on it, showing the order in which articles are received and
registered. In seven days after I deposited another article of dress at
each pawnbroker's as before, and received in like manner duplicates
or tickets, and in a few cases, where there was some doubt as to the
numbers written on the tickets, which are not always very legible, I
deposited a third article. The amount of money lent is calculated, on
an average, at 3s. on each article, except in Dublin, and there it is
found to be about 4s."

   Mr. Porter then read the following table :

   City or Tovm.
                                    --

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.           183

    " Having succeeded in proving to the gentry, to the clergy of all

persuasions, and to the merchants of the town of Tanderagee, in which
I reside, that the Mont de Piete system of pawnbroking would present

a mitigation of evil, they co-operated with me in the establishment of

an institution, embracing a charitable pawn-office, a loan-fund, and a
bank for savings, all under one administration, managed by the same

board of directors, with whom I have tht, pleasure of acting as one of
the honorary secretaries." The following is an abstract of the result of
the operations of the Tanderagee Mont de Piete :

                      1839.
For nine montlis, Jan. to Sept.
For three months, Oct. to Dec.

        Total for twelve months...
                       1840.

For nine months, less two"l
    weeks.tothe present period J

Decrease on the nine months of
   1840, less two weeks, compar-
   ed with nine months of 1839
                                                                                                           --
                                                                                                                                      ;

--184 REPORT 1840.

                                                                 SAVINGS FUND DEPARTMENT.

Savings in nine months of 1838                                                           Lodged.            Withdrawn.

  -- in nine months of 1839                                                               £688             .... £408
  -- in twelve months of 1839                                                               994            .... 594

                                                                                           1303            .... 94.S

Mr. Porter gave an account of a Mont de Piete since established at

Portadown                                                   and  mentioned that  he had  been  last  year  successful  in
                                                         ;

establishing one in Belfast. Mr. Porter then presented estimates of

the extent of business carried on by the licensed and unlicensed pawn-

brokers of Glasgow : viz. by the licensed pawnbrokers, loans, 149,674/.

and by the unlicensed pawnbrokers, above half a million of money, the

latter sum at an interest of 433/. 6s. 8d. per cent.

    Mr. Bryce of Belfast, stated that the Ulster Statistical Society had
made such progress in their inquiries into the state of education and
the condition of the linen trade in the North of Ireland, that they
would be able to present the results in a complete form at the next
meeting of the Association.

    On the Sill Circulation of Great J3ritain By Mr. Leatham.

   Having, through Lord Morpeth, obtained a return of the number of
stamps issued from 1835 to 1839 inclusive, Mr. Leatham based his
calculations on the supposition that each bill was circulated for half the
sum which the stamps would cover, which was considerably under the
amount. From the experience of his own bank, compared with that
of the principal discount offices in London, he had found that the
average date of bills, including foreign and inland, was three months.

He then took the whole stamps for a year, and divided them by four,
which gave the amount circulating at one time. By a similar induc-

tion, he had estimated foreign bills at one-sixth of the English, though
the proportion was rather greater ; and he had taken the same average

for Irish bills in the years where no official returns had been made. He

then exhibited the following statement relating to the bill circulation
of Great Britain and Ireland, during the years under-mentioned :
                                                             --

                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                    185

The following is a similar return for the last five years :

BritishBills
                           --;

--186 REPORT 1840.

   The discourses of Dr. Chalmers and Dr. Alison contained frequent
references to statistical data, but the enumeration of these would be of
little service without a full statement of the arguments they were in-

tended to support.

On the excess of Population, and on Emigration as a Remedy for it, in
             the Highlands of Scotland. By Dr. Alcorn.

           On the Population of Scotland. By Mr. Wilson.

        On the Libraries of Germany. By Professor Adrian.

     On the Parish of Dunfermline. By the Rev. P. Chalmers.

                    MECHANICAL SCIENCE.

 On the Temperature of most effective condensation in Steam Vessels.
                          By J. Scott Russell.

   Much has been said regarding the perfection of the vacuum formed

in the condenser of a steam-engine, especially a marine engine. It is
a fact of great importance, and it is the result of theory, established on
incontrovertible truth, and confirmed by experiment and by practice,
that a vacuum may be too good, and become a loss instead of a gain.

The truth is simply this, and should be known to every engineer : If
the barometer stand at 29§ inches, the standard of this country, the
vacuum in the condenser is too good if it raise in the barometer more
than 28 inches of mercury. The following is a simple proof of this
doctrine, divested as far as possible of a technical form, and put in the

shape of an inquiry into the best state of a condenser :

  =Let t the caloric of water of 1°
      =c the constituent caloric of water in the state of steam ;
      =e the total force of steam in the boiler, in inches of mer-

                    cury; and

      =X the elastic force of steam at the temperature of best con-

                  densation, which we seek to discover.
    Then, from the law which connects the elastic force of steam with
                        .;

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                  187

temperature, it follows that, in case of maximum effect, or the temper-

ature of best condensation,

= = --- - , that is, X

ce                 c

Now c is 1000 ; and if the steam in the boiler be at 5 lbs, above the

= =atmosphere, or if e 40 inches of mercury, and t \,

X = -4^0^ = 0-04.

       1000

=Again, if the steam be at 1\ lbs. 45 inches.

=Again, if the steam be at 10 lbs. 50 inches,

-^X =     = 0-05.

    1000

   Hence we find, that the best elasticity or temperature in the con-

denser depends on the elastic force of the steam in the boiler.
   With steam of 5 lbs. in the boiler, the elasticity of maximvim effect

in the condenser is 93° Fahr., and the best vacuum on the barometer

is 28.

   With steam of 7| lbs. in the boiler, the elasticity of maximum eflfect
in the condenser is 95°, and the best vacuum on the barometer is 27*8.

   With steam of 10 lbs. in the boiler, the elasticity of maximum effect
in the condenser is 97°, and the best vacuum on the barometer is 27*6.

   In like manner it would be found, that with steam of 50 lbs. in the
boiler, worked expansively, as in Cornwall, the best vacuum in the
condenser would be about 26" on the barometer.

   It is hoped, therefore, that engineers will not in future distress them-

selves at finding the vacuum of their condenser much less perfect than
the vacuum of others who have obtained 30 and 30^ inches at so great
a loss of fuel and power. To obtain a vacuum of 29^, with the weather
glass at 29*75, and steam at 7| lbs., would be to sacrifice four horses'
power out of every hundred. In a day when the barometer is as low
as 28§ inches, the vacuum in the condenser would indicate 26*8. In
speaking of the vacuum in the condenser, it would save much ambi-

guity to indicate the elasticity merely of the steam in the condenser
thus, if the barometer stand without at 29^, and the barometer of the
condenser at 28, it might be stated that the steam in the condenser

stands at 1^, being the point of the maximum effect. The indication
would convey at all times more precise information.

   Mr. Russell stated that the President had just put into his hands a
communication in French on this subject from M. Barnes. Instead of
a jet playing inside the condenser, M. Barnes allows it to rush in sud-
denly, and then stops it by a slide-valve.
                                                  ---- --

188 KEPORT-- 1840.

Additional Notice concerning the most (Economical and Effective Pro-
  portion of Engine Power to the Tonnage of the Htdl in Steam
    Vessels, atid more especially in those designed for long Voyages.

  By J. Scott Russell.

    After describing the unsettled state of opinion and practices on this

subject, Mr. Russell entered into a general examination of the subject,

from which the following are extracts :

  We" may now proceed to investigate the question of best proportion,

or the point where the attainment of high speed is accompanied by
absolute saving of fuel, as compared to lower velocity.

  We" merely take it for granted, that the speed through the water

will be nearly as the square root of the power, according to the

general law of the resistance of fluids; that the resistance offered
by bad weather or adverse winds has been ascertained, and is deter-
mined on a particular station ; that is, that it is known that on a given
station, a given vessel, with a given power, makes a voyage in adverse
circumstances in, suppose, double the time of her most prosperous
voyage (say her most prosperous voyage in 14 days, and her adverse

                                  ;

voyage in 24 days, being a retarding power of 10 days out of 24 ;) we
take this retardation of ten days as the measure of the retarding power

of adverse weather in the given circumstances.

Let h be the power, v the velocity, /the fuel consumed, t the"! j^ ^ given ves-
     time in good weather
                                                                   I gelonagiven
                                                                                 ^
Let  ;··:            v'       /'                             i'ln      , ,.
                           ', ·'
           ,                                               '           station.

     bad weather                                                   .1

Let A' be the power, ij"the velocity,/" the fuel consumed, <" the T In another ves-

     time in good weather                                          I sel of greater

Let  :            v'"      ,/"'                            t ' in r          on the

     bad weather                                                   J same station.

     Also, let r represent the consumption of fuel per horse-power per hour,

     And ... s the length of the voyage or distance performed."

By investigating, Mr. Russell obtains the general formula

                         X = 2A                   -- (A),

                                              v"

and deduces the following consequences :

"It appears that a vessel has its power in the mostceconomical pro-

portion to its tonnage, on a given station, when its worst voyage does

V2not exceed the time of its best in a greater proportion than                   to 1,

that is, than 14 to 10, or 7 to 5.

     " It further appears, that the consumption of fuel in the worst voyage

will not exceed that of the best voyage in a greater proportion than

10 to 7 ; that is to say, for 70 tons of fuel burnt on a good voyage it
will not be necessary to carry more than 100 tons in order to provide

against the worst.

     " Let us take as example a Transatlantic steam-ship, which has a

proportion of one-horse power to four tons of capacity, her unfavour-
                                     --

        TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                              189

able voj'age being between England and America 22 days, and her
favourable voyage 14 days, being a comparative velocity of 7 and 11.

        Then k' = 2h^±ZJ^ = 2. IBs:^ = 2.^

                     V-                  121.                 121

        = 12 ,
              10 nearly^.

Hence the power should be increased in the ratio of 6 to 5 ; that is
to say, the engines at present capable of exerting a power of 500 horses

should have been capable of exerting a power of 600 horses, and would

in this case consume less fuel, as well as produce greater regularity and

a higher velocity."

The following results also follow :

" The vessel of less power burns 30 tons per day, performs the di-

stance in I't days, consuming 420 tons of coal in fair weather.

" The vessel of less power burns 30 tons, performs the distance in 22

days, consuming 660 tons of coal in foul weather.

" The vessel of greater power burns 36 tons, performs the distance in

12^ days, consuming 468 tons in fair weather.
   " The vessel of greater power burns 36 tons, performs the distance in

17*5 days, consuming 630 tons in foul weather, being a consumption of

64 tons less fuel, and performing the journey in 4^ days less than the

other.

" It is manifest, that the store of fuel carried in the vessel with less

power must on all occasions be equal to the greatest consumption, that

is, to at least 660 tons, whereas 630 tons will be sufficient for the vessel

of greater power ; and as in all vessels for long voyages coals carried
are much more costly than the mere price of coals, or as the freight of

the vessel is more costly than the fuel, coals carried are to be reckoned

at least as expensive as coals burnt. Moreover, as the gain in time is 4§
out of 22, being 25 per cent., it is plain that the vessel may be calculated

to do the distance oftener in a year, because, as the time of starting

must always be regulated, not by the shorter, but by the longest period

of a voyage, 17^ days in the one case stand in the place of 22 days in

the other. As another example, let us take the case of a vessel calcu-

Alated to stem the monsoon in the Indian Seas.                vessel of 600 tons

and 200 horses, steaming in fair weather at the rate of 1 1 miles an

hour, has been found to have her speed diminished by the monsoon to
five miles an hour. What would be the best proportion of power in

such circumstances?

                  h' = 2h ^1-^=2. ir- -- 52

                                                          IV

                    = 16
                                         10 nearl,y^.

   "Hence we see that the power being increased in the ratio of 16 to
10, that is, engines of 320 horses power being substituted for those of
200, the speed on the quick voyage would be 12f miles an hour in-
stead of 1 1 , and the speed against the monsoons increased from 5 to 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

190 REPORT-- 1840.

miles an hour, with a saving of coals amounting to 40 tons out of 320
and when it is remembered that the voyage for which 18 days would be
required as continual allowance in the one case might always be calcu-
lated on as performed in 10 days in the other, the advantage is placed
beyond all doubt. It appears, therefore, that for long voyages espe-
cially, there are great advantages in point of ceconomy, certainty and
speed, to be obtained by the use of vessels of a higher power than
usual, and that in a given case the best proportion of power to tonnage
may readily be determined from the rules already laid down. In
regard to absolute or definite proportion, it may be stated as the result
of the best vessels, that the proportion of power to tonnage should not
be greater than one horse power to two tons, nor less than one horse
to three tons ; the greater proportion holding in the smaller, and the
less proportion of power in the greater vessel."

Notice of Properties of the Catenary and Curves of Equilibration,
   wiili Tables for their Construction, contained in a Memoir entitled,
   " The Parallelogram Forces and Curves of Equilibration.; together
   with Tables for their Construction, deduced from a Functional

  Equation. By William Wallace, LL.D., ^c. Emeritus Pro-

   fessor of Mathematics in the University of Edinburgh."

   The memoir in the Edinburgh Transactions here noticed, contains
tables for the construction of the catenary, which are true to ten
decimal places (the parameter being the unit) ; by these the co-ordi-
nates of the curve, also its length, may be found to an extent of the
curve and degree of accuracy beyond the wants of the civil engineer
in actual practice. To secure accuracy, the tables have been stereotyped
in an octavo size, and proofs of the plates carefully compared with the
original calculations, which have been all preserved, and may be de-
posited with some public body.

    It is intended in the course of the ensuing winter to re-publish the
tables in an octavo form, accompanied with a Treatise on the Catenary

and Curves of Equilibration ; and to these will be added some other
matters connected with the practice of civil engineering.

  On a New Mode of Propelling Fluids, or an uniformly Propelling
                     Wheel. By the Rev. J. Brodie.

   In this communication the author gave an account of a uniformly
propelling wheel for steam-boats, and directed attention to the proper
form of the leaves of a propeller on the Archimedean principle. The
contrivance for uniform propulsion consists of a number of vanes or
float-boards, placed on a revolving axle, so that the plane of the float-
boards forms an acute angle with the axle to which they are applied.

They may be either fastened to the axis spirally, forming a sort of

screw, or aflixed circularly, forming a wheel.

   This principle admits of various applications, and may be employed

in propelling either with water or air.
                                                                   ----

            TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                191

On the Strongest form of Sea-borne Vessels. By Dr. Farquh arson.

   The author stated in this communication the result of his attempt to
determine the true form of the Ark of Noah, as given in the Hebrew
text of Genesis, compared with the Greek Septuagint; and arguing that
this form, though unfit for carrying sails, was excellent for flotation,
stability and strength (being triangular in the cross section, with a flat
base and angular top), suggests that the forms of sea-going steamers
should be reconsidered and altered, with a view to these circumstances.

Mr. Evans delivered in a printed report " On Anthracite Pig-iron."

On the Turbine Water-wheel. By Professor Gordon.

  The fundamental principle upon which the construction of the
Turbine-Fourneyron is based, is that by which the maximum of useful

effect is obtained from a given fall of water, depending on the relative

velocity of the water and its recipient, which ought to be such that the

water enters the wheel without shock, and quits it again without

Avelocity.  notion of its construction may readily be formed, by sup-

posing an ordinary water-wheel laid on its side, the water being made

to enter from the interior of the wheel by the inner circumference of

the crown, flowing along the buckets, and escaping at the outer cir-
cumference. Then centi'ifugal force becomes a substitute for the force

of gravity. It was explained that the Turbine consists essentially of

  A1. reservoir, the bottom of which is divided into radial compart-

ments by curved plates, serving to guide the water to take a particular

direction of efflux.

  A2. circular sluice, capable of nicety of adjustment.

3. The wheel with curved buckets, on to which, when the sluice

was raised, the water entered at every point of the inner circumference,

and flowing along the buckets, escaped at every point of the outer cir-

cumference. This latter is a characteristic feature in the Turbines of

Fourneyron. Reference was made to the principal Turbines erected

--in France and Germany, particularly to that at Inval, near Gisors,

and those at Miillbach and Moussay, as illustrative of their use for falls

varying from 9 inches to 10 feet. And again to those at St. Blasier,

--in the Black Forest, as instances of high falls, the one being 70|^ feet,

the other 345 feet ; the one expending 5 cubic feet per second, the

other 1 cubic foot per second ; the one being 5& horse-power, the
other very nearly 60 horse-power ; the one giving an efficiency of up-

wards of 70, the other of upwards of 80 per cent, of the theoretical
A --effect.
drawing of the latter was exhibited full size. It is 14^

inches diameter. Its extreme depth or breast is -225 inch, or less than i.

It makes 2200 to 2300 revolutions per minute. It serves a factory

in which ai-e 8000 water spindles, 34 fine and 36 coarse carding-

engines, 2 cleansers, and other accessories.

The conclusions drawn by Morier from his experiments on these

wheels with the brake dynamometer, or friction strap, are these :
192 REPORT-- 1840.

1. That Turbines are with equal advantage applicable for high and for

low falls. 2. That their net useful effect equals 70 to 78 per cent, of

the theoretical effect of the power. 3. That they may work at speeds

varying from

                         «  =  3_-3_Vto^ .  =  5-6 V

                                               -^,

= V = Rwhere n number of revolutions ;
                                               velocity due to fall ;  =: ex-

treme radius ; the useful effect still not differing notably from the
maximum, ·i. That they work at very considerable depths under

water, the relation of useful to theoretical effect not being thereby

much diminished.

On producing True Planes or Surfaces on Metals.
           By Mr. Joseph Whitworth.

Surface plates were exhibited, of which, if one be put upon the

other, it will float, until by its weight it has excluded some of the air,

when the two will adhere together with considerable force. These

surfaces were got up without grinding. The only operations performed

upon them were those of planing, filing, and scraping. Practically,

the excellence of a surface consists in the number and equal distribu-

tion of the bearing points. But if a ground surface be carefully

examined, the bearing points will be generally found lying together in

irregular masses, with extensive cavities intervening. The cause of

this irregularity is in the unmanageable nature of the process. The

action of the grinding powder is under no control. There are no

means for securing its equal diffusion, or for modifying its application,

with reference to the particular condition of different parts of the sur-

face ; the practical result is, that the mechanic neglects the proper use
of the file, knowing that grinding will follow, to efface all evidence

either of care or neglect. In various departments of the arts and

manufactures, the want of improvement in this respect is already felt.

The valves of steam-engines, for example, the tables of printing presses,
stereotype plates, slides of all kinds, require a degree of truth much

superior to that they now possess, for want of which there is great

waste in time, in steam power, in wear and tear, and, above all, in skill

misapplied. The improvements so much to be desired will follow upon

the discontinuance of grinding. The surface plate and the scraping

tool will then come into use, and a new field will be opened to the

skill of the mechanic. Supposing him to be provided with a true

surface plate, he will find no difiiculty, after a little practice, in bring-

ing up his work to the required nicety. For this purpose he will find

it advantageous to employ a scraping tool made from a three-sided file,

and carefully sharpened on a Turkey stone, the use of which must be

Afrequently repeated.       light colouring matter, such as red chalk and

oil, being spread over the surface plate, and the work in hand applied

thereto, friction will cause the prominent places to be marked, which
will instruct the experienced mechanic where and how to operate to

the greatest advantage.
       -- --;

       TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                      193

       On the (Economy of Railways in respect of Gradients.
                           By Mr, ViGNOLES.

   Looking to the great cost of railways, the author had turned his
attention to a comparison of the result of the working of railways, with

the price paid for various degrees of perfection. On an average, the

hitherto ascertained cost of the principal lines might be divided thus :

       Land                                 10 per cent.
       Stations and carrying establishment  20 ,,
       Management                           10 ,,
                                            10 ,,
       Iron                                 50 ,,

       Works of construction proper

                                            100

These items differed considerably in various railways, and in general it
might be said that the works of construction constituted one-half of
the whole first cost. Mr. Vignoles stated that he had analysed railway

--expenses of working, and had reduced them to a mileage, that is, the

average expense per mile, per train, as deduced from several years' ex-
perience, and observations of various railways under different circum-
stances, and with greatly different gradients, some of which lines were
enumerated. The result on passenger and light traffic lines was, that
the total deduction for expenditure from gross receipts was 35. per
mile per train ; 2s. 6d. being the least, and 3s. 4c?. the highest ; and
that this average seemed to hold good, irrespective of gradients or
curves. Particular lines might, from local circumstances, differ in
detail, but he was satisfied that the following was a fair average ap-
proximation :

Daily cost of locomotive power and repairs                        s.  d.
Annual depreciation, sinking fund, and interest on stock, tools,  1
                                                                      6
   shops, and establishment
Daily and annual cost in carnage department                           6
Government duty, office expenses, police, clerks, guards, ma-         4

   nagement, and maintenance of railway                               8

                                                                  3

It was not found practicable to distinguish the additional expense, if
any, arising from curves or gradients ; but as three-fourths of railway
expenses were quite independent of these curves, such addition must
be small ; especially as, on the North Union Railway, a line which had
5 miles out of 22 in gradients of 1 in 100, or nearly 53 feet per mile,
tne total expenses were less than on the Grand Junction Railway, and

several other lines.

   Mr. Vignoles then proceeded to illustrate, by diagrams, the mode in
which the ceconomy might be made in the works of construction, on
what he called the first system, by the occasional introduction of in-
clines of 50 and even 60 feet per mile, if* not of too great a length

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;

and again, on the second system, by introducing entire series of severe

gradients, such as those of 30, 35, and 40 feet.

   On the first system he had executed the North Union Railway

1840.                 o
--194 REPORT 1840.

and had also thus designed all the government railways to the south

and west of England. On the second system was the Bolton and Man-

chester Railway, by the late Mr. Nimmo, Mr. Macneill's government

railway lines to the north districts of Ireland ; and that engineer had

lately altered the Dublin and Kilkenny, and the Dublin and Drogheda

Railways, from better but more expensive gradients, to those on the

second system ; and Mr. Vignoles was about to apply it to the Dublin

and Kingstown Railway ; and he had set out the whole extent of the
Sheffield and Manchester Railway, for 40 miles, on an average gradient

of nearly 40 feet per mile, mixed with occasional inclinations of 1 in

100, and with curves of one-third mile radius. Mr. Giles had also

adopted the same system on the first ten miles eastward of the New-

castle and Carlisle Railway.

Mr. Vignoles went on to state, that on either one or both of these

systems, introduced as might be considered most advantageous by the

directing engineer, lines of railway might be laid out so as not to ex-

ceed 10,000/. per mile, being particularly applicable where fertile,

populous, and manufacturing districts, or the metropolis, with the

extremes of the empire, had to be connected through difficult and

unproductive districts. When a continued stream of heavy traffic jus-

tified the expense, Mr. Vignoles saw no reason to vary from the general

rules adopted hitherto by engineers for laying out railways, or from

his own former opinions and practice. But it was forced on him by

daily experience, that, to accommodate the public convenience, the

Post Office arrangements, and business in general, it was scarcely once

in twenty times that a locomotive engine went out with more than half

its load, and in general the engines were only worked up to two-fifths

of their full power : he was, therefore, conclusively of opinion, that it
was much cheaper to put on additional engines on extraordinary occa-

sions                         and on  such  principles railways should be  constructed through
                           ;

the more remote parts of the country, so as to be made in the cheapest

possible manner. The possession of all the profitable lines of railway
by private companies, was likely to throw on the government the onus

of constructing theirlines through such districts, in which case ceconomy

was desirable : or, if not to be constructed by the government, then

was ceconomy still more important ; for Scotland, Ireland, Wales, and

the western and eastern parts of England would be deficient in rail-

ways, until some such system as those now promulgated could be

brought to bear in the laying out lines of internal communication.

   On Extinguishing Fire in Steam Vessels. By Mr. Wallace.

   Mr. Wallace proposes to effect this by steam itself. The plan has
been some time before the public, and many successful experiments

made in the presence of scientific persons. Among the most important

--was the following, made on board the Leven steam-boat: On the

cabin floor, a space of ten feet by fourteen was covered with wet sand,
on which was laid iron plates, and on these a fire was kindled witli
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                195

about 4^ cwt. of very combustible materials, such as tar barrels, &c.

A hose thirty-four feet long, two and a half inches in diameter, ex-

tended from the boiler of the engine to the cabin, and when the fire

had been sufficiently kindled, so that the panes of glass in the windows

of the cabin began to crack by the heat, the steam was let in, and the

doors of the cabin shut. The fire was extinguished in about four

minutes. Several trials were made, and all with like success. On

another trial, a metal pipe of a greater diameter than the hose was con-

Anected with the steam-boiler, and extended into the cabin.  small

square hatch was cut in the deck immediately above the cabin, and

through this opening were lowered down into the cabin two moveable

grates, each containing a blazing fire, well kindled, and about 1 cwt. of
coals. The hatch on the deck and cabin doors were then shut, and the

steam let in, and in fifteen minutes the small hatch was opened, and

one of the grates hoisted up, when the whole mass of coal and cinders,

which had before formed a powerful fire, were found to be completely

extinguished. This experiment was repeated twice with equal success.

  On Timber Bridges of a large size, in special reference to Railways,
                             By Mr. Vignoles.

    Mr. Vignoles took a rapid view of the history of timber bridges,
tracing their first erection in Germany, then through the United States

of America, and back to Great Britain. He also described the differ-

ence between the principles of large bridges constructed with baulks
and half-baulks, and of timber arches formed of layers of plank laid
over each other, and fastened securely together, and with felt or other
means, to make the joints and beds wholly impervious to water. Mr.
Vignoles stated, that the first bridge on this principle in Great Britain
had been erected at some place in Scotland, by an ingenious mechanic
of that country, whose name he regretted not to be able to state. This

was many years since. The principle had been also made known, par-
ticularly of late years, by the timber viaducts erected under the direc-
tion of Messrs. Green and Son, of Newcastle-on-Tyne, who had built
several, and had designed more ; and Mr. Nicholas Wood, of Killing-
worth, was at this time erecting, for the Duke of Buccleugh, a timber
viaduct, of great height, and with large openings. Mr. Vignoles then

explained the peculiar applicability of timber bridges or viaducts to
the passage of deep ravines, so often met with in hilly and mountain-
ous districts, illustrating his remarks by diagrams. Instances had
occurred and might occur, where the whole of a line of railway, other-
wise highly desirable, would have to be abandoned, unless some ceco-
nomical construction were devised to surmount the difficulty : and
here the timber viaduct would most advantageously be introduced,

since many feet additional height in the level of the railway would add

but little to the expense. In reference to the expense, he stated, that it
was chiefly when extraordinary height and either one arch of great span
were required, or where a series of arches, of large openings, were

                                       o2
--196 REPORT 1840.

wanted or could be introduced, that the timber viaducts were the most
ceconomical. In ordinary heights of 50 or 60 feet, and with arches of
less span than 100 feet, and particularly in countries presenting facili-
ties for construction of stone, these latter would be undoubtedly prefer-
able ; but when the height of the construction became great, the great
expense for the centering for arches of masonry, and the multiplication
of the number of piers, in order to keep the span of the arches to a
moderate size, greatly increased the expense, and threw the balance
vastly in favour of the timber. Mr. Vignoles instanced the Ribble
Viaduct on the North Union Railway, which was about 50 feet high,
with five large arches, of 1 20 feet span, and had cost 60/. per lineal
foot ; whei'eas, in another place, a timber viaduct, of 140 feet high in
the centre, and averaging 100 feet high, with arches of 130 feet span,
and extending for a length of nearly 2000 feet, was proposed, which
would not exceed in price 20/. per lineal foot, the breadth of roadway
being, in both cases, 28 feet for a double line of rails. Mr. Vignoles
stated, that in extending lines of railway through the west of England
to the packet stations, through the mountains of Wales for a commu-
nication between London and Dublin, and through many parts of
Ireland, along the lines laid out by him for the Government Railway
 Commissioners, the timber viaducts would, from their cheapness,
 enable the works to be entered upon, which the great cost of stone
 would quite forbid.

         On the Safety Rotation Railway. By Mr. Hawkins.

    Mr. Hawkins exhibited a model of a railway and carriage, recently
 patented by Mr. Rangeley under the above title. It is an inversion
 of the ordinary construction, inasmuch as wheels are made to revolve
 on fixed bearings, placed in two parallel lines along the road; and
 the carriage, without wheels, is built upon a pair of running rails,
 carried along upon the peripheries of the train of wheels kept in
 revolution by steam-engines fixed at eveiy mile or two of the road.
 It is intended to have the wheels three feet diameter, and three feet
 apart, which will give 1760 wheels on a mile. They are to be driven
 by a succession of endless bands, one band in every case passing
 around two pullies attached to every two contiguous wheels. The

  carriages are designed to hold forty passengers each, with their lug-
 gage ; the whole, including the carriage, not to exceed five tons ; the
  running rails always to bear on eight or ten wheels, so that no wheel
  shall have to support more than about ten or twelve hundred weight.

  The wheels, therefore, need not weigh more than half a hundred

  weight each, to be sufficiently strong for supporting the carriage. It
  is found by experiment, that three ounces suspended from the peri-

 phery of such a wheel causes it to revolve. Any weight that sets a

  wheel in motion, will, if continued, cause the same to revolve with ac-
  celerated velocitj^, until the resistance of the atmosphere becomes equal
  to the accumulated force, after which a steady speed will be kept up.
  It is inferred from observation, that the wheels driven with a continued
           TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  197

force of tliree ounces each, would acquire a constant speed of about
thirty miles an hour. It is also ascertained fromexperiraent, that eight
pounds would draw a ton weight on four three-feet wheels running on
level rails, and thus that a force of forty pounds would draw the car-
riage. The following table is constructed from data, by which it is
found that seventeen-horse power of steam-engine is required to turn
each mile of wheels, and two-horse power to drive each carriage. The
power to turn the wheels is neither increased by additional carriages
nor by acclivities, each carriage added taking only two horse power
more to carry it along upon a level; and an acclivity of 1 in 180
doubling, 1 in 90 quadrupling, and 1 in 45 octupling only the tractive
force, without in any case requiring more than the seventeen-horse
power to turn the wheels.

Carriages
  every 2
 Minutes.
                            --

--198 REPORT 1840.

engines. Several experiments had been made at their request, and the

following was the result :

                                       Feet stroke.  Lifted one foot.

Wheal Vor, Borlase's engine     80 in. single 8-0    123,300,5931bs.
Fowey Consols, Austin's                              122,731,766
Wheal Darlington engine         80 ,,  90
Charlestown United Mines
Ditto Stamping engine           80 8-0               78,257,675
Wheal Vor, ditto
                                50,    7-5           55,912,392

                                32 ,, lifting 66 stamps ... 60,525,000

                                36 dble. lifting 72 stamps... 50,085,000

        On the Application of Native Alloy for Compass Pivots.
                      By Capt. E. J. Johnson, R.N.

   Among those portions of a ship's compass which most aiFect its work-

ing, are the pivots and caps on which the needle and card traverse, and
which, like the balance of a chronometer (but of far more importance
to the practical navigator), should not only be fitted with the most
scrupulous attention to accuracy, but be made of materials capable of
maintaining a given form under the trials to which such instruments
are necessarily exposed. Having examined a great variety of com-
passes which had been used at sea, wherein Captain Johnson noticed
that their pivots wei'e generally injured, and often by rust, he searched
numerous records of experiments for its prevention, and for improving
the quality of steel in other respects, by means of alloys of platinum,
palladium, silver, &c. (he alluded particularly to the experiments of
Dr. Faraday and Mr. Stoddart) ; and Mr. Pepys having obligingly
supplied Captain Johnson with specimens of similar kinds of steel to
those used by them, these examples, together with pivots made of the
ordinary kind of steel, and hardened and tempered in the manner re-
commended by eminent instrument makers, were placed in a frame for
experiment ; and to these again Captain Johnson added certain contri-
vances of his own, such as rubbing a steel pivot with sal-ammoniac,
then dipping it into zinc in a state of fusion, and afterwards changing
the extreme point. Some specimens he coated with a mixture of pow-
dered zinc, oil of tar, and turpentine; and others again were set in
zinc pillars, having small zinc caps, through which the extreme point
of the pivot protruded after the manner of black-lead through pencil
tubes. The whole of the specimens were then placed in a cellar, occa-
sionally exposed to the open air, examined from time to time during
more than half a year, and their several states, as respected oxidation,
duly registered. Without going into the details of this register, the
general result was, that not any of the kinds of steel pivots used in this
trial, except such as were coated with zinc, remained free from rust,
while the pivot made of the " native alloy" which is found with plati-
num, completely retained its brilliancy. Captain Johnson then applied
a more severe test to this singular substance, first, by placing sulphuric
acid, and then nitro-muriatic acid upon it ; but even under this trial he
could not observe that any change had been effected, although the
blade of a penknife, subjected to a similar process, was rusted to the
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  199

centre. Having enumerated the facts respecting the trials to which he
had subjected this curious material, Captain Johnson stated the con-
clusion that he had come to, namely, that it is sufficiently tough not to
break, and hard enough not to bend, under the trials to which it would
he fairly exposed ; and that being alike free from magnetic properties
and liability to oxidation from exposure to the atmosphere, it possesses
the requisite qualities for the pivot of the mai'iner's compass ; and he
could not but anticipate that, when fitted with a ruby cap to corre-
spond, it would be found greatly to improve the working. Besides the
application of this substance for compass pivots, Captain Johnson stated
that it might probably be found advantageous for other instruments,
and especially for the points of the axes of the dipping needles fitted,
on Mr. Fox's plan, for use on board ship.

  On the Fan-Blast as applied to Furnaces. By Mr. Fairbairn.

   In explaining the methods to be pursued in adapting furnaces to the
fan-blast, Mr. Fairbairn observed, that it was well known that its ap-
plication to the cupola for melting pig-iron was attended with the most
complete success; and the object of the present inquiry was to deter-
mine how far the same mode of blowing was applicable to furnaces on
a large scale, for the purpose of smelting ores. Objections had been
made to Mr. Fairbairn 's plan, on accouut of the very low pressure at
which the air is introduced into the furnace, and its insufficiency to
force it through a mass of material such as is contained in the furnaces

of this country, and which is from thirty to forty feet in depth. To
these objections Mr. Fairbairn replied, that the same had been urged

against the introduction of the fan-blast to the cupola ; that, in his
opinion, its efficiency was as the quantity discharged, and not the press-
ure, which regulated the passage of the air from the " twyres" to the

top of the furnace. The fan-blast, when supplied with large apertures

into the furnace, would, in his opinion, increase the process of calcina-
tion, effect a more equable temperature, and produce a superior quality
of metal. It appeared, therefore, of importance that the experiment

should be made ; and Mr. Fairbairn offered to superintend its intro-
duction, provided the proprietors of the numerous works in this coun-
try agreed with him in opinion, that the process would be advantage-
ous both as regards expense, and the improved quality of the metal

produced.

On the Combustion of Coal, and the Prevention of the Generation of

               Smoke in Furnaces. By Mr. Williams.

   Mr. Williams observed, that in treating on steam and the steam-

--engine, the subject divides itself into the following heads : 1st, the

management of fuel in the generation of heat ; 2nd, the management
of heat in the generation of steam ; 3rd, the management of steam in
the generation oi fuel. The first belongs to the furnace, the second
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;

--200 REPORT 1840.

to the boiler, and the thii-d to the engine. The main constituents of
coal are carbon and bitumen : the former is convertible, in the solid

state, to the purpose of generating heat ; the latter, in the gaseous
state alone, and to this latter is referable all that assumes the character

o{ yiame. The greater part of the practicable ceconomy in the use of

coal being connected with the combustion of the gases, this division of
the subject is peculiarly important. Having explained the nature of
combustion, Mr. Williams went on to show that all depended on bring-
ing the combustible and the air into contact in the proper quantities,
of the proper quality, and at the proper time, the proper place, and the

proper temperature. The conditions requiring attention were, 1st, the

quantity ; 2nd, the quality of the air admitted ; 3rd, the effecting their
incorporation or diffusion ; ^th, the time required for the difiusion
and 5th, the place in the furnace where this should take place.

    Mr. Williams exhibited several diagrams, representing the several
processes connected with the combustion of a single atom of coal-gas
or carburetted hydrogen, and also of bodies or masses of such gas.
The essential difference between the ordinary combustion of this gas
in combination with atmospheric air, and that resorted to by Mr.
Gurney in combination with pure oxygen, in what is called the Bude
light, was then explained. By these diagrams it was shown, 1st, what
was the precise quantity of air which the combustion of gas demanded ;
2nd, the degree or kind of mixture which combustion required ; and
3rd, that the unavoidable want of time in the furnace to effect this
degree of diffusion was the main impediment to perfect combustion,
and the cause of the generation of smoke.

    From the consideration of these details, the inference followed, that

--smoke, once generated in the furnace, cannot be burned that, in fact,

smoke thus once generated became a new fuel, demanding all the
conditions of other fuels. Mr. Williams dwelt much on the chemical
error of supposing that smoke or gas can be consumed by bringing it
into contact or connexion with a mass of incandescent fuel on the bars
 of a furnace ; that, in fact, this imaginary point of incandescence, or
 tlie contact with any combustible body at the temperature of incan-
 descence, was peculiarly to be avoided, instead of being, as hitherto,
 sought for ; and hence the failure of all those efforts to prevent or con-
 sume smoke. The great evil, then, of the present furnaces, was their
 construction, which did not admit the necessary extent of time (or its
 equivalent), time being essential to effect the perfect diffusion of mix-
 ture of the gas. Mr. Williams then proceeded to show, that unless
 some compensating power or means be obtained, and practically and
 ceconomically applied, we can never arrive at full combustion, or prevent
 the formation of smoke. This compensating power was shown to be
 obtainable by means of surface, and was well exemplified in the blow-
 pipe ; the remedy, then, for the want of time in the furnaces, may be
 met, by introducing the air in the most effective situation, by means of
 numerous small jets. Mr. Williams submitted the primary law to be
 this, viz. that no larger portions of air, that is, no greater number of
 atoms of air, should be introduced into any one locality than can be
             ----

             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                     201

absorbed and chemically combined with the atoms of the gas with
which they respectively come into contact. Again, that the effecting,
by means of this extended surface, this necessary diffusion was the
main condition which required attention, and not that of temperature.
Mr. Williams then exhibited the diagram of a boiler to be constructed
on the above principles, and stated that he had an experimental boiler
at work, which fully proved the accuracy of the principle.

Experimental Inquiry into the Strength of Iron with respect to its Ap-
  plication as a substitute for Wood in Ship-building. J3i/ Mr. Fair-

   bairn.

The number of vessels which of late years have been made entirely

of iron, and the probability of the greatly extended use of this metal in

ship- building, render it desirable to attain additional knowledge to
that we possess upon its resistance to the strains to which it is sub-

jected in this new application to the purposes above stated. To meet

the requirements for this purpose, the following series of experiments

-- Ahave been undertaken, and in a great measure completed : 1st. se-

ries of experiments on the strength of plates of iron, as regards a direct

tensile strain, both in direction of the fibre and across it. 2nd. On the

strength of the joints in plates riveted together, and on the best modes

of riveting. 3rd. On the strength of the various forms of ribs or fi-ames

used in ship-building, whether wholly composed of iron or of iron and

wood. 4th. On the resistance of plates to compression and concussion,

and on the power necessary to burst them. The experiments have
been superintended by Mr. Hodgkinson, to whom Mr. Fairbairn ac-

--knowledges himself indebted for many of the results in this research.
   On Strength of Iron Plates. In the experiments all the plates were

of uniform thickness ; their ends had plates riveted to them on both

sides, with holes bored through them perpendicular to the plate, in

order that they might be connected by both, with shackles to tear them

asunder in the middle, which was made narrower than the rest for that

purpose. The results were as follows :

Mean breaking weights in tons per square inch, when drawn in the

direction of the fibre :

                                    Tons.

             Yorkshire    plates ... 25-77 1
             Ditto        ditto ... 22-76

             Derbyshire ditto ... 21-68 )-Mean 22-52 tons.
             Shropshire ditto ... 22-83

             StafTordbhire ditto ... 19-56J

Mean breaking weights in tons per square inch, when drawn across

the fibre :

             Yorkshire plates .

             Ditto        ditto .

             Derbyshire ditto ...   18-65  ^Mean  23-04 tons.

             Shropshire ditto .

             Stafibrdshire ditto .
                                  ---- --

--202 REPORT 1840.

   The foregoing experiments show that there is little difference in the
strength of iron plates, whether drawn in the direction of the fibre or
across it. Mr. Fairbairn then gave the results of a long series of ex-
periments on the strength of riveted plates. The same description of
plates were here used as in the previous experiments ; they were, how-
ever, made wider than the former plates, in order that they might con-
tain (after the rivet-holes were punched out) the same area of cross

section as the previous ones.

   Mean breaiiing weights in lbs. from four plates of equal section,
riveted by a single row of rivets :

                                             20,1271

                        Jg'ggUMean 18,590 lbs,

                                             19^147]

   The mean breaking weights in lbs. from four plates of equal sections
to the last, but united with a double row of rivets :

       S22,699-1
                                                  Mean 22,258 lbs.
                        22,902 J

Whence the strength of single to double riveting is as 18,590:22,258.
But from a comparison of the results taken from the whole experiments,

the strength derived from the double riveted joints M'as to that of the
single as 25,030: 18,591, or as 1000 to 742. Comparing the strength
of plates alone with that of double and single riveted joints, Mr. Fair-

bairn gave their relative values as under :

For the strength of the plate                   100
For that of double riveted joints                70
                                                 56
And for the single riveted joints

Hence the strength of plates to that of the joints as the respective
numbers 100, 70 and 56, Mr. Fairbairn then gave a table containing
the dimensions and distances of rivets for joining together ditferent

thicknesses of plates.

Experimental Researches into the Strength of Pillars of Cast Iron, and

           other Materials*. By Eaton Hodgkinson, Esq,

   When it is considered to what extent pillars of iron and of timber

are used for the support of buildings, and reflect that there are no
satisfactory rules by which to measure the strength of pillars, it will
appear to be a matter of great importance to obtain rules by means of
experiment, and, if possible, the laws on which they depend.

  A feeling of this kind, heightened by the remarks of Dr. Robison,

in his Mechanical Philosophy, vol. i., and the strongly-expressed opi-

nion of our want of such knowledge by Mr. Barlow, led me to wish to
undertake the inquiry. I mentioned the matter, therefore, to my friend

    * This communication is an abstract of a paper read before the Royal
Society a short time previous to the meeting.
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                               203

Mr. Fairbairn, who, with that liberality which I have experienced from
him on former occasions, at once put every means of a full investiga-

tion into my hands. He expressed a wish that I should extend the

inquiry to pillars of various kinds, ancient as well as modern, and leave
no part of the subject I undertook till I had obtained full satisfaction
upon it from experiment. Thus freed from restraint, I endeavoured

to forget the expense I put my friend to, in my wish to acquire the

requisite information.

   The experiments are contained in thirteen tables, as below.

                        Cast Iron.

Table 1. Solid uniform cylindrical pillars, with rounded ends      55

,, 2. Ditto             ditto       with flat ends                 51

,, 3. Solid uniform square pillars, with rounded ends              7

,, 4. Solid uniform cylindrical pillars, with discs                12

,, 5. Ditto   ditto            with ends rounded, round- "1 ,,,,

                  ed and flat, and both ends flat               J
,, 6. Solid cylindrical pillars, enlarged middle, rounded ends       7

,, 7.  Ditto  ditto                 discs on ends                   4
                                                                   19
,, 8. Hollow uniform cylinders, rounded ends

,, 9. Hollow uniform cylinders, flat ends                          11

,, 10. Short hollow uniform pillars, flat ends                     13

,, 11, Pillars, hollow and solid, of various forms, and diflJerent "1 ,,,

       modes of fixing                                          j

                          Wrought Iron and Steel.                  30

,, 12. Uniform cylindrical pillars of these metals

                                         Wood.                     17

,, 13. Square pillars of oak, and other rectangular forms

                                                                                                                 259

   The pillars, during the experiments, were placed vertically, resting
upon a flat, smooth plate of hardened steel, laid upon a cast-iron shelf,
made very strong, and lying horizontal. The pressure was communi-
cated to the upper end of the pillar by means of a strong lever acting
upon a bolt of hardened steel, 2^ inches diameter, and about a foot
long, kept vertical by being made to pass through a hole bored in
a deep mass of cast-iron ; the hole being so turned as just to let the
bolt slide easily through without lateral play. The top of the bolt was
hemispherical, that the pressure from the lever might act through its
axis ; and the bottom was turned flat to rest upon the pillar. The
bottom of this bolt, and the shelf on which the pillar stood, were
necessarily kept parallel to each other ; for the mass through which
the bolt passed, and that on which the shelf rested, were parts of the
same large case of iron, cast in one piece, and so formed as to admit

shelves at various heights for breaking pillars of different lengths.

The case had three of its four sides closed ; circular apertures were,
however, made through them, that the experimenter might observe the

pillar without danger.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

--204 REPORT 1840.

                                                Experiments.

   With a view to develope the laws connecting the strength of cast-
iron pillars with their dimensions, they were broken of various lengths,
from five feet to one inch, and the diameters varied from half an inch
to two inches, in solid pillars; and in hollow ones the length was

Myincreased to seven feet six inches, and the diameter to S\ inches.

first object was to supply the deficiencies of Euler's theory of the
strength of pillars *, if it should appear capable of being rendered
practically useful; and, if not, to endeavour to adapt the experi-
ments so as to lead to useful results. As the results of the experi-
ments were intended to be compared together, it was desirable that
all the pillars of cast iron should be from one species of metal

and the description chosen was a Yorkshire iron, the Low Moor,
No. 3. The pillars were mostly made cylindrical, as that seemed a

more convenient form in experiments of this kind than the square; for
square pillars generally break anglewise. The experiments in the first
table were made on solid uniform pillars, rounded at the ends, that the
force might pass along the axis ; and the metal was cast in dry sand, to
obtain, as far as possible, uniformity in its texture. In the second
table the pillars were uniform and cylindrical, as before, but had their
ends flat and at right angles to the axis. In this table the variety of
the lengths and diameters of the pillars was considerable ; and in the
lengths it was greater than in the former table. The pillars were from
the same models as before, but were cast in green (moist) sand.

                        Resultsfrom the \st and Ind Tables.

    1st. In all long pillars of the same dimensions, the resistance to
crushing by flexure is about three times greater when the ends of the
pillars are flat, than when they are rounded.

    2nd. The strength of a pillar, with one end round and the other flat,
is the arithmetical mean between that of a pillar of the same dimen-
sions with both ends round, and one with both ends flat. Thus, of
three cylindrical pillars, all of the same length and diameter, the first
having both its ends rounded, the second with one end rounded and
one fiat, and the third with both ends flat, the strengths are as 1 , 2, 3

nearly.

  A3rd. long uniform cast-iron pillar, with its ends firmly fixed, whe-

ther by means of discs or otherwise, has the same power to resist
breaking as a pillar of the same diameter, and half the length, with the
ends rounded or turned so that the force would pass through the axis.

    4th. The experiments in Tables 6. and 7. show that some additional
strength is given to a pillar by enlarging its diameter in the middle
part ; this inci'ease does not, however, appear to be more than one-

seventh or one-eighth of the breaking weight.

    5th. The index of the power of the diameter to which the strength
of long pillars with rounded ends is proportional, is 3-76 nearly, and
3*55 in those with flat ends, as appeared from the results of a great

                                            * Berlin Memoirs, 1757.
                                                   .

         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                      205

number of experiments ; or the strength of both may be taken as the
3*6 power of the diameter nearly.

   6th. In pillars of the same thickness the strength is inversely propor-
tional to the 1*7 power of the length nearly.

   Thus the strength of a solid pillar with rounded ends, the diameter

                                                                          J3.6

of which is rf, and the length I, is as y-7- ·

The absolute strengths of solid pillars, as appeared from the experi-

ments, are nearly as below.

In pillars with rounded ends,

         = --Strength in tons
                                            ^3.6
                               14"9 -,

In pillars with flat ends,

         =Strength in tons                    ^3.6

                               44''16 --j^.

     In hollow pillars nearly the same laws were found to obtain ; thus, if

D and d be the external and internal diameters of a pillar, whose

 length is I, the strength of a hollow jjillar, of which the ends were

-moveable (as in the connecting rod of a steam-engine), would be ex-

 pressed by the formula below.

         =Strength in tons 13 x                       ·

In solid pillars, whose ends are flat, we had from experiment as

before,

         =Strength in tons     44''3 x          1)3.0 J3.6

                                                ^

   The formula above apply to all pillars whose length is not less than

about thirty times the external diameter ; for pillars shorter than this,
it is necessary to have recourse to another formula, which has been
investigated by the author*.

                                            Similar Pillars.

   In similar pillars, or those whose length is to the diameter in a constant
proportion, the strength is nearly as the square of the diameter, or of
any other linear dimension ; or in other words, the strength is nearly
as the area of the transverse section.

   In hollow pillars, of greater diameter at one end than the other,
or in the middle than at the ends (Table 11.), it was not found that any
additional strength was obtained over that of cylindrical pillars.

   The strength of a pillar, in the form of the connecting rod of a
steam-engine, was found to be very small, perhaps not more than half
the strength that the same metal would have given if cast in the form

of a uniform hollow cylinder.

* In this case the formula for the strength is     .where 6 is the breaking

weight of the pillar, as calculated according to the previous formula for long

=flexible pillars ; and c the force which would crush a pillar of the same sec-

tion without flexure.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;

--206 REPORT 1840.

  A pillar irregularly fixed, so that the pressure would be in the direc-

tion of the diagonal, is reduced to one-third of its strength. Pillars
fixed at one end and moveable at the other, as in those flat at one end
and rounded at the other, break at one-third of the length from the move-
able end ; therefore, to economize the metal, they should be rendered
stronger there than in other parts.

                       Long-continued Pressure on Pillars.
   To determine the effect of a load laying constantly upon a pillar,
Mr. Fairbairn had, at the writer's suggestion, four pillars cast, all of
the same length and diameter ; the first was loaded with 4 cwt.,
the second with 7 cwt., the third with 10 cwt., and the fourth with
13 cwt. ; this last was loaded with -SJ-^ of what had previously broken
a pillar of the same dimensions, when the weight was carefully laid on
without loss of time. The pillar loaded with the 13 cwt. bore the
weight between five and six months, and then broke.

                                 General Properties of Pillars.
   In the pillars of wrought iron and steel, in Table 12, and in those of
timber in Table 13, the same laws, with respect to rounded and flat
ends, were found to obtain, as had been shown to exist in cast-iron.

   Of rectangular pillars of timber, it was proved experimentally that
the pillar of greatest strength of the same material is a square.

   In square pillars of oak, with flat ends, the strength was expressed
by this formula,

                                   = d*

                            Strength in tons 69 x -7-

where d is the side of the square, and I the length, as before.

     Comparative Strengths of Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Steel and

                                                     Timber.

   It resulted from the experiments upon long pillars of the same di-
mensions, but of different materials, that if we call the strength of cast
iron 1000, we shall have for wrought iron 1745, cast steel 2518,
Dantzic oak 108*8, red deal 78'5.

             On a Revolving Balance. By 3Ir. Lothian.

   The opposing arms of this balance are curved, being formed of two
spirals, the one situated vertically over the other, and both bending
round a common centre of movement, which is placed in the pale of
the upper curve. The spirals diverge from each other near their
origin, but approach and merge together at their extremes, and thus
form one continuous curve, which is grooved on its circumference.

--The cords or chains which suspend the receiving scale and counter-

poise act against each other in this groove the weight of the scale,
when hanging from a lengthened radiant of the upper spiral, being in
equilibrio with the greater weight of the counterpoise when hanging
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  207

from a shorter radiant of the lower one. When this state of rest is

disturbed by loading the scale the balance moves round, and, in the
progress of its revolution, the opposite eccentricities of the spirals com-
bine in changing the ratio of the leverage, and thus originate a self-
adjusting power, by which the loads of both cords are mutually moved
into equilibrium. The receiving scale thus commences with greater,

--and ends with less mechanical power than the counterpoise a circum-

stance which is in harmony with the purpose of employing an un-
changing weight to measure others both less and greater than itself;
while the principle is one which concentrates the power and abridges
the size of the machine. In order, however, that the total amount of
adjusting power thus generally obtained may be equally drawn upon
and advantageously distributed throughout the movement of the ba-
lance, a definite relation is established between the weight of the coun-
terpoise and the rates at which the accumulating weight of the scale
and the leverage of the lower spiral increase. The leverage of the
upper spiral, being derived from these ascertained conditions, is made
to preserve a rate of decrease which accords with the previously regu-

lated increase in the leverage of the lower cui've ; while both spirals
have their precise form determined by the additional consideration of
the direction in which the cords exert their power on the circumference
of the balance. In their calculated formation the two spirals are thus
dependent on and related to each other, while together they are com-
ponent parts of one continuous curve, in which the mutual and com-

bined changes of leverage are made to follow an equable, as well as a
general progressive gradation ; by which means the balance is moved
through equal angles by equal weights. In machines intended for
weights of considerable amount, the balance is made to revolve about
an axis, which is itself supported, a little above its centre, on knife-
edge rests, so as to combine the movement of the revolving balance

--with the libration of the common one the coincidence of a pointer

from the axis with the ordinary pointer of the machine showing when
the indication is practically unaflPected by friction. In machines for
weights of still greater magnitude, the articles to be weighed are made
to act, in part, as their own counterpoise, by adopting differential
curves to diminish the descending power of the scale ; by which a com-
paratively small counterpoise is made to adjust the unsupported differ-
ence of weights greatly exceeding itself.

                   On a Water Filter. By Mr, Thom.

  Mr. Thom described a self-cleaning filter, similar to those which

have been in use on a large scale at Greenock for about thirteen, and
at Paisley for three years, and which purify water, not only in which

mud and other impurities are mixed or merely suspended, but which

also free moss-water of its colour and taste, thereby rendering it, in
both respects, similar to spring-water. The substance which pro-
duces this effect is a species of trap-rock or amygdaloid, very com-
--208 REPORT 1840.

mon on the hills above Greenock, and in other places in Scotland ; and
Mr. Thom was led to adopt it from having seen its effect in nature

in purifying dark moss-water which filtered through it.

   In forming the filters at Greenock, in 1827, Mr. Thom proved the
effect of this substance, by breaking down the rock to the size of small

peas and less, and mixing this with fine sharp sand, and then forming the
filtering medium of the mixture. The fine sand is composed of quartz,
reduced to powder by the action of the sea, &c. This sand keeps the
filtering medium longer open than it would be without it, and is better
adapted for the self-cleaning process than any other kind of sand, or
than the pounded rock by itself.

   The water is filtered by passing directly downwards through the
media ; the media are in their turn cleaned by passing the water
through them upwards. On the large scale it is proper to do this
once a week ; but the whole process of cleaning only requires about an
hour's time, and to accomplish this it is only necessary to shut and
open two stop-cocks alternately, and allow the water time to carry up
any impurities that may be obstructing the operation ; and these
being always found very near the surface, the operation is quickened
by moving the sand there gently with a fine rake, after the upward
current has continued for a few minutes. If the surface is disturbed
while the current is passing downwards, it does injury by sending the
impurities further down. In Greenock the filtering bed is made con-

siderably deeper than at Paisley, the Mater at the latter place being

naturally less impure than at the former. The Paisley filter is, there-
fore, much cheaper in the construction than those at Greenock ; and
this 07ie filter, at an expense considerably under lOOOZ, produces an
abundant supply of fine water for 30,000 inhabitants.

               On a Smoke Protector. By Mr. Wallace.

      On an Improved Working Barrelfor use in sinking Pits, ^c.
                           By Matthias Dunn.

    The improvement here referred to consists in attaching a brancli side
 pipe of about one-third the diameter of the working barrel, extending
 from above to below the space traversed by the bucket, in which pipe
 is inserted a cock, whereby to regulate the discharge of water from the
 column above into the space below. It is peculiarly fitted to the exi-
 gencies of sinking pits, where the Avater is required to be kept so low
 in the bottom as to enable the sumping to be carried forward, and in
 the effecting of which air is constantly liable to be drawn into the
 windbore at the snoreholes, which has a tendency to destroy the equi-
 librium of the engine and cause great and continual damage. The
 cock is manoeuvred by the sinkers in the bottom of the pit by means
 of an iron rod, letting back so much water into the space between the
 bucket and clack as just to drain the feeders and nothing more, and
 by having a constant eye to it this is found to be exactly effected.
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                 209

             On a Machine Regulator. By Mr. Rayners.

   The Regulator has for its primary object the alteration or regulation
of the velocity of any surface in rotary motion ; this method of adjust-
ing speed is presumed to be applicable to any combination of machinery
where such variation is required, and it may be safely asserted that this
controling power has never yet been perfectly attained. The in-
ventors conceive the " Regulator" to have fully supplied this Avant.

   From the earliest time of machine spinning, it has been an object to

adjust, with precision, the " drag " on the bobbin, so as to be equally able
to wind on its cylinder the finest yarns and rovings without injurious
strain, and to give the required tension to the stronger yarns and threads.
In the usual method of spinning by the water-frame or throstle, the
bobbin- is carried round by the action of the spindle on its interior sur-
face, and washers of cloth, as well as other means, have been adopted
to give a more effectual drag, by the friction of surfaces ; viewing the
practical operation of the drag as thus applied, the result will obvi-
ously be uncertain, irregular and imperfect, as the manufacture of the
finer and softer yarns and rovings fully illustrates.

   The Regulator affords the means of the exact adjustment of the
" drag" or speed of the bobbin, by which the most delicate yarns or
rovings can be taken up or laid on in successive coils as the operation
proceeds. The Regulator, when well constructed, will give a most
exact, minute and regular strain, and any inferior quantity or effect
may be secured with the utmost facility. The change-wheel at the
end of the screw places the " drag" completely at the control of the

spinner.

   By means of a model and sectional drawing the principle of the

machine was illustrated.

On the Drainage of Railway Embankments and Slopes.

                      By Mr. Smith.

       On Timber Bridges. By Mr. Smith.

       On Propelling Boats on Canals. By Mr. Smith.

Mr. Smith proposed that the steam power in the boat should drive

two large wheels, of thirty feet diameter, which should bite the ground

at the bottom of the canal. He exhibited a working model on this

principle, which succeeded on the small scale ; and he stated that he
had tried it on a larger scale with the power of four men, and it had

also succeeded. The wheels might be either on each side of the boat,

as in the model, with a provision for a play of three or four feet, that

they might accommodate themselves to inequalities at the bottom of

the canal ; or there might be one wheel in the centre of the boat, if

constructed on the twin principle.

1840.  p
210 REPORT-- 1840.

         On Mr. BakewelFs Anglemeter. By Mr. J. Hawkins.

   The instrument was exhibited and explained by Mr. Hawkins, and
its use in measuring the angle of dip of the strata, joint planes, &c.,

pointed out.

        0« a New Canal Lock. By Mr. Smith, of Deanston.

   The advantages of this invention he stated to be, that the descent

--in each lock would not be more than twelve to eighteen inches that

--the locks were opened by the passage of the vessels that the locks shut

-- --of themselves that the vessels did not require to stop and that little

or no water was lost. The lock-gate is hinged at the bottom ; the
upper portion, which is round, floats at the level of the higher part of
the water, and is pressed down by the bow of the vessel in passing,
and wlien it has passed, rises to its former position.

     On Raising Water from Low Lands. By Mr. Fairbairn.

   The Commissioners for draining the Lake of Haarlem having applied
to Mr. Fairbairn on the subject, he proposed a method where the water

is raised by a large scoop, which rises on the descent of a weight, whicii
weight is raised by steam power, on the Cornish principle. It is calcu-
lated to raise seventeen tons at each stroke. Mr, Fairbairn exlribited
a model in illustration.

   Mr. Hodgkinson exhibited Mr. Clegg's new Safety Lamp, with the
protecting wire-gauze of a Davy Lamp. It is surrounded by a trian-

gular frame M-ith bull's-eye glasses.

            On an Improved Rain Gauge. By Mr. Thom.

   It consists of a cylinder two feet long and seven inches in diameter,
sunk in the earth till the mouth of its funnel (which receives the rain)
is on a level with the ground surrounding it. Into this cylinder is put
a float, with a scale or graduated rod attached to it, which will move
up or down as the water rises or falls in the cylinder. There is a thin
brass bar fixed within the funnel, about half an inch under its mouth,
·with an aperture in the middle just large enough to allow the scale to
move easily through it. The upper side of this cross bar is brought to
a fine edge, so as to cut but not obstruct tlie drops which may alight
on it. There is an aperture also in the bottom of the funnel, through
which the water must pass into the cylinder, and through which also
the scale must move ; but this aperture requires to be made no larger
than just to permit the scale to move through it freely. The cj'linder
is firmly fixed in a large flat stone, level with the surface of the ground ;
in the stone a groove is cut round the gauge to guai'd it from receiving
rain which may fall on the stone. The adjustment to zero is performed
in the usual way.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                 211

         On a New Rain Gauge. By Mr. James Johnston.

   Mr. Johnston described a new rain gauge, so constructed that the
receiving funnel or orifice at which the rain enters is always kept at
right angles to the falling rain. By the action of the wind on a large
vane, the whole gauge is turned round on a pivot, until the front of the
gauge faces the quarter from whence the wind blows ; and by the
action of the wind on another vane attached to the receiving funnel,
the mouth of the funnel is moved from a horizontal towards a perpen-
dicular position, according to the strength of the wind. The receiving
funnel and vane attached to it are balanced with counterpoise weights,
in such a manner that the wind, in moving them, has as much weight
to remove from a perpendicular position, in proportion to their bulk,
as it has when moving an ordinary-sized drop of rain fi-om the same
position ; by this means the mouth of the gauge is kept at right angles

to the falling rain.

   Mr. Sanders exhibited a portrait produced from an engraving done

by a machine invented by Mr. W. West of Bristol, being a combina-

tion of circular and straight line engraving.

Mr. Clarke exhibited a large Electro-Magnet.

   Mr. Milne gave an account of a High-Pressure Filter for domestic

purposes.

      On an Improved Life-Boat. By the Rev. Dr. Paterson.

   He called it a Riddle Life-Boat, because the bottom is like a riddle.
The sides of the boat consist each of a hollow elliptical tube, to be
made of sheet-iron, and from this it has all its buoyancy, which is un-

affected by any influx of water. This boat, he said, was light, easily
propelled, and drew only a foot or two of water ; and besides being
used for reaching vessels in distress, or carrying passengers to steam-

--boats, it might be itself carried as a ship's boat to be ready for use in

danger or difficult landing.

   M. le Comte de Lille explained his method of laying down Wood

Pavement, as exemplified at Whitehall.

  On certain Improvements on Locomotive and other Engine Boilers.

                          By Mr. Hawthorn.

   The object of this improvement is to prevent what is technically
called " priming," to heat the steam on its passage to the cylinder, and

                                       p2
--212 REPORT 1840.

to employ return tubes, as well as direct tubes, for heating the water.
The advantages ai-e said to be, that no water is carried with the steam
into the cylinder, and a saving of fuel, through the arrangement of the
tubes, from 30 to 40 per cent.

On WrougJU-Iron Wheels for Locomotive Engines. By Mr. Grime.

    In this communication Mr. Grime detailed the construction, and

 discussed the advantages, of an entire wrought-iron wheel, suitable for
engines, tenders, &c., for which he has obtained a patent.

Account of a Railway Wheel with Wood Tyre. By Mr. Dircks.

The construction of the wheel will be understood by imagining

an ordinary spoked wheel, but with a deep-cAawwe/Z-erf tyre. In this

channel are inserted blocks of African oak, measuring about 'i x 3^
inches, prepared by filling the pores with such unctuous preparations

as counteract the eifects of capillary attraction in regard to wet or

damp. The blocks are cut so as to fit very exactly, with the grain

placed vertically throughout, forming a kind of wooden tyre. There
are about thirty blocks of wood round each wheel, where they are re-

tained in their places by bolts, the two sides of the channel having cor-

responding holes drilled through them for this purpose ; each block of
wood is thus fastened by one or two bolts, which are afterwards Avell

ri vetted. After being so fitted, the wheel is put into a lathe, and
turned in the ordinary manner of turning iron tyres, when it acquires
all the appearance of a common railway wheel, but with an outer
wooden rim, and the flange only of iron. Mr. Dircks proposes the use

of either hard or soft woods, and of various chemical preparations to

prevent the admission of water into the pores of the wood : he also

Acontemplates the using of wood well compressed.  wheel was ex-

hibited, one of a set which had been in use for two months, carrying

five tons daily.

    On a new Step-Rail, and Railway Carriages. By Mr. Coles.

   Mr. Coles proposed to introduce friction wheels ; and that, except-
ing the first and last carriage in the train, the carriages should run on

two wheels. He also proposes a step-rail at the curves or bends, to

have the effect of reducing them to cants. Mr. Coles described
minutely the plan thus noticed, and discussed the expected advantages.

On an Improvement on the Air-Pump. By Mr. Lang.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                  213

       On Safety- Valvesfor Steam Boilers. By Mr. Gulline.

   The author endeavoured to prove that the safety-valves at present
in use are not large enough, and proposed a construction of boiler and
valve, such that the whole top of the boiler should in fact be constituted
a safety-valve.

             On a Gas Regulator. By Mr. James Milne.

   By means of this invention the length of the flames is equalized,

notwithstanding the variations of pressure that occur, and a consider-
able saving in the consumption of gas is effected.

    Mr. Alexander gave an explanation of his Electro-Magnetic Tele-
graph.

   Mr. Dunn explained " Ponton's Electro-Magnetic Telegraph," which

instrument was exhibited in the model-room.

On a New Hydraulic Apparatus. By Mr. Jeffrey.

It comprised an improvement on the ancient endless chain of

buckets, which the author considers of Egyptian origin. This appa-

ratus has hitherto never acquired the value it admits of, on account of

--a defect having remained in its construction, opposed to geometrical

principle the buckets which bring up the water being fixed outside

instead of within the rope. The effect of this is such an acceleration

of the bucket, when it is carried round the wheel at top, as causes it to
overtake the water and carry much of it down again. But by placing

the buckets on the centre side of the ropes, that is, within them, the

bucket when passing round the wheel, being very near the centre, is

much retarded, and the momentum of the water causes it to ride out of

Athe bucket very effectually into the trough.  peculiarity in the form

of the bucket also prevents the spilling of the water in cases where the

motion is very slow.

   Mr. Jeffreys described a fire-grate, exhibited in the model-room,
which may be placed, he said, so far forwards as to be quite out of the
chimney, and radiate a two-fold quantity of heat into the apartment,
and yet there shall be no tendency to send smoke into the room. By
an addition, in accordance with the same principle, fresh air is intro-
duced, comfortably warmed before it enters the room.

   Mr. Fairbairn described " Hall's Patent Hydraulic Belt for Raisin^g
Water."
--214 REPORT J 840.

     On Warming and Ventilating Buildings. By Mr. Ritchie.

   The principal object of this paper was to call the attention of ar-

chitects to the construction of houses, with a view to a better provision

for heating and ventilation. The author described the method adopted
by Sir J. Robison, whose house is warmed by a large supply of air
heated to 70°, M'hich is allowed to issue directly into the lobby and
staircase, which it heats to 60° even in the coldest weather. This
heated air is allowed to enter the sitting rooms freely by concealed
apertures over the doors, and the vitiated air is carried off through
openings in the ceilings by separate flues in each room.

    Sir John Robison stated that, with the apparatus in his house, he
can keep his staircase at a temperature of from 58° to 62°, when the
current of heated air was only 64° as it issued from the apparatus, and
that the additional expense caused by his provision for ventilation did
not exceed 20/.

      On Dennett's Rockets for preserving Lives from, Shipwreck.
                                By Mr. Grime.

   On the subject of this invention various documents were presented,

and a letter was read from Captain Denham, stating that the range of
these rockets exceeded that of the mortar by 100 yards, the range of
the rockets being about 350 yards, while that of the mortar was but
about 250.
        [ 215 ]

INDEX I.

REPORTS ON THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

OBJECTS and rules of the Associa-           British Museum, enlarged exhibitions
                                               in illustration of fossil conchology
     tion, V.
                                               at the, 443.
Officers and Council, viii.
Places of Meeting and Officers from         Coelum Australe Stelliferum, reduction
                                                of Lacaille's stars in the, 427.
   commencement, ix.
Table of Council from commence-             Clouds, 111.
                                            Conchology,fossil, enlarged exhibitions
    ment, X.
Officers of the Glasgow Sectional               in illustration of, at the British

    Committees, xii.                           Museum, 443.
Corresponding Members, xiii.
Treasurer's Account, xiv.                   Cartilaginei, 397.
Reports, Researches, and Desiderata,
                                            Edinburgh, on the action of Osier's
    &c., xvi.                                  anemometer at, 435.

Recommendations for additional Re-          Electricity, atmospherical, 116.
   ports and Researches in Science,
                                                   , common, phsenomena of polar-
     xxiii.
                                                ization caused by, 212.
Synopsis of money grants, xxxii.            Electro-chemistry, researches in, 209.
Arrangement of the General Evening          Equinoxes and solstices, reduction of

    Meetings, xxxiv.                           meteorological observations made at
Address of the General Secretaries,
                                                the, 423.
    XXXV.

Airy (G. B.) on the reductions of the       Farquharson (Rev. J.) on the forma-
   Greenwich Lunar and Planetary                tion of ice, 20.
    Observations, 423.
                                            Forbes (Prof.) on meteorology, 37.
Anemometer, Prof. Whewell's, 157.                    on the transmission and refrac-
        , self-registering, on the, 321.
        , action of Osier's, at Edinburgh,      tion of heat, 7.

    435.                                            and M. Melloni, on the analo-
Amphibia, 384.                                 gies of light and heat, 10,
Animal and vegetable substances, pre-
                                                            ; nevvphsenomena of trans-
    servation of, 421.
Apodes, 395.                                    mission, 11.
Atmospheric pressure, 85.                            on the polarization of heat, 21.
Aurora Borealis, 120.                                on the circular and elliptical po-
Aves, 364.
                                               larization of heat, 23 ; further re-
Barometrical observations, 352.                 searches, 26.
Brewster (Sir D.), report on the hourly
                                                     on the unequal polarizability of
    meteorological observations kept at        heat from different sources, 30.
   Inverness and Kingussie, 349.
                                                     on the intensity of reflected

                                              heat, 32.

                                                   , suggestions for the advancement
                                                of meteorological science, 143.
                                                                                                                  ;

216

Foibes (Prof.) on the temperafure and                                                                                  Lophobranchi, 396.
   conducting power of different strata,                                                                               Lunar observations, 425.
    434.                                                                                                               Lunar and planetary observations,

Fossil reptiles, British, 444.                                                                                            reduction of the Greenwich, 423.
                                                                                                                       Lungs and air-tubes, physiology of
Fox (R. Were), observations on sub-
                                                                                                                           the, 411.
    terranean temperature, 309.

Oeography, 443.                                                                                                        Magnetism, terrestrial, scientific co-
Geology, 443.                                                                                                              operation of the Association in the
                                                                                                                           researches relative to, 427.
Harris (Mr. W. Snow) on Prof. Whe-
                                                                                                                       Mallet (Robert) on the action of air
well's anemometer, 157.                                                                                                   and water upon iron, 221.

Heart, motions and sounds of the, 163.                                                                                 Mammalia, 355.

Heat, transmission and refraction of,                                                                                           aquatica, 362.
                                                                                                                       Mechanical science, 446.
2,1.                                                                                                                   Melloni (M.) on the transmission and

     , reflexion of, 10 ; analogies of                                                                                     refraction of heat, 2.
                                                                                                                                on the reflexion of heat, 10.
light with, 10; radiation of, 14; re-                                                                                         , and Prof. Forbes, on the analo-

pulsive power of, 20 polarization                                                                                         gies of heat and light, 10.
                                                                                                                    ;                 , new phaenomena of trans-

of, 21                              circular  and  elliptical                                                     po-      mission, 11.
                                 ;                                                                                            , polarization of heat from differ-

larization of, 23 polarization of                                                                                          ent sources, 25.
                                                                                              ;                               , equal polarizability of heat from

from difl'ex-ent sources, 25, 28.                                                                                          different sources, 28.
                                                                                                                       Meteorological observations, hourly,
     ,  radiant, 1                  ;         unpolarized, 2                                                      po-
                                                                                                               ;          kept at Inverness and Kingussie,
                                                                                                                           349.
larized, 21.
                                                                                                                              made at the equinoxes and sol-
        , intensity of reflected, 32.
                                                                                                                           stices, reduction of, 423.
Henslow (Rev. J. S.) on the preserva-                                                                                  Meteorology, report on, 37.

tion of animal and vegetable sub-                                                                                              , optical, 120.
                                                                                                                       Meteors, 117.
stances, 421.
                                                                                                                       Murchison (R. I.), and Major Edward
Herschel (Sir J.) on the reduction of                                                                                      Sabine, their address, xxxv.

meteorological observations made at

the equinoxes and solstices, 432.

Histoire Celeste, reduction of the stars

    in the, 426.

Human race, varieties of the, 447.

Hudson (Dr.) on the radiation of

heat, 15.

Humidity, 95.

Ice, formation of, 20.                                                                                                 Natural History, 444.

Ireland, fauna of, 353.                                                                                                Osier (A. Follett) on the observations
                                                                                                                           recorded duriug the years 1837,
Iron, action of air and water upon,                                                                                        1838, 1839, 1840, by the self-regis-
                                                                                                                          tering anemometer erected at the
221                      of paints and        varnishes upon,                                                              Philosophical Institution, Birming-
                      ;                                                                                                   ham, 321.

240.                                                                                                                   Owen (Prof.) on British Fossil Rep-

    , cast, in simple contact with zinc                                                                                    tiles, 443.
immersed in fresh water, 248, 250
                                                                                                                       Pectinibranchii, S84.
in sea water, 249.                                                                                                     Pisces, 384.
                                                                                                                       Planets, 424.
    , wrought, in simple contact with                                                                                  Powell (Rev. Baden) on the recent
zinc immersed in fresh water, 250.
                                                                                                                           progress of discovery relative to ra-
   , zinked, immersed in sea water,                                                                                        diant heat, 1.
251.
                                                                                                                              , repulsive power of heat, 20.
    , zinked surface necessary to pro-

tect, when immersed in sea water,

252.

    , in metallic contact with zinc
immersed in fresh water, 252, 254;

in sea water, 254.
INDEX II.                                      217

Provisional reports and notices, 423.          Strata, temperature and conducting
                                                   power of different, 434.
Radiation, influence of surface and
                                               Subbrachiales, 393.
    colour on, 17.
Rain, 111.                                     Temperature, 42.
Reptiles, British fossil, 443.                         , report on subterranean, 309.
Reptilia, 383.
Robison (Sir. J.), and J. S. Russell,          Thompson (Wm.), report on the

    on waves, 441.                                 fauna of Ireland : div. Vertebrata,
Royal Astronomical Society's cata-                 353.
                                               Tide observations, discussion of, appli-
    logue of stars, extension of the, 425.
                                                  cation of a portion of the money
Sabine (Major Edward), and R. I.                   grant voted in 1839 for, 436.
    Murchison, their address, xxxv.            Transmission, new phsenomena of, 11,

Salt, singular property possessed by           Vegetable substances, preservation of,
                                                   421.
     rock, 3.
Schonbein (Prof), researches in elec-          Vertebrata, 358.

    tro-chemistry, 209.                        Waves, 441.
Scientific memoirs, on the translation         Whewell's (Rev. W.) anemometer,

    of foreign, 446.                               report on, 157.
Stark (Dr.), and Prof Bache, influence
                                               Whewell (Rev.W.) on the application
    ofsurface and colouron radiation, 17.         of a money grant voted in 1839, for
Stars, nomenclature of the, committee              discussion of tide observations, 436.

    for revising the, 426.                     Williams (Dr. C. J. B.) on the phy-
Statistics, 446.                                  siology of the lungs and air-tubes,
Steel, cast, exposed in simple contact             411.

   with zinc immersed in fresh water,          Wind, 102, 352.
   251 ; in sea water, ib.

             INDEX II.

                                          TO

MISCELLANEOUS COMMUNICATIONS TO THE

                            SECTIONS.

Acid, carbonic, thrown off" from the           Agassiz (Prof) on glaciers and boul-
                                                    ders in Switzerland, 113.
    lungs, 87.                                           on the development of the fish
        , fat, on a new, 76.                       in the egg, 129.

       , spiroilous and saliculous, on                  on animals found in red snow,
    the identity of, 78.                           143.

       , sulphuric, tests for, when tin-own    Air, effects of, when injected into the
    on the person, 84.
                                                   veins, 157.
        , uric, pre-existence of urea in, 73.  Air-pump, an improvement on the,

Acids, arsenious and sulphuric, new                212.
   compound of, 69.
                                               Airy (Prof) on a new apparent polarity
Adrian (Prof.) on the libraries of
   Germany, 186.                                   of light, 3.

Africa, population of certain parts of,        Alcohol, observations on the voltaic
    185.                                           decomposition of, 81.
218 INDEX II.

Alcorn (Dr.) on the excess of popula-       Bald (William) on the tides in the
   tion, and on emigration as a remedj'        harbour of Glasgow, and the velocity
   for it, in the Highlands of Scotland,       of the tidal wave in the estuary of
    186.
                                                the rivftr Clyde, 49.
Aldridge (Dr.) on the pollen and                     on the construction of the models
    vegetable impregnation, 144.
                                                of the island of Achil, Clare Island,
Alexander (Sir J. E.) on three expe-           and the south-western district of
   ditions which might be undertaken
    to explore portions of the interior of     Mayo, in Ireland, 126.
    Africa, 121.                            Baltic, coloured water from the, 143.
                                            Barometer, new construction of, 55.
Alison (Dr.) on the Scottish system of
   the management of the poor, 185.                 , four daily fluctuations of the, 55.
                                            Barrel, improved working, for use in
Alloxan, preparation of, 74.
Alloxantine, preparation of, 74.                sinking pits, 208.
Alloy, native, application of, for com-     Barry (Dr. Martin) on the first changes

    pass pivots, 198.                           lonsequent on fecundation in the
Alpaca, on the, 131.                           mammiferous ovum, 129.
Alston (Mr.) on the Glasgow asylum          Beech, minutely filamentous roots of

    for the blind, 171.                         the, 149.
America, west coast of South, great
                                            Bell (A.) on a new cause of inter-
    earthquakes on the, 123.
Ammonia, thionurate of, preparation             ference, 14.

    of, 74.                                 Bell (Charles W.) on the disease known
Amphitrite, 140.                               by the name of mal d'Aleppe, 161.
Amputations, results of, 163.
                                            Bentley (Mr. J J on the state of edu-
Anatomical purposes, preservation of           cation and crime in England and
    subjects for, 156.                          Wales, 185.

Anderson (Dr.) on the dew point, 40.        Blind, asylum for the, at Glasgow, 171.
        , on the meteorology of Perth, 56.  Blood, human, fibrine of, 156.
                                            Botany, 1 28 ; true method of discover-
Anglemeter, Mr. J. Hawkins on Mr.
                                               ing the natural system in Zoology
    Bakewell's, 210.
Ankle-joint, dislocation of the, forward        and, 128.

   and backward, 165.                       Bowman (Mr.) on a remarkable rain-
Anderston, state of crime in the subur-
                                                bow, 12.
   ban burgh of, 176.
Anthracite pig-iron, 191.                   Bowman (J. E.) on the great develop-
Arnott (G. A.) on the synonyms and             ment of the upper sihu'ian formation

   affinities of some South African            in the vale of Llangollen, and on a
    genera of plants, 147.                      plateau of igneous rocks on the east
Arran, island of, on the geological            flank of the Berwyn range, 100.
   model maps and sections of the, 92.      Brandt (M. J. F.) on Myriapoda, 137.
Arsenic, mode of detecting minute           Brazil, North, on the geology and

    portions of, 83.                            fossil fishes of, 118.

Asphyxia, manner in which the vital         Bridges, timber, in reference to rail-
                                                ways, 195, 197, 209.
     actions are arrested in, 151.
Aston (Capt.) on a recent singular          Brodie (Rev. J.) on a new mode of
                                                propelling fluids, or an uniformly
    shower of grain at Rajket, in India,
     44.                                        propelling wheel, 190.
Aurora, cause of tlie, 48.                  Bromine and its compounds, physio-

Babington (Mr.) on the Cus -uta epi-            logical and medicinal action of, 157.
     linum, 148.                            Bryson (Alex.), description of a new

Baddeley (Capt.) on the geology and             instrument for measuring the re-
    mineralogy of Canada, 1 14.                 fractive power of minute bodies, 87.
                                            Brewster (Sir D.) on the decomposi-
 Balance, revolving, 206.
                                                 tion of glass, 5.
                                                      on Prof. Powell's measures of

                                                 the indices of refraction for the lines

                                               HG and in the spectrum, 5.
INDEX II.                                  219

Brewster (Sir D.) on the cause of the      Clark (Dr.) on a mode of detecting
   increase of colour by the inversion        minute portions of arsenic, 83.
    of the head, 7.
         on the phsenomena and cause of    Clegg's (Mr.) new safety lamp, 210.
   muscse volitantes, 8.                   Cleland (Dr.) on the population, trade
         on a method of illuminating mi-
    croscopic objects, 9.                     and commerce of the city of Glas-
       , account of the camera obseura,       gow, 174.
   and other apparatus used in making      Coal formation of the west of Scotland,
    daguerreotype drawings, 9.
         on the line of visible direction      89.
    along the axis of vision, 9.
         on an improvement in the po-      Coles (Mr.) on a new step-rail, and
    larizing microscope, 10.
       , letter from Col. Reid to, on the      railway carriages, 212.
   appearance of the sun at Bermuda,       Colour, cause of the increase of, by the
     10.
                                               inversion of the head, 7.
Buchanan (Dr.) on a method of se-          Connel (Arthur) on the voltaic de-
   parating, by filtration, the coagu-
   lable lymph from liquid human               composition of alcohol, 81.
                                           Contagions, 72.
    blood, 75.                             Conus, two species of the genus, in

        on fibrine of human blood, 156.       the lias, near Caen, in Normandy,
Bunsen (Prof.) on a new mode of
                                                110.
    estimating nitrogen in organic ana-
                                           Cormack (Dr. J. R.) on the effects of
     lysis, 77.                               air when injected into the veins, 157.

         on the compound or radical        Cornea, opacity of the, produced by
    called Kakody], 77.                         sulphuric acid, 163.
Burn (Dr. A.) on the growth of cotton
                                           Cotton, on the growth of, in India, 146.
    in India, 146.                         Cowan (Dr.) on the vital statistics of

Calculating machine, Mr. Fowler's              Glasgow, 173.
    new, 55.                               Cuscuta epilinum, 148.
                                           Craig (Mr. J.) on the coal formation
Caldecott (Mr.) on meteorological ob-
    servations made atTrevandrum, 28.          of the west of Scotland, 89.
                                           Crime, extent of, in Glasgow, 1 69.
Camera obseura, account of the, used
    in making daguerreotype drawings,              , comparative view of, in London,
                                               Dublin and Glasgow, 173.
      9.
                                                   , state of, within the suburban
Canada, geology and mineralogy of,             districts of Glasgow, 175.
     114.
                                                   , state of, in the suburban burgh
 Canals, propelling boats on, 209.             of Anderston, 176.
 Castle Hill, Androssan, geology of,       Croton oil, therapeutic effect of, in
                                               certain nervous disorders, 156.
     95.                                   Crystallographic notation, on a new
 Chalmers (Dr.) on the application of          method of, 88.

    statistics to moral and ceconomic       Daguerreotype, as applied to the draw-
     science, 185.                              ing of fossils, 121.

           on the pauperism of Glasgow,     Daguerreotype drawings, account of
      185.                                     the camera obseura and other ap-
 Chalmers (Rev. P.) on the parish of           paratus used in making, 9.
     Dunfermline, 186.
 Chemistry, 58.                             Dalyell (John G.) on the regeneration
 Chest, cold washing of the, treatment          of lost organs discharging the func-
      of pertussis by, 158.                    tions of the head and viscera, by
 Ciliograda, British, 141.                     the Holothuria and Amphitrite, two
 Cinchona, use of the Matias bark as a         marine animals, 139.
      substitute for, 160.
                                            Danson (Mr. W.) on the Alpaca, 131.
                                            Devonshire, older strata of, 103.

                                            Dew point, on the, 40.

                                            Dircks (Mr.) on a railway wheel with
                                               wood tyre, 212.
;

220 INDEX II.

Douglas (James) on dislocation of the      Findlater (Mr.) on the state of crime
   ankle-joint forward and backward           in the suburban burgh of Ander-
    and on the reproduction of bone            ston, 176.
    after the operation of trepan, 165.
                                           Fisher (Rev. J.) on remarkable rain-
Dunfermline, on the parish of, 186.            bows, 12.

Dunn (John) on the vital statistics of     Fisher (Rev. J. M.) on the granite
                                              formations of Newabbey, in Gallo-
    Scarborough, 167.                         way, 95.

Dunn (Mr.) on an improved working          Fluids, new mode of propelling, 190.
                                           Foetus in the human species, anatomi-
    barrel for use in sinking pits, &c.,
    208.                                      cal relation of the mother to those
                                               of the, 153.
Ear, mechanical functions of the, 154.     Forbes (Edward) on a pleistocene tract
Earth, temperature of the, in the mines       in the Isle of Man, and the relations
                                              of its fauna to that of the neighbour-
    near, 17.                                  ing sea, 104.

Edinburgh and Glasgow, comparative                  and John Goodsir, on Pelonaia,
    vital statistics of, 173.                 a new genus of Ascidian mollusca,

Egg, development of the fish in the,           137.
     129.                                                   , on the British Ciliograda,

Electricity, theory of, 24.                    141.
Electro-magnetical machines, princi-       Forbes (Prof.) on excessive falls of

    ples of, 18.                               rain, 43.

Engines, locomotive, on wrought iron       Forbes (Dr.) on the mean apsidal angle
    wheels for, 212.
                                               of the moon's orbit, 1.
England, state of education and crime      Fossil fishes of North Brazil, 118.
    in, 185,                               Fossils, on the daguerreotype as ap-

Equations, algebraic, expressibility of       plied to the drawing of, 121.
     the roots of, 54.                     Fowler's (Mr.) new calculating ma-

Equilibration, catenary and curves of,         chine, 55.
     190.
                                           Fowler (Dr. N.) on the functions of
Espy (James P.) on storms, 30.                the fifth pair of nerves, and of the
Espy (Mr.) on the four daily fluctua-
                                               ganglia, &c., 156.
    tions of the barometer, 55.
Ettling (Dr.) on the identity of spiroi-   Fox (G. T.) on the subject of a paper
                                              on the structure of whales, 131.
    lous and saliculous acid, 78.
Exostosis, on a case of, 165.

Fairbairn (Mr.) on the fan-blast as        Galloway and Ayrshire, discovery of
    applied to furnaces, 199.                 lead on the borders of, 97.
         on the strength of iron with re-
    spect to its application as a substi-  Galvanoplastics, Prof. Jacobi on his
   tute for wooden ship-building, 201.         discovery of, 89.
         on raising water from low lands,
                                           Gardner (George) on the geology and
    210.                                      fossil fishes of North Brazil, 118.
Fan-blast, as applied to furnaces,
                                           Gas-regulator, 213.
    199.                                   Gastric and intestinal glands, struc-
Faroe islands, depression of the coast
                                               ture of the, 149.
    of the, 123.
Farquharson (Dr.) on the strongest         Gastro-intestinal mucous membrane,

   form of sea-borne vessels, 191.             structure of the, 149.
Featherstonhaugh (G. H.) on the geo-
                                           Geography of New Brunswick, 121.
   graphy of New Brunswick, 121.
                                           Geology, 89.
Felkin (Mr.) on the growth of cotton,               and fossil fishes of North Brazil,

    146.                                       118.
Fevers, laws which govern contagious,               and mineralogy of Canada, 114.

    160.                                   Germany, geological maps of different

                                               parts of, 124.

                                                    , libraries of, 186.
                                INDEX II.  221

Glaciers and boulders in Switzerland,        and other points of the geology of

113.                                          Ireland, 1 10.

Glands, conglobate, on the uses of the,   Grime (Mr.) on Dennet's rockets for

156.                                         preserving livesfromshipwreck, 214.
                                                  on wrought iron wheels for loco-
Glasgow, chemical manufactures car-
                                             motive engines, 212.
ried on in and near, 58.                  Guiana, west of, on the modes of fish-

· population, trade, and com-                ing employed by Indians in the, 135.
                      ,                   Gulline (Mr.) on safety valves for
   merce of the city of, 174.
                                             steam boilers, 213.
· , minerals in the neighbourhood
                                          Hamilton (Mathie) on earthquakes on
of, 64.                                       thewest coastof South America, 123.

, normal school of, 169.                  Hannah (Dr.) on the treatment of
                                             pertussis by cold washing of the
, observatory erecting near, 1.
                                              chest, 158.
, tides in the harbour of, 49.
                                          Hawkins (Mr.) on the safety rotation
, pauperism of, 185.
                                              railway, 196.
, state of crime in, 169.
                                          Hawkins (Mr. J.) on Mr. Bakewell's
    , state of crime within the sub-
urban districts of, 175.                      anglemeter, 210.

, superficial beds in the neigh-          Hawthorn (Mr.) on certain improve-
                                             ments on locomotive and other en-
bourhood of, 94.
                                              gine boilers, 211.
, vital statistics of, 173.               Heat, conduction of, 15.

Glass, decomposed, rings of polarized             , on a point in the wave-theory as
                                              applied to, 14.
light produced in, 6.                     Herschel (Sir J. F. W.), letter from
                                              Mr. Redfieldto, on American storms
, decomposition of, 5.                        and tornadoes, 40.
                                          Hodgkinson (Eaton) on the tempera-
Glover (George) on foreign bodies in          ture of the earth in the mines near

    the oesophagus, 155.                  ----Manchester, 17.
                                                   on the strength of pillars of cast
Glover (Dr. R. W.) on preparing hy-          iron, and other materials, 202.
                                          Holothuria, on the, 139.
drobromic and hydriodic acids, 75.        Hoyle (Mr.), new logarithmic calcula-

on the phj'siological and medici-             tions and views, 55.
                                          Hydrauhc apparatus, on a new, 213.
nal action of bromine and its com-        Hydrobromic and hydriodic acids, on

pounds, 157.                                  preparing, 75.

Goodsir (J.) and E.Forbes, on pelonaia,   Hutchinson (Graham) on a method of
   a new genus of ascidian mollusca,         prognosticating tlie probable mean
                                              temperature of the winter months
--137.    on the British ciliograda,         from that of corresponding months
                                              in the preceding summer, 41.
  --
                                          Ibbotson (J. L. B.) on the daguerreo-
141.                                          type, as applied to the drawing of
                                              fossils, 121.
Gorbals, state of crime in the district
                                          Impregnation, pollen and vegetable,
of, 177.                                      144.

Gordon (Prof.) on a turbine water         India, growth of cotton in, 146.
                                          Inflammation, circumstances which
wheel, 191.
                                              govern local, 159.
Graham (Mr.) on a method of approxi-      Insects, on some Persian, 136.

mating to the value of the roots of

numerical equations, 54.

Graphite, crystalHzed, new mode of

decomposing, 66.

Great Britain, bill circulation of, 184.

Gregory (Prof) on a new process for

preparing murexide, 74.

      on the preparation of alloxan,

alloxantine, thionurate of ammonia,

uramile, and murexide, 74.

on the pre-existence of urea in

    uric acid, 73.

Griffin (Mr. J. J.) on a new method

of crystallographic notation, 88.

Griffith (R.) on the yellow sandstone
222 INDEX II.

 Iodine and caustic soda, new salt ob-       Lankester (Edwin), on plants and ani-
                                                 mals found in the sulphureous
     tained from, 80.                            waters of Yorkshire, 143.
 Ireland, pawnbroking in, 181.
· yellow sandstone and other                 Lawrie (Dr.) on the results of ampu-

                     ,                           tations, 163.
                                             Leadbetter (Mr.) on the normal school
     points of the geology of, 110.
 Iriscope, on the, 14.                           of Glasgow, 170.
 Iron, strength of, as a substitute for      Lead, discovery of, on the borders of

    wood in ship-building, 201.                 Galloway and Ayrshire, 97.
Isle of Man, pleistocene tracts in the,      Lead hills, occurrence of nine species

    and the relations of its fauna to that       of lead ore at, 64.
    of the neighbouring sea, 104.            Leatham (Mr.) on the bill circulation

Jacobi (Prof.) on his discovery of              of Great Britain, 184.
     galvanoplastics, 89.                   Llangollen, upper silurian formation
         on the principles of electro-mag-
    netical machines, 18.                       in the vale of, development of the,
                                                 100.
Jeffrey (Mr.) on a new hydraulic ap-        Liebig (Prof.) on poisons, contagions,
                                                and miasms, 72.
    paratus, 213.                           Light, on a new apparent polarity of,
Jeffreys (Dr.) on the uses of the con-
                                                 3.
     globate glands, 156.
                                            Life-boat, on an improved, 211.
Jeffreys (Julius) on the solvent power      Lille (M. le Comte), on laying down
    exercised by water at high tempe-
    ratures on siliceous minerals, 125.        wood pavement, 211.
                                            Lizars (Dr.) on the organs of sense in
Johnson (Capt. E. J.) on the applica-
    tion of native alloy for compass pi-        the salmon, 134.
    vots, 198.                              Lonsdale (Dr. H.) on an ossified

Johnston (Mr. J.) on a new rain gauge,          tendo Achillis, and of a case of ex-

    211.-                                       ostosis, 165.
Johnston (Prof) on resins, 82.              Lothian (Mr.) on a revolving balance,

        on some varieties of peat, 83.          206.
         on the resin of sarcocolla, 83.    Lungs, carbonic acid thrown off from

Kakodyl, new compound called, 77.                the, 87.
Keir (Wm.) on the geology of Castle         Lyell (Charles) on the occurrence of

    Hill, Androssan, 95.                        two species of shells of the genus
Kelland (Prof.) on the conduction of            conus, in the lias or inferior oolite,
                                               near Caen, in Normandy, 110.
    heat, 15.
        , on the theory of waves, 50.              , on ancient sea-cliffs and needles
                                                in the chalk of the valley of the
Kennedy (C. J.) on the theory of elec-          Seine in Normandj', 111.
                                            Lymph, coagulable, on its separation
    tricity, 24.                               by filtration from liquid human
Kilpatrick hills, crystallized minerals
                                                blood, 75.
    at, 65.
Kingston-upon-Hull, state of educa-                 , effusion of, 159.

   tion in the borough of, 177.             Macdonald (Dr.) on the structure of
Knipe (J. A.) on the sandstone of              fishes, so far as the analogies can
                                               be traced between the limbs of the
   the vale of Solway, and the forma-          mammals and the fins of fishes, 131.
                                                   , on mnemonics, 157.
   tion of the Closeburn basin, Dum-
                                            Mackay (K.) on a double monoce-
    friesshire, 98.                            phalic human monster from South
                                               America, 163.
Lamont (Dr.), an account of the ob-
   servatory of Munich, 26.                 Mackay (Dr.) on the chemical and
       , on the system of meteorological
                                               medicinal pi-operties of the matias
    observations in Bavaria, 27.                bark, 160.

Lang (Mr.) on an improvement on

   the air-pump, 212.
INDEX II.                                   223

Madeira, geology of, 118.                   Monocephalic human monster, double,
Magnetic observatory of Munich, ac-
                                               from South America, 163.
    count of the, 26.                       Moon's oi-bit, mean apsidal angle of

Mai d'Aleppe, disease known by the               the, 1.
   name of, 161.
                                            Morphia and its salts, new method of
Manchester, temperature of the earth
   in the mines near, 17.                       preparing, 78.
                                            Munich, magnetic observatory of, ac-
Mancliester Statistical Society, on the
   state of education in the borough of         count of the, 26.
    Kingston-upon-Hull, 177.                Murchison (R. I.) on the fishes of the

Maps, relief, 122.                              old red sandstone, 99.
Matias bark, chemical and medicinal
                                                    on geological maps of different
    properties of, 160.                        parts of Germany, 124.
Mathematics, 1.
                                                   , and E. de Verneuil, on the stra-
Mc Farlane (P.) on a new construc-             tified deposits which occupy the
                                               northern and central regions of Rus-
    tion of barometer, 55.                      sia, 105.
                                            Murexide, new process for preparing,
Mc Gregor (Mr.) on carbonic acid
                                                74.
   thrown oiFfrom the lungs, 87.                    , preparation of, 74.
Mechanical science, 186.
Medical science, 149.                       MuscBB volitantes, phaenomena and
Medulla oblongata, anatomy of the,              cause of, 8.

    154.                                    Nervous system, connection between
Metals, true planes or surfaces on, 192.       the, and muscular contractibility,
Medusas, 142.                                    155.
Meteorological observations in Ba-
                                            Newabbey, granite formations of, in
    varia, statement of the system of, 27.      Galloway, 95.
        at Trevandrum, 28.
                                            Newbiggin (Dr. Patrick) on the the-
Miasms, 72.                                     rapeutic effect of croton oil in cer-
Microscope, improvement in the po-              tain nervous disorders, 156.

    larizing, 10.                           New Brunswick, geography of, 121.

Microscopic objects, method of illumi-               , geological featui'es of the river

    nating, 9.                                 St. John in, 115.
Millar (Captain) on the state of crime      Nichol (Prof) on the observatory

   within Glasgow, and city police ju-          erecting near Glasgow, 1.
    risdiction, 169.                        Nitric acid, action of, on the chlorates
Miller (Capt.), comparative view of
   the state of crime in London, Dub-          iodates, and bromates of potassa and
   lin, and Glasgow, 173.
Milne (Mr. J) on a gas regulator,                soda, 79.
    213.
Milne (Mr.) on a high pressure filter       Nitrogen, new mode of estimating, in
    for domestic purposes, 211.
Milne (D.) on earthquakes in Scotland,          organic analysis, 77.

    97.                                     Normandy, ancient sea-cliffs and nee-
                                                dles in the chalk of the valley of the
Mineralogy and geology of Canada,               Seine in. 111.
                                                   , two species of shells of the ge-
    114.                                        nus Conus, in the lias or inferior
Mitchell (Mr.) on timber bridges, with          oolite near Caen, in, 110.

    reference to their application to the   CEsophagus, foreign bodies in the, 135.
    oeconomical construction ofrailways,    Old red sandstone, fishes of the, 99.

    197.                                    Ovum, mammiferous, on the first
Mnmeonics, 157.
                                                changes consequent on fecundation
JNIohr (Dr.) on a new method of pre-            in the, 129.
   paring morphia and its salts, 78.
                                            Paterson (Rev. Dr.) on an improved
Mollusca, pelonaia a new genus of               life boat, 211.

    ascidian, 137.
224 INDEX II.

Patterson (R.) on medusae, 142.              Railway, safety rotation, 196.
Peat, on some varieties of, 83.
Peebles (Mr.) on the expvessibillty of       Rain, excessive falls of, 43.
                                                     , experimental researches on, 45.
    the roots of algebraic equations, 54.
                                                     , formation of, 47.
Pelonaia, a new genus of ascidian            Rainbows, remarkable, 12.
                                             Rain gauge, improved, 210.
    mollusca, 137.
                                                    , new, 211.
Penny (Prof. F.) on a new salt ob-           Ramsay (A. C.) on the geological
   tained from iodine and caustic soda,
                                                model maps and sections of the
    80.                                          island of Arran, 92.
        on the action of nitric acid on the  Ravenstein (M. A.) on relief maps,

   chlorates, iodates, and bromates of           122.
   potassa and soda, ?9.                     Rayners (Mr.) on a machine regula-
Perry (Dr.) on the circumstances
   which govern local inflammation,              tor, 209.
   the effusion of coagulable lymph,
   and the formation of pus, 159.            Read (Dr. J.) on the iriscope, 14.
                                             Redfield (W. C.) letter from, to Sir
         on the laws which govern con-
    tagious fevers, 160.                        J. F. W. Herschel, on American
Perth, on the meteorology of, 56.
Pertussis, treatment of, by cold wash-           storms and tornadoes, 40.
    ing of the chest, 158.                   Redtenbacher (Prof.), and Dr.Varren-
Phaenomena, voltaic, on a peculiar
                                                 trapp on the constitution and pro-
     class of, 86.                               ducts of the distillation of fat bodies,

Phillips (John), new experimental re-             76.
    searches on rain, 45.
                                             Rees (Dr.) on the preservation of sub-
Phillips (Sir T.) on the minutely fila-          jects for anatomical purposes, 156.
    mentous roots of the beech, 149.
                                             Regulator, machine, 209.
Photogenic drawing, on a new method          Reid (Col.), letter from, to Sir David

     of, 71.                                     Brewster, on the appearance of the
Physics, 1.                                      sun at Bermuda, 10.
Plants, South African genera of, syn-        Reid (Dr. John) on the manner in
                                                 which the vital actions are arrested
   onyms and affinities of some, 147.
Playfair (Dr. L.) on anewfatacid, 76.            in asphyxia, 151.
Pleistocene tract in the Isle of Man,                 on the anatomical relation of the

     104.                                        blood vessels of the mother to those
Plum, anomalous form of the, in the
                                                of the foetus in the human species,
   gardens of New Brunswick, 148.
                                                  153.
Poisons, 72.
Pollen and vegetable impregnation, on                 on the anatomy of the medulla

    the, 144.                                    oblongata, 154.
Porter (Mr.) on pawnbroking in Ire-                   on the connexion between the

    land, 181.                                   nervous system and muscular con-
Potassa and soda, action of nitric acid
                                                  tractibility, 155.
    on the chlorates, iodates, and bro-      Richardson (Mr.) on the state of
    mates of, 79.
Powell (Prof) on an experiment of                crime in the district of Gorbals, 177.
                                             Ritchie (Mr.) on warming and venti-
     interference, 14.
                                                  lating buildings, 214.
        on a point in the wave theory as
                                             Robinson (Rev. Dr. E.) on the Wadi
    applied to heat, 14.
Pus, formation of, 159.                          el' Arabah, in Syria, 121.
                                             Robb (Dr. J.) on certain geological
Railways, oeconomy of, in respect of
     gradients, 193.                             features of the river St. John, in
         , timber bridges in reference to,
     195, 197.                                  New Brunswick, with an account

                                                 of the falls upwards from the sea,
                                                 which occur near its embouchure in
                                                 the Bay of Fundy, 115.

                                                     on an anom alous form of the plum

                                                observed in the gardens of New

                                                  Brunswick, 148.
INDEX II.                                    225

Rocks, igneous, plateau of, on the east       Siliceous minerals, solvent power ex-
    flank of the Berwyn range, 100.              ercised by water at high tempera-

Rowell (G. A.) on the formation of                tures on, 125.
     rain, 47.
         on the cause of the aurora, &c.,    Smith (James) on the geology of Ma-
    48.
                                                  deira, 118.
Russell (J. Scott) on the temperature                  on the superficial beds in the
    of most effective condensation in
    steam vessels, 186.                          neighbourhood of Glasgow, 94.
         on the most ceconomical and         Smith (Mr.) on a new canal lock, 210.
    effective proportion of engine power
    to the tonnage of the hull in steam               on a salmon stair, 136.
    vessels, 188.                                     on the drainage of railway em-
                                                 bankments and slopes, 209.
Russia, stratified deposits which occu-               on timber bridges, 209.
    py the northern and central regions              ' on propelling boats on canals,
    of, 105.                                      209.
                                             Smoke protector, 208.
Rutherglen (Mr.) on the state of             Snow, red, animals found in, 143.
    crime within the suburban districts      Soda, caustic, new salt obtained from
    of Glasgow, 175.                             iodine and, 80.
                                             Solly (E.) on bleaching vegetable
Safety lamp, Mr. Clegg's, 210.                   wax, 86.
Sanders (Wni.) on a raised sea-beach         Sol way, sandstone of the vale of, 98.
                                             Sound, agency of, 52.
    at Woodspring-hill, near Bristol,        Spectrum, Prof. Powell's measures of
    102.                                          the indices of refraction for the lines
Sandstone, old red, fishes of the, 99.
Salmon fry, 133.                               G Hand in the, 5.
Salmon, organs of sense in the, 134.
Sarcocolla, resin of, 83.                    Spiroilous and saliculous acid, identity
Scarborough, vital statistics of, 167.
                                                  of, 78.
Schafhaeutl (Dr.) on a new compound          Squinting, operation for, 163.
    of arsenious and sulphuric acids, 69.    Statistics, 169.
        on a new method of photogenic
                                                     , vital, of Glasgow, 173.
    drawing, 71.                                     , , of Scarborough, 167.
         on the relation of form to che-     Steam boilers, safety valves for, 213.
                                             Steam vessels, ceconomical and effect-
    mical composition, 65.                       ive proportion of engine power to
Schomburgk (M.) on the various                   the tonnage of the hull in, 188.
                                                     , on extinguishing fire in, 1 94.
   modes of fishing employed by In-                  , temperature of most effective
    dians in the west of Guiana, 135.            condensation in, 186.
School, normal, of Glasgow, 169.             St. John, geological features of the
Science, moral and oeconomic, appli-
                                                river, in New Brunswick, 115.
    cation of statistics to, 185.
Scotland, earthquakes in, 97.                Storms, 30.
                                                     , American, 40.
         coal formation of the west of, 89.
          population of, 186.                Strickland, (H. E.) on the true method
Sea-beach, raised, at Woodspring-                of discovering the natural system in
    hill, near Bristol, 102.                    zoology and botany, 128.
Sea-borne vessels, strongest form of,
    191.                                     Sturgeon (Mr.) on a peculiar class of
Sea-cliffs, and needles in the chalk of          voltaic phsenomena, 86.

   the valley of the Seine, in Norman-       Switzerland, glaciers and boulders in,
                                                 113.
    dy, 111.
Selvester (Mr.) on a depression of the       Sym (Dr.) on the mechanical functions

    coast of the Faroe islands, 123.             of the ear, 154.
Shand (Mr.) on the agency of sound,
                                             Syria, Wadi el' Arabah in, notes on
    52.
                                                 the, 121.
1840.
                                             Tendo Achillis, ossified, 165.
226 INDEX II.

Thorn (Mr.) on an improved rain-              Wales, state of education and crime in,
    gauge, 210.
          on a water filter, 206.                 185.
                                              Wallace (Mr.) on a smoke-protectov,
Thomson (Dr. Allen) on the structure
   of the gastro-intestinal mucous                208.
   membrane, and of the gastric and                    on extinguishing fire in steam-

    intestinal glands, 149.                       vessels, 194.

Thomson (Dr. R. D.) on opacity of the         Wallace (Wm.) on the properties of -
    cornea produced by sulphuric acid,            the catenary and curves of equili-

     164.                                         bration, 190.
          on the tests for sulphuric acid
                                              Walsh (Mr.) on a mode of solving cu-
    when thrown on the person, 84.
Thomson (Prof. T.) on the minerals                bic equations, 55.
                                              Water-filter, 206.
    in the neighbourhood of Glasgow,          Water-wheel, on the turbine, 191.
     64.
                                              Watt (Mr.) on the comparative vital
          on chemical manufactures car-           statistics of Edinburgh and Glas-
    ried on in and near Glasgow, 58.              gow, 173.
Tornadoes, American, 40.
Trepan, reproduction of bone after the        Waves, theory of, 50.
     operation of, 165.                       Wax, vegetable, on bleaching, 86.
 Trevandrum, meteorological observa-          Whales, structure of, 131.
    tions made at, 28.                        Whitworth (Mr. Joseph) on producing

 Uranile, preparation of, 74.                     true planes or surfaces on metals,
                                                   192.
 Ure (Mr. A.) on the operation for             Williams (Mr.) on the combustion of
                                                  coal, and prevention of generation
     squinting, 163.                              of smoke in furnaces, 199.
 Urea, pre-existence of, in uric acid, 73.     Williams (Rev. David) on the older
 Uric acid, pre-existence of urea in, 73.          strata of Devonshire, 103.
                                               Wilson (James) on the salmon fr}', 133.
 Varrentrapp (Dr.), and Prof. Redten-
     bacher, on the constitution and pro-              on some Persian insects, 136.
      ducts of the distillation of fat bo-     Wilson (Mr.) on the population of
      dies, 76.
                                                   Scotland, 186.
 Veins, effects of air when injected
                                               Yates (James) on the footsteps of ex-
      into the, 157.                               tinct animals observed in a quarry
 Vignoles (Mr.) on the ceconomy of                  in Rathbone-street, Liverpool, 99.

      railways in respect of gradients, 193.   Yorkshire, plants and animals found
           on timber bridges in reference to       in the sulphureous watersof, 143.

      railways, 195.                           Zoology, 128.
  Vision, axis of, line of visible direction   Zoology and botany, true method of

      along the, 9.                                discovering the natural system in,
                                                    128.
 Wadi el' Arabah, in Syria, notes on

      the, 121.

THE END.

PRINTED BY RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR,
        RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCE-
               MENT OF SCIENCE.

   The Published Reports of Proceedings at the Meetings of the
Association may be obtained by Members only, on application
to the under-mentioned Local Treasurers, or Agents appointed
by them, at the following prices :

London      TREASURER.                  DEPOT FOR THE REPORTS.

                   John Taylor, Esq.    Messrs. R. and J. E. Taylor's Printing
              2, Duke Street, Adelphi.   Office, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

            LOCAL TREASURERS.           DEPOTS.

Oxford      Dr. Daubeny                 Ashmolean Museum, Mr. Kirkland.

Cambridge   Professor Henslow           House of the Philosophical Society.

Dublin      Dr. Orpen                   13, South Frederick Street.

EDiNBURGH&GLASGOwCharles Forbes, Esq    Apartments of the Royal Society.

York        William Gray, Jun., Esq. Mr. Sunter's, Stonegate.

Bristol     William Sanders, Esq. ...Philosophical Institution, Park

                                        Street.

Liverpool   Samuel Turner, Esq          Bank of England Branch Bank,

                                        S. Turner, Esq.

Manchester  Rev. John Jas. Tayler ...Mr. R. Robinson's, St. Anne's Place.

Birmingham  James Russell, Esq          Mr. Belcher's, 6, High Street.

Newcastle-on-Tyne. William Hutton, Esq  Apartments of the Natural History

                                        Society.

Plymouth    Henry WooUcombe, Esq... Henry Woollcombe's, Esq.

  PROCEEDINGS of the FIRST and SECOND MEET-

INGS, at York and Oxford, 1831 and 1832, 105.

 -- --Contents : Prof. Airy, on the Progress of Astronomy ; J. W.
--Lubbock, Esq., on the Tides ; Prof. Forbes, on the Present State of
--Meteorology ; Prof. Powell, on the Present State of the Science of
-- --Radiant Heat ; Prof. Gumming, on Thermo-Electricity ; Sir David
--Brewster, on the Progress of Optics ; Rev. W. Whewell, on the Pre-
--sent State of Mineralogy : Rev. W. D. Conybeare, on the Recent Pro-
--gress and Present State of Geology ; Dr. Pritchard's review of Phi-

lological and Physical Researches.

   Together with Papers on Mathematics, Optics, Acoustics, Mag-

netism, Electricity, Chemistry, Meteorology, Geography, Geology,
Zoology, Anatomy, Physiology, Botany, and the Arts ; and an Expo-
sition of the Object and Plan of the Association, &c.
                                                  --

  PROCEEDINGS of the THIRD MEETING, at Cam-

bridge, 1833, 85.

  --Contents : Proceedings of the Meeting ;-- Mr. John Taylor, on
-- --Mineral Veins ; Dr. Lindley, on the Philosophy of Botany ; Dr.
--Henry, on the Physiology of the Nervous System ; Mr. Peter Bar-
--low, on the Strength of Materials ; Mr. S. H. Christie, on the Mag-
--netism of the Earth ; Rev. J. Challis, on the Analytical Theory of

--Hydrostatics and Hydrodynamics; Mr. George Rennie, on Hy-

--draidics as a Branch of Engineering, Part I. ; Rev. G. Peacock, on

certain Branches of Analysis.
    Together with Papers on Mathematics and Physics, Philosophical

Instruments and Mechanical Arts, Natural History, Anatomy, Phy-
siology, and History of Science.

  PROCEEDINGS of the FOURTH MEETING, at Edin-

burgh, 1834, 105.

  --Contents : Mr. H. D. Rogers, on the Geology of North America;
-- --Dr. C. Henry, on the Laws of Contagion ; Prof. Clark, on Ani-
-- --mal Physiology ; Rev. L. Jenyns, on Zoology ; Rev. J. Challis, on
-- --Capillary Attraction; Prof. Lloyd, on Physical Optics; Mr. G.

Rennie, on Hydraulics, Part II.
   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, and Recommenda-

tions of the Association and its Committees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the FIFTH MEETING, at Dublin,

1835, 9*.

  --Contents: Rev. W. Whewell, on the Recent Progress and Pre-

sent Condition of the Mathematical Theories of Electricity, Magnet-

--ism, and Heat; M. A. Quetelet, Aperfu deTEtat actuel des Sciences
--Mathematiques chez les Beiges ; Captain Edward Sabine, on the

Phajnomena of Terrestrial Magnetism.
   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Prof. Sir W. Ha-

milton's Address, and Recommendations of the Association and its
Committees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the SIXTH MEETING, at Bristol,

1836, 8s.

  --Contents : Prof. Daubeny, on the Present State of our Knowledge

with respect to Mineral and Thermal Waters ;~^j\Iajor Edward Sabine,
on the Direction and Intensity of the Terrestrial Magnetic Force in

--Scotland ; Mr. John Richardson, on North American Zoology ;
--Rev. J. Challis, on the Mathematical Theory of Fluids; Mr. J. T.

Mackay, a Comparative View of the more remarkable Plants which
characterize the neigiibourhood of Dublin and Edinburgh, and the

--South-west of Scotland, &c. ; Mr. J. T. Mackay, Comparative geo-

graphical notices of the more remarkable Plants which characterize

--Scotland and Ireland ; Report of the London Sub-Committee of the
--Medical Section on the Motions and Sounds of the Heart ; Second

Report of the Dublin Sub-Committee on the Motions and Sounds of
--he Heart ; Report of the Dublin Committee on the Pathology of the
--Brain and Nervous System ; J. W. Lubbock, Esq., Account of the
--recent Discussions of Observations of the Tides ; Rev. Baden Powell,

on determining the Refractive Indices for the Standard Rays of the

--Solar Spectrum in various media ; Dr. Hodgkin, on the Commu-
--nication between the Arteries and Absorbents ; Prof. Phillips, Re-
--port of Experiments on Subterranean Temperature ; Prof. Hamilton,

on the Validity of a Method recently proposed by George B. Jer-
rard, Esq., for Transforming and Resolving Equations of Elevated

Degrees.
    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Prof. Daubeny's

Address, and Recommendations of the Association and its Committees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the SEVENTH MEETING, at

Liverpool, 1837, H*.

  --Contents : Major Edward Sabine, on the Variations of the Mag-
--netic Intensity observed at different points of the Earth's surface ;

Rev. William Taylor, on the various modes of Printing for the Use of

--the Blind; J. W. Lubbock, Esq., on the Discussions of Observations

of the Tides which have been obtained by means of the grant of money

--which was placed at the disposal of the Author for that purpose at the

last Meeting of the Association ; Prof. Thomas Thomson, on the dif-

ference between the composition of Cast Iron produced by the Cold

--and Hot Blast ; Rev. T. R. Robinson, on the Determination of the

Constant of Nutation by the Greenwich Observations, made as com-

--manded by the British Association ; Robert Were Fox, Esq., Expe-

periments on the Electricity of Metallic Veins, and the Temperature

--of Mines ; Provisional Report of the Committee of the Medical Sec-

tion of the British Association, appointed to investigate the Composi-

--tion of Secretions, and the organs producing them ; Dr. G. O. Kees,

--Report from the Committee for inquiring into the Analysis of the

Glands, &c., of the Human Body; ^Second Report of the London
Sub-Committee of the British Association Medical Section, on the Mo-

--tions and Sounds of the Heart ; Prof. Johnston, on the Present State
--of our Knowledge in regard to Dimorphous Bodies ; Col. Sykes, on

the Statistics of the Four Collectorates of Dukhun, under the British

--Government ; Eaton Hodgkinson, Esq., on the relative Strength and

other Mechanical Properties of Iron obtained from the Hot and Cold

--Blast ; William Fairbairn, Esq., on the Strength and other Properties
--of Iron obtained from the Hot and Cold Blast ; Sir John Robison,

and John Scott Russell, Esq., Report of the Committee on Waves, ap-

--pointed by the British Association at Bristol in 1886 ; Note by Major

Sabine, being an Appendix to his Report on the Variations of the
Magnetic Intensity observed at different Points of the Earth's Sur-

--face ; James Yates, on the Growth of Plants under Glass, and with-

out any free communication with the outward Air, on the Plan of
Mr. N. J. Ward, of London.

    'I'ogether with the Transactions of the Sections, Prof. Traill's Ad-
dress, and Recommendations of the Association and its Committees.
  PROCEEDINGS of the EIGHTH MEETING, at New-

castle, 1838, 10*.

 --Contents: Rev. W. Wliewell, Account of a Level line, measured
--from the Bristol Channel to the English Channel, by Mr. Bunt ; Re-
--port on the Discussions of Tides, prepared under the direction of the

Rev. \V. Whewell ; W. Snow Harris, Esq., Account of the Progress

--and State of the Meteorological Observations at Plymouth ; Major
--Edward Sabine, on the Magnetic Isoclinal and Isodynamic Lines in

the British Islands; D. Lardner, LL.D., on the Determination of

--the Mean Numerical Values of Railway Constants ; R. Mallet, Esq.,

First Report upon Experiments upon the Action of Sea and River

--Water upon Cast and Wrought Iron ; R. Mallet, Esq., on the Action

of a Heat of 212° Fahr., when long continued, on Inorganic and Or-

ganic Substances.

   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Mr. Murchison's
Address, and Recommendations of the Association and its Commit-

tees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the NINTH MEETING, at Bir-

mingham, 1839, 9*.

  --Contents : Rev. Baden Powell, Report on the Present State of our

Knowledge of Refractive Indices, for the Standard Rays of the Solar

--Spectrum in different media; Report on the Application of the sum

assigned for Tide Calculations to Mr. Whewell, in a Letter from T. G.

--Bunt, Esq.; H. L. Pattinson, Esq., on some Galvanic Experiments

to determine the Existence or Non-existence of Electrical Currents

among Stratified Rocks, particularly those of the Mountain Limestone

--formation, constituting the Lead Measures of Alston Moor ; Sir

David Brewster, Reports respecting the two series of Hourly Meteor-
ological Observations kept in Scotland at the expense of the British

--Association ; Report on the subject of a series of Resolutions adopt-

ed by the British Association at their Meeting in August, 1838, at

--Newcastle; Richard Owen, Esq., Report on British Fossil Reptiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

--Edward Forbes, Esq., Report on the Distribution of Pulmoniferous
--Mollusca in the British Isles; W. Snow Harris, Esq., Third Report

on the Progress of the Hourly Meteorological Register at the Plymouth
Dockyard, Devonport.

   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Rev. W. Vernon
Harcourt's Address, and Recommendations of the Association and its

Committees.

  LITHOGRAPHED SIGNATURES of the MEMBERS who

met at Cambridge in 183.'J, with the Proceedings of the Public Meet-
ings. 4to. Price 4*. (To MenibejS»*8t«)-'Y'.,^
md^i report of tJw Brit. Assoc, for the ati^anc&nent of Science.  FLATh I.

Fiff.l2.

          J.W.Lowiy Sculp.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TtnA report of^tM-^it^JsMc far the aihwutmeirU of Saeitce
\
r,<;.j
     -t-~

IVf
Mm AVTenlli ir/rirl iiC Ih^  rt,. ,ulta,i<rmrnl nf Saaia ISIO.
.-f.,.,,,.-
Diaf!>vms Shou-,nfl a,e Gm^aral,,., ^orce a,ui di,^iu,n of the ,,riM  J'late4

   ^ohtai^i rtr,n Ae Sum oftAe hourh. ,ne^^ ^.,,, jhdle TT.

                                                                      Sprinq.

                                                                       N

Sionmsr

         J. ft 'Lomy Jculf*
[yl 9yr»^ If^ST '^^fit^iOS' J^ 'yrunu-»in/r0A'jajr»lff uOf 'uoTQrtraas^-^'USTfyfiJo <)Mcb^
^

  3tt
 i

.'· ,',-1'

             Hi:

