immr

I,;;.: · :. .;.:..·:;·
                                                                                                                                                     :
      '''. '''/'.'.',

!)';··

;:vi;:!;;-i;i'i'  .

'c-ri'h'-:-:;: ':.;..

·':;;:
       /.    ^.

           I

^./^a
            REPORT

    EIGHTEENTH MEETING

                                                                                 ;r^,,,ftjWi7^>

BRITISH ASSOCIATION

 ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE;

                 HELD AT SWANSEA IN AUGUST 1S48.

                LONDON:

     JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.

                                                1849.
PRINTED BY RfCHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR,

               RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
            CONTENTS.

Objects and Rules of the Association                                    Pa^e
Places of Meeting and Officers from commencement
Table of Council from commencement                                         v
Treasurer's Account
Officers and Council                                                     viii
Officers of Sectional Committees
Corresponding Members                                                      x
Report of Council to the General Committee
Recommendations for Additional Reports and Researches in Science           xii
Synopsis of Money Grants
Arrangement of the General Meetings                                      xiv
Address of the President
                                                                         xv

                                                                         xvi
                                                                         xvi
                                                                        xxii
                                                                       xxiv
                                                                       xxix
                                                                       xxxi

REPORTS OF RESEARCHES JN SCIENCE.

A Catalogue of Observations of Luminous Meteors. By the Rev.           1

   Baden Powell, M.A., F.R.S. &c., Savilian Professor of Geometry,

   Oxford

On Water-pressure Engines. By Joseph Glynn, F.R.S.,M. Inst. C.E.&c. 11

On the Air and Water of Towns, By Robert Angus Smith, Ph.D.,

Manchester                                                             16

Eighth Report of a Committee, consisting of H. E. Strickland, F.G.S.   31

   Prof. Daubeny, Prof. Henslow and Prof. Lindley, appointed to

   continue their Experiments on the Growth and Vitality of Seeds ...

Fifth Report on Atmospheric Waves. ByW. R. Birt                        35

On Colouring Matters. By Edward Schunck, Ph.D                          57
IV CONTENTS.

                                                                                                                                                           Page

Oil the advantageous use made of the gaseous escape from the Blast
   Furnaces at the Ystalyfera Iron Works. By James Palmer Budd 7.5

Report of progress in the investigation of the Action of Carbonic Acid  S4'

   on the Growth of Plants allied to those of the Coal Formations. By
  Robert Hunt

Supplement to the Temperature Tables printed in the Report of the       84-

  Britisii Association for 1847. By Professor H. W. Dove, Cor. Memb.

   of the British Association; containing 84' additional Stations

Remarks by Professor Dove on his recently constructed Maps of the       85

   Monthly Isothermal Lines of the Globe, and on some of the principal
   Conclusions in regard to Climatology deducible from them ; with an

  introductory Notice by Lieut.-Col. Edward Sabine, Gen. Sec

On the Progress of the investigation on the Influence of Carbonic Acid

on the Growth of Ferns. By Dr. Daubeny                                  97

Notice of further progress in Anemometrical Researches. By John

Phillips, F.R.S                                                         97

To the Assistant-General Secretary                                      98

Second Report on the Gaussian Constants. By Adolphe Erman               98

Report relative to the expediency of recommending the continuance of    99

   the Toronto Magnetical and Meteorological Observatory until De-

   cember 1850, adopted by a Committee of the British Association at

  --Swansea, August 1848, consisting of the following Members: Lord

   Wrottesley, Chairman, the Dean of Ely, Rev. Dr. Lloyd, Pre-

   sident of the Royal Irish Academy, and Lieut.-Col. Sabine
        OBJECTS AND RULES

                   THE ASSOCIATION.

                             OBJECT S.

 The Association contemplates no interference with the ground occupied by

--other Institutions. Its objects are, To give a stronger impulse and a more

 systematic direction to scientific inquiry,^to promote the intercourse of those

 who cultivate Science in different parts of the British Empire, with one an-

--other, and with foreign philosophers, to obtain a more general attention to

 the objects of Science, and a removal of any disadvantages of a public kind

 which impede its progress.

                               RULES.

                           ADMISSION OF MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.

    All Persons who have attended the first Meeting shall be entitled to be-
 come Members of the Association, upon subscribing an obligation to con-
 form to its Rules.

    The Fellows and Members of Chartered Literary and Philosophical So-
 cieties publishing Transactions, in the British Empire, shall be entitled, in
 like manner, to become Members of the Association.

    The Officers and Members of the Councils, or Managing Committees, of

 Philosophical Institutions, shall be entitled, in like manner, to become Mem-

 bers of the Association.

    All Members of a Philosophical Institution recommended by its Council

or Managing Committee, shall be entitled, in like manner, to become Mem-

 bers of the Association.
     Persons not belonging to such Institutions shall be elected by the General

 Committee or Council, to become Life Members of the Association, Annual

 Subscribers, or Associates for the year, subject to the approval of a General
 Meeting.

                      COMPOSITIONS, SUBSCRIPTIONS, AND PRIVILEGES.
    Life Members shall pay, on admission, the sum of Ten Pounds. They
shall receive gratuitously the Reports of the Association which may be pub-
lished after the date of such payment. They are eligible to all the offices

 of the Association.

   Annual Subscribers shall pay, on admission, the sum of Two Pounds,
and in each following year the sum of One Pound. They shall receive

gratuitously the Reports of the Association for the year of their admission
and for the years in which they continue to pay without intermission their

Annual Subscription. By omitting to pay this Subscription in any particu-
lar year. Members of this class (Annual Subscribers) lose for that and all

future years the privilege of receiving the volumes of the Association gratis :

but they may resume their Membership and other privileges at any sub-
sequent Meeting of the Association, paying on each such occasion the sum of
One Pound. They are eligible to all the Offices of the Association.
              -- ----

VI RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION.

   Associates for the year shall pay on admission the sum of One Pound.
They shall not receive gratuitously the Reports of the Association, nor be

eligible to serve on Committees, or to hold any office.

   The Association consists of the following classes :
   1. Life Members admitted from 1831 to lSi5 inclusive, who have paid
on admission Five Pounds as a composition.
   2. Life Members who in 1846, or in subsequent years, have paid on ad-
njission 'I'en Pounds as a composition.
    3. Annual Members admitted from 1831 to 1839 inclusive, subject to the
payment of One Pound annually. [May resume their Membership after in-
termission of Annual Payment.]
   4. Annual Members admitted in any year since 18S9, subject to the pay-
ment of Two Pounds for the first year, and One Pound in each following
year. [May resume their Membership after intermission of Annual Pay-

ment.]

   5. Associates for the year, subject to the payment of One Pound.
   6. Corresponding Members nominated by the Council.

   And the Members and Associates will be entitled to receive the annual

volume of Reports, gratis, or to purchase it at reduced (or Members') price,
according to the following specification, viz. :

    --1. Gratis. Old Life Members who have paid Five Pounds as a compo-

                      sition for Annual Payments, and previous to 1845 a further

                  sum of Two Pounds as a Book Subscription, or, since 1845 a
                     further sum of Five Pounds.
               New Life Members who have paid Ten Pounds as a com-

                             position.

                 Annual Members who have not intermitted their Annual Sub-

                              scription.

   --2. /4t reduced or Members' Prices. Old Life Members who have paid

                      Five Pounds as a composition for Annual Payments, but no
                     further sum as a Book Subscription.
                 Annual Members, who have intermitted their Annual Subscrip-
                        tion in any subsequent year.
                   Associates for the year. [Privilege confined to the volume for
                          that year only.]

    Subscriptions shall be received by the Treasurer or Secretaries.

                                                       MEETINGS.

   The Association shall meet annually, for one week, or longer. The place
of each Meeting shall be appointed by the General Committee at the pre-
vious Meeting ; and the Arrangements for it shall be entrusted to the Offi-

cers of the Association.

                                        GENERAL COMMITTEE.

   The General Committee shall sit during the week of the Meeting, or

longer, to transact the business of the Association. It shall consist of the
following persons :

    1. Presidents and Officers for the present and preceding years, with au-
thors of Reports in the Transactions of the Association.

   2. Members who have communicated any Paper to a Philosophical Society,

which has been printed in its Transactions, and which relates to such subjects
as are taken into consideration at the Sectional Meetings of the Association.
BULBS OF THE ASSOCIATION.  vii

    S. Office-bearers for the time being, or Delegates, altogether not exceed-
ing three in number, from any Philosophical Society publishing Transactions.

    4. Office-bearers for the time being, or Delegates, not exceeding three,
from Philosophical Institutions established in the place of Meeting, or in any
place where the Association has formerly met.

   5. Foreigners and other individuals whose assistance is desired, and who

are specially nominated in writing for the meeting of the year by the Presi-
dent and General Secretaries.

   6. The Presidents, Vice-Presidents, and Secretaries of the Sections are ex
officio members of the General Committee for the time being.

                                           SECTIONAL COMMITTEES.

   The General Committee shall appoint, at each Meeting, Committees, con-
sisting severally of the Members most conversant with the several branches
of Science, to advise together for the advancement thereof.

   The Committees shall report what subjects of investigation they would
particularly recommend to be prosecuted during the ensuing year, and

brought under consideration at the next Meeting.

   The Committees shall recommend Reports on the state and progress of
particular Sciences, to be drawn up from time to time by competent persons,
for the information of the Annual Meetings.

                               COMMITTEE OF RECOMMENDATIONS.

   The General Committee shall appoint at each Meeting a Committee, which
shall receive and consider the Recommendations of the Sectional Committees,
and report to the General Committee the measures which they would advise
to be adopted for the advancement of Science.

   All Recommendations of Grants of Money, Requests for Special Re-
searches, and Reports on Scientific Subjects, shall be submitted to the Com-
mittee of Recommendations, and not taken into consideration by the General
Comniitree, unless previously recommended by the Committee of Recom-

mendations.

                                             LOCAL COMMITTEES.

   Local Committees shall be formed by the Officers of the Association to
assist in making arrangements for the Meetings.

   Local Committees shall have the power of adding to their numbers those
Members of the Association whose assistance they may desire.

                                                           OFFICERS.

  A President, two or more Vice-Presidents, one or more Secretaries, and a

Treasurer, shall be annually appointed by the General Committee.

                                                          COUNCIL.

    In the intervals of the Meetings, the affairs of the Association shall be

managed by a Council appointed by the General Committee. The Council
may also assemble for the despatch of business during the week of the

Meeting.

                                   PAPERS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   The Author of any paper or communication shall be at liberty to reserve

his right of property therein.

                                                       ACCOUNTS.

   The Accounts of the Association shall be audited annually, by Auditors

appointed by the Meeting.
                                                                            ^'W

                                                                            M3

                                                                            1-2

                                                                            is

                                                                                  u

                                                                         Q

          t^as S=f

          3ph a g     St3                            1^^     Sag «MX6 t*^2

              li <2|  Si                         E-l;2

                                                        3Sg                 a. °
PLh ^ajfipsKK £(»<«« £>'

^ *5
  .a
.2 S

          Wo                          · jtn :                cqKH Q I       S.2
                                                             WE^ V3 o ·
                          «< "!6 :                                          SO
                                              i              J 3(1.

                    ii                                       e'Bw
                                                             I §5"
                                       ops CO

m      2

    a

          Is:"
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.

II. Table showing the Names of Members of tlie British Association who

                          have served on the Council in former years.

Acland, Sir Thomas D., Bart., M.P., F.R.S.       Fitzwilliam, Tiie Earl, D.C.L., F.R.S.
Acland, H. W., B.M.
Adamson, J., F.L.S.                              Fleming, W., M.D.
Adare, Viscount, M.P., F.R.S.
Airy, G.B., D.C.L., F.R.S., Astronomer Royal.    Forbes, Charles.
Ainslie, Rev. Gilbert, D.D., Master of Pem-      Forbes, Professor Edward, F.R.S.
                                                 Forbes, Professor J. D., F.R.S.
        broke Hall, Cambridge.                   Fox, Robert Were, F.R.S.
Ansted, Professor D. T., M.A., F.R.S.            Gilbert, Davies, D.C.L., F.R.S.
Arnott, Neil, M.D., F.R.S.                       Graham, Rev. John, D.D., Master of Christ's
Ashburton, Lord, D.C.L.
Babbage, Charles, F.R.S.                                 College, Cambridge.
Babington, C. C, F.L.S.                          Graham, Professor Thomas, M.A., F.R.S.
Baily, Francis, F.R.S.                           Gray, John E., F.R.S.
Barker, George, F.R.S.                           Gray, Jonathan.
Bengough, George.                                Gray, William, jun., F.G.S.
Bentham, George, F.L.S.                          Green, Professor Joseph Henry, F.R.S.
Bigge, Charles.                                  Greenough, G. B., F.R.S.
Blakistou, Pevton, M.D., F.R.S.
Brewster, Sir David, K.IL, LT,.D., F.R.S.        Grove, W. R., Esq., F.R.S.
Breadalbane, The Marquis of, F.R.S.              HaUam, Henry, M.A., F.R.S.
Brisbane, Lieut.-General Sir Thomas M., Bart.,   Hamilton, W. J., U.P., Sec.G.S.
                                                 Hamilton, Sir William R., Astronomer Royal
        K.C.B., G.C.H., D.C.L., F.R.S.
Brown, Robert, D.C.L., F.R.S.                            of Ireland, M.R.I.A.
Brunei, Sir M. I., F.R.S.                        Harcourt, Rev. William Vernon, M.A., F.R.S.
                                                 Hardwcke, The Earl of,
Buckland, Very Rev. William, D.D., Dean of       Harford, J. S., D.C.L., F.R.S.
       Westminster, F R.S.
                                                 Harris, Sir W. Snow, F.R.S.
Burlington, The Earl of, M.A., F.R.S., Chan-
       cellor of the University of London.       Hatfeild, William, F.G.S.
                                                 Henslow, Rev. Professor, M.A., F.L.S.
Bute, The Marquis of, K.T.
Carson, Rev. Joseph.                             Henry, W. C, M.D., F.R.S.
                                                 Herbert, Hon. and Very Rev. William, Dean
Cathcart, Tlie Earl, K.C.B., F.R.S.E.
Chalmers, Rev. T., D.D., Professor of Di-                of Manchester, LL.D., F.L.S.
                                                 Herschel, Sir John F.W., Bart.,D.C.L., F.R.S.
        vinitv, Edinburgh.                       Heywood, Sir Benjamin, Bart., F.R.S.
Christie, Professor S. H., M.A., Sec. R.S.       Heywood, James, M.P., F.R.S.
Clare, Peter, F.R.A.S.                           Hodgkiu, Thomas, M.D.
Clark, Rev. Professor, M.D., F.R.S. (Cam-        Hodgkinson, Prof. Eaton, F.R.S.
                                                 Hodgson, Joseph, F.R.S.
         bridge).                                Hooker, Sir William J., LL.D., F.R.S.
                                                 Hope, Rev. F.W., M.A., F.R.S.
Clark, Henry, M.D.                               Hopkins, William, M.A., F.R.S.
Clark, G. T.                                     Horner, Leonard, F.R.S., F.G.S.
Gierke, Major Shadwell, K.IL, R.E., F.R.S.       Hovenden, V. F., M.A.
Clift, William, F.R.S.                           Button, Robert, F.G.S.
Colquhoun, J. C, M.P.                            Hutton, William, F.G.S.
Convbeare,Vei-vRev. W. D, Dean of Llandaff,      Ibbetson, Capt., F.G.S.
                                                 Inglis,SirRobertH.,Bart.,D.C.L.,M.P.,F.R.S.
      'M.A., F.R'.S.                             Jameson, Professor R., F.R.S.
Corrie, John, F.R.S.                             Jenyns, Rev. Leonard, F.L.S.
Currie, William Wallace.                         Jerrard, H. B.
Dalton, John, D.C.L., F.R.S.                     Johnston, Professor J.F. W., M.A., F.R.S.
Daniell, Professor J. F., F.R.S.                 Keleher, William.
Dartmouth, The Earl of, D.C.L., F.R.S.           Lardner, Rev. Dr.
Daubenv, Professor Charles G. B., M.D.,          Lee, R.,M.D., F.R.S.
                                                 Lansdowne, The Marquis of, D.C.L., F.R.S.
        F.R.S.                                   Latham, R.G., M.D., F.R.S.
                                                 Lefevre, Right Hon. Charles Shaw, Speaker
De la Beche, Sir Henr)' T., F.R.S., Director-
                                                        of the House of Commons.
        General of the Geological Survey of the  Lemon, Sir Charles, Bart., M.P., F.R.S.
       United Kingdom.                           Liddell, Andrew.
Dillwyn, Lewis W., F.R.S.                        Lindley, Professor, Ph.D., F.R.S.
Drinkwater, J. E.                                Listowel, The Earl of.
Durham, The Bishop of, F.R.S.                    Lloyd, Rev. Bartholomew, D.D., Provost of
Egerton, Sir Philip de M. Grey, Bart., F.R.S.
Eliot, Lord, M.P.                                        Trinity College, Dublin.
Ellesmere, The Earl of, F.G.S.                   Lloyd, Rev. Professor, D.D., F.R S,
Estcourt, T. G. B., D.C.L.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L., F.R.S.
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.                        XI

Lubbock, Sir John W., Bart., M.A., F.R.S.  Rosse, The Earl of, President of the Royal
Luby, Rev. Thomas.
LyeU, Sir Charles, M.A., F.R.S.                     Societv.
MacCullagh, Professor, D.C.L., M.R.I.A.
Macfarlaue, The Very Rev. Principal.       Royle, Professor John F., M.D., F.R.S.
MacLeay, William Sharp, F.L.S.             Russell, James.
MacNeiU, Professor Sir John, F.R.S.        Sabine, Lieut.-Colonel Edward, R.A., For.
Meynell, Thomas, Jun., F.L.S.
MUler, Professor W. H., M.A., F.R.S.               Sec.R.S.
Moillet, J. L.                             Sanders, William, F.G.S.
Moggridge, Matthew.                        Sandon, Lord.
Moody, T. H. C.                            Scoresbv, Rev. W., D.D., F.R.S.
Moody, T. F.                               Sedgwick, Rev. Professor, M.A., F.R.S.
Morley, The Earl of.                       Selby, Prideaux John, F.R.S.E.
Morpeth, Viscount, F.G.S.                  Smith, Lieut.-Colonel C. Hamilton, F.R.S.
Moseley, Rev. Henry, M.A., F.R.S.          Staunton, Sir George T., Bart., M.P., D.C.L.,
Mount Edgecumbe, The Earl of.
Murchison, Sir Roderick L, G.C.S., F.R.S.           F.R.S.
NeiU, Patrick, M.D., F.R.S.E.
Nicol, D., M.D.                            Stevelly, Professor John, LL.D.
Nicol, Rev. J. P., LL.D.                   Strang, John.
Northumberland, The Duke of, K.G., M.A.,   Strickland, H. E., F.G.S.
                                           Sykes, Lieut.-Colonel W. H., F.R.S.
         F.R.S.                            Symons, B.P.,D.D., late Vice-Chancellor of

Nortliampton, The Marquis of, V.P.R.S.             the University of Oxford.
Norwich, The Bishop of. President of the
                                           Talbot, W. H. Fox, M.A., F.R.S.
        Linnaean Society, F.R.S.
Ormerod, G. \V., F.G.S.                    Tayler, Rev. J. J.
Orpen, Thomas Herbert, M.D.                Tavlor, John, F.R.S.
Owen, Professor Richard, M.D., F.R.S.      Taylor, Richard, jun., F.G.S.
Oxford, The Bishop of, F.R.S., F.G.S.      Thompson, WiUiam, F.L.S.
                                           Traill, J. S., M.D.
Osier, Follett.                            Turner, Edward, M.D., F.R.S.
                                           Turner, Samuel, F.R.S., F.G.S.
Palmerston, Viscount, G.C.B., M.P.
Peacock, Very Rev. George, D.D., Dean of   Turner, Rev. W.

        Ely, V.P.R.S.                      Vigors, N. A., D.C.L., F.L.S.
                                           Vivian, J. H., M.P., F.R.S.
Pendarves, E., F.R.S.                      Walker, James, F.R.S.
PhilUps, Professor John, F.R.S.            Walker, J. N., F.G.S.
Porter, G. R., Esq.                        Walker, Rev. Robert, M.A., F.R.S.
Powell, Rev. Professor, M.A., F.R.S.       Warburton, Henry, M.A., M.P., F.R.S.
Prichard, J. C., M.D., F.R.S.              Washington, Captain, R.N.
Ramsay, Professor W., M.A.
Rennie', George, V.P.&Treas.R.S.           West, WUUam, F.R.S.
Rennie, Su- John, F.R.S.
Richardson, Sir John, M.D., F.R.S.         Wheatstone, Professor, F.R.S.
Ritchie, Rev. Professor, LL.D., F.R.S.     AVhewell, Rev. William, D.D., Master of
Robinson, Rev. J., D.D.
Robmson, Rev. T. R., D.D., M.R.LA..               Trinity College, Cambridge.
Robison, Sir John, Sec.R.S.Edin.           Williams, Professor Charles J. B., M.D., F.R.S.
Roche, James.                              Willis, Rev. Professor, M.A., F.R.S.
Roget, Peter Mark, M.D., F.R.S.            Winchester, Tiie Marquis of.
                                           Woollcombe, Henrv, F.S.A.
Ross, Capt. Sk James C, R.N., F.R.S.       Wortley, The Hon.' John Stuart, B.A., M.P.,

                                                   F.R.S.
                                           Yarrell, WiUiam, F.L.S.

                                           Yarborough, The Earl of, D.C.L.
                                           Yates, James, M.A., F.R.S.
                                        --

                                      BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE

THE GENERAL TREASURER'S ACCOUNT from 23rd of June

                                                    RECEIPTS.

To Balance brought on from last Account                        £ s. d.     £ s.   d.
To Life Compositions at Oxford and since                                           2
                                                                 2 10 6   169 15
To Annual Subscriptions  Ditto                                   358      200
                                                                 2 15     207
To Associates' Subscriptions at Oxford                           1 13 4   495
                                                                 1 16 10  203
To Ladies' Tickets       Ditto                                   29
                                                                 35           2
To Book Compositions                                             4 11     196 12
                                                                 5 12
To Dividends on Stock (£4500 three per cent. Consols) 18 mos.    4 13 8
                                                                 353
To received from Sale of Publications :                          2 18 6
                      Copies of the 1st volume
                                        2nd volume             1810 7 4
                                                                 8
                         3rd volume                            62 2
                                                               10 2 10
                         4th volume
                                                                     12
                         5th volume                            63 16 11

                         6th volume                            1334 4
                                                                 5
                         7th volume
                                                               10 13 10
                         8th volume                              395

                         9th volume

                         10th volume

                         11th volume

                         12th volume

                         13th volume

                         14th volume

                         15th volume

                         16th volume

       Lithograph Signatures

       British Association's Catalogue of Stars

       Lalande's Catalogue of Stars

       Lacaille's        Ditto

                                                                          232 15 6

To Balance due to the General Treasurer

Ditto               Local Treasurers

Less, Balance in Banker's hands                                14 3 3
                                                                4 15 5

Leaving Balance against the Account of                                    9 7 10

                                                                          £1715 10 6

G. R. PORTER
JAMES HEYWOOD ,} Auditors.
                ----

ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE.

184.7 (at Oxford) to 9th of August 1848 (at Swansea).

                                       PAYMENTS.

                                                                    £ s.

For Sundry Printing, Advertising, Expenses of Oxford Meeting,

and Sundry Disbursements by Treasurer and Local Trea-

surers

Paid Balance of Printing, 15th Report (14th vol.)

Printing, &c. 16th Report (15th vol.)

Engraving, &c. for 17th Report (16th vol.)

Salaries to Assistant General Secretary and Accountant           ,

Paid by order of Committees on Account of Grants for Scientific

purposes, viz.

Researches on Atmospheric Waves                                     3 10

Vitality of Seeds                                                   9 15

Completion of Catalogues of Stars                                   70

Researches on Colouring Matters                                     5

Acid on the Growth of Plants                                        15

Maintaining the Establishment at Kew Observatory :                   42 11
                                                                    129 4
   Balance of Grant of 1846
   Part of Grant of 1847
                    OFFICERS AND COUNCIL,

            OFFICERS AND COUNCIL, 1848-49.

    Trustees (permanent).-- Sir Roderick Impey Murchison, G.C.S'.S., F.R.S.
John Taylor, Esq., F.R.S. The Very Reverend George Peacock, D.D.,
Dean of Ely, F.R.S.

 --President. The Marquis of Northampton, V.P.R.S,
  --Vice-Presidents. Viscount Adare. The Lord Bishop of St. David's.

Sir H. T. De la Beche, F.R.S. The Very Rev. The Dean of LlandafT.
Lewis W. Dillwyn, Esq., F.R.S. W. R. Grove, Esq., F.R.S. J. H. Vivian,

Esq., M.P., F.R.S.

President Elect.-- Rev. T. R. Robinson, D.D., M.R.I.A., F.R.A.S.

--Vice-Presidents Elect. The Earl of Harrowby. The Lord Wrottesley,

F.R.S. Right Hon. Sir Robert Peel, Bart., D.C.L., M.P., F.R.S. Charles

Darwin, Esq., M.A., F.R.S. Professor Faraday, D.C.L., F.R.S. Sir

David Brewster, K.H., LL.D., F.R.S. Rev. Professor Willis, M.A., F.R.S.

  --General Secretary. Lieut. -Col. Sabine, For. Sec. R.S., Woolwich.
 --Assistant General Secretary. John Phillips, Esq., F.R.S., York.

--General Treasurer. John Taylor, Esq., F.R.S., 2 Duke Street, Adelphi,

London.

 --Secretaries for the Birmingham Meeting in 1849. Charles Tindale, Esq.

William Wills, Esq. Bell Fletcher, Esq., M.D. James T. Chance, Esq.

  --Treasurer for the Meeting at Birmingham. James Russell, Esq.
  --Council. Professor Ansted. Major Shadwell Clerke (deceased). Prof.

E. Forbes. Prof. T. Graham. G. B. Greenough, Esq. W. J. Hamilton,

Esq. James Heywood, Esq. Prof. E. Hodgkinson. Leonard Horner,

Esq. Robert Hutton, Esq. Capt. Ibbetson. Sir R. H. Inglis, Bart. Dr.

R. G. Latham. Sir Charles Lemon, Bart. Sir Charles Lyell. Sir C.

Malcolm. Prof. Owen. G. R. Porter, Esq. Dr. Roget. J. Scott Russell,

Esq. William Spence, Esq. H. E. Strickland, Esq. Lieut. -Col. Sykes.

Rev. Professor Walker. The Dean of Westminster. Prof. Wheatstone.

Rev. Dr. Whewell.                          Rev. E. Hill, Oxford.

 --Local Treasurers. W. Gray, Esq., York.

C. C. Babington, Esq., Cambridge. William Brand, Esq., Edinburgh.

J. H. Orpen, LL.D., Dublin. William Sanders, Esq., Bristol.  ,

Liverpool.          , Newcastle-on-Tyne. James Russell, Esq., Birming-

ham. Professor Ramsay, Glasgow.  , Plymouth. G. W. Ormerod,

Esq., Manchester. William Clear, Esq., Cork. J. Sadleir Moody, Esq.,

Southampton. John Gwyn Jeffreys, Swansea.

 --Auditors Major Shadwell Clerke (deceased). James Heywood, Esq.

G. R. Porter, Esq.
OFFICERS OF SECTIONAIi COMMITTEES.                               XV

OFFICERS OF SECTIONAL COMMITTEES AT THE
                   SWANSEA MEETING.

SECTION A. MATHEMATICAL AND PHYSICAL SCIENCE.

   President.---LorA Wrottesley, F.R.S.         Rev. Dr. Whewell, F.R.S.
   Vice-Presidents.--The Dean of Ely, F.R.S.

--Lord Adare, F.R.S. Sir D. Brewster, F.R.S.
   Secretaries. Dr. Stevelly. G. G. Stokes.

          SECTION B. CHEMICAL SCIENCE, INCLUDING ITS APPLICATION TO
                                 AGRICULTURE AND THE ARTS.

 --President, Richard Phillips, Esq., F.R.S.

    Vice-Presidents.--"^. R. Grove, Esq., F.R.S. Dr. Faraday, F.R.S. Dr.

Percy, F.R.S. John Dillwyn Llewelyn, Esq., F.R.S.

 --Secretaries. Thomas Williams, Esq., M.D. Thomas H. Henry, Esq.,

F.R.S. Robert Hunt, Esq.

SECTION C. GEOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY.

   President Sir H. T. De la Beche, C.B., F.R.S., Pres. G.S.

  --Vice-Presidents. G. B. Greenoiigh, Esq., F.R.S. The Dean of Llandaff,

F.R.S. The Dean of Westminster, F.R.S. Sir Philip Egerton, Bart.,

F.R-S.                                 Professor Oldham, F.R.S.  Pro-

 --Secretaries. Starling Benson, Esq.

fessor Ramsay, F.G.S.

SECTION D. ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY, INCLUDING PHYSIOLOGY.

--President. L. W. Dillwyn, Esq., F.R.S.        W. Spence, Esq., F.R.S.

--Vice-Presidents. L. L. Dillwyn, Esq., F.G.S.

--G, Benthara, Esq., F.L.S. N. Wallich, M.D., F.R.S.
   Secretaries. E. Lankester, M.D., F.R.S. R. Wilbraham Falconer, M.D.

A. Henfrey, Esq., F.L.S.

                                     SUBSECTION OF ETHNOLOGY.  Rev. J. M. Tra-

   Vice-Presidents.--B.. G. Latham, Esq., M.D., F.R.S.

--herne, F.R.S. Dr. C. Meyer. Dr. Hodgkin.
   Secretary. Geo. Grant Francis, Esq., F.S.A.

                     --SECTION F. STATISTICS.

   President.--J . H. Vivian, Esq., M.P., F.R.S,
   Vice-Presidents.-- Sir Charles Lemon, Bart., M.P., F.R.S. Thomas Tooke,
Esq., F.R.S. Lieut.-Col. W. H. Sykes, F.R.S.

 --Secretaries. Joseph Fletcher, Esq. Capt. Robert Shortrede.

                                         SECTION G. MECHANICS.

   President.--The Rev, Professor Walker, M.A., F.R.S.

  --Vice-Presidents. Joseph Glynn, Esq., F.R.S. John Scott Russell, Esq.,

F.R.S.E. John Taylor, Esq., F.R.S.

 --Secretaries. R. Arthur Le Mesurier, Esq., M.A. William Price Struve,

Esq.
--REPORT 1848.

CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.

Professor Agassiz, Neufchatel.         M. Kupffer, St. Petersburg.

M. Arago, Paris.                       Dr. Langberg, Christiania.

Dr. A. D. Baclie, Pliiladelpliia.      M. Leverrier, Paris.
Professor H. von Boguslawski, Bres-    Baron de Selys-Longcliamps, Liege.
                                       Dr. Lamont, Munich.
     lau.
                                       Baron von Liebig, Giessen.
Monsieur Boiuigny (d'Evreux), Paris.   Professor Link, Berlin.
Professor Braschinann, Moscow.         Professor Matteucci, Pisa.
Chevalier Biinsen.                     Professor von MiddendorfF, St. Pe-
Charles Buonaparte, Prince of Canino.
                                           tersburg.
M. De la Rive, Geneva.
                                       Piofessor Nillson of Sweden.
Professor Dove, Berlin.                Dr. (Ersted, Copenhagen.
Professor Dumas, Paris.                Chevalier Plana, Turin.
Dr. J. Milne-EcUvards of Paris.        M. Qiietelet, Brussels.
Professor Ehrenberg, Berlin.           Herr Pliicker, Bonn.
Dr. Eisenlohr, Carlsruhe.              Professor C. Ritter, Berlin.
Professor Encke, Berlin.               Professor H. D. Rogers, Philadelphia.
Dr. A. Erman, Berlin.                  Professor H. Rose, Berlin.
Professor Esmark, Christiania.         Professor Schumacher, Altona.
ProfessorForchhammer,Copenhagen.       Baron Senftenberg, Bohemia.
                                       Dr. Siljestrom, Stockholm.
M. Frisiani, Milan.
                                       M. Struve of St. Petersburg.
Professor Henry, Princeton, United
                                       Dr. Svanberg, Stockholm.
     States.
                                       Dr. Van der Hdven, Leyden.
Baron Alexander von Humboldt,          Baron Sartorius von Waltershausen,

    Berlin.                                Gotha.
                                       Professor Wartmann, Lausanne.
M. Jacobi, St. Petersburg.

Professor Jacobi, Konigsberg.
Professor Kreil, Prague.

Report of the Proceedings of the Council in 1847-48, presented to the
      General Committee at Swansea, Wednesday, August 0, 1848.

                        Report of the Council to the General Committee.
    1. With reference to the subjects on which tlie Council was requested by

the General Committee, assembled at Oxford, to make applications to Her
Majesty's Government and to the Court of Directors of the East India Com-

pany, the Council has to report, that similar resolutions to those of the General
Committee having been passed by the Council of the Royal Society, appli-

cations in accordance with ti'.em were made by the Presidents of that Society
and of the British Association, acting conjointly, and were favourably received.

On the subject of the first resolution, the Council understand from Lord

Auckland's reply, that the Board of Admiralty will appropriate a suitable
vessel for the purpose of an investigation into the Phaanomena of the Tides,
as soon as the most advisable plan for her employment shall have been deter-
mined upon, and proper instructions suggested. With respect to the second
resolution, the Court of Directors of the East India Company have issued
orders for carrying into regular and continued operation the tide observations

--on the coasts of Western India and Scinde ; and with respect to the third

resohition, the Court of Directors liave placed the standard bar and scale of

the Indian arc of tlie meridian at the disposal of M. Struve, and have per-
mitted him to take it with him to Russia, in order that it may be there com-
       --;

       REPORT OP THE COUNCIL.                       XVll

pared with the similar instruments which have been employed in the measure-
ments of the Russian arc of the meridian,

   2. The Council have been informed, that a deputation from the Philoso-
phical Society of Birmingham has been appointed to present, at this Meeting,
an invitation from that Society and from other public bodies at Birmingham,
to the British Association, to hold the Meeting of 1849 in that town.

   3. The Council have received from Mr. Phillips, Assistant General Se-
cretary, a communication entitled "Reasons for thinking that the Annual
Meetings of the British Association ought not to be restricted to places which
present formal invitations and guarantees of expenses." Considering the
importance of the subject, and the respect due to the opinions of so experi-
enced and zealous a friend of the Association, the Council have deemed it
desirable that Mr. Phillips's communication should be brought to the notice
of the General Committee on the occasion of presenting this Report : but
having been apprised that an invitation is. to be brought forward at Swansea
to hold the Meeting of 1849 at Birmingham, and regarding this invitation

as likely to be very favourably received, it has not appeared to the Council
desirable to take any other present steps in reference to the subject of Mr.
Phillips's communication, than that of bringing the communication itself to
the notice of the General Committee. (See page xxi).

   4. The Council have added the following names to the list of Correspond-
ing Members of the British Association :

                         M. Struve of St. Petersburg.
                         M. Leverrier of Paris.

                                 Charles Buonaparte, Prince of Canino.

                           The Chevalier Bunsen.
                               Professor Nillson of Sweden.
                            Professor Esmark of Christiania.
                          Dr. Van der Hoven of Leyden.
                              Dr. J. Milne-Edwards of Paris.

   5. The Council have deemed it desirable to take into serious consideration
the expediency of maintaining for a longer period the establishment at Kew
for this purpose they reappointed the Committee whose former report on the
same subject was submitted to the General Committee at Southampton in
1846, and they now submit to the General Committee a second report from
the same Committee. The Council have also to express their concurrence
in the opinions contained in that report, with respect to the services which
have been rendered to science by that institution, even on the limited scale
on which alone it has been in the power of the British Association to maintain
it ; and to the probability that ere long the interests of science and the re-
quirements of the public service will call for a Government establishment,
having for its purpose some of the important objects originally contemplated
by the observatory at Kew. The Council also concur in the opinion ex-
pressed by the Committee, of the. expediency of deferring for the present a
memorial to Her Majesty's Government on the subject.

       Report of the Kew Observatory Committee.

The Committee appointed to consider the subject of the Kew Observatory

having obtained from Mr. Ronalds a report on the actual state of the building,

the instruments and other property of the Association therein deposited, as

well as respecting the observations and experiments made there up to the

present time, are enabled to state to the Council as respects the former, that

1848.                                            c
xviii  --REPORT 1848.

they are in a satisfactory condition, the building having undergone recently
(on the representation by Mr. Ronalds to the Commissioners of Woods and
Forests, in September 1847, of their necessity) such external repairs as suffice
for its preservation, and that the instruments, such as are actually in use, are
in good order and accomplishing the purposes of observation for which they

have been constructed. An inventory of them has been furnished to the
Committee by Mr. Ronalds, who is at present engaged in making out a com-

plete catalogue of all the property of the Association on the premises.
    In reporting on the scientific objects accomplished since their last report

in 1846, they consider that they cannot do better than to extract such por-
tions of Mr. Ronalds's reports above mentioned as bear upon this head.

    " The journal of ordinary observations has proceeded as usual ; fourteen
observations per diem have been pretty constantly set down of electric ob-

servations.

    " In the course of August 1846, many of the magnetic photographs were
submitted to a rigid comparison with the corrected readings of the Greenwich

magnet, and the result was officially declared to be ' highly satisfactory.'
    " In the same month Dr. Banks brought an experimental specimen of his

registering anemometer to Kew, and tried it at the north-eastern angle of the

electric observatory.
    " In September the third volume of Observations and Experiments was

completed and carried to the Southampton Meeting of the British Association.
    " In December 184G, having by experience (since the beginning of August

1845) found that my preliminary expeiiments, made upon a thermometer, a

barometer, and an electrometer, each placed in the same camera or micro-
scope alternateli/f fidly warranted the cost of constructing apparatus of a
durable and convenient character for eacli instrument, I began to make (at
Chiswick) the photo-registering barometer, now at Kew, and spent several
months in its completion. It is furnished with a compensating apparatus
(on the principle of the gridiron-pendulum), whereby the necessity of a cor-

rection for temperature is certainly to a great extent, if not completely,

avoided ; it has one of Newman's standard tubes, and the image of the sur-
face of the mercury itself is employed totally unencumbered by any ball, plug,
float, or machinery of any kind ; the mercury is therefore as free to act in
this as in any standard barometer. And it can be at any time used without
the compensating apparatus, if that should be deemed objectionable. The
same time-piece moves this and the magnetic apparatus.

   "In May 1847, the magnetic apparatus was improved by the substitution

of new lenses by Ross in lieu of Voightlander's. This enlarged the scale of

declination.

    " In January 1847, a complete electrical apparatus, exactly similar to mine

in the dome at Kew for ordinary observations, was begun by Mr. Newman,
by order of the East India Company, for the Bombay Observatory, and after-

wards sent. Drawings were lent, instructions given, and electrometers made

to correspond exactly with the Kew instruments.

   *' In November 1846, drawings relative to Mr. Scott Russell's experiments
on the forms of vessels arrived at Kew, and I afterwards tried hard to get
possession of the models themselves (in pursuance of a resolution of the As-

sociation), but without success.

   " In May 1847, Mr. Hunt's actinometer arrived at Kew.

   "In June 1847, the fourth volume of observations was completed and car-
ried to the Oxford Meeting.

   " At this meeting some conversation, &c. occurred about establishing an
REPORT OF THE COUNCIL.                                                XIX

electro-meteorological and tnagnetical observatory at Alten, in Finmark, and

proposing to furnish some electrical apparatus from Kew and of my own, but

nothing has been achieved in this way.
   "In September 1847, repairs of the building becoming more urgent, I

addressed a third application to the Woods and Forests through Mr. Phillips,
and a new estimate for complete external and internal repairs was made,
amounting to £271. The Commissioners, Mr. Milne, Mr. Burton, and Mr.
Phillips, then visited the Observatory, examined it, and the apparatus, &c.,
and very soon afterwards all such repairs were executed as were fully suffi-

cient to render it at least wind- and water-tight, which rendered a great

service to the magnet.

   " In November 1847, the magnetical apparatus was improved by the ad-
dition of a second condensing lens, placed beyond and very near to the index,

and by an adjustment for the height of the lamp.
   " At about the same time the barometric apparatus was improved by like

means.

   " In December 1847, the apparatus for registering photographically the
electricity of the atmosphere now established at the south window of the
south upper apartment (in pursuance of the experiments made in July and
August 1 845 et seq.) was in course of construction, and was completed in

February 1848.
    " I took much pains in the course of several months prior and subsequent

to this time to arrange a system whereby photographic papers might be put
into the microscopes (or camera) daily, and sent to Mr. Henneman's establish-
ment, in Regent-street, to be there fixed and calotyped, and the positive

impressions thence distributed to any meteorologists whom the British Asso-

ciation might think proper to appoint to receive them. These endeavours
have been zealously promoted by Mr. Malone, and will become, I trust,

useful.

  We" now arrive at a circumstance which I (of course) cannot but esteem

of importance. In Mr. Glaisher's remarks on the weather during the quarter

--ending December 31, 1847, for the Registrar-General's Report (at p. 2), he

says, in reference to the Greenwich electrical apparatus, ' It is a fact well-
worthy of notice, that from the beginning of this quarter till the 20th of
December, the electricity of the atmosphere was almost always in a neutral
state, so that no signs of electricity whatever were shown for several days
together, by any of the electrical instruments,' &c. At this notice I sent to
Greenwich an abstract from our journal of the maxima and minima of the
two-hourly charges of the conductor during the same period, by which it

was seen that the electricity of the atmosphere at Kew was iiever in a neutral

state then, and I found that so low a charge was never observed during that
time as has been observed in other periods. These circumstances were can-
didly stated in the next report. It was thought that this discrepancy be-
tween the two conductors, &c. might arise, wholly or in part, from the great
length of the conducting wire, which extends from the top of the mast at

 Greenwich to the magnetic observatory, where the electrometers are placed.

Both theory and experiment fully confirm my belief that this was the chief

 cause of the difference, and is the cause of a want of constancy in signs at

Greenwich. (A few experiments upon my own conductor with a long wire

have lately confirmed the fact still more.)"

On this report the Committee have to remark with satisfaction, as on
-- Onscientific objects usefully and availably carried out, 1st.
                                                                  the photogra-

                                                                  c2
--XX REPORT 1848.

phic self-registering processes which Mr. Ronalds has applied to the several

--objects of magnetic and meteorological observation processes which (with-

out reference to, or comparison witli, what may have been doing simulta-
neously elsewhere or by others) appear to the Committee of much value and
importance to the future progress of meteorological and magnetic inquiry ;

and, 2ndly, on the valuable series of electrical observations which have
now been made during five years, and during the last three and a half at
2-hourly intervals day and night uninterruptedly, with observations also at
sunrise and sunset. As these observations afford what it is presumed are not
to be found at all, or at all events not for so long and consecutive a series,
distinct numerical values of the electrical tension comparable at least inter se,
tlie Committee have considered that they ought to undergo regular and
complete reduction and discussion, with a view to eliciting from them the
laws of the phaenomena ; and on this subject they have conferred with Mr.
Birt, who has submitted to them a plan of reduction which they regard as
satisfactory, and which he is willing to execute on a grant of £50 being made
to him for that purpose ; a sum which they consider not excessive, and which
they strongly recommend the Council to propose to the general body at the
ensuing meeting.

   On the subject of the comparability of these results with those obtained,

or to be hereafter obtained at Greenwich or elsewhere, it certainly would be
desirable that some distinct series of comparative trials should be made ; and
the Committee would have considered the execution of such a series an im-
portant practical object to be accomplished during the next year of the con-
tinuance of the observatory, but for considerations which it is now their duty

to state.
    Tlie question as to the expediency of continuing the present expenditure

of the establishment has occupied the anxious attention of the Committee,
conceiving that the Council, by making mention of it in their resolution of
April 14, is desirous of having their opinion on this head. In endeavouring
to form a sound one, they have taken into consideration the state of the
funds of the Association, and also the circumstances of the establishment
itself, which they are of opinion cannot for the future, or even for a single
additional year, be carried on in a manner satisfactory to the Association oti
so low a scale of expenditure as that which, by a fortunate conjunction of
personal circumstances eminently favourable, has hitherto been found prac-
ticable ; and thai in fact, to carry out fully some of the most important
objects which have all along been contemplated in its occupation by the
Association, a very considerable increase of outlay would, in their opinion,
be annually necessary. Such increase however, in the actual state of the

--funds of the Body, they are by no means prepared to recommend since

they perceive that even the present expenditure (could they guarantee that
it shall not be exceeded) must prove a drain upon those funds for which the
amount of scientific advantage to be expected from it on a scale of action so
limited, will not be held an adequate return. Entertaining this view of the
matter, and conceiving it equally inexpedient either to attempt to raise by
private subscription an annual amount adequate to the object, or to apply
to Government for aid (although they consider it by no means impossible

that ere long the exigences of the public service may require an establish-
ment, having for its object some of the most-important of those contemplated
in this), they see no course open but to recommend its discontinuance from

the earliest period at which it shall be found practicable, leaving it to the
   REPORT OP THE COUNCIL.  XXI

Committee to ascertain (should the Council adopt this view) the most fitting
mode of procedure for resigning it into the hands of Government, who have
so liberally allowed the Association its temporary occupation.

                       * Signed on the part of the Committee,

                                                                           J. F. W. Herschei.

Reasons for thinking that the Annual Meetings of the British Association
   ought not to be restricted to places which present formal invitations and

   guarantees of expenses.

   1. '· By the rules of the Association, the General Committee has the duty

of appointing the place, time and officers of the annual Meetings.

   2. " By custom, this power has been limited to places which present invita-
tions, to times suitable for those places, and to officers more or less indicated

by local circumstances.
   8. " The practice of obeying local invitations has been productive of good

and evil : good by the spontaneous awakening of many important places to
scientific activity ; evil by the introduction of elements of display, temporary
expedients, and unnecessary expense. These have somewhat impaired the
efficiency of the Meetings, by withdrawing attention and consuming time
which could ill be spared from the essential business of one scientific week.

   4. " It is the opinion of the writer, that the balance of good and evil in
this practice will become less and less favourable to the Association as time
goes on ; that by its operation the Meetings of the Association are likely to
be made more dependent on commercial and other extrinsic considerations
than on advantages of locality ; that places in the highest degree desirable
to be visited may not present invitations and guarantees ; that invitations
which it may be difficult to refuse may be pressed from places quite unsuit-
able for the Meeting ; and that, finally, the Association may be reduced,
not seldom, to the necessity of suspending its Meetings, or of seeing them
poorly attended by unwilling members, unfruitful of knowledge and unpro-
ductive of money.

   5. " He thinks the proper way to prevent these misfortunes is to declare
that in making arrangements for the future Meetings, the General Com-

mittee will be guided by general considerations, and will regard as only one
of the elements for its decision, the circumstance of special invitations from

particular localities.

   6. " And he thinks that this declaration should not be delayed beyond the
Swansea Meeting, where we may speak from the vantage-ground of a very

unanimous invitation from a place of singular attractions.

   " He farther remarks that this plan will throw no discredit on invitations,

which, as part of the elements for fixing on the places of Meeting, will still be
acceptable and influential. Places presenting them, will still have the ad-

vantage, and often the preference, which such proof of scientific activity may
deserve. The invitations will perhaps be as numerous after, as they have

been before the change.
    " There is no change necessary in respect of the previous arrangements,

which must still include inspection of the localities, consultation with resi-
dents, &c. before the General Committee can be called on to decide.

   " He will now say a few words on the financial part of this question.
   " The system upon which the Association has been worked of late years,
produces an expenditure of nearly £750 for the local expenses of rooms,
printing, clerks and messengers, &c. at each Meeting. Of this £500 has

been raised by local contributions, and the remainder paid by the British

k
--XXU REPORT 1848.

Association. This expenditure is not nil necessary. It arises in part from

the system of accepting invitations and requiring guarantees. He estimates

that £500 will be fully sufficient, if placed under his own management, to

conduct a full meeting of the Association at a place previously selected. He

even thinks £<l-00 might be enough, if the sections be reduced to five (by

Auniting and G), and care be taken in the appointment of clerks, messengers

and printers.

" To provide for this expense, the Association must find the means of de-

voting £150 a year (at least) in addition to its present annual payments.

HeBut will this be all spent in vain ? all lost ?  thinks not. There is in the pre-

sent system of raising local funds, a circumstance not to be overlooked which

is productive of much loss to the Association. By raising so many hundred

pounds at each place in the way of contribution to local expenses, there is

really abstracted much from the contribution to the general purposes of the

Association. Only a certain sum can be raised in the place, and the larger

the contribution required for local objects, the fewer are the members, and

the smaller the receipts of the Association. Gentlemen who might have

paid £l 0, pay £2 ; those who might have paid £2, are content with paying

£1               and in some cases the very demand of a local contribution has driven a
              ;

member from the ranks of the Association.

" Again, by selecting for our place of meeting a central accessible point in

an interesting district, where science has food and life, we may expect to

secure a large local attendance of new members, and yet not lose our friends

from a distance. But it has happened that a meeting by invitation has been

so ill attended from public occurrences and peculiarities, as to cause a
loss of many times £150 to the Association Treasury.

   "Finally, as by this plan we do not preclude ourselves from the advantage

of accepting invitations from the universities and large towns, but on the
contrary can afford to wait for the years which may be most convenient to those
places, there seems no objection of much strength to forbid the trial of it.

    " In this case he would call attention to Derby, as centrally situated, very

accessible, in a very interesting country which has not been visited, and by
no means deficient in scientific activity. Derby affords abundant accommo-

dation."

      Recommendations adopted by the General Committee at the
                          Swansea Meeting in August 1849.

                                 Involving Application to Government.

   That the President and General Secretary be authorised to apply to Her
Majesty's Government for the continuation of the Meteorological and Mag-
netical Observatory at Toronto, up to the 31st of December 1850.

                                     Involving Grants of Money.
   That Mr. Birt be requested to undertake the Reduction and Discussion
of the Electrical Observations made at Kevv, with the sum of £50 at his
disposal for the purpose.
   That the sum of £100 be placed at the disposal of the Council, for the

expenses of Kew Observatory.
   That Sir H. T. De la Beche,Sir William Hooker, Dr. Daubeny, Mr. Hen-

frey, and Mr. Hunt, be requested to investigate the action of Carbonic Acid
on the growth of Plants allied to those of the Coal-formation, with the balance
of the original grant (£5) at their disposal.
                        :

RESEARCHES IN SCIENCE.  XXIU

    That Mr. Spence and Mr. T. V, Wollaston be a Committee for the pur-
 pose of assisting Mr. Newport in drawing up a Report on Scorpionidae and
Tracheary Arachnidse, with the sum of £10 at their disposal.

    That Professor E. Forbes and Professor T. Bell he a Committee for as-
sisting Dr. T. Williams in drawing up a Report on the state of our knowledge
of British Annelidge, with £10 at their disposal.

   That H. E. Strickland, Esq., Dr. Daubeny, Dr. Lindley, and Professor
Henslow, be requested to form a Committee for conducting Experiments on
the Vitality of Seeds, with £10 at their disposal.

   That Professor E. Forbes, and the other members already named on the
Committee for Dredging, with the addition of Colonel Portlock and Dr.
Williams, be requested to continue their investigations, with £10 at their

disposal.

   That Dr. Lankester, Mr. R. Taylor, Mr. W. Thompson, Mr. Jenyns,
Professor Henslow, Mr. A. Henfrey, Sir W. C. Trevelyan, Bart., and Mr.
Peach, be requested to continue their superintendence of the drawing up
of Tables for the Registration of Periodical Phaenomena, with £5 at their

disposal.

   That certain Bills, amounting to £13 10s., on account of Anemometrical
Observations, formerly carried on at Edinburgh, be paid; and that the
Anemometer be transferred to the Assistant-General Secretary, at York.

      ANot involving Grants of Money, or implications to Government.

   That Dr. Schunck be requested to continue his Investigations on Colouring

Matters.

   That Dr. Andrews be requested to prepare a Report on the Heat developed
in Chemical Action.

   That Mr. R. Hunt be requested to prepare a Report on the present state
of our Knowledge of the Chemical Influence of the Solar Radiations.

   That Professor E. Forbes, Dr. Playfair, Dr. Carpenter, and M. A. Han-

cock, be a Committee to report on the Perforating Apparatus of Mollusca.
   That Mr. Mallet be requested to continue his preparation for a Report on

the Facts of Earthquakes.
    That Mr. G. G. Stokes be requested to prepare a Report on Physical

Optics, in continuation of Dr. Lloyd's Report on that subject.
    That the communication of Dr. Percy on the Extraction of Silver by the

wet way, be printed entire in the next Volume of Transactions.
    That the Communication by Mr. Joseph Glynn, on Hydraulic Pressure

Engines, be printed entire in the next Volume of Transactions.
   That a Communication by Mr. J. P. Budd, on the advantageous Use made

of the Gaseous Escape from the Blast Furnaces of Ystalyfera,be printed entire

in the Transactions.
    That the Assistant General Secretary be authorised, on consultation with

Professor Powell, to insert in the next Volume of Transactions, such portions
of Professor Powell's Communication on Luminous Meteors, as may be ne-
cessary to complete the recorded observations of that Phaenomenon.

    That the Committee appointed in 1838, for determining the resistance of
Railway Trains, be re-appointed, for the purposes of repeating those ex-
periments at the high velocities, and in the altered circumstances of Railways

--at the present time, the following Gentlemen to form the Committee, viz.
--Mr. Hardman Earle, Mr. George Rennie, Mr. Edward Woods, Mr. T.

Froude, Mr. J. Glynn, Mr. Wyndham Harding, and Mr. J. S. Russell.

    That the Assistant General Secretary be requested to form a complete List
              --

Xxiv          --REPORT 1848.

of all the Recommendations that have been made by the Association, accom-
panied by a Report of the manner and extent to which these recommenda-
tions have been carried into effect ; to be printed and placed in the hands of

the Committees of Sections.
    In consequence of the Report vfhich the General Committee has received

from the Council on the subject of the Kew Observatory, the General Com-

mittee concur with the Council in regretting that the means at the disposal of
the British Association are insufficient to carry out on the extended scale
which would be required for that purpose, the important objects which were

contemplated by the Institution at Kew ; they also concur in the expediency

of discontinuing the endeavour to accomplish their objects with means which

are confessedly inadequate.

   The General Committee has granted the sum recommended to be em-
ployed in the reduction and discussion of the important and unique series of
Electrical Observations which have been made at Kew under the superintend-
ence of Mr. Ronalds, and they further remit to the care and conduct of the
Council the steps which are necessary to be taken for the discontinuance

of the Kew Observatory.

   The General Secretary having suggested the expediency of inserting in the

Rules of the British Association a paragraph to the effect that those Gentle-

men who have held the office of President of the Association, should be ex-
officio members of the Council,

   The General Committee request that the Council will take this suggestion
into their consideration, and report their opinion thereon to the General Com-
mittee at its first Meeting in Birmingham.

Synopsis of Grants of Money appropriated to Scientific Objects by the
    General Committee at the Sivansea Meeting in August 1848, with
   the Name of the Member, who alone or as the First of a Com-
   mittee, is entitled to draw for the Money.

              Kew Observatory.                                      £ s. d.

At the disposal of the Council for defraying Expenses               100

                              Mathematical and Physical Science.    13 10
Bills incurred for Anemometrical Observations at Edinburgh. .       50

--BiRT, W. R. Discussion of Electrical Observations

                                                          Geology.  5

--De la Beche, Sir H. T. Influence of Carbonic Acid on

        Vegetation

                                              Natural History.      10

Strickland, H. E Vitality of Seeds                                    5
                                                                    10
--Lankester, Dr. Periodical Phaenomena of Animals and Vege-         10
                                                                    10
      tables                           ·.

--Spence, W. Report on Scorpionidae and Arachnidse
--Forbes, Pref. E. Dredging Committee
--Forbes, Prof. E. Report on British Annelidae

                  Total of Grants                                 £213 10
                                  OENEEAL STATEMENT.                  .

                                                                                 XXV

General Statement of Sums which have been paid on /Account of Grants for

                                                 Scientific Purposes.

                           1834.                                             s. d.
Tide Discussions
                                  £                   Brought forward 308 1 10

                                  20          Railway Constants .... 41 12 10

                                              Bristol Tides            50

                          1835.               Growth of Plants . . 75
Tide Discussions .... 62
BritishFossil Ichthyology 105                 Mud in Rivers            366

                                  £167        Education Committee . 50

                                              Heart Experiments .... 5

                                              Land and Sea Level . 267        7

              1836.                           Subterranean Tempera-

Tide Discussions .... 163                     ture                     8

BritishFossil Ichthyology 105                 Steam-vessels            100

Thermometric Observa-                         Meteorological Commit-

tions, &c                         50          tee 31 5

Experiments on long-                          Thermometers             16

continued Heat .... 17 1                                              £956 12 2

Rain Gauges                       9 13

Refraction Experiments 15                                      1839.

Lunar Nutation                    60          Fossil Ichthyology .... 110

Thermometers                      15 6        Meteorological Observa-

                                  £434 14        tions at Plymouth . . 63 10
                                              Mechanism of Waves . , 144

              1837.                           Bristol Tides            SH

Tide Discussions                  284         Meteorology and Subter-

Chemical Constants . . 24                     ranean Temperature . 21

Lunar Nutation                    70          VitrificationExperiments 9

Observations on Waves. 100                    Cast Iron Experiments . 100
                                              Railway Constants .... 28
Tides at Bristol                  150

Meteorology and Subter-                       Land and Sea Level . . 274
                                              Steam-Vessels' Engines. 100
ranean Temperature . 89

VitrificationExperiments 150                  Stars in Histoire Celeste 331

Heart Experiments .... 8                      Stars in Lacaille        11

Barometric Observations SO                    Stars in R.A.S. Catalogue 6

Barometers                        11          Animal Secretions ....

                                  £918 14 6   Steam-engines in Corn

                                              ^ wall

                  1838.                       Atmospheric Air          16

Tide Discussions                  29          Cast and Wrought Iron. 40

British Fossil Fishes . . 100                 Heat on Organic Bodies 3

Meteorological Observa-                       Gases on Solar Spec-

tions and Anemometer                          trum                     22

(construction)                    100         Hourly Meteorological

Cast Iron (strength of) . 60                  Observations, Inver-

Animal and Vegetable                          ness and Kingussie . . 49

Substances (preserva-                         Fossil Reptiles          118

tion of)                          19    1 10  Mining Statistics        50

Carried forward £308                    110                           £1595
                         ..

XXVI                              --REPORT 1848.

                             £ s.   d.                             £ s. d.
                                     6
                  1840.              1            Brought forward 539 10 8

Bristol Tides                100    6   Fossil Reptiles            50
                                    6
Subterranean Tempera-                   Foreign Memoirs .... 62
                                     9
ture <                       13 13  4   Railway Sections .... 88 1 6

Heart Experiments. .. . IS 19           Forms of Vessels .... 193 12

Lungs Experiments .. 8 13               Meteorological Observa-

Tide Discussions             50         tions at Plymouth . . 55

Land and Sea Level . . 6 11             Magnetical Observations 61 18 8

Stars (Histoire Celeste) 242 10         Fishes of the Old Red

Stars (Lacaille)             4 15       Sandstone                  100

Stars (Catalogue)            264        Tides at Leilh             50

Atmospheric Air              15 15      Anemometer at Edin-

Water on Iron                10         burgh                      69 1 10

Heat on Organic Bodies 7                Tabulating Observations    963
                                                                   5
MeteoroIogicalObserva-                  Races of Men

tions                        52 17      Radiate Animals            2

Foreign Scientific Me-                                           £1235 10 11

moirs                        112 1

Working Population ..100                                  1842.

School Statistics            50         Dynamometric Instru-

Forms of Vessels .... 184 7             ments                      113 11 2

Chemical and Electrical                 Anoplura Britanniae .. 52 12

Phaenomena                   40         Tides at Bristol           59 8

Meteorological Observa-                 Gases on Light             30 14   7
                                                                           6
tions at Plymouth . . 80                Chronometers               26 17   Q

Magnetical Observations 185 13          Marine Zoology             15

                         £1546 16       British Fossil Mammalia 100

                                        Statistics of Education. . 20
                                        Marine Steam-vessels'

                  1841.                 Engines                    28

Observations on Waves. 30               Stars (Histoire Celeste) 59

Meteorology and Subter-                 Stars (British Associa-

ranean Temperature . 8 8                tion Catalogue of) ..110

Actinometers                 10         Railway Sections           161 10

Earthquake Shocks .. 17 7               British Belemnites .... 50

Acrid Poisons                6          Fossil Reptiles (publica-

Veins and Absorbents.        3          tion of Report) ... . 210
                             5
Mud in Rivers                           Forms of Vessels           180

Marine Zoology               15 12      Galvanic Experiments on

Skeleton Maps                20         Rocks                      586

Mountain Barometers.         6 18       Meteorological Experi-

Stars (Histoire Celeste). 185           ments at Plymouth. . 68

Stars (Lacaille)             79 5       Constant Indicator and

Stars (Nomenclature of) 17 19           Dynamometriclnstru-

Stars (Catalogue of) . 40               ments             ,        90
                                                                   10
Water on Iron                50         Force of Wind

Meteorological Observa-                 Light on Growth of Seeds 8

tions at Inverness .         20         Vital Statistics           50

Meteorological Observa-                 Vegetative Power of

tions (reduction of).. 25               Seeds                      8 1 11

        Carried forward £539 10         Carried forward £1442 8 8
                          GENERAL. STATEMENT.  XXVH

                          £. S. d.

         Brought forward 1442 8 8

Questions on Human

Race                      79

                    £1449 17 8

             1843.

Revisionof the Nomen-

clature of Stars ....     2

Reduction of Stars, Bri-

tish Association Cata-

logue                     25

Anomalous Tides, Frith

of Forth                  120

Hourly Meteorological

Observations at Kin-

gussie and Inverness 77 12 8

Meteorological Observa-

   tions at Plymouth . . 55
Whewell's Meteorolo-

gical Anemometer at

Plymouth                  10

Meteorological Observa-

tions, Osier's Anemo-

meter at Plymouth . . 20

Reduction of Meteorolo-

gical Observations . . 30

Meteorological Instru-

ments and Gratuities 39 6

Construction of Anemo-

meter at Inverness .. 56 12 2

Magnetic Co-operation . 10 8 10

Meteorological Recorder

  for Kew Observatory 50

Action of Gases on Light 18 16 1

Establishment at Kew

Observatory, Wages,

Repairs, Furniture and

Sundries                  133 4 7

Experiments by Captive

Balloons                  81 8

Oxidation of the Rails

of Railways               20

Publication of Report on

Fossil Reptiles .... 40

Coloured Drawings of

Railway Sections ... , 147 18 3

Registration of Earth-

quake Shocks              30

Report on Zoological

Nomenclature              10

Carried forward £977 6 7
XXVIU  REPORT-- 1848.

         5.

          2
GENERAL STATEMENT.
--XXX REPORT 1848.

   On Thursday, August 10th, at 8 p.m., John Percy, Esq., M.D., F.R.S.,

delivered a Discourse on the Metallurgical Operations of Swansea and its
neighbourhood.

   On Monday, August 14th, at 8 p.m., William Carpenter, Esq., M.D.,

F.R.S., delivered a Discourse on Recent Microscopical Discoveries.

   On Wednesday, August 16th, at 3 p.m., the concluding General Meeting
of the Association was held, when the Proceedings of the General Com-

mittee, and the grants of money for scientific purposes were explained to
the Members.

   The Meeting was then adjourned to Birmingham in September 1849*.

  * The Meeting is appointed to commence on Wednesday, the 12th of September, 1849.
                                                      --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;

               ADDRESS

                                                       BY

The Most Noble the Marquis of NORTHAMPTON,

                 Pres.R.S., F.S.A., HoN.M.R.I.A., F.L.S., F.G.S.

--Gentlemen, In addressing you on the present occasion, I cannot but feel

the disadvantageous situation in which I am placed as compared to my friend
Sir Robert Inglis, who has just yielded to me the honourable situation of

your President.

   I am not, as he was last year, addressing you in an ancient and venerable

seat of academic discipline, where the very aspect of the surrounding buildings

--proclaimed the long residence of learned leisure and elegant taste ; where,

during the lapse of very many centuries, science and learning have made their
abode, and where religion has consecrated their union. There, in that Oxford
which has sent forth so many labourers for the cultivation of knowledge,
where the divine, the statesman and the philosopher have taken their early
lessons in those arts which were to make their names household words among

--their countrymen there, where the Royal Society had its cradle, the British

Association might well anticipate a generous welcome, and more than that,
an audience fit though not few, and not only favour but assistance in its

--pursuits ; assistance from a Daubeny, a Powell, a Buckland and others who

were among its earliest supporters and members. In going, indeed, to Ox-
ford the Association did not go to fresh fields and pastures new. Its visit
tiras no experiment, for it had already gone to the friendly banks of the Isis,
and found there a kind and warm reception when it was itself but young
when it had not already received the marked patronage of the British public,
and when favour and kindness were the more valuable.

   The British Association has now arrived at a part of our Sovereign's domi-
nions where it cannot enjoy similar advantages. Remote from the metropolis.
XXxii                    --REPORT 1848.

remote from the chief seats of English learning, remote also from those great

highways of communication by which modern ingenuity has almost accom-

plished the extravagant wish of annihilating space and time, Swansea can-

not with reason expect a meeting numerous as those of York, and Cambridge,

and Oxford, and still less like those that have congregated at Liverpool and

Glasgow. Deprived, however, of the advantages to which I have alluded,

Swansea still possesses some attractions, and can advance some special

reasons why, sooner or later, it would be the duty of the British Association

to select it for its place of meeting. Among these, I should select as one of

the  most  important  a  consideration which  is  in  some  sense  an  objection
                                                                                                                       ;

namely, the fact that its inhabitants are in a corner, as it were, of Great

--Britain that they are separated from the highways of steam. It is one of
--the objects of the British Association to visit all parts of Great Britain ; to

carry the torch of science everywhere, not only to enlighten but to receive

fresh light from every portion of the island. Had Swansea been as ac-

cessible from Bristol as Bath is, a visit to Bristol might have sufficed for

Swansea also, just as a visit to Southampton may be considered a visit to

Portsmouth also.
   Unless, however, the Association had come to Swansea itself. South

Wales would have remained unvisited, and a large geographical portion of
the island would have been left unknown to the Association in its corporate

capacity.

   Again, Wales comprehends an important and separate portion of the island;

--a people to whom at one time the whole of it belonged a people speaking

a diiFerent and more ancient language, civilized when the Saxon and Norman
ancestors of the proud London, and Oxford, and Cambridge of modem times

--were heathens and barbarians a people who had seen among them a Julius

Caesar and a Constantine. These considerations will be of great interest at

least to the Ethnological Section of the Association.

   To the mineralogist and geologist, again, the mineral riches of Wales, to

which England is so much indebted for its manufacturing prosperity and

political importance, will be no small attraction. Moreover, the chemist and
mechanician will be anxious to witness the ingenious processes by which iron
and copper are here, on a gigantic scale, separated from their ores. These
reasons are amply sufficient to account for, and indeed to demand, a visit

--from the Association, without mentioning the warm invitation that we have

received, the kind hospitality that we have been promised. To those mem-
bers of the Association who were at Southampton and Oxford it would be

quite superfluous to allude to the eloquent terms in which the advocate of

Swansea, Prof. Grove, like a potent magician, or like a representative of the

                                                                                                                          I
       ADDRESS.     XXXlll

Bard and Druid of ancient Britain, summoned us to the shores of the- Bristol

 Channel.

   When I acknowledge, however, that there are abundant reasons why the

Association should sooner or later visit Swansea, I have not therefore said

that that visit ought to have taken place this year. On the contrary, there
is one reason why it would have been better had it been postponed to a later

period. In that case it would probably have had a more efficient President

than myself. Wholly unconnected as I am with this place, I cannot think

that I should have been called on to preside had I not still continued to hold

the high and honourable office in the Royal Society which I am about in a

few months to resign.
    Indeed ray present position in the Royal Societ'v is the only reason that

--could justify me in accepting the invitation, and I must candidly say that I

think it sufficient. I can conceive nothing more important to both societies,
in some of their chief functions, than a close union of feeling, and when occa-
sion calls for it a union of action also. Thus their influence is enabled to

--bear with greater weight on the Government of their own country, and in

one instance at least, it has done so, through their own, on the Governments

of other countries also.

   It has been the habit of my predecessors in this chair, on occasions similar

to the present one, to advocate the claims of the British Association on the
goodwill of their countrymen, and to state the services that it has performed
to the cause of knowledge. They have pointed not only to the papers read
and discussions held in our different Sections, but also to the Reports drawn
up with the greatest care by men of the highest abilities and eminence during
our vacation. They have indicated the important scientific investigations
and experiments carried on at our request and at our expense, and which
would not have so soon, if at all, been carried on had the British Asso-
ciation not existed. They have summoned as witnesses in favour of the
Association the band of illustrious foreigners who have joined our ranks, and,
making themselves Englishmen for the time, have given us the honour of
their presence, the assistance of their science and the pleasure of their friend-

ship. Finally, my predecessors have been able proudly to advert to the ser-

vices performed by our Government at the request of the Association, backed
on several occasions by the Royal Society. They have had it in their power,

for instance, to advert to the reduction of catalogues of stars, to the cession

of the Royal Observatory at Kew, to the expedition of Sir James Ross, and to
the great combination for inquiries on terrestrial magnetism. This has been

the sort of argument, overwhelming as it seems to me, that my predecessors

were at first called to adopt. I cannot think that more than this slight allu-

1848.            d
                      .

XXxiv  REPORT--1848.

sion is required from me. The British Association has now existed eighteen

--years ; it has visited the chief universities and the most important commer-

cial towns of the empire, with the exception of London, which is excluded by

--our provincial character ; it has everywhere received the most kind, the most
--generous encouragement : it may therefore well consider itself as established

in public favour, and requiring neither justification nor defence.

  My friend Sir Robert Inglis, in his admirable address at Oxford, gave you

an elaborate account of the discoveries of the year in most of the branches of

--knowledge, including much indeed that could hardly, in strictness, belong

to such narrow limits. I shall not endeavour to follow his example. Indeed,

I do not think that it is at all necessary that such a course should be an an-

nual one, however advisable from time to time. I think it would be a fatigue

to you were I to pursue it. Besides this, I know my own physical strength

would not be equal to so long an address, and that were I to attempt it I

should incapacitate myself for the performance of my duties for the rest of

the week. There are, however, some points to which I think it right to

allude.

    First, then, I will refer to the great system of inquiring into terrestrial

magnetism now carrying on by our own and other Governments, at the
united request of the British Association and the Royal Society. I am re-

joiced to be able to say, that in spite of the politically disturbed state of the

--continent of Europe, those inquiries have not been suspended, and I hope

they will be continued to the period which was proposed for them by the
Magnetic Congress at Cambridge, It was then proposed that they should be

brought to a close at the end of next December. I trust; however, that the

valuable inventions by which at Greenwich and at Kew magnetical disturb-

ances are noted by self- registering instruments will secure still more ample
information than we shall have already attained at the termination of the

present year.

   The next subject to which I must advert, is the Observatory at Kew,--

and I do so with a mixture of pleasure and of pain. I have said pleasure
and pain. I advert to it with pleasure on account of the important scientific

--observations that have been there made, the detail of which will, probably,

be laid before you. I advert to it with pain, as the expenses of keeping it
up have been so great that it will not be within the power of the Association

to continue to do so much longer.
   Among the contents of our last volume I think it right to refer to what

--may be considered in a great degree a novel feature, the ethnological por-

tions that occupy a very considerable space. The names of their authors
will be a sufficient guarantee of their value. Among these we find one who
                                                     a

                        ADDRESS.

--represented the Government as well as the deep learning of his country

gentleman who, having commenced his literary career by aiding a Niebuhr,
and having since brought before the world a laborious work on the mighty

sovereigns of ancient Egypt, has now come among us with a valuable essay

on the general philosophy of language. I will not occupy your time by

--further allusion to these ethnological communications, but I think it pro-

per, in addressing you from the chair, to add a word of caution. It is one

of the most important and essential rules of the British Association that party
politics and polemics be entirely excluded from our proceedings. It is, how-

ever, vain to deny, unless their authors are put on their guard, that there is

danger that these forbidden topics may steal into ethnological papers. There

is also another danger, namely, that they may become too historical or too

myliterary. Against similar risks  predecessors have felt themselves called

on to warn the Statistical Section, and I hope I may be excused for follow-

ing their example, when there is a similar danger.

   It must be very gratifying to geologists to see a mathematician so eminent

as Mr. Hopkins apply a mind accustomed to the severest studies to the most

--important and difficult subjects of geology, as we have seen in his report

and his papers on the theories of earthquakes. The question itself is one of

--the greatest difficulty, one that has exercised the talents and divided the
--opinions of the ablest philosophers, one that requires for its solution the

aid of many sciences. It is therefore one particularly fitted to be presented

to a meeting like this where men of every science are present. In itself,
this may be considered as giving a direct and sufficient answer to those who

ask what is the use of the British Association.

At our meeting at Southampton, Sir John Herschel, in words of singular

poetic beauty, first intimated, as I believe, to an English audience, the re-

markable astronomical discovery which so soon after was announced to the
whole world, and which added an unknown planet to our system. I had the

honour, as President of the Royal Society, to give to M. Leverrier the medal

--awarded to him by our Council, my predecessor in the chair had the satis-
--faction of receiving at Oxford both Leverrier .and Adams the two gentlemen

who had simultaneously, though without concert, pursued the same original

and laborious investigation in search of the great celestial globe that dis-

turbed the course of Uranus. Of the two discoverers of Neptune, I fear that
I cannot hope to see here the illustrious countryman of Laplace ; Mr. Adams

perhaps may honour Swansea with a visit. Certain I am that you. Gentle-
men, would delight to welcome the two philosophers whose names will now

shine together like a twin star so long as astronomy shall be considered the

sublimest of sciences.

                                                 d2
XXXvi                   --REPORT 1848.

    In our last volume is a communication of a highly interesting and instruct-
ive nature on the microscopic structure of shells, by Dr. Carpenter, for the
illustration of which by numerous excellent plates the Association has gone
to a considerable expense. I believe this to be a most judicious expenditure.
The subject is one of the highest interest, not only in itself, and as affording
the means of identifying fragments of shells in rocks where they are rare,

but also in connexion with the analogous inquiries of Prof. Owen into the
structure of teeth. The microscope seems every day to rise into increased

importance as a scientific instrument, affording the physiologist the same

means of penetrating into the depths of organization that the telescope gives
the astronomer to pierce into the depths of space. I am sure you will be
glad to know that a public body, the Trustees of the British Museum, have
paid Dr. Carpenter the compliment of appointing him to a lectureship founded
in the most liberal manner by the late Dr. Swiney. I believe. Gentlemen,
you will yourselves have the pleasure of hearing him give an oral exposition

of his investigations.

I am sure. Gentlemen, that the members of the British Association must

have derived the liveliest satisfaction from what I may call one of the princi-

--pal events in science that has occurred since our last meeting ; I mean the

publication by Sir John Herschel of the results of his arduous labours at the

WeCape of Good Hope.    cannot indeed associate our body in any way with

that great scientific enterprise. It was undertaken at no suggestion from us

or from any other scientific society. Its author was influenced alone by his

own love of science and by the desire to complete the labour of his illustrious

father ; and I believe that in truth the son had more to do with it than the

--philosopher, and science will be proud that it was so. Though, however,

we cannot derive any glory to the British Association from Sir John Her-

schel's brilliant success in the Southern Hemisphere, we may still be proud of

--him as one of our earliest members, as one to whom we bade adieu on the

banks of the Cam at our third meeting, then welcomed again at our fifteenth

as our President, Welcome, indeed, his presence must be on whatever
occasion he may come amongst us !

   Although the British Association did not take any active part in the re-
commendation of the Expedition sent out by the Government under Sir John

Franklin, and have therefore not the same immediate interest in its success
that they had in Sir James Ross's Expedition into the South Polar region,

yet I am sure that we must all feel the most anxious desire for the safety of
our gallant countrymen. I wish it was in my power to give you any satis-

factory information on this point. Alas ! I cannot do so. I can do no more
than express the hope that the same gracious Providence which shielded Sir
                                                                          --

ADDRESS.                                                  XXXVU

James Ross amid the Antarctic icebergs may stretch out its arm and bring

back again our brave navigators.

Europe, Gentlemen, has now seen a general peace established with only-

partial interruption for the long and unaccustomed period of thirty-three years.

Happily, science has made its way while the sun of prosperity has shone,

for the prosperity of science depends much more on peace and order than on

favour and patronage. Favour and patronage have, however, not been

wanting. It is fortunate that the followers of science have so done, for times

have arrived when it would be idle to expect similar progress. It may be

flattering and honourable to literature and science to see a great nation

choose her rulers among her poets and astronomers, but to poetry and astro-

Whonomy it is undoubtedly an evil.  can regret the compelled retirement

from public life that enabled Milton to write his great, his divine poems }

Who can rejoice that a very different ambition should have taken Newton

Whofrom the studies that gave the world his 'Principia'?  can tell how

much his Mastership of the Mint may have retarded the advancement of

science .'' There cannot be a doubt that many a master mind will now be led

away from pursuits the most congenial to it by the absorbing and prompting

demands of poUtical necessity. Still less can it be doubted that the indus-

trious ants of science who laboriously bring to her granaries their numerous

--though small additions, who, in truth, accumulate facts destined for ma-
--terials for the greater minds that reason and systematise, these industrious

labourers, I say, will be employed in very different ways. The something

new which will be sought by them will be political and not scientific : the

--balloting box will be more attractive than the crucible, the sword of the

partisan than the hammer of the geologist. These considerations induce me

to fear that we have no right to expect our Meeting will this year be ho-

noured by the presence of many of our friends from abroad, even if the

distance of this locality did not interpose material difficulties in their way.

It is not, however, for the sake of accounting for the absence of illustrious

foreigners that I have made these remarks. It is rather for the purpose of

observing, that happily philosophers of this country have no such excuse for

Onidleness or remissness in carrying on their usual scientific labours.  the

contrary, they have the stronger reason for doing so. They ought to re-
member that while England is exempt from the unhappy disturbances of

other countries, the sacred flame of science is especially confided to them by
the same gracious Providence that protects their happiness, their freedom,

their sovereign, their laws, their independence.

Like our soldiers and our sailors, like the ministers of the laws of the land

and the expounders of the laws of morality and religion, the inquirers into
xxxviii  --REPORT 1848.

--those other laws -which regulate His creation, the searchers out of the

means by which the knowledge of His laws may benefit his creatures,--have

duties to perform which it is criminal in them to neglect : doubly criminal,

if to them it be given in an especial degiee to perform those duties by a

special exemption from the evils which oppress their fellows elsewhere.

In England, these duties devolve, in particular branches of knowledge, on

particular societies ; but in science in general, and in all its ramifications,

they rest in a more especial manner on the Royal Society and on that which

now I have the honour of addressing. To the former I have nothing to say
in this place. To the latter it is my present duty to address myself. To you,

then. Gentlemen, I say heartily, that it would not become you to rest on your

oars, or to look at the goodly volumes that contain your Reports and record

Weyour proceedings, and to say, "  have done enough." You have not done

enough. You are bound by the engagement you have taken in becoming mem-

--bers of this noble body you are bound to Sir David Brewster, its originator
----to Mr. Harcourt, its legislator to Lord Fitzwilliam, who took the honour-

able but perilous post of its first President, and to those officers who have so

zealously served it, to do your best for its continued prosperity. Now, Gen-

tlemen, in considering how this object is to be attained, we must look not only

to what it has achieved and to its present popularity, but also to the other side

of the question, if there be another side. I am sorry to say there is another side.

You are all, or most of you. aware, that for many years our pecuniary

funds were increasing, and that we made large grants of money for scientific

purposes. You must also be aware from whence those funds arose ; namely,

from the annual and life subscriptions of our members. Our annual sub-

scriptions are now of a very limited amount ; being almost entirely confined

to those members who join us in different localities, many of whom only pay

in a subscription for one year. It is true that we have funded a portion of

our life-subscriptions ; but a considerable part of them has been applied to

--scientific grants, more perhaps than we were strictly justified in so applying.

The consequence has been, that for several years our expenditure has ex-

ceeded our income. It would be vain to dissemble, and idle to deny, the

inevitable consequence of such a continued excess. There is only one me-

thod, without deviating from our accustomed mode of action, by which we

can remedy this serious evil. It is one, fortunately, that is consistent with

Weour prosperity in other respects.  must return to some of those great

seats of population and industry where we have a fair prospect of a large

temporary accession to our members, and through them of a large addition

to our funds. I am happy to say that we have reason to anticipate an invi-

tation from at least one such place for the ensuing year.

                                                                                     I
                            ADDRESS.                                     XXXIX

However this may be, Gentlemen, I cannot but believe that, were it ne-

cessary or considered advisable, an appeal to the generosity of those friends

of the Association who have followed its progress from year to year would
not be made in vain.

    I cannot conclude this address without expressing the gratitude of the
Association for the great liberality that has been exhibited by the Corporation
and inhabitants of Swansea for our reception. It has, on this occasion, been

shown in many ways of a most unusual nature for the convenience of the
scientific guests that are here expected. I know that all this must have

been done at a very heavy expense, clearly proving that the inhabitants of
South Wales duly appreciate the importance of scientific pursuits. One of

our Vice-Presidents, Mr. Dillwyn, whose eminence in the pursuit of natural

history has been a great inducement for our visit to Swansea, has greeted

our arrival with an important volume on the Fauna and Flora of the neigh-

bourhood, of which he has kindly placed a considerable number of copies to

be used for the advantage of gentlemen most interested in botany and phy-

siology.  The  edifice  in  which  I  address  you  is  consecrated  to  religion
                                                                                                             ;

thereby intimating the belief that science, when followed in a right spirit, is

a pursuit not unworthy of those who are believers in the World's Book as

--well as inquirers after the material works of the Almighty ; intimating also

the hope that the British Association will ever seek after knowledge in a

Christian spirit of kindness and humility, for the benefit of man and the glory

of God,
I
                REPORTS

            THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

A Catalogue of Observations of Luminous Meteors. By the Hev.
   Baden Powell, M.A., F.R.S. S^c, Savilian Professor of Geo-

    metry, Oxford.
       (A communication ordered to be printed among the Reports to the Association.)

In the Volume of Reports of the British Association for 1847 I have given a
very imperfect list of observed luminous meteors, as far as I could collect
them, for the several years subsequent to the termination of M. Quetelet's very
complete catalogue (Nouv. Mem. Acad. Bruxelles, tom. xi.). With a view to
enlarging and carrying on this design from year to year, I have been desirous
to form at least the nucleus of a collection of all observations of this kind

under the auspices of the British Association ; and my wishes have been re-

sponded to by numerous correspondents, from whose valuable communications,
as well as the data furnished by several journals, I have been enabled to
draw up the annexed catalogue ; which includes a few observations of earlier
years, but is more full for the later ; reaching down to the present time. It
is now offered to the British Association as presenting a condensed view of
existing observations collected in one record : the- original documents, as
communicated to the author, are collected in the Appendix, and references
are made to the sources of information in other cases. To any such cata-
logue doubtless many additions may remain to be made ; and it is hoped that
such contributions will be forwarded to the author at Oxford, who will embody
them in a continuation of the catalogue at a future time.

                          Table of Luminous Meteors.

  Date.
                                                 --                 ;,       ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ..                                       ;

                                                                   REPORT 1848.

Date.                                                Description.                     Place.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Observer.               Reference.

       1843.         Many meteors                                               Cork                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Prof. PhUlips .., MS.
Aug. 9 ...
                     Many meteors                                               Nottingham                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mr. Lowe         Appendix, No, 6.
         13 ...
Oct. 16 ...          Many; one large                                            Ibid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Id Ibid. No. 7.
Nov. 10-12
                     A small white mass, dispersed Austria                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mr. G. T. Vigne Ibid. No. 1.

                     with an explosion in day

Nov. 18 ...              time ; clear sky.                                      Nottingham... Mr. Lowe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ibid. No. 8.
       1844.
                     A brilliant meteor

Jan. 20 ..           Many                                                       Ibid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Id               Ibid. No. 9.
Aug. 8, 9            Many                                                       Dry burn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ibid. No. 2.
                     Very numerous and bright.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mr. Wharton
Oct.                 Many                                                       Durham                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ibid.
Nov.                 One; brilliant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Id
                     Many; very brilliant                                       Nottingham.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ibid. No. 10.
         13 .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mr. Lowe ...      Ibid.
                     Four ; large.                                              Ibid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               'Atmos. Phen. 351
          184.').                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Id
                                                                                Birmingham                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mr. Onion           Appendix, No. 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  [Appendix, No. 12.

                                                                                Nottingham . Mr. Lowe

Jan. 31      .       Several; large                                             Ibid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Id jibid. No. 13.
Feb. 5       .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Id Ibid. No. 14.
April 24     .       Several                                                    Ibid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Id Ibid. No. 19.
             .,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sir J. Herschel,. Atmos; Phen. 230.
        24           One; large and brilliant                                   Ibid

                     The same. Form not defined Greenwich

                     no explosion.

June 18 .            Luminous appearances at sea,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A Correspondent Appendix, No. 3.

                     and in Syria.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        [Brussels, 352,

Ju]y 16      .,      One; large                                                 ceigmm ....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bulletin, R. Acad.
         29  .,
             .,      Very near Earth                                            Nottingham.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mr. Lowe         Appendix, No. 20.
Aug. 10
                     100 in one hour                                            Paris?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M. Coulvier Gra- L'lustitut, 288.

         10 .,       Great numbers in Cassiopeia; Dijon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               vier.        Ibid. 211.

         10 .,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M. Perrey
         10 ..
                     Cygnus, &c.
Sept. 7
                     One; large                                                 London                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Many Observers   Journals.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Prof. PoweU ...  Proc. of Ashmolean
                     Cloudy; but light of meteor Oxford..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mr. Hind.            Society, No. 22.
                     seen.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Atmos. Phen. 231.

                     0" 22"° ; one ; large and bright; London, Re-

                     changed colour; coruscations; gent's-park.

                        another, smaller.

                     {A valuable and detailed!

                     table of observed places l

                     by stars, &c.                                        J                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Observations at the

                     Some of the most remarkable                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Prof. Orlebar,    Meteor. andMagn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M.A.           Observatory, Bom-
                     are                                                        } Bombay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    bay, 4to, 1845
Oct. 28-30..         Several ; one large
         31                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          p. 170.
                     Many                        nine in six hours  ....
Nov. 2-7                                      ;

                     One or two each night

          4, 6, 14.  Large ones
Dec. 9               10'' 15'" ; remarkable ; bright

                        and six smaller.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mr. Lowe.        Atmos. Phen. 127
                     One meteor, with an aurora Nottingham.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Appendix, No. 15.

                        licrht of meteorinereasedwhen

  3.                     crossing the aurora.                                   Mentz                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A Correspondent Appendix, No. 15.
1846.
                     One; large

Feb, 10 .            9 P.M.; large and brilliant                                Caraman                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M. de Roquette, Comptes Rendus,

11 .                 One ; large                                                Nottingham.., Mr. Lowe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1846, i. 739.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Appendix, Nos. 32,!

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   33.

12 .                 Ditto. Motion horizontal                                   Ibid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Id               Ibid.               I
21 .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M. Berge and
                     9'' 6° P.M. Two large globular CoUioure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Comptes Rendus,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .          others.

                     meteors near together.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1846, i. 739.
                                                                                                     ..                                           ,

A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. 3

        Description.                                                                                                   Place.       Observer.        Reference.

6''45'"p.M.; one; large. Discuss                                                                                                M. Pettit, &c.       Comptes Rendus,
                                                                                                                                                         1846, i. 739 ; ii.
   ed by M. Pettit, and inferred                                                                                                Id.
   to be a satellite to the Earth                                                                                                                        704.
Meteor feU and set fire to a                                                                                                                         Ibid. 739.

building.

Several                                                                                                                         Mr. Lowe             Appendix, No. 31.
                                                                                                                                                     Ibid. No. 21.
One; bright; ascending from                                                                                                     Id

    horizon to zenith.                                                                                                          Id Ibid. No. 36.
                                                                                                                                Mr. M'Connell. Ibid. No. 5.
A few
                                                                                                                                MM. Bianchi, Comptes Rendus,
Light and explosion                                                                                  others re-
                                                                                                  ;

    ported a large meteor.                                                                           M.
9i> 30TM P.M. ; one ; large.

Pettit calculates path, and

concludes it to be a satellite                                                                                                      Voisins, &c.     1847, ii. 259.

to e.

Others                                                                                                           Cazeres

Many                                                                                                             Nottingham     Mr. Lowe..           Appendix, Nos. 16,
                                                                                                                                M. Perrey                 17.
(Cloudy at Oxford).
                                                                                                                                                     Comptes Rendus,
Number of meteors in ^ hour, Dijon                                                                                                                       1847, ii. 478.

observed at several times on

each night, varying from 1

    to 6 in hour.                                                                                                Ibid           Id                   Ibid.
                                           -J^                                                                   St. Apre                            Ibid. 549.
                                                                                                                 Nottingham..   M. Moreau
Ten from 9" 15TM to 10'' 15" ..                                                                                                 Mr. Lowe .           Appendix, No. 38.

One ; very brilliant

One; brMiant

Ditto                                                                                                            Ibid           Id                   Ibid. No. 39.
                                                                                                                 Ibid           Id                   Ibid. Nos. 40, 41.
A few                                                                                                                                                Ibid. No. 18.

One, with an aurora ; light in Nottingham.. Id

creased in crossing aurora.

One ; brilliant                                                                                                  Paris          Dr. Forster          Comptes Rendus,

                                                                                                                                                     1846, ii. 550.

10 P.M. Large ; moving N. from London                                                                                           Correspondent to Atmos. Phen. 233
   zenith ; train curved, and ser-
   pentine afterwards.                                                                                                              Mr. Lowe.        Appendix, No. 22.

Same observed                                                                                                    Nottingham, Many Observers, Journals.

                                                                                                                 Wiltshire,

                                                                                                                 Warwickshire,

Same. Illumination over sky Cambridge .. Rev. J. Ventris... Ibid.
   zigzag train ; no explosion.

Similar appearance                                                                                               Farnborough, Sir J. Lubbock... Phil. Mag. XXX. 4.

                                                                                                                 Kent.

Ditto                                                                                                            RosehiU, Ox- Rev. J. Slatter... Ibid. xxxi. 368, and

One; large; QI'IS'^p.m                                                                                               ford.      M. Cadart ...        Appendix, No. 4.
                                                                                                                 Paris                               Comptes Rendus,

The same.                                                                                                        St. Germains & M. Chasies,              1846, ii. 718.
                                                                                                                                                     Ibid. 814. 834.
                                                                                                                 other places M. Grutey.
                                                                                                                                                     Ibid.
One; large; 8'' 45" p.m. Ditto Ferte sous                                                                                       M. Rigault

8 P.M.                                                                                                           Jouerre.

Several ; motion horizontal . . Nottingham... Mr. Lowe .                                                                                             Appendix, No. 42.
                                                                                                                                                     Comptes Rendus,
Two6'' 15"' P.M.  ; brilliant ; in Dijon                                                                                        M. Perrey .
                                                                                                                                                         1846, ii. 985.
one the train collapsed.                                                                                                                             Journals.

One brilliant meteor, with co-                                                                                                  Many Observers

ruscations, &c.                                                                                                  London,

                                                                                                                 Wales.                                      [1846, ii. 986
                                                                                                                                                     Comptes Rendus,
7'' 30TM P.M. ; large                                                                                    Dijon                  M. Melline ..
"' 5TM P.M. ; a luminous globe.                                                                                                                      Ibid.
Several                                                                                                          Ibid           M. GeofiFroy..
One; brilliant                                                                                                                                       Appendix, No. 43.
                                                                                                                 Nottingham... Mr. Lowe              Comptes Rendus,
Many ; one large
                                                                                                         Avranches, M. Jelinski,                          Ibid.

                                                                                                                 Dijon.         M. Perrey.           Appendix, No. 44.

                                                                                                         Nottingham... Mr. Lowe ...

                                                                                                                                                     b2
                                                                     ..

                                                                          --REPORT 1848.

Date.                    Description.                                                                                  Place.               Observer.   Reference.

1847.

Jan. 11, 15... Many                                                                                              Nottingham. Mr. Lowe                   App., Nos. 23, 24.
                                                                                                                                                        Comptes Rendus,
Feb. 11 ...    One ; brilliant                                                                                   Versailles ....

                                                                                                                                                        1847,1.307.

Mar. 17        Several ; two remarkable ,. Nottingham.                                                                                  Mr. Lowe.       Appendix, No. 25.
                                                                                                                                                        Ibid. No. 26.
May 31         Several; large                                                                                    Ibid                   Id              Ibid. No. 27.
June 21                                                                                                                                 Id
               Ditto. Some with au aurora Ibid

               (light increased in crossing

               aurora').

Au?;. 7        One; brilliant                                                                                    Paris                  M. Desdouits ... Comptes Rendus,

                                                                                                                                                        1847, i. 765.

               Several; large                                                                                    Nottingham. Mr. Lowe                   Appendix, No. 28.

               Numerous                                              thirtv or                                   forty in Dryburn ....  Mr. Wharton .. Appendix, No. 58.
                                                                  ;

               half an hour; S.W.

10 Fifteen from 9^ 55TM to 10" 25", Oxford                                                                                              Prof. Powell    Proceedings of Ash-

               and at intervals till ll*" 30"                                                                                                           molean Society,

               about as many ; often two and                                                                                                            1847, No. 8.

               three together ; S.W.

17 One; brilhant                                                                                                 Lu.xembourg. M. Desdouits Comptes Rendus,

                                                                                                                                                        1847, ii. 508.

19 Q*" 18TM P.M. several. Discussions Dieppe. M. Nell de Bre- Ibid. 316 and 461.

               and calculations by LeVerrier                                                                                            aute.

Oct. 11           and others.                                                                                    Bruges                 Dr. Forster     Appendix, No. 59.

               Two meteors

18 10''30TMp.M.; one; brilUant Paris .                                                                                                  M. Laisne ,     Comptes Rendus,

                                                                                                                                                        ib. 629.

Nov. 1         Numerous ; some large                                                                             Nottingham.            Mr. Lowe .. Appendix, No. 29.
                                                                                                                 Dryburn ....
12, 13.. Several                                                                                                 Benares                Mr. Wharton Appendix, No. 60,

12, 13.. Numerous                                                                                                                       Correspondent to Comptes Rendus,

                                                                                                                                        M. Arago.       1848, i. 7. '

12, 13..       Several; large                                                                                    Nottingham.            Mr. Lowe .... Appendix, No. 30.
17                                                                                                               Nottingham.
19             One; large                                                                                        Near Oxford.           Id Ibid. No. 31.
               4'' 30"" A.M. One ; very remark
                                                                                                                                        Mr. Symonds. Ibid. No. 62.
                  able ; large ; slow motion

               twice stationary in descend,

               ing from zenith to horizon

               therefore course probably ser

               pentine.

19 .           One; large; 7" 51"" p.m                                                                           Paris                  M. Laugier      Comptes Rendus,

Dec. 12 .      Many                                                                                              Nottingham... Mr. Lowe...                  1847, ii. 733.
       1848.                                                                                                                                            Appendix, No. 45.

Jan. 4 .       Several                                                                                           Nottingham...                          Ibid. No. 46.

Feb. 7 .       One'; brilliant                                                                                   Ibid                                   Ibid. No. 47.
        20 .,                                                                                                                                           Ibid. No. 48.
               Several, with an aurora (light Ibid

               increased in crossing aurora)

Mar. 9 .,      A. luminous appearance                                                                            passed Near Oxford... Mr.  Symonds     Ibid. No. 63.
                                                                                                              ;

               off and disappeared without

               exploding.

April 1 ... Several; some brilliant                                                                              Nottingham... Mr. Lowe                 Ibid. No. 49.
                                                                                                                                                        Ibid. No. 64.
6 ... One seen in daylight, 7'' 5" p.m Oxford                                                                                           Mr. Symonds ..  Ibid. No. 65.
                                                                                                                                                        Ibid.Nos.50,51,52
23 Numerous from 10'' to 12''p.m On the Clyde.. Id                                                                                                      Ibid. No. 66.

28,29,30 Several                                                                                                 Nottingham... Mr. Lowe                 Ibid. 53-56.
                                                                                                                                                        Ibid. No. 67.
30 ... One; brilliant; train separated London, Re- Mr. F. Barnard.

               into two parts.                                                                                   gent's-park.

May 2,3,5,7 Several                                                                                              Nottingham... Mr. Lowe

11 A train of light descending ver- Wootton, near Mr. P. Duncan.,

               tically.                                                                                          Oxford.

        23     One ; small                                                                                       Nottingham... Mr. Lowe                 Ibid. No. 57.
Julv 12
               One ;  large ;                                        slow                       with a train. Nottingham... Id                          Ibid. No. 68.
        29                                                                                   ;

               10 P.M ; bright with train and Bradfield,                                                                                Rev. C. Marriott. Ibid. No. 69.

               sparks.                                                                                           Berks.
A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. 5

                                  APPENDIX.

Details referred to in tlie Catalogue, from the original Records of Observations
   of luminous Meteors, communicated to Professor Powell by the Authors.

No. 1. Extract from a letter from G. T. Vigne, Esq. to Prof Powell.

" About the 10th or 12th of November IS^S, I was descending the Da-

nube .... near what is said to be the bridge of Severus  about 5 p.m.

I heard a loud report like that of a musket ; the day was clear with-

out a cloud ; I saw a perfectly white cloud or mist, evidently the result of the

explosion, slowly dispersing in no particular shape, in three or four minutes.

I should say it was about a mile or a mile and a half above the earth, and

distant about four. No part of it seemed to descend ; it dispersed as it were

from a stationary nucleus. When I first saw it, the white cloud might be

about as large as the end of your finger held up at about twelve or eighteen

inches from the eye."

   2. See Durham Advertiser, August 16th, IS^*. No moon ; clear atmo-
sphere. Many meteors on the 8th ; more on the 9th ; very numerous and

brilliant on the 10th. Nearly all in parallel directions from N.E. to S.W.

Many in trains, apparently at great elevations. 11th, 12th, 13th cloudy;
Hth clear, but no meteors.

   3. Extract from the Malta Mail, see 'Times,' August 18th, 1845.
   June 18th, at 9''30'"p.m., brig Victoria, in lat. 36° 40' ; long. 13° 44' E. ; in

a sudden calm after wind. " An overpowering heat and stench of sulphur.
At this moment three luminous bodies issued from the sea, about half a mile

from the vessel, and remained visible ten minutes."
   At Ainab on Mount Lebanon, on the same day, half an hour after sunset,

was seen " a meteor composed of two luminous bodies, each apparently five

times as large as the moon, with streamers or appendages from each joining

the two ; in the Avest ; remained visible for an hour, taking an easterly course,
and grjidually disappeared."

   Both accounts sent by a correspondent to Prof. Powell, but it does not
appear whether the latter is from the same source as the former ; or on what

original authority either rests.

4. Extract from a letter to Prof. Powell from the Rev. J. Slatter, of Rose-

hill, near Oxford.
    " I saw it [the meteor of Sept. 25th, 1846] at the height of about 50° ; it

seemed to move along a meridian line, and rather to decline in height as it
moved northerly, but not more than might be the effect of perspective if it
moved parallel to the earth; it passed over the zenith of London. Taking the
longitude of the place of observation as 4" 55^ W., the value of P=6'1 55
mile, the distance due west of the meridian of London=about 45*65 miles,
and the height of the meteor from the earth is 54*4 miles.

    " It appeared less than half the diameter of the sun ; which would give a
diameter of 500 or 600 yards. At a rough guess its velocity might be 25

miles in a second."
   5. Mr. David C. M'Connell, in a letter to Prof. Powell, mentions that on

the 3rd of June 1846, at 8 p.m., at Moreton Bay, on the Brisbane River, South
Australia, about 27° S.lat. and 152° 30' E. long., being within doors, he saw
a light and heard an explosion like that of a cannon at a distance in a still

clear night. Many natives stated that they had seen a bright body like the
moon passing from east to west. It is also added that it passed at an altitude
of about 75° to the south, and the explosion was heard when the meteor was

about 30° from the western horizon.
                            ---- -- ;

--6 REPORT 1848.

   It was also ascertained that 10 miles west from the place nothing was heard
10 miles S.W. the meteor was seen and the explosion heard ; as it was also
to 25 miles S.E.

 "My --Extract of a letter from E. J. Lowe, Esq. to the author :
             dear Sir, There is one circumstance in connexion with falling stars
that I could never understand, which is this : when a falling star crosses an
auroral beam or arch it instantly brightens ; this I have not only noticed on
one day, but on four or five different ones when this phaenomenon has taken
place during a display of aurora ; indeed on every display since the period
when I first noticed them brighten, the same has again occurred. This is a

fact worthy of further notice. It appears to me that the falling stars and
aurora borealis must be at the same elevation above our earth, and if so, we
shall then be better enabled to calculate the height of aurora. I am inclined

to imagine that an aurora has never yet been accurately measured, for to do
so we must suppose the arch a single one, and it is probable that we each

observe under diff'erent circumstances. Edward Joseph Lowe."

   To this was appended the following :

Meteors copied from ' Treatise on Atmospheric Phoenomena ' seen by the

                                                          Author.

6. 184;3. August 13th. From S"" to 9^ many falling stars, especially near

Cassiopeia, Cygnus, and Ursa Major.

7. 1843. October 16th. From 6*^ to B** many caudate meteors crossed

the sky ; one of more than ordinary dimensions passed from the constella-

tion Pegasus through Cygnus, Lyra and Corona Borealis, and faded away

in Bootes near Arcturus, leaving a brilliant stream of light behind it for a

few seconds.

8. 1843. November 18th, 11 ·'20'". Observed a beautiful caudate meteor

first noticed it near Sirius ; it passed through $ Orionis, Bellatrix, Aldebaran,

Hyades, Pleiades, /3 and y Arietis, between a and /3 Andromedse, and faded

away near /3 Pegasi. Its disc appeared as nearly as possible about three times

the size of the apparent disc of the planet Jupiter.

9. 1844. January 26, 11"^ 45"". Many falling stars, especially near Orion,

Gemini and Canis Minor.

10. 1844. October 18th. Many falling stars, chiefly near Cetus, Aries and

Ursa Minor.

A11. 1844. November 11th, 7^         falling star; fell from /3 Andromedse

to a Ceti.

12. 1844. November 13th, 9^^. Saw four large meteors. The first fell

from /3 Cassiopeia to »; Tauri ; second, from rj to /3 Tauri ; third, from Ca-

pella to y Tauri ; and the fourth from Pegasus to »; Tauri.

A13. 1845. January 31st, 12'' 14"".  large caudate meteor of a red

colour traversed the interval between Cor Leonis and Procyon, leaving a

brilliant light behind it for about a second after its disappearance. At
22h 37m a meteor passed from Cor Caroli to Arcturus. At 12" 44"" a beau-

tiful blue meteor fell from the Pole-star to a little north of Cassiopeia. 12**

54TM another red meteor passed about 6° east of ?j Ursa Majoris.

14. 1845. February 5th, 5**. Several falling stars.

A15. 1845. December 3rd, 8'' 23'".   small meteor fell from the constel-

lation Cygnus, through a very brilliant auroral arch (see Atm. Phen.p. 127),

at a, Pegasi, which left a trail of light behind it for the space of a second
                                                                                                                                             ;

A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. 7

the light wlien it crossed the auroral arch became instantly more brilliant,

and remained visible longer in the arch than in any other portion of its track

it vanished about 5° beyond the auroral arch. Many other falling stars were

visible during the evening, but no other crossed the arch.

   On this day a large meteor of a globular form burst over the town of

Mentz at a height of only 150 feet from the earth. It gave out a brilliant
light, followed by an immense quantity of black smoke. (From the Athe-

naeum or Lit. Gazette.)
   16. 1846. July 25th. All night many falling stars.
   17. 184-6. July 30th. At night many falling stars, especially in the Great

Bear. 9^ S". One of the most brilliant of them fell through the two stars to

the north of the Pointers, i.e. A and v Draconis.

A18. 1846. September 10th, 9^ 45TM.                                                             falling star passed through an

auroral arch at a Andromedae ; it instantly brightened as it crossed the phse-
nomenon. The case of suddenly brightening occurred twice more, viz. at
9** 54", when a falling star crossed the arch at a Pegasi ; and at 9^ 56"^ 40%

when another meteor passed through the phsenomenon, also at a Pegasi.

Several falling stars were also noticed in Ursa Major. I conceived that the
falling stars moved with greater rapidity this evening than I had noticed them

do before. The falling stars were of a pale blue colour, of small size, and

had luminous tails.
    19. 1 845. April 24th, 9^ 32"". Noticed a small falling star in Ursa Major.

At 9'' 35TM, the night, which was very dark, suddenly became light as day,

and the objects, near and distant, were visible as plainly as in broad daylight;

immediately a magnificent meteor of a blue colour was seen traversing the

interval from the zenith to 30° S. by E. of it (the zenith). Its apparent size

was very nearly equal to that of the moon's disc, and perfectly round in form,

but its brilliancy far surpassed that luminary ; its intensity of light could not

possibly have been less than three times that of our satellite. No train of

light was left behind it, and the meteor, after moving 30° in the direction of

S. by E., which it accomplished in less than three seconds, exploded near

<p Leonis Majoris, and moved in small fragments of light for the space of 1°,
and then became suddenly extinguished. It appeared of no considerable

height in the air. The meteor passed through the stars 21, 30, 40 and 41

Leonis Minoris                                                                  95, 96, X) 59, tt, and 75 Leonis Majoris.  (This meteor was
                                                                             ;

seen in Greenwich Park by Sir John Herschel, who calculated its height to

have been 90 miles ; see Atmos. Phsen. p. 230.)

A20. 1845. July 29, 8^ 16TM.                                                    meteor resembling a large spark from a

candle was  seen in a                                                           W.N., slightly  direction ;  it was  extremely  bright, but

not larger in appearance than the Pole-star. This meteor appeared to be
very little elevated above our earth. I have never before noticed one which
appeared so low down in the atmosphere. I should say a hundred yards was

the greatest height it could be ; it had not the appearance that meteors gene-

rally have, but resembled a spark drawn from an electrical machine.

A21. 1846. May 29th, ll** 5TM.                                                                  brilliant caudate meteor of a red colour

fell from the star ^ Ophiuchi, through 23, cr and a Ophiuchi, through

Herculis, and faded away near a Lyrae. The course was one in which these

meteors are not often observed to travel, being from the direction of the

horizon into the zenith.

A22. 1846. September 25th.                                                      very grand meteor at about ten o'clock;

when first noticed at Nottingham it was about 20° E. of the zenith, and fell

in a S.E. direction. I regret I did not see this fine meteor.
--y REPORT 1848.

Meleors tiot hitherto recorded, except afeio ofthein, in dieteorological Reports.

23. 1847, January 11th. Many falling stars.

24'. January 15tb, 12''. Several falling stars.

25. March'nth, 8** 30TM. Several falling stars ; at this hour two fell ; the

first from Rigel, the second from a Orionis through s Orionis.

26. May 31st. From 10^ several large caudate meteors.

27. June 21st, ll'' 30". Tolerable-sized meteor fell from 7° south of

a Caniura Venaticorum to -/ Cephei. 11*" 50TM. Another from 5 Ursse Ma-
joris through y Ursse Majoris. 1 1** 51". Small one through Coma Berenices.

1 1*^ 57". One through Dubhe, and another through y Ursse Majoris, and
another through the i?ole-star ; all three within 30". On this occasion several

of these stars fell through an auroral arch visible at tlie time, and when doing

so they invariably brightened, and  appeared to linger in the arch                                                                                                          probably
                                                                                                                                                                         ;

the fact of being instantly more brilliant would make them appear to the eye

lingering.

   28. August 9th. Several large caudate meteors. 9^. One from a Lyrae to

Adrisded.

   29. November Isc. All evening many small stars, and about S^ several

caudate ones in and near Lyra. 7*^ 59TM. Blue meteor from a Lyrae to y
Cygni. 7'' 59TM 30^ From J Lyrae to Atair. 8'' 11TM. From /3 Cygni through

Delphinus.

   30. November 13th. Several large falling stars. 10^ One through Draco

and Hercules.
   31. November I7th, 9*^ 3TM. Caudate meteor from Lyra to Aquila.

A32. 1846, February 11th, lO'' 30".  large straw-coloured meteor fell

from the zenith through Capella and the Pleiades.

A33. February 12th, 10^ 3TM.        star shot across the sky at an altitude of

30° for upwards of 30° parallel with the horizon, leaving a trail of light of

nearly 10° behind it as it progressed ; it commenced in the Great Bear and

went easterly ; several others of small size were noticed.

34. March 22nd. Few small falling stars.

A35. May 29th, 10''. falling star fell from Serpentarius, and disappeared

near e Lyrae.

36. May 30th. Few falling stars.

37. July 29th. Many falling stars.
A38. August 25th, 9^^ 17TM.
                                    large meteor of a straw-colour fell in N.W.

When first seen it was passing through Cor Caroli, and it faded away in Leo

Major, near the star 9. It was about four times the size of the disc of Ju-

piter, and was very brilliant, and left a trail of light behind it. It faded

away very suddenly.

A39. August 26th, 10''.    meteor fell from r] Ursae Majoris, and disap-

peared 5° below Cor Caroli ; the stream of light left behind lingered some

time before disappearing.

A40. September 5th.        few falling stars.

41. September 20th. Some falling stars.

   42. October 16th. Several falling stars shot parallel with the horizon.
   43. November 18th, 7''. Several falling stars.

   44. December 21st. Many falling stars; some of them of a tolerable

size : they were mostly in Orion, Canis Major, Canis Minor, and Taurus.

One at 9^ larger than the rest, passed through the Pleiades and e Orionis.
   45. 1847, December 12th. Many falling stars noticed in the constellations

Orion, Taurus, Gemini and Auriga. At 7'' 50TM, one three times the appa-
                                                                                ;

A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. 9

rent size of Jupiter, with a blue tail, fell slowly from the star /3 Tauri
through Bellatrix.

46. 184;8, January 4th, 6^. p.m. Several small falling stars.

A47. February 7th, ll'^.    brilliant meteor of a red colour, and about

twice the apparent size of Jupiter, fell from about 2° below that planet.

48. February 20th, 11'' 40°'. Several falling stars were noticed in Ursa

Minor. At 11'' 47"° one fell from about 5° above Alderamin, and when it

crossed a ray of aurora (which passed through this star at the time) it in-
stantly brightened. The phaenomenon of suddenly becoming bright when

crossing auroral beams I have noticed in several former displays, and espe-
cially when crossing the magnificent auroral arch of 1845, December 3rd.

This is a fact worthy of particular notice.

A49. April 1st, 11'' IB"".  brilliant blue meteor fell from Jupiter between

ACastor and Pollux. 11'' 19'° 30^ smaller one fell from Jupiter through

Cor Caroli ; several others were noticed.
   50. April 28th, 10'' 15°'. Small falling star fell from the two stars e and

i; Aquilte to Atair, and moved rather slowly; at 11'' SO'" another small star

wpnt on the same track.
   51. April 29th, 9'' 45°'. Meteor from Draco through Rastaban. 9'' 55".

Small meteor through the Polar star, 10'' 10°'. Small falling star through

Draco from a Draconis.

52. April SOth, 11'' 10°'. Falling star fell through Rastaban.

A53. May 2nd, 11'' 49TM.    small falling star fell from v Cygni.

May54. 3rd, 11'' 30". Several falling stars noticed, of small size, prin-

cipally in Caroli. At 11'' one larger than the rest fell from Cor Caroli.

55. May 5th, 11'' 23". Small falling star fell from y Lyrae through

j3 Cygni to a Delphini.

  56. May 7th, 10''. Falling star from y Lyrae to e Aquilae. 10'' 40".

Falling star from /3 Cephei through /3 Cassiopeiae.

  57. May 23rd, 12'' 3". Small star fell from a Cygni to 80 (tt 1) Cygni

this moved rapidly and soon disappeared ; no trail of light.

   58. See Durham Advertiser, August ISth, 1847.
   Time of observation, 11 to 1 1| p.m. Number 30 to 40 ; generally ranging
E.N.E. or N.E. to W.S.W. or S.W., having luminous streaks.
   59. From the Bruges Journal, October 11th, 1847, communicated by

Dr. Forster.

   " Cette nuit, a 7 minutes avant 2 heures, M. Forster 6tant encore a ses
observations astronomiques, a vu un meteore jaunatre qui prit naissance a
2° 30' S.S.O. de laplanete Mars et se dirigeant vers le O.N.O.jusqu'a I'hori-

zon, et laissant apres lui une longue trainee de lumiere ; 1' 40" apres il vit

un autre meteore tout pres de 1' horizon se dirigeant vers la meme direction,

mais ayant pris naissance au mid), il etait d'une clarte bleuatre."

   60. 61. See Durham Advertiser, November 19th, 1847.
    November 12th and 13th, nights partly cloudy, yet at intervals clear.

Several meteors between 6 and 7 p.m. on the 12th, but very few afterwards

or on the 13th ; mostly from E. to W. One bright like a star of first mag-
nitude at 6'' 5" across Pisces. Motion slow with a train from E. to W.

    62. The following is the substance of Mr. Symonds' verbal statements to

 Professor Powell.

    1847. November 19th. 4f^ a.m. he saw a remarkable meteor of large ap-
parent diameter, passing slowly down from about the zenith, where it was
first observed, towards the S.W.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                   :

10 REPORT--1848.

At about 45° elevation it became stationary, and remained so for seven

minutes, Mr. S. observing the time bj^ his watch, for which there was suffi-
cient light. It then continued its descent till about 20° elevation, when it
became stationary again for a like time. It then descended till lost to view
by the intervening trees, Szc,

63. ISiS. March 9th, l'' ^o"" a.m. Cloudy. Mr. Symonds, at Wytham

Park, near Oxford, saw a slight luminosity in the atmosphere apparently be-

tween the observer and the clouds. It moved horizontally from E. to W.,

and as it advanced enlarged and assumed the appearance of a curved band,

with its convexity towards the west, towards which it moved parallel to itself

till it acquired a luminous head at the lower part, and then disappeared

the whole lasted 22 seconds.

64. 1848. April 6th, 7*^ 5"" p.m. The same gentleman saw near Oxford a

bright meteor shoot across the zenith from N. to S., though it was then day-

light.

65. 1848. April 23rd, from 10*^ to 12'' p.m. The same observer, passing

down the Clyde in a steamer, saw an unusual number of meteors.

66. From a letter to Professor Powell from F. Barnard, Esq., dated

May8 Cross-street, Islington,  ist, 1848.

At 7"^ 30°* P.M., April 30, the writer, in company with a friend in Regent's

Park, saw a meteor descend from the zenith about half-way to the horizon,

when his friend saw it separate into two parts and disappear; to himself it

seemed to disappear simply. It lasted two or three seconds ; direction nearly

S.W. It was still daylight. There had been a remarkable yellow fog in the

morning. Its size appeared, " about that of a Roman-candle ball,"

  67. P. B.Duncan, Esq., late Fellow of New College, Oxford, in a note to

Professor Powell, observes that the peculiarity of the appearance which he

witnessed. May 10th, at half-past ten, near Wootton (Woodstock), was a lumi-
nous stream descending vertically. He had seen many inclined or horizontal.

   68. Extract from a letter from E. J. Lowe, Esq. to Professor Powell.

   " I hasten to inform you of the large meteor seen here last night (July 12th,
^h j-m p,M,) which crossed beneath the moon. The meteor was very nearly,

if not quite, a fourth the size of the moon, and when first seen was 5° to the

south of that luminary ; and at an altitude above the horizon, when first seen,
of about 5° less than that of the moon. It moved in an angle with the S.W.
horizon of about 45° towards the west horizon. This meteor was remarkable

on account of the slowness with which it travelled; it must have occupied
from 3" to 4" in moving about 20°. Its colour was an intense blue, and the

meteor left a trail of light which gave only from the blue mass pale-red

sparks of large size ; some larger than first magnitude stars. The meteor

was of a peculiar shape, being that of a cone ; unfortunately a tree prevented

my viewing its disappearance; the tree was only 10° in diameter, therefore

must have vanished within 10°. It required three minutes to get a full view

of the spot where it must have vanished, and then all traces of the phaeno-
menon had disappeared. The meteor appeared to cross near or over the

only star visible below the moon and to the west of it ; this star 1 took to be
a Libra, from its position and size.

   " At 11'^ 47TM a meteor of the size of a second magnitude star moved from
Corona Borealis to Benetnasch ; it was of a blue colour, and moved exceed-

ingly rapid. Others were noticed during the night ; I did not see them."

69. Extract from a letter to Prof. Powell from the Rev. C. Marriott, Fellow

of Oriel College, dated Bradfield, Berks, July 29th, 1848.
    " Within half a mile of this place, about ten to-night, I saw a shooting-star

as bright as Venus, and drawing a bright train as if of sparks or globules, I
ON WATER-PRESSURE ENGINES.  H

could not say which, they vanished so rapidly. It appeared a few degrees
below the Pole-star, or a little to the eastward, and descending towards the
western horizon, hit the lowest of the Pointers, and disappeared a few degrees
beyond it."

   70. In this communication (to M. Quetelet) the author remarks that the
" Zenithal line parallel to which the greatest number of meteors were directed,
was from N.N.E. to S.S.W. nearly as observed in the previous year, [at Ply-
mouth]. Others passed to the northward, and on combining the M'hole it
resulted as a general view, that the movements appeared to originate about a
point N.E. of the zenith, near Cassiopeia, and that the meteors passing south-

--ward were more numerous than those proceeding to the north." Bull, de

I'Ac. Roy. deBruxelles, 1842, p. 324-326.

                             On Water-pressure Engines.
               By Joseph Glynn, F.R.S., M. Inst. C.E. ^c.

    (A communication ordered to be printed entire among the Reports to the Association.)

At the last meetrng of the British Association in Oxford, I read a report on

 the Turbine as a means of obtaining mechanical power, with a rotary motion
from falls of water in circumstances where a water-wheel could not be em-
ployed. The report I propose to submit to the present meeting relates to
another mode of employing the power of waterfalls in a manner essentially
 different, but not less useful and important, which appears to have been too
much neglected in this country, considering the advantages to be derived
from it in hilly districts for the drainage of mines. The paper on the Tur-
bine is printed in the last volume of the Transactions ; the present paper,
which may be regarded as another branch of the same subject, describes the
application of high falls of water to produce a reciprocating motion by means
of the pressure-engine, as has before been done with respect to the produc-
tion of a rotary motion by means of the Turbine.

    The first invention of the water-pressure engine, like many other mecha-
nical contrivances, appears to belong to Germany, and most probably had its
origin in Hungary, where so many ingenious machines actuated by water
have long been used. In the pressure-engine the power is obtained from a
descending column of water acting by its weight or hydrostatic pressure
upon the piston of a cylinder, to give motion to pumps for raising water to

a different level, or to produce a reciprocating motion for other purposes.
    In mountainous districts, so often containing great mineral wealth, water-

falls may be found of a much greater height than can be practically brought
to bear upon water-wheels ; and the stream is often too small in quantity to

produce the desired effect on a water-wheel within the ordinary limits of
diameter. In such situations the pressure-engine is well-adapted to derive
great mechanical power from a fall of water for working pumps and ma-
chinery for draining mines.

   The Germans appear to have made successive improvements upon their
original engines, and to have extended, from time to time, their usefulness
and application, of which two important examples may be given.

   The one is at Illsang in Bavaria, at the salt-works, which are situated in
the southern part of the kingdom. These works are supplied from a mine of
rock-salt in the valley of Bergtesgaden and from the salt springs at Reichen-
hall, where the salt was formerly purified by solution and evaporation ; but
as this operation could not be carried on with advantage on account of the
scarcity of fuel, the saturated brine is now conveyed by a line of pipes seven
inches ia diameter, through which it is forced from stage to stage for a
--12 REPORT 1848.

distance of about sixty miles by a series of nine pressure-engines, acted upon

by falls of water from the hills, and each of them working a pump.

  A description of these engines will be found in the Proceedings of the

Institution of Civil Engineers, and an excellent drawing, by Mr. W. L.

Baker, of one of the best engines of the series, constructed by M. de Reichen-

bach, will be found in the collection of that institution. This engine has a

cylinder of twenty-six inches in diameter, with a stroke of four feet, making

in regular work five strokes per minute ; it is made entirely of brass and is

an excellent machine, both in design and workmanship. Very few working

parts are visible, and it acts almost without noise ; the sliding valves, or
rather sliding pistons, which regulate the engine's action, being also moved

by water-pressure.

   The other example, at Freyberg in Saxony, is an engine constructed by

MM. Brendel in the year 1824, for draining the Alte Mdrdgrube mine. It

has two single acting cylinders attached to opposite ends of a working beam

by means of arched heads and chains ; the cylinders are open at top, and

have strong piston-rods of timber. The pressure of the water acts alter-

nately under the piston of either cylinder and forces it upwards, whilst the

piston of the cylinder at the other end of the beam is depressed by the

Aweight of the pump-rods.  bell crank attached to each piston-rod gives

motion to the pump-rods, each working twenty-two pumps, placed one above

the other, lying at an angle of forty-five degrees, and dividing the lift of each

set of pumps into twenty-two heights or stages of about thirty feet. The

engine is placed 360 feet underground. The cylinders are of cast-iron,

eighteen inches in diameter, with a stroke of nine leet; and the useful effect

was computed by M. von Gerstner to be seventy per cent, of the power ex-

Apended.  section of one of the cylinders, showing the mode of working the

valves, has been sent me by a friend at Wiesbaden, and an excellent drawing

of this engine by Mr. Baker will be found at the Institution of Civil Engineers.

The first water-pressure engine used in England was erected by Mr. Wil-

liam Westgarth, at a lead mine belonging to Sir Walter Blacket, in the

county of Northumberland, in the year 1765.

The cylinder of this engine was equal in length to the whole height of the

fall of water ; it was open at the top, and the water ran into the open top of

the cylinder by a trough ; the piston worked in a bored chamber, at the

lower end, of ten inches in diameter, and was attached by a chain to the

arched head of an engine beam placed above, the opposite end of the beam

suspending a wooden rod, which passed down the pit to work the pump.

The column of water always pressed upon the top of the piston, but by

admitting water below the piston the pressure was neutralized, and the

piston was raised by the weight of the descending pump-rods. On closing

the communication with the underside of the piston and discharging the

water from the cylinder bottom, the pressure of the column again acted

upon the piston and sent it down. By a simple and self-acting piece of me-

chanism, similar to the working gear of the steam-engines of that time, the

orifices were alternately opened and shut, and the reciprocating motion of

the engine continued.

  A detailed account, with drawings of this engine, was submitted to the

Society of Arts in the year 1769, and printed in the fifth volume of the

Society's Transactions in 1787. The description and drawings, from which

a model was then made, were given by Mr. Smeaton : the Society voted fifty

guineas to Mr. W'estgarth, and presented a silver medal, with their thanks, to

Mr. Smeaton for his excellent account of so valuable an invention.

I have carefully examined these interesting memorials of the early encou-
                                ----

                      ON WATER-PRESSURE ENGINES.                     13

ragement given to inventive genius by the Society of Arts, which continues
with renewed energy its career of public utility under the presidency of

Prince Albert. I am satisfied, not only from the evidence which the ma-
chine itself offers, differing as it does entirely from any of the German en-

gines, but from the written testimony of Mr. Smeaton, that Mr. Westgarth's
pressure-engine was his own invention ; and that he borrowed no part of it,
either in plan or in detail, from anything then or previously existing on the
continent. His idea appears to have been taken from the single-acting,

open-topped atmospheric engine of the period ; substituting the pressure of

a column of water for the pressure of the atmosphere.
   The liberality and goodness of heart which distinguished Mr. Smeaton, no

less than his high talent and skill as a civil engineer, appear conspicuously

in the correspondence alluded to, from which 1 have thought it requisite to

give the following extracts :

                                                         "Austhorpe, April 29, 1769.

" I had the pleasure of seeing the first complete engine of this kind at

work in the summer of 1765, for draining or unwatering a lead mine belong-

ing  to  Sir  Walter  Blacket,  at  Coldcleugh  in  the  county  of  Northumberland
                                                                                                                                ;

since which time that machine has been shown to all those who had the

curiosity to see it. Mr. Westgarth has now erected four others in the dif-

ferent mines of that neighbourhood, one of which I have seen, and all

attended with equal success."

In a subsequent letter Mr. Smeaton says,
" Mr. Westgarth was induced to think of applying for a patent for the

exclusive privilege of using this invention, but previous thereto he was pleased

to advise with me concerning it, being at that time frequently in these parts

of the country as an agent of Greenwich Hospital.

   " Much as I admired the ingenuity of Mr. Westgarth's invention, I dis-

suaded him from the thoughts of a patent, as it would take a length of time

to be sufficiently known, and the number of cases in which it could be pro-
perly applied were not sufficient to afford such a number of premiums as

might defray the expense of a patent, with a prospect of advantage to him-

self and family.

   " I therefore recommended it to him, as the Society for the Encourage-
ment of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce were, by handsome premiums

and bounties, encouragers of all useful inventions and improvements, to com-
municate his invention to them, that it might be made public, in confidence

that he would obtain a bounty for the same of such value as to the Society

should seem meet ; and in consequence hereof I gave him a representation of
the utility of his invention, with which in the year 1769 he applied to the

said Society, and obtained a bounty upon condition he delivered to the

Society a working model and a draught, showing the construction of the

engine ; but as the death of Mr. Westgarth, which happened not long after,

prevented the usefulness of the machine from being so successfully spread,

as it doubtless otherwise would have been, and as some of the most essential

parts of the machine cannot be seen in the model without its being taken to

pieces, and the drawing not being accompanied with any literal explanation,

nor the details of it sufficiently made out, at the request of the Society I
have now supplied these defects, that it may be published in such a manner
that the utility of it may be seen, and the means of making and applying it

be explained."

It appears that on seeing Mr. Westgarth's engine, Mr. Smeaton suggested

to him that if the engine instead of the great lever or balance-beam were

made to work with a wheel, and instead of the long spear going down the
--14 REPORT 1848.

descending pump trees, the pistons were made to communicate with the

main chain through a collar of leathers or stuffed collar, that then the whole
of the machinery would stand together just above the level or sough, and
there Avould take up less room, as the work might in general be comprehended
within the limits of the shaft ; and the descending pipe might also be of a less
bore and be fixed in a corner of the shaft, and therefore be upon the whole
much more convenient for underground works ; and in this mode the latest
engines of Mr. Westgarth were actually constructed with success. So that
little was wanting, except the perfection of modern workmanship, to render
the engine complete, although it was not made direct-acting, as the engines
recently made generally are.

   Mr. Smeaton constructed a water-pressure engine in 1770 at Temple
Newsam, Yorkshire, to work a pump for supplying Lord Irwin's residence.
It was of course of small size, and the pressure being communicated to the
cylinder by an inclined pipe bringing the water from some distance, he modi-
fied and improved the plan of Mr. Westgarth, closing the cylinder top and
using the piston-rod with a stuffed collar, still however retaining in its original
form, or nearly so, the ingenious slide valve devised by Mr. Westgarth.

    This Mas a cylindrical hoop or ring, sliding for a short distance up and
down upon a pipe, which it encircled, the pipe having two sets of openings
separated by a horizontal bridge or partition. The valve was inclosed in a
box attached to the branch pipe of the cylinder, and sustained the pressure
of the column equally in all directions ; and it was rendered water-tight by

strips of leather.

   When the upper openings in the pipe were exposed above the valve, the

water entered the cylinder below the piston, but when the lower set of aper-
tures was opened by raising the cylindrical valve, the water escaped from the
cylinder, the position of the valve at the same time shutting off the further
entrance of the water and its pressure upon the piston. The openings were
in the first instance square holes, but afterwards they were made in the form
of a lozenge or rhombus, with the acute angle upwards, so that the water
might enter or be shut off more gradually.

    After Mr. Smeaton's time the water-pressure engine seems to have re-

mained in abeyance, and I am not aware that any more of them were made
until Mr. Trevitheck revived their use. The great improvements made in
the steam-engine by Mr. Watt caused water-engines of all kinds to be neg-
lected ; and even water-wheels were in many cases replaced by steam-engines

as their substitutes. Water power went out of fashion, and was generally
 considered to be too precarious and expensive, as compared with steam, to de-
 serve much attention from engineers.

    Lately, however, more enlarged views have been taken respecting water
 power, and the subject has been more studied and better understood. Instead
 of depending on the uncertain flow of streams and rivers, sometimes flooded
 and sometimes dried up, water has been stored in vast reservoirs, collecting
 the surplws rain from higher ground and ensuring a constant supply at all
 seasons, thus rendering water power both certain and cheap. The Bann
 reservoirs in Ireland and tiie Shaws water-works in Scotland may be taken as

 examples of this kind well-worthy of imitation.
     Mr. Trevitheck constructed several water-pressure engines, one of which

 was erected in Derbj'shire in the year 1803, and is still, I believe, at work at
 the Alport mines, near Bakewell, to which it was removed from its original

 situation, not far distant.
     Through the kindness of Mr. John S. Enys of Penryn, I have been fa-

 voured with extracts of letters from Mr. Trevitheck to Mr. Davies Gilbert,
ON WATER-PRESSURE ENGINES.  15

referring to the " great pressure-engine in Derbyshire." In one of these,
dated January 10th, ISO*, he says, " It has been at work about three months
and never missed one stroke, except when they let a tub swim down the
descending column."

   This it appears damaged the cylinder cover, which was speedily repaired
and the engine again set in motion ; for in a subsequent letter he complains
of non-payment for his foreman's attendance and travelling expenses and for
the wages of the men he sent, adding, " If they found fault with the engine
there would be some reason for not paying, but they say it is the best in the

world."

   The cylinder of Mr. Trevitheck's engine is, I believe, thirty inches in

diameter.

   In 1841, our respected Treasurer, Mr. John Taylor, advised the application
of another and more powerful engine at the Alport mines, which was made

under my direction at the Butterley Works. This was the most powerful

engine that had been made: the cylinder is 50 inches in diameter and the
stroke 10 feet. It is worked by a column of water 132 feet high, acting
below the piston and lifting by direct action a weighted plunger pole 42
inches in diameter, which raises the water from the mine to a height of 132
feet, so that the proportion of power to effect is as the area of the piston to

that of the plunger, namely, 1963 to 1385, or full 70 per cent, (see the three

figures, Plate I.).

   I received a letter a short time ago from Mr. Darlington, who has the care
of the machinery at the mines, and who fixed this engine, in which he says
the engine has never cost them £12 a-year since it was erected.

   The usual speed is about five strokes per minute, but it will work at the
rate of seven strokes without any concussion in the descending column ; the
duty actually done being then equal to 168 horses' power, of 33,000 lbs.
raised a foot high in a minute. Thus, the area of the plunger, 3 feet 6 inches
in diameter, is 9*621 square feet XlO feet, the length of stroke, X 7 strokes
per minute =673*4'7 cubic feet of water raised 132 feet high in a minute;
and 673*47 cubic feet of water x62'5lb3., the weight per foot, X 132 feet in
height =5,556,127, which, divided by 33,000, gives 168^, say 168 horses'
power. The pressure upon the piston from a column of water 132 feet
high, reckoning 27 inches of water equal to a pound, is about 58 pounds on
the square inch, or rather more than 50 tons pressure on the area of the piston.
Thus, the area of the piston, 50 inches in diameter, is 1963 square inches

=X58lbs. 113,854, and this divided by 2240, the number of pounds in a

ton, gives 50*8, say 50 tons..
    This engine was erected early in 1842, and has been at work without

intermission for more than six years. On one occasion, when I made inquiry

about it, I was told that it had been constantly going for the last seventeen
weeks, and nobody had seen it during the time.

   An excellent model of this engine will be found in the museum of Econo-

mic Geology, made by Mr. Jordan, since so well known by his invention for
carving wood by machinery.

    It will be observed that after the large valves are closed, the pressure is
continued upon the piston to complete the stroke. This was at first done by
means of cocks at the sides, but as the friction of these caused some little
trouble, Mi-. Darlington substituted some small pistons to shut off the water

at the termination of the stroke, and at the same time made the openings a

little larger.

    Mr. Taylor has since, I believe, had another engine of the same size made

for a lead mine in Wales, and the result has been equally satisfactory.
16 REPORT 1848.

I beg leave to submit this subject to the Association as one worthy of notice,

observing that in this case, as in all others where water acts by its gravity or

pressure, those machines do the best duty where the water enters the machine

Wewithout shock or impulse and quits it without velocity.  then obtain all

the available power that the water will yield, with the least loss of effect,

and this result is best accomplished by making the pipes and passages of

sufficient and ample size to prevent acceleration of the hydrostatic column.

                                       Description of the Figures.
   The three figures given in Plate I, show an elevation, plan and section of

the water-pressure engine at the Alport Mines. The arrows show the
entrance and escape of the water which works the engine. The influx and

efflux are regulated by two sluices, which are raised by screws, and determine
the speed of the engine and of the up and down strokes of the piston.

                                            On the Air and Water of Towns.
                                 By Robert Angus Smith, Ph.D., Manchester.

Having been requested to examine into the variations in composition of the
air and water of towns, I send the observations which I have made upon the

subject.

   It has been long believed that the air and the water have a most import-
ant influence on our health, and superstitions have therefore constantly been

attaching themselves to receptacles of the one and emanations of the other.
The town has always been found to differ from the country ; this general
feeling is a more decisive experiment than any that can be made in a labo-
ratory. Although men of high standing have been found to deny that any

difference exists between the air of the worst towns or the most crowded
rooms and that of the open country, it seems to be only a proof, that men
accustomed to experimental inquiry are apt to forget the value and force to
be attached to those apparently less rigorous observations whicii the senses

are constantly and unconsciously making, and to believe only that which can
be demonstrated by the grosser processes of a laboratory. Most men would
be satisfied of the impurity of an atmosphere through which a blue sky could

never be seen of a blue colour, or where a bright cloud appears of a dingy

brovvTi                          but there are men who take this air into glass receivers, and because
                              ;

they detect no new substances or strange compounds, they deny that there is

any peculiarity. I have known persons from the highlands of Scotland who

felt in going into Glasgow as we do when going into a glass-house or forge,
and who could not be persuaded to stay, unless they remained long enough
to find some advantages before unknown to them. The inquiries made by

the Sanitary Commissioners have completely established the fact that crowded
towns are dangerous places; and although it is still an open question whe-

ther a well-regulated town or country life be the more healthy, it is suffi-
ciently established that our towns have subjected themselves to many dangers,
which we in self-defence are feeling compelled to try to avert, by acting ac-
cording to natural laws as far as their acquaintance has been made.

   Most persons must have felt that a rapid entrance into a large town,

especially a manufacturing town, was also an entrance into another climate.

An inhabitant of the sea-coast or of the hills perceives it rapidly, and the

effect on them is often decidedly bad ; to those accustomed to it a fen-

hours are found to be enough to cause them to forget the atmosphere whicli

Wein their holiday excursions had caused them such delight.                 are apt in
I
                                                                                                 ;

       ON THE AIR AND WATER OF TOWNS.                                                            17

these cases to assign other reasons for the feeh'ngs experienced, and to

attribute much to the change of scene and occupation ; and 1 have read it
not long ago asserted, that the air in the streets of London and of the tops

of distant hills probably differed only in the temperature.

Priestley found that after shutting up a mouse in air a considerable time

it seemed to become weak and to be slowly dying, but if he put a fresh

Wemouse into the same air at this period it instantly died.   can bear the

gradual deterioration with ease, but we often find ourselves surprised at the

state of the air in which we find our friends sitting, perfectly unconscious of

any want of attention to their sanitary state.

The air has often been called a general receptacle for all impurity

Nature has made it a universal purifier by giving it so large an amount of

free oxygen. It is oxygen which purifies, and bodies which are impure

have a tendency to volatilize, after which they become pure.

No doubt the air of a town contains a portion of all exhalations which

arise in a town. Tliese are such as come from living bodies in the first

instance ; exhalations which can never be got rid of, but which it is probable

are not at all dangerous, unless accumulated. There are also exhalations

from the refuse matter of animals, and from combustion of fuel. These are

the chief points. Various manufactures give out various effluvia, and no

man that has walked through a large town with attention can have failed to

perceive that no street is entirely free from effluvia, and that every one

seems to have a peculiarity of its own.

The smell is a delicate guide to this, and although custom causes us to

forget that odour to which we are much exposed, a frequent change gives

us still more acuteness, and both houses and streets may fairly be com-

plained of when the inhabitants are little aware of it.

That animals constantly give out a quantity of solid organic matter from

the lungs may readily be proved by breathing through a tube into a bottle,

when the liquid or condensed breath will be collected at the bottom of the

bottle ; or by breathing through a tube into water, when a solution of tlie

same substance will be found in the water. This would scarcely require

proof  if we considered that  breath  so  frequently has an organic  smell                       per-
                                                                                              ;

haps rather it always has an organic smell, and when it is bad the smell is

often offensive, containing decomposing organic matter.

If this condensed breath be put on a piece of platinum, or on a piece of

white porcelain and burnt, the charcoal which remains and the smell of

organic matter will be conclusive. If it be allowed to stand for a few days

(about a week is enough), it will then show itself more decidedly by be-

coming the abode of small animals. These are rather to be styled animal-

cules, and very small ones certainly, unless a considerable quantity of liquid

be obtained : they may be seen with a good microscope. Animalcules are
now generally believed to come from the atmosphere and to deposit them-

selves on convenient feeding-places ; that is, they only appear where there
is food or materials for their growth, and they prove of course the existence

of that continuation of elements necessary for organic life. At the same

time their presence is a proof of decomposing matter, as their production is

one of the various ways in which organized structure may be broken up.

Such a liquid must of course be an injurious substance, giving out constantly

vapours of an unwholesome kind.

I mentioned some time ago that 1 had got a quantity of organic matter

from the windows of a crowded room, and I have since frequently repeated

1848.                                                                c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

--18 REPORT 1848.

the experiment. This matter condenses on the glass and walls in cold
weather, and may be taken up by means of a pipette. If allowed to stand
some time, it forms a thick, apparently glutinous mass ; but when this is
examined by a microscope, it is seen to be a closely-matted confervoid
growth, or in other words, the organic matter is converted into Confervae, as
it probably would have been converted into any kind of vegetation that
happened to take root. Between the stalks of these confervae are lo be
seen a number of greenish globules constantly moving about, various species

of Volvox, accompanied also by monads many times smaller. When this

happens, the scene is certainly lively and the sight beautiful ; but before

this occurs the odour of perspiration may be distinctly perceived, especially

if the vessel containing the liquid be placed in boiling water.

  My analyses of this body are not yet ready, further than that it contains

the usual organic elements.

   If air be passed through water a certain amount of this material is ob-
tained, but 1 have found it difficult to pass a sufficient quantity through.
If it is made to pass rapidly, absorption does not take place, and evaporation
of the water is the consequence ; if it passes slowly, it requires many weeks
to pass a hundred cubic ieet through a small quantity of water. I continued
the experiment for three months, but although I obtained sulphuric acid,
chlorine, and a substance resembling impure albumen, I did not get enough
to make a complete examination ; and indeed this could not be expected, as
I found that in that time less than a thousand gallons of air had passed
through.

   When this exhalation from animals is condensed on a cold body, it in

course of time dries up, and leaves a somewhat glutinous organic plaster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;

we often see a substance of this nature on the furniture of dirty houses, and

in this case there is always a disagreeable smell perceptible. I have no
doubt that this is a great cause of the necessity for constant cleaning, which
experience has found and made to be a very general practice in England and

elsewhere. In other words, it is a reason why that which is not cleaned becomes

dirty, a question which I have often felt great difficulty in answering.
    Water is necessary to the spontaneous decomposition of animal matter,

and it is probable that in a warm climate this coating of walls and furniture
would not be so dangerous as with us, where everything is exposed to
tnoisture a considerable part of the year. In a warmer cUmate it will pro-
bably be diffused more into the atmosphere, and not be so much retained as
it is by the moisture which dissolves it or to which it attaches itself.

    It will probably be found that this substance is not poisonous if taken

into the stomach, but it is known to be poisonous breathed into the lungs,
as we know crowded rooms are. The quantity is small that we do breathe,
but at the same time we must remember that it is diffused in air, and has
therefore a surface as extended as the volume of the air in all probability
and we know that a cubic inch of sulphuretted hydrogen will scent at least
some hundred cubic feet of air.

    As this substance of which we speak is organic and contains carbon hy-
drogen and nitrogen, with other elements, it is capable of oxidation ; and it no

doubt is continually undergoing oxidation in the air, probably forming car-
bonic acid, water and ammonia. It is also not unlikely that this is a greater
source of the ammonia of the atmosphere than the mere foetid decomposition
of animal matter, which does not occur to a large extent in nature, provision
being made for its removal by animals, and by vegetation especially.
ON THE AIR AND WATER OP TOWNS.  19

    Organic matter in contact with water constantly gives off an odour of some
kind, and especially if heated, so that it would appear as if steam or vapour
were capable of taking up much more than that which we call volatile

matter.

    If organic matter be allowed to decompose in the air it gives out carbonic
acid, ammonia, sulphuretted hydrogen, and probably other gases. Priestley
has shown that if it decomposes in water it gives out an inflammable gas.
If however it be exposed to the action of soil, other circumstances being

favourable, it is converted partly into nitric acid.

   None of these cases occur purely in our towns, but all of them occur to
some extent. Carbonic acid and ammonia occur in all reservoirs of refuse,
and sulphuretted hydrogen occurs also in abundance. It was once very
perceptible in London, as Sir Kenelra Digby complains much of the
state of the streets, when silver could not be kept clean in his day. This
may be observed now in many towns, and is in fact not uncommon. This
is a disagreeable smelling gas, and wherever it is abundant will be easily
detected by the nose. It may be detected readily in many courts and alleys,
also at the mouths of sewers, and in some parts of the Irwell and Medlock
at Manchester, where they are filled with organic matter and alkaline and
earthy salts. Ammonia generally accompanies it so as to diminish its bad

eflFects.

   Ammonia itself is probably of no injury unless in excessive quantities, and
may be considered as one of the most wholesome forms in which nitrogen

Aand hydrogen, as gases, pass into the air. decomposition such as this occurs

ordinarily in towns, as there is a certain exposure to air always.
   In cases where there is no exposure, or at least when the substance is in

water, inflammable gases are produced, as Priestley has shown and Liebig
has to some extent explained. It would seem as if, when decomposition
commenced, oxidation of one portion necessarily took place, leaving the
other portions without oxygen, unless in cases where an abundance
could be obtained. Dalton found the gas from the floating island at Der-
wentwater to contain carburetted hydrogen and nitrogen. The carbon and
the hydrogen are deprived of oxygen entirely, whilst more oxidized
bodies, as carbonic acid and humus, are left, the latter body to be in time
entirely oxidized, as Liebig has shown. Whether the nitrogen comes off
alone or as ammonia, the same division of a substance into oxidized and
deoxidized occurs as we see in the fermentation of sugar, where carbonic
acid a body oxidized, and alcohol a body to a great extent deoxidized, occur.

We have only to suppose compounds of carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen,

coming from decomposing matter, to show us the great danger. It is not to
be trusted that these bodies always appear in the mode of combination men-
tioned here ; their modes of combining are various, and these elements
form the most active poisons known to us.

   A certain amount of moisture is almost essential to the escape of odour from

many bodies ; it probably arises from two causes. The vapour of wa^er is
a vehicle for organic matter, and water favours decomposition in bodies, so
that as they decompose the vapour is given out. From whatever cause, it will

be found that moisture rapidly facilitates the escape of odour. Mineralogists
avail themselves of this when they breathe on a mineral and then ascertain

the smell. The moisture of an evening, or even artificial moisture, causes
the flowers to give their scents, and the moist state of the atmosphere belore
or after a shower causes also a great fragrance in a flower-garden. But
whilst this is caused the same laws are operating for injurious effects,

                                                                             c2
--20 KEPORT 1848.

wherever there is a reservoir of putrid matter, for then the exhalations

are also abundant, and bubbles may be seen to rise from filthy water. It
is not improbable that the state of the atmospheric pressure may cause this,
as Mr. E. W. Binney has shown that the gases in coal-pits are caused to

escape rapidly during a lowering of the barometer. Bodies that are

moist will therefore give out more organic vapours; if there be abun-

dance of water, as in a lake, the vapours would to a great extent be dis-

solved, even if the same kind of decomposition were to proceed as in merely

Wemoist or marshy ground.     might expect then that soil, if moist, will

give out, not pure vapour of water, but water with organic matter in it.

Wet soil is a little acid generally, and if very acid is bad land, sour as it is

called ; but if made alkaline either by the direct adding of ammonia, or by
decomposition producing ammonia, it becomes fertile. If any alkali be

added which gives out ammonia by decomposing the humate of ammonia in

the ground, the same state of fertility is attained. This end is generally

attained by adding lime. This state of almost neutrality of the soil is also

regulated by nature, and a fertile alkalinity obtained by the rapid decompo-

sition of organic matter through moisture and heat. In this alkaline and

warm state more vapours will of course be given off, and the ammonia will

Howassist in the removing of organic matter into the air.  far this occurs

on sowed land has not yet been seen by me satisfactorily ; but on peat land

the ammonia formed is abundant in hot weather, so much so as to be per-

ceptible directly by the senses, and to take with it in solution a large quan-

tity of humus and salts of humus, containing food for plants, as I showed in

a paper to the Philosophical Society of Manchester.

   I mention this to show how organic matter may be lifted into the air,

and why hot weather promotes it ; also I wish to show how various this

matter must be in its properties, as all vegetable solutions give out a certain

amount of matter from tliem.

To ascertain if organic matter were really to be got from such vapours

from land, I collected some dew by condensing it on a glass cylinder, and

allowing it to drop into a glass below. The fewness of the evenings fa-

vourable for the purpose this year has of course retarded me. I saw plainly

however that the substance thus obtained from the dew was very different

from that obtained by condensation in a warm room ; whereas that from a
crowded room was thick, oily, and smelling of perspiration, capable of de-

composition and productive of animalcules and confervae ; the dew was
beautifully clear and limpid. When boiled down the odour was not dis-
agreeable, and I may say not remarkable ; but when the small portion of

solid matter which remained dissolved in it was exposed to heat, the smell

was that of vegetable matter with very little trace of any nitrogenized

substance. It was also rather agreeable than otherwise. The dew was

collected in a flower-garden, and I have no doubt in favourable weather of

being able, in dissimilar situations, of getting it of different characters. It is

not improbable that the matter in the dew may be a measure of the amount

in the atmosphere ; if so, the decided difference between that of the country

and that of crowded rooms is to be remarked, and may probably form a

good guide towards a knowledge of comparative purity of atmosphere.

   In walking along the fields on an evening when there is much dew, it
may be observed how much effect a dry soil has ; indeed I might almost

say the climate of a field will be found to vary almost every yard. Every

cause of cold, the formation of a drain, the lowness of any spot, its being

higher or more level or more sheltered, is indicated by this delicate ther-
ON THE AIR AND WATER OF TOWNS.  21

morneter, the rise of vapour and the perception of cold. If we ascend

-- Ahigher the same is seen on a larger scale on miles instead of yards.

house may be in a clear atmosphere and the lawn before it in an impene-
trable fog. One foot in height makes a difference, and one foot also of level
distance, if the ground should differ in quality. The damper places give us
a feeling of freshness, and cause also a slight irritation of the nose. Every
wall causes a certain amount of dampness ; and even in a windy day, a

leafless hedge will protect one side from evaporation. In these respects

therefore we may say truly, that every field or house in the country, as well
as I believe every house in the town, has its own peculiar climate.

   The effect of wetness on the atmosphere of a town is very great ; if we
observe the smoke on a dry day we find that it rises, and if there be a little
wind it is carried out in distinct black lines, leaving the air below compara-
tively pure. If the day be dull and wet, the smoke instead of being carried
away is poured out directly into the streets, and a spectator at a short
distance sees a basin of black fluid, if the town be in a valley, or a heap

gradually diminishing towards the circumference as it falls into the adjacent

country. It may be replied that the diffusion of gases would prevent this,
but again it may simply be said that it does not prevent it. Besides, the
smoke is not to be considered as a gas, the black portion is carbon and tar.
If the carbon is wet, it becomes, like all other spongy bodies when filled
with water, heavy, and of course falls down. The carbonic acid will no
doubt be diffused more, but it also is strongly attracted by water, and must not
be viewed as a pure gas, such as oxygen or nitrogen. Probably this is the
reason of the very disagreeable state of our towns in damp gloomy weather ;
it is such weather as does not allow the town to be ventilated. The same
does not occur on a thoroughly wet day, when the matter is carried fairly
down into the streets, and a certain freshness is perceived.

   Rain amidst smoke is just such a liquid as we might expect ; it is a
mixture of soot in a finely-divided, apparently dissolved state. It is how-
ever not dissolved, and by boiling down may be got free. It is not easy
to tell exactly the composition of the rain ; for although I have examined
it and obtained many products in it, so much may be said to come from
other sources when water is collected near houses or near the ground, that
I have often suspected some source of error. However, I think if we take
that rain which is collected on a very wet day, after many hours of continued
pouring without wind, we may consider that we have got the purest speci-

men. This was collected frequently, and having obtained it so often I am
now satisfied that the dust really comes down with the purest rain, and that
it is simply coal ashes. No doubt this accounts for the quantity of sul-

phates and of chlorides in the rain, and for the soot, which are the chief
ingredients. This rain is also often alkaline, arising probably from the
ammonia of the burnt coal, which is no doubt a valuable agent for neutral-
izing the sulphuric acid so often formed. It must however be frequently
acid with sulphuric acid, although I have not found it so, as I have traced
sulphurous acid in the atmosphere frequently, walking through some miles
of streets to come to its source. The source however is not easily obtained,
because I believe it does not fall till at some distance.

    The rain-water at Manchester is about 2^ degrees of hardness, harder in
fact than the water from the neighbouring hills, which the town intends to use.
 This can only arise from the ingredients obtained in the town atmosphere.

    But the most curious point is the fact that organic matter is never absent,
 although the rain be continued for whole days. This matter is capable of
--22 REPORT 1848.

promoting animalcular life to some extent, and small specimens may be
seen moving solitary in it. If allowed to stand in a bottle, this may be
more clearly detected. On this matter I must say more at a future

time.

  My chief wish is to show that the general notions entertained by persons

as to the air of towns are not without the support of what is called scientific

observation, although at the same time the effects on life are greater than
chemists by any observations could have made out.

Vogel and others have found organic matter in the atmosphere; and

Dr. Southwood Smith, in looking for matter which might produce fever,
found an organic substance, I believe, in some of the streets of London. I

give only in detail what I have myself observed.
   If this matter should from any cause be exposed to a decomposition more

rapid than usual, we have before us a state of things worse because more
general than a bad sewer, and can account for many diseases. I am there-

--fore disposed to think of it as Lord Bacon thought of the cause of jail

fever : "Out of question such smells consist of man's flesh or sweat putre-
fied. There may be great danger of such compositions in great meetings

of people within houses ; for poisoning of air is no less dangerous than

poisoning of water. And these empoisonments of air are more dangerous

--in meetings of people, because the much breath of people doth further the

reception of the infection." Bacon's Sylva Sylvarum,

The state of the air is closely connected with that of the water ; what the

air contains the water may absorb, what the water has dissolved or absorbed

it may give out to the air. Whatever the rain meets with in its course from

the surface to the wells of a town is, if soluble, dissolved in the water. The

enormous quantity of impure matter filtering from all parts of a large town

into its many natural and artificial outlets, does at first view present us with

a terrible picture of our underground sources of water. But when we

examine the soil of a town, we do not find the state of matters to present

that exaggerated character which we might suppose.

I have often been struck with the extent to which water may purify itself.

At Bala, on the hills, the water is brown ; in the lake it is still coloured,

Abut in its course it becomes beautifully clear.    still stronger instance

may be observed on the hills beyond Bolton, the water in which is of a deep

brown: when it falls into the reservoirs just below it ceases to be very

dark, although still too brown for agreeable use ; but when it has run a few
miles it ceases to be remarkable, and is often perfectly pure. I was struck also
with the fact that filters do not become dirty in proportion to the amount
of impurity which they seem to remove. The sand at the Chelsea water-

works contains only 1-43 per cent, of organic and volatile matter after being

used for weeks, and cannot be considered as impure in a high degree.

In 182? Liebig found nitrates in twelve wells in Giessen, but none in

wells two or three hundred yards from the town (Annales de Chimie,

vol. XXXV.). Berzelius made similar observations at Stockholm. In 1846 and

1847 I examined about thirty wells in Manchester, and found none free
from nitrates ; many contained a surprising quantity, and were very nau-
seous (Mem. of the Chem. Soc).

   Wells in the country generally contain organic matter, and in the town

the organic matter is oxidized into nitric acid, as if it required a certain

intensity to promote the action. It is very probable that this acid is an

effect of restricted oxidation, occurring as it does with such excess of

organic matter, and, although near the surface, still under hard pavements
ON THE AIR AND WATER OF TOWNS.  23

and soil where there is also little flow of water. It might however be viewed
as an oxidation, with excess of oxygen also where the large extent of surface
presented by the porous materials gives an increased facility for oxidation,
or rather presents compressed oxygen, so as to be more effective.

   It will be of interest to know what becomes of the carbon and hydrogen
in these cases, if they are removed together. These nitrates do not occur
to any extent in purifying large bodies of water, nor do they occur in
filtering through rocks or sand as in nature, but they occur in more close
situations, under streets and houses and in undrained ground, according as
it is saturated with animal matter. It is found in sewer water, in the Thames
water, and in all dirty streams into which sewers empty themselves : perhaps
the reason of its not being found in larger quantities in streams from drained
land is simply the want of animal matter, or it may not be formed more
rapidly than the plants can use. It is found however in wells which are
situated in well-manured gardens, and in all wells at the backs of houses,
without any exception, yet met with by me.

   The wells of private houses, and we may say wells generally, are placed

in that spot which of all others is the worst, the cesspools and the wells
always too near, generally close to each other. I was first led to examine
this from a complaint made in Manchester, where a case of this kind fur-
nished water of an oily appearance, containing about 90 grains of matter in
a gallon, and being excessively disagreeable. The same well was examined
in summer, and the matter had risen up to nearly an ounce in a gallon. The
well was of course not St for use in this state.

    In the same neighbourhood was a churchyard, and around it I examined
five wells, one of them especially, sufficiently far removed from cesspools to
make me believe that the churchyard was the only cause of the impurity.
The wells of London all cdntain nitric acid to a certain extent, but they vary

--exceedingly in the amount. The following have only a small quantity : Ex-

change, Rood Lane, Eastcheap, St. Paul's Churchyard, Tower Hill, Covent

Garden, Lincoln's-Inn Court, St. Clement's, Strand, Aldgate Pump, and Bow
Church. It seemed to me from the situation of the old well at Clerkenwell,

that it was very well fitted for obtaining nitrates, and on examination it was
found to be exceedingly well-filled with earthy salts, containing 148 grains
of solid matter to the gallon, of which several were nitrate of lime. The
water of this neighbourhood would contain about 20 grains to the gallon in
a natural state, if we may judge from the water generally found in the valley
of the Thames.

    Another well in North Street, Tottenham Court Road, was examined, as
from the state of the drainage I expected it to contain a considerable quan-
tity of earthy salts. Here also I was not deceived, having got 130 grains of
sulphates, chlorides and nitrates in a gallon ; the water itself a fluid which I

could not swallow.

    There is then a constant formation of nitric acid under towns. It is a
little surprising that organic matter, properly so called, should not be found
in those wells ; the nearest to a source of organic matter do actually con-
tain the least, because in these cases it is more readily converted into
nitric acid, which may very properly be called here oxidized organic matter.
At the same time also it must be remembered, that the nitrates decompose
 any organic matter present if heat be applied, so that no blackening of the
residue can be perceived. Those wells of London first mentioned do not
contain much of these salts, but suflBcient to deprive them of organic matter,
--24 REPORT 1848.

as no vegetation is to be perceived in them, even by a microscope, after a long

period. If however a mere trace of nitric acid be found, as in the well of

Tower Hill, a green matter deposits on standing. This perfect freedom from

animal or vegetable growth is a groimd for suspicion also of nitrates being

present, as there generally is a little green matter found in the purest waters,

unless they pass througli great depths of sand or gravel, as in the new red

sandstone, wliere the water, if taken from a deep well, is entirely free from

everything but inorganic salts.

The fact of some of the wells being freer than others from these salts is a

proof of a dependence on the state of the soil, and I doubt not that the drain-

age has the greatest effect on the change made. Some of the mud taken from

under a street in Manchester, where a sewer had been allowing some moisture

to ooze out, was found to contain nitrates also in considerable quantities, but

the sand and gravel below was nearly dry and perfectly free from nitrates.

Although it is very probable that nitric acid is formed most readily in the

sand, yet it is also more rapidly carried away, and after much rain we cannot

expect to find such a soluble salt remaining.

As to the source of this acid, I made some experiments last year for the

MyMetropolitan Sanitary Commission, which I may here relate.    object was

Ato get an idea of the nature of filtration.   jar, open at both ends, such as

is used with an air-pump, was filled with sand, and some putrid yeast, which

contained no nitric acid, was mixed with pure water and poured on the sand,

allowing it to filter through. The product of nitric acid was abundant, so
much so, as when boiled down to give it out at once, on the addition of pro-

tosulphate of iron and sulphuric acid, making the red fumes of the peroxide

of nitrogen apparent without the aid of any very refined test.

   Charcoal was tried for the same end ; it did not answer, although allowed
to act for two months ; it was put into a large Hessian crucible, and the

liquid allowed to trickle through the crucible and charcoal together.

Ox-flesh was in this manner oxidized into nitric acid, after allowing it to

putrefy. This result could be obtained by means of an ordinary household

filter, if the time allowed were long enough and other conditions favourable.

The same was done on a smaller scale, by allowing nitrogenous organic

matter to stand over spongy platinum.

   No doubt this is a very important provision of nature for the prevention

of the evil consequences of putrefaction ; it is the complete destruction of all

dangerous gases and the perfect purification of the most impure substances
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

whether it be advisable to drink water having much of this oxidized matter in

Weit is another question.  see however in this the two great agents of sanitary

improvement at work for us, the air and the water acting through the soil;

whatever goes tlirough such an ordeal is made pure. The drainage of a

country is therefore that which removes the evil effects of decomposition, as

well as the excess of moisture.

The action of air and water on surface is then a powerful one, and pro-

bably is capable of doing many marvellous things with the substances given

to it to treat. The effect produced on sulphuretted hydrogen is no less de-

Acided. bottle of strong sulphuretted hydrogen was poured upon the sand-

filter, and sulphuric acid was the result, with sulphates formed of bases

which it had washed out of the sand. Sulphuret of ammonium fihered

through sand contains sulphuretted hydrogen no longer, and will not blacken

lead, so powerful is this kind of oxidation.

Water from a pump in a yard not far from me, gave out a disagreeable
                                              ON THE AIR AND WATER OP TOWNS.  25

smell of sulphuretted hydrogen, which filled the neighbouring houses. This

I found the persons accustomed to filter and to drink : the sulphur was con-
verted into sulphuric acid, and the water was actually made quite pure.

   These are no doubt some of the advantages of a filter ; if so, we are then
to consider that a filter acts according to its cubic dimensions and not by its
surface only. If the porous rocks have thus the power of oxidizing sulphur
and nitrogen, we may then ask, have they not also the power of oxidizing
carbon? Hydrogen is no doubt oxidized, the ammonia being broken up so

as to form oxides, as nitric acid and water.

  We see that natural filtration, with abundance of room and free move-

ments, dissipates the organic matter, and nitric acid too, if ever formed.
The time allowed for filtration being so short, that is, the time from the

falling of the rain to the appearance of the pure water from the spring, we

cannot suppose that vegetation accomplishes the purification, whilst there is

no deposit of impurity apparent to account for the change. It seems to me

that the action of the compressed air on the surface of bodies is sufficient to

answer this question, and that this matter is removed by a process of oxi-
dation. It was Saussure who showed that humus can unite oxygen and

hydrogen                                      Liebig has shown that humus is constantly capable of combining
                                           ;

with oxygen, and calls it a constant source of carbonic acid. When then we

see water not very free from organic matter enter a rock and come out free

from organic matter and sparkling with carbonic acid, leaving no visible

organic impurities behind it, we may safely conclude that the oxidation of

the carbon has effected it ; this then is a higher degree of purification than

the oxidation of the nitrogen, which is probably allowed to go free.

   Processes such as these are going on constantly wherever water is filter-

ing. On land generally such things must be constantly occurring. The

ditch-water of our fields is a very different water from the river-water into

which it runs, or even of the drains a few feet only below it. Some water

taken from a ditch in the neighbourhood of Manchester became in a few

days a complete mass of life, and the many specimens of animalcules in such

water make it a good subject of study. Water from a drain three yards deep

does not however contain this immense quantity of organic or organizable

matter, depositing only some green matter, partly animal, partly vegetable.

   When water flows from hills or elevated land in a river-course, it under-

goes changes according to the nature of the bed, and also according to the

number of towns on its banks. As an instance of this, I will follow the

river Thames from its sources to London Bridge without giving the details
of analysis here, but the character of the changes as known to me.

Water from the Seven Springs or from Thames Head or Andover Ford,

proceeding as it does from the rock, is in the perfectly oxidized state of

which we have been speaking ; it contains a great deal of carbonic acid and
of lime in solution. When allowed to stand, it preserves its great purity (or

clearness of appearance rather) any length of time, not appearing to change.

Such water as this requires no managing; it would be a good thing if it

could at once be introduced into houses ; it is in fact spring-water from the
rock, and such water is known to be always good, unless the rock contain de-

leterious substances. Rocks of course are found which give out a water much

freer from lime than the water of the Thames sources ; such, for example, as
those between Lancashire and Yorkshire. At a place called Swineshaw on

one of these hills a stream gushed out from the hard and insoluble rough

rock of this place, having the purity of average distilled water, with a spark-

ling appearance and agreeableness to the palate which distilled water never
                                                         ;

26 REPORT-- 1848.

has. It is under one degree of hardness of Clark's test. No doubt there

are other streams as good, and the whole of that and similar districts gives
the most beautiful water. The same may be said of a great deal of the
water of North Wales, and in such places as have very insoluble rocks. I

said as pure as the average distilled water ; it may not be known to all per-
sons, that a number of distillations are necessary in order to obtain pure

water. For this purpose, a water from a great depth, or a spring-water
from a rock is best to use, as there is less volatile and prganic matter in it
the first distillation of the usual waters about Manchester giving a very im-

perfect product.

   Purity of water and fertility of soil are not to be expected together, if we
may judge from the facts above. Freedom from both inorganic and organic

matters is got only in water from very insoluble rocks, vv'hich are not the

fittest for vegetation ; or it is got where there is much sand or gravel con-

taining little soluble matter, and of course little food for plants. If however

these strata be together, as soon as the water comes from the insoluble to the

soluble it will change.

The Thames water is at first pure, as far as freedom from organic matter

occurs, and takes its course through a rather level country. 'I'he stream is
soon filled with plants ; and at Kemble the water has already taken up some

organic matter, enough to form a slight green deposit on standing. The

water here is still beautifully clear, and is good water; it is 15*5 degrees

of hardness.

   When we come down to Pangbourne, the water cannot be said to have

become much worse ; it is still so pure as to require a considerable time to

form a deposit, and that only small, containing a few plants and some small

animalcules from j-gVo ^^ 30^00 °'^ ^" J"ch. Here there is a slight but still
decided trace of organic matter from animals. There has been an increase

in the hardness also.

                                        Grains of Soap,

Seven Springs                12'75 of hardness 262

AndoverFord                  13'88  ,,  283
Thames Head at Kemble ..     15*5   ,,  312
Church at Cirencester ....   15*7   ,,  315
Reading                      16-5   ,,  340

   Pangbourne was only 15*4 in November 1 847 ; the others are of February
1848, when the water was harder down to London. There is seen here an

increase in hardness, and there is also an increase in soluble salts not con-

tributing to the hardness. At Seven Springs the hardness is equal to the

whole amount of insoluble salts and a fraction more, which may arise from

an excess of carbonic acid.

                                        Grains.

At Seven Springs inorganic matter in a gallon 12"25

At Pangbourne                           22-33

At Reading                              23*n4

   At Windsor animalcules begin to show themselves more prominently in
the water, and these rather large Hydatina. There are also at Reading and
Oxford some of the smaller green Naviculae, and several other smaller green
Bacillaria. Oxford water had more of these than Reading, and also a large
amount of matter in solution ; it is probable that the soil through which the
Isis flows is rather different from the other part of the Thames. The river
was rather high at the time.

   From Richmond downwards the case is much altered, and the water, although
                 ON THE AIR AND WATER OF TOWNS.  27

clear, gives after a time a brown flocculent deposit, entirely distinct from the

mud deposit, which has been carefully removed beforehand. This flocculent

deposit contains many animals, large and gelatinous-looking; also below Chel-

sea, and chiefly below Hungerford-market, little eels," VibrioJluviatilis," about

^th of an inch long. The sideof the vessel in which the water stands is covered

with another precipitate quite distinct, not flocculent but hard, of a light brown,

and chiefly towards that side of the vessel which is exposed to a moderate

light. This precipitate is often mistaken for oxide of iron, which it strongly

resembles, and to which it may probably owe its colour ; but it may be known
to differ from a simple oxide by the addition of muriatic acid, which gives
it a beautiful green colour. When seen through the microscope, the colour

will be found owing to the little dots of green which mark the polygas-

tric character of these animalcules. These little creatures (chiefly I believe
the " Navicula futva") are covered with a crust of silica, and by boiling in
muriatic acid the silica may be separated from the other portions which are

soluble. In this way phosphoric acid, lime and magnesia may be separated

with ease ; and this will, I think, be found one of the best modes of collecting
the phosphoric acid from water of this kind. The quantity of silica is very

great, as the number of these little loricated animalcules prove. Life of this

kind may at once be considered as a proof of the presence of all those ele-

ments essential to animal life generally, as these animalcules do not appear

unless in the wreck of other animals or vegetables, whose requirements as to

food are well known to be confined to certain elements. The abundance of

silica is not from the upper part of the Thames, but no doubt from the sewers,

proceeding from the decomposition of wheat, oats, &c., and may be viewed

as a necessary consequence of the consumption of bread or any grasses

used by cattle.

There is then a great deal of matter in a state capable of being converted

into living forms ; this matter is not in suspension merely, but in solution

Aalso.  large quantity of organic matter is precipitated in contact with clay

and mud in the Thames, but a great deal is also in clear solution. This

matter must be organized of course to some extent, and probably contains

albumen ; it seems to me that it is albumen which I have found in it, cer-
tainly a body much resembling it. The same may be obtained where many

large animalcules appear probably the quantity will be found the same
                                                                                                                 ;

whether the animalcules be formed or not. The clear solution becomes a

mass of growth very soon, if the matter contained in it be organisable. Or-

ganic matter may exist in a state in which, even under favourable circum-

stances, animalcules are not formed, as I have found to be the case with

some kept for some months in water. A similar thing may take place with

the Thames water at London ; if kept in close jars of earthenware no change
is produced in the organic matter ; as soon as removed into glass bottles, a

rapid change occurs, and a lively scene is produced of animals and vegeta-

bles. Kept in the dark, the water dissolves much organic matter and be-

comes yellow ; the water over the living matter is clear, or, in other words,

the dead matter is to some extent soluble in water ; living matter is of course

not capable of having its parts broken up by mere water, and is insoluble.
This growing of plants and animals is therefore a good mode of cleansing

water, when space and time are abundant, as in the larger operations of
nature, but unfitted for waterworks, where neither are very ample. The
mode of cleansing used by water-companies is one employed by nature also,

as all the water which falls on the soil is filtered by passing through ; that is
to say, it first becomes exceedingly impure, being filled with matter from
--28 REPORT 1848.

the surface, and gives a part of this out again in passing through the soil.

Water becomes hard very rapidly on the surface of some land, and it is
strange how it adheres to its standard of hardness, remaining for a great part

of the year the very same. A rapid shower, producing a sudden overflow of

a ditch in a field, was found to be composed of water of twelve degrees of

hardness and sixteen grains of solid matter to a gallon ; this same specimen
also swarming with life.

I supposed, and others have done so also, that a shower would produce a

stream of water softer than what slowly trickled through the ground                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   but on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;

examining the water at Longendale in rainy weather it had actually risen two

degrees. The Thames was also considerably softer in November 1847, after

some dry weather, than in February 1848 after long rain. At Chelsea, in

November it was 13"44 degrees of hardness, taking 275 grains of soap test;

in February 14"94, taking 302 grains. It would appear that rainy weather

softened the ground, and so made the matter more soluble, or the winter

frosts broke up the ground and attained the same end. This latter reason

is agreeable to the general opinion concerning the use of a frost, and the fact

may also be taken as a corroboration of the opinion. The hard water will

of course be better able to feed land with its soluble manures ; or, if we

choose to express it otherwise, the plants will more readily feed, finding the

food more soluble.

However true it be that all soil filters water, it is no less true that any ad-

mixture of clay is detrimental. The clear streams are found in rocky coun-

tries, and, as was before mentioned and well-known generally, on barren land.

  We have seen that the water of the Thames at London is capable of de-

composing with the disagreeable products alluded to, and when put in casks

for sea use we hear of a fermentation, with the formation of nauseous va-

pours, and of an inflammable gas. We have already seen that Priestley found

inflammable gas from organic matter decomposing in water, and, in fact, it

is a thing universally observed. Priestley said, however, what is not so much

observed, that the air from the decomposition of a cabbage in the dark

was inflammable, whereas that in the sun produced very little inflammable

air, and was not so offensive in smell. The fermentation of water may in

fact be looked upon as a simple proof of great organic impurity. Organic

matter will decompose either by going into inorganic gases, as in the dark,

or into organized bodies of another description, if there be light to favour

growth. These considerations bring us to the mode of storing water, and

of supplying water to houses. If there be a large supply of water in a

reservoir, it will, if impure, clear itself by vegetation, according to what we

have seen by experiment, and as is seen in nature. In this case a reservoir

must not be underground but in the light ; strong light and great warmth

seem too much to assist chemical solution, the reservoirs should therefore

not be so shallow as to allow this. However, there are probably few cases
where water is to be so long stored ; as to the usual cases, it may be said,

that unless long storage is allowed, it is better that there should be as little

as possible, unless the water is to be filtered before delivery. The reason

of this is, that the course of purification of impure water is the worst state

of all ; even filtered water will not bear standing, because it also tends to

purify itself still more by giving out in some form or other all its organic

contents ; and it is remarkable how the apparently purest water will deposit
impure matter.

The same thing may be said of water stored on a smaller scale, as for private

houses, there is no way of keeping it clear. If kept dark and cool the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      i
                                ;

ON THE AIR AND WATER OF TOWNS.  29

change is retarded, and tliis is the best way for small quantities. It would
be the best way for large quantities also if it were perfectly pure, as then no

change whatever could occur.
    But even when water is to be kept a day only there is an objection to

cisterns in most cases. If there be a little impurity deposited, the daily
increase soon makes it a great impurity ; and although the fact of the im-
purity remaining in the cistern be a sufficient proof that it has not been
drunk or otherwise used, yet such a reservoir of impurity is constantly apt
to be giving off some offensive matter. If the impurities be of the kind
common in Thames water, and in the water of many of the companies, or in
the Manchester water, or that of some other towns, they are of a kind
capable of producing animals very disgusting, and large enough to be seen
sometimes by the naked eye. If even nothing but a green matter is per-
ceptible, this is unpleasing in itself, besides never being alone, but inhabited

by numerous little creatures visible with a microscope, although not so dis-
gusting as those to be met with in the flocculent precipitate of the Thames
water. Underground cisterns in London, when supplied with very pure
water, contain in them some of the most disagreeable of these living forms
and although apparently a good method of keeping water cool, it is a plan
to which the impossibility of cleaning is a great objection. Even stone cis-
terns, however clean stone in itself may be, are often filthy receptacles of
water, for which not the stone but the water is to blame. If wood be used
pure water can never be obtained ; and the enormous amount of crenic acid
formed, with the peculiar smell of rotten wood, which happens even in new
barrels, form great objections. The reddish flocculent matter is also not
without inhabitants, for which it affords a good shelter.

   If I come to the conclusion that water should either be kept in large
quantities or kept constantly running, it may be said this was known to
every one ; true, but when this happens, it is the business of science to ex-
plain why it is so ; and if this be not done, there are constantly found some
who deny the general impression until a proof be obtained.

   Dr. Clark, who has done so much towards giving the country in general

an interest in the purification of water, advises also the alkalinity of the
water to be taken at the same time as the hardness. I have found it more

convenient to take the fixed contents in a gallon of water. By comparing
this with the hardness, we find the excess of impurities not affecting the
hardness. To do this and take the alkalinity also, would probably be the
best mode of treatment. In the springs at the source of the Thames the
fixed matter and the hardness are equal, or nearly so, whilst in the Thames at

London, the fixed matter rises as high as twenty-six grains per gallon, whilst
the hardness is fifteen degrees. This gradual increase of salts not affecting
the hardness is a good indication of the rate of impurity in the progress of
the river, and is a great cause of making it a less agreeable draught.

   From experiments which I have made on the cause of vapidness in water,
I am led to believe that the salts of alkalies are some of the most common
agents. Dr. Clark has shown the great influence of temperature on the
taste of water, but it seemed to me not enough to explain the frequency of

the occurrence of tasteless water.

   Water with carbonic acid in it did not taste vapid when raised slowly to

100° Fahr., the acidity being sufficient to prevent it, as I believe.

   Lambeth water boiled and cooled could not be made to taste as well as
water which had not the same amount of salts in it.

   Pangbourne water, although excellent, when boiled down so as to saturate
--30 REPORT 1848.

the salts which are not precipitated by boiling, tasted even when cooled ex-

cessively vapid.

Soda-water with alkaline salts, when boiled, is excessively disagreeable.

Twenty grains of common salt cause a gallon of water to taste vapid, and two

grains and a half of saltpetre or nitrate of potash have a still stronger effect.

The nitrate of lime in the water of towns mixed with the common salt

gives an extremely nauseous taste to water, and causes it also to taste some-

what soft, although possessing such a large amount of matter as I have

mentioned. Acids control this taste ; carbonic acid, we have seen, prevents

Avapidness.  few drops of any acid render water pleasanter in a warm day.

Acidity is strongly allied to coolness of the taste, as general experience

shows. Acid drops and oranges in hot rooms are used for this reason, and

Avinegar also by travellers in hot climates.  few drops of any acid, vitriol,

for example, are used by the workmen in chemical works to improve the

water in warm weather.

   Alkalies cause water to appear soft. Beer which is called hard is acid,
and becomes soft by adding soda ; this is common.

   The salts of lime seem to be the only salts which do not easily render

water disagreeable.

   I may conclude this paper with a short summary of what I have said about

--water and air.
   Summary. 1. That the pollution of air in crowded rooms is really owing
to organic matter, not merely carbonic acid.

   2. That this may be collected from the lungs or breath, and from crowded

rooms indiflerently.
    3. That it is capable of decomposition, and becomes attached to bodies

in an apartment, where it probably decomposes, especially when moisture

assists it.

   4. That this matter has a strong animal smell, first of perspiration, and
when burnt, of compounds of protein, and that its power of supporting the
life of animalcules, proves it to contain the usual elements of organized life.

   5. Organic matter of dew contains less nitrogen.
   6. The slightly alkaline state into which soil is put at certain periods of
the year, give it a facility for emitting vapours ; whilst all vapours of water

from organic matter contain organic matter,
   7. Water purifies itself from organic matter in various ways : by forming

nitrates, as in sewers, and in the neighbourhood of cesspools and church-
yards, under streets, in manured grounds, and other repositories of organic

animal matter.

   8. This may be done in a laboratory on a small scale, where animal mat-
ter, by means of a sand-filter, may be converted into nitric acid.

    9. In the larger operations of nature the carbon also is oxidized.
    10. Sulphuretted hydrogen is also oxidized on a small scale by a filter,

being converted into sulphuric acid.

   A11. filter therefore, as an oxidizing agent, acts in proportion to its

cubic contents.

    1 2. Water falling on the surface of the ground gets rapidly saturated with
organic matter ; but in passing through the soil gets filtered and the matter
oxidized, making the porous soil and the air the great agents of purification
in a country ; whilst drainage will act by removing organic impurity as well
as mere water.

    13. All wells near houses and all wells in towns contain nitrates, which

may be easily traced to sewers or accumulations and outlets of refuse.
                          --

..

ON THE GROWTH AND VITALITY OP SEEDS.                                                             31

   14. The alkaline salts of towns increase the vapidness of water. They
abound in river-water which receives the refuse of towns, and cannot be
filtered out. The difference between the hardness of water and the amount
of water per gallon gives a measure of impurity, as it indicates other than

the lime salts, whilst the lime salts affect least the taste of the water.

  A15. slight acidity removes vapidness, and produces a perception of cool-

ness in the mouth.
   16. Water can never stand long with advantage, unless on a very large

scale, and should be used when collected or as soon as filtered.

Eighth Report of a Committee, consisting o/" H. E. Strickland, Esq.,
   Prof. Daubeny, Prof. Henslow, and Prof. Lindley, appointed
   to continue their Experiments on the Growth and Vitality of Seeds.

A PORTION of all the kinds of seeds collected in 1845 has been sown this

year, together with those of a few additional genera collected in 1847.

   The results will be seen by reference to the following Table :

                                       No. of Seeds of each         Time of vegetating
                                       Species which vege-                 in days at

                                 No.              tated at
                                sown.
Name and Date when gathered.

                                       Ox-    H,,.i^tc,ham,  Chis-  Ox-    H,,.i^tc,ham.  Chis-
                                                             ^(.jj                        ^..^
                                       ford.                        ford.

                      1845.      50    74     33                                10
 1. Ailanthus glandulosa        150           29                    12 13
 2. Alnus glutinosa             100    132
 3. Alonsoa incisa                      14      6                              42
 4. Beta vulgaris                75
 5. Browallia data               50           38                    10
 6. Chrj'santhemura coronarium  150
 7. Cytisus albus               100              1                  10 13
 8. Eccremocarpus scaber ..     100                                              11
 9. Fagus sylvatica             100            69                               35
10. Fumaria spicata             100
11. Gaillardia aristata         100                                            28
12. Gleditschia triacanthos .    20                                               9 13
13. Iris, sp                      25
14. Knautia orientalis           50                                             14 13
15. Lopezia racemosa            150                                               7
16. Lymnanthes Douglasii ..      50
17. Petunia odorata             150
18. Schizopetalon Walkeri ..     50
19. Secale Cereale              200
20. Spartium Scoparium          200
21. Tagetes lucida              150
22. Verbena Aubletia            100
23. Viscaria oculata            150
                                100
24. Xeranthemum annuum ..       100
25. ZeaMays                     100

26. Zinnia grandiflora            25
                      1847.     100
                                100
27. CardiospermumHalicacabum
28. Cerastium perfoliatum ..
29. ChEenostoma polyantha .
--32 REPORT 1848.

Miss Molesworth, of Cobham, Surrey, has contributed about fifty small

packets of seeds gathered in the years 1842, 1844, 1845 and 1846, which have

been sown at  Oxford                             the  results  of  which  are  registered  in  the  annexed
                                              ;

Table.

Name and Date when gathered.
ON THE GROWTH AND VITALITY OF SEEDS.                           33

  6. Balsaaiacea:.                         57. .Madia.
           12. Impatiens.                58. Oxyura.
                                           59. llhagadiolus.
  7. BignoniacejE.                       60. Rudbeckia.
           13. Catalpa.                    61. Sanvitaiia.
          14. Eccremocarpus.              62. Scorzonera.
                                         63. Sphenogyne.
 8. BORAGINACE^.                           64. Stenactis.
                                          65. Tagetes.
           15. Cerinthe.                  66. Tragopogoi).
          16. Cynoglossum.
                                        67. Xeranthemum.
         17. Echium.
                                           68. Zinnia.
 9. Campanulace^.               16. ConiferjE.

         18. Campanula.                   69. Juniperus.
10. Capparibace^.
                               17. ConvolvulacejE.
          19. Cleome.
11. CaryophyllacejE.                      70. Convolvulus.

          20. Buffonia.        18. Crucifer^.
          21. Dianthus.
          22. Gypsophila.                  71. Biscutella.
          23. Saponaria.                   72. Brassica.
          24. Silene.                     73. Bunias,
          25. Viscaria.
                                         74. Crambe.
12. CELASTRACEiE.                        75. Erysimum.

           26. Ilex.                       76. Heliophila.
                                           77. Hesperis.
13. Chenopodiace^.                         78. Iberis.
                                          79. Koniga.
          27. Beta.                      80. Lepidium.
                                          81. Lunaria.
         28. Chenopodium.                 82. Malcolmia.
14. COBiEACEiE.                            83. Mathiola.
                                           84. Schizopetalon.
          29. Cobaea.                       85. Vesicaria.
15. COMPOSITJE.
                                19. CUCURBITACE^.
         30. Ageratum.
                                          86. Bryonia.
        31. Ammobium.                      87. Cucurbita.
                                         88. Momordica.
          32. Arctium.        20. DrpsACEiE.
         33. Arnopogon.                   89. Dipsacus.
           34. Aster.         21. EUPHORBIACETE.
          S5. Bidens.                     90. Euphorbia.
          36. Barkhausia.                  91. Ricinus.
        37. Buphthalmum.      22. P'iCOIDEiE.
          38. Calendula.
           39. Callichroa.              92. Mesembryanthemum.
          40. Callistemma.
         41. Carthamus.                    93. Tetragonia.
         42. Catananche.
          43. Centaurea.      23. Gramine^.
         44. Chrysanthemum.
          45. Cichorium.                 94. Avena.
          46. Cladanthus.               95. Hordeum.
          47. Cnicus.
           48. Coreopsis.                  96. Phalaris.
          49. Galinsoga.                   97. Secale.
           50. Gaillardia.                 98. Triticum.
         51. Helenium.                    99. Zea.
          52. Helianthus.
           53. Kaulfussia.    24. HYDROPHYLLACEiE.
          54. Knautia.
          55. Lactuca.                  100. Eutoca.
           56. Lasthenia.                101. Phacelia.

    18.
--34 REPORT 1848.

25. HYPERICACEiE.                37. PalmacejE.
         102. Hypericum.
                                            145. Phoenix.
26. iRIDACEi^E.
           103. Gladiolus.       38. Papaverace^.
                                          146. Argemone.
              104^. Iris.
                                            147. Eschscholtzia.
           105. Tigridia.                  148. Glaucium.
                                           149. Papaver.
27. Labiace^.
                                 39. Phytolace/e.
           106. Betonica.                   150. Phytolacca.
           107. Elsholtzia.
          108. Leonurus.         40. Plantagine^e.
           109. Nepeta.
28. LeguminosjE.                            151. Plantago.
           1 10. Acacia.         41. PoLEMONIACEiE.
            111. Cercis.
           112. Cytisus.                   152. CoUomia.
           113. Dolichos.                   153. Gilia.
           114. Faba.                       154. Leptosiphon.
           115. Gleditschia.               155. Polemonium.
           116. Lathyrus.        42. POLYGONACE^.
           117. Lupinus.                   156. Polygonum.
          118. Medicago.                  157. Rumex.
            119. Melilotus.      43. Portulace^.
           120. Orobus.                     158. Calandrinia.
            121. Phaseolus.                159. Talinum.
           122. Pisum.           44. PuiMULACEiE.
            123. Psoralea.                  160. Anagallis.
            124. Scorpiurus.     45. RANUNCULACEiE.
           125. Spartium.                   161. Aconituni.
           126. Tetragonolobus.             162. Adonis.
            127. Trifolium.               163. Anemone.
            128. Trigonella.                 164. Helleborus.
            129. Ulex.                       165. Nigella.
             130. Vicia.                     166. Paeonia.
 29. LiNACEiE.                              167. Ranunculus.
          131. Linum.                        168. Thalictrura.
 30. LiTHRACEiE.                  46. ROSACEJE.
           132. Cuphea.                      169. Cotoneaster.
 31. LoASACEiE.
           133. Barton ia.                   170. Crataegus.
            134. Loasa.                      171. Potentilla.

 82. Lymnanthace;e.               47. Scrophulariace^.
           135. Lymnanthes.
                                            172. Antirrhinum.
 33. MagnoliacejE.                           173. Browallia.
            136. Magnolia.
                                             174. Collinsia.
            137. Liriodendron.               175. Digitalis.
                                             176. Linaria.
 34. MALVACEiE.                              177. Schizanthus.
           138. Gossypium.                   178. Veronica.
            139. Malope.          48. Sesame^e.
            140. Malva.                      179. Martynia.

 35. NYCTAGINACEiE.               49. SOLANACE^.

             141. Mirabilis.                 180. Alonsoa.
                                            181. Capsicum.
 36. Onagrace^.                              182. Datura.
                                            183. Hyoscyamus.
            142. Eucharidium.                184. Nicandra.
             143. Godetia.                   185. Nolana.
             144. Lopezia.                   186. Petunia
ON ATMOSPHKRIC WAVES.                                               35

r 187. Solanum.                                 199. Ligusticum.
                                               200. CEnanthe.
                188. Verbascum.                 201. Pastinaca.
      50. TEREBiNTHACEiE.                       202. Petroselinum.
                                               203. Sium.
                   189. Ailantus.             204. Smyrnium.
      51. TROPiEOLACEjE.             53. UrticacejE.
                                               205. Cannabis.
                 190. Tropaeolum.    54. VALERiANACEiE.
      52. UmbellacejE.                          206. Valeriana.
                                     35. Verbenace^e.
               191. ^thusa.                    207. Hebenstreitia.
                  192. Angelica.               208. Verbena.
                193. Bupleurum.      56. ViolacejE.
                  194. Caruna.                 209. Viola.
               195. Conium.
                196. Daucus.
                  197. Foeniculurn.
                198. Heracleum.

   Contributions of additional seeds addressed toW.H. Baxter, Botanic Garden,
Oxford, will be attended to, and put up in the usual form for experiment.]

Oxford, August 2nd, 1848.

        Fifth Report on Atmospheric Waves. By W. R. Birt.

In completing the series of Reports on Atmospheric Waves, a subject which

has occupied my attention under the auspices of the Association during the

last five years, it will be desirable so to arrange the present report that those

points may be prominently exhibited in which any progress has been made
towards the illustration of the desiderata mentioned in my report" of 1846,

--pages 162 to 164. These desiderata have reference to the general subject

under two aspects, that relative to the individual waves, contemplating them
either as atmospheric waves, properly so called, or as a certain arrangement
of aerial currents giving rise to, and intimately connected witli, certain baro-
metric phaenomena, the details of which will be found in the same report,
page 132 to 162; and that relative to the effects either of these waves or
currents as exhibited in certain barometric phaenomena, known more parti-
cularly as the " symmetrical curve of November," or of other barometric
curves possessing certain features which may be distinctly recognized at dif-
ferent stations and traced over extensive tracts of the earth's surface. The
object of the present report will consequently be not so much to carry on the
investigation (the course pursued in former years) as to concentrate our pre-
sent knowledge of the subject, and to indicate still more distinctly the blank
that yet remains to be filled in order to complete our inquiries into these in-
teresting atmospheric movements.

   These objects will probably be best attained by bringing together, in the
first place, all the information we possess relative to the individual waves,
those already determined and placed on record in our former reports, and

those which may have been brought to light since, either from an extended

discussion of the observations in our possession at the last meeting of the As-
sociation, or from others received during the period that has elapsed since
that meeting to the present time ; secondly, by determining, so far as the
observations in our possession will enable us to do, the barometric type for
November, especially the period of the symmetrical curve, as illustrative of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;

--36 REPORT 1848.

that portion of the desiderata having reference to tlie seasonal barometric

types ; and thirdly, by noticing any results that may have been obtained during

the past year of a character nofcontemplated or but slightly indicated in our
former reports, and which have more particularly originated in the observa-
tions of the last return of the November curve.

    Table I. exhibits the waves already recognized with references to the re-
ports in which their elements, &c. are given in detail.

    The waves designated Nos. 1 and 2 in tliis table passed over Western
Europe during the early part of November 1842. In reporting progress
at the last Meeting of tlie Association, I stated that an examination of the
observations made during the first eight days of November over an area
extending from Ireland to St. Petersburgh and Geneva, appeared upon the
hypotheses either of waves or of parallel currents, fully capable of explain-
ing all the barometric movements during those eight days (Report, 1847,
p. 370). In the remarks which immediately follow, this explanation will
 form a prominent feature, as the variations of pressure during the period just
 referred to will be traced, especially over Western Europe, and will receive
considerable elucidation from observations made at Alten in Finmark, with
 which I have been kindly furnished by Dr. Lee.

     In the former reports which I have had the honour to present to the As-
 sociation, I have very briefly glanced at two important points connected with
 these waves, the great extent of suriace which they cover, and the opposite
 barometric pliaenomena produced by the transits of slopes of an opposite cha-

racter. In my report for 1846, j). 163, when enunciating the desiderata that

 then presented themselves, allusion was made to the direction of the crest ; and
 there appeared to he some dilficulty in finding a ))oint on the earth's surface in

--reference to which we could positively pronounce that a crest v.hich clearly

 existed in a certain direction, in another locality not very far removed from

--it had so completely thinned oft', and become so distinctly terminated in a

 longitudinal direction as to exert no influence on the barometer. Such phae-
 nomena are not exhibited in the British Islands, and it is likely they are but

 seldom met with in Central Europe. We must, as remarked on a former

 occasion, extend our area of examination ere we can obtain phsenomena that
 will enable us distinctly to say that a wave existing in one locality does not
 exist, or in any way make itself felt in another.

    The area of examination having reference to the discussion of the baro-
 metric and anemonal phaenomena during Nov. 1842, which forms the second
 part of my report, 1846, pp. 132 to 162, is principally confined to the British
 Islands ; there are two stations forming the eastern limits of this area, which,
 with regard to Great Britain and Ireland, may be considered as outliers ; they
 however enable us to carry forward our investigation by tracing onwards
  towards the north-east and east those barometric movements the nature of

  which the proximity of the British stations has greatly contributed clearly to
  define, so that they can be readily recognized at stations considerably re-

 moved from each other : these stations are Christiania and Paris. By com-
  bining with this discussion observations at St. Petersburgh and Geneva our
  area is still more enlarged, and we are enabled to form a much more accurate
  notion of the real extent of the waves and of the phaenomena resulting from
 them. By still further enlarging our area of examination, our knowledge
  must necessarily become more defined and our conceptions more distinct
  we shall be prepared to seize on relations which at first may not be apparent,
  owing particularly to the decided want of similarity between the phaenomena
                                                           :

hor previous to the Meeting of the                            [ To face paf/c £G.

)n or diminution of pressure.

>36erior slope or diminution of pressure following |Citj'

crest.                              ^iles

                                    per

                                                              Report, 1845, p. 118.

                                                              Pieport, 1845, p. 118.
                                                              Report, 1845, p. 118.
                                                              Report, 1845, p. 119.

                                                              Report, 1845, p. 118.
                                                              Report, 1845, p. 119.

Christiania to Paris                            Report, 1845, p. 118.
Paris to Orkneys ..                             Report, 1846, p. 118.
                               ·58 Report, 1846, pp. 161, 107.
Munich to Bardsey
Geneva to Brussels             ·9G Report, 1846, pp. 161, 107.

Christiania to Cork            ·87 31                         Report, 1845, pp. 126,127.
                                                              Report, 1844, p. 270 (2).
                               ·57!
                                                                   ,, 1845, pp. 126, 127.
                                                              Report, 1845, p. 127.
                                                              Report, 1846, pp. 161, 168.
       lined by the author pre  JiheMcetin^foririe As-

D"i8.
ON ATMOSPHERIC WAVES.  37

presented at distant and especially at extreme stations, and to distingiiish
between those effects, which, altliongh to a certain extent contemporaneous

and similar, may be referred to different sources of production.
   By including in the discussion of the observations of 1S42 observations

at Alten in Finmark and at Lougan in Russia, the former being situated
north lat. 69° 50', east long. 23°, and the latter north lat. 48° 35', east long,
39° 21', our area of examination is extended from Ireland to the eastern
borders of Europe, and from Geneva to the northern extremity of the same
continent; it will consequently embrace 47 degrees of longitude and 2S of

latitude.

   The table of barometric observations, November 1S42, forming the
groundwork of the discussion, will be found in the volume for 1S46, p. 141;
the readings at St. Petersburgh during the same days at noon, are recorded
at p. 167 of the same volume ; and the following table includes readings for
the same period at Alten, Lougan and Geneva.

                                              Table II.

  Barometric readings at Alten, Lougan and Geneva, Nov. 1 to 20, 1842.
--38 REPORT 1848.

tions from the two southern stations tolerably agree, although the readings

at Geneva are higher tlian those at Lougan, especially during the first eight
days; but tliere is a marked difference between them and those at Alten.
The first point th;it strikes attention in comparing these readings with those

in the tables, to whicii allusion has been made, is the earlier occurrence at

Alten, namely on the 3rd, of the maximum which characterizes the first

portion of the month, and which is very distinct at all the stations, except
Paris, Geneva and Lougan. The observations at Christiania more nearly

agree with those at Alten in this respect, the maximum occurring on the

4th; and from this it would appear that the pressure proceeded from the

north, and in a direction in which we do not usually observe the progression of

the barometric maxima and minima. The principal epoch of the maximum
for the majority of the stations is the 5th, and this maximum has been re-

ferred to the wave designated " Crest No. 2" in the discussion of Mr. Brown's

observations, and " A° " in my second report (Report, 1845, p. 126). The
direction of this maximum has been well determined on the oth, namely from
Cork past Belfast to the Orkneys (Report, 1846, p. 144). We find at Alten

on the 5th a decided rise of nearly -2 inch on the deep precipitous fall from

the 3rd to the 7th, and this would indicate the continuation of the crest
from Cork to Alten. From these considerations it is evident that the maxi-

mum of the 3rd at Alten must have been due to an entirely different wave

from any we have already noticed. The curve that most approaches Alten
in tlie rise at the commencement of the month is that of St. Petersburgh ; and

it is worthy of remark, that the essential features of this rise, and the check
it experienced before the transit of the maximum, are transmitted to St. Pe-

tersburgh a day later than they were observed at Alten. In fact the three

northern stations, Alten, St. Petersburgh and Christiania, participate in this

rise, the subsequent fall being considerably modified at Christiania and St.

Petersburgh by the transit of crest No. 1.
   The barometric rise at the commencement of the month in the north of

Europe, to which allusion has just been made, strongly indicates the advan-

cing slope  of a wave which did not affect  the  barometer in Central Europe
                                                                                                                                                                               ;

and this wave being peculiar to the northern part of Europe, and stretching

over the Scandinavian peninsula, may probably, and with some propriety, be

designated as a member of a system of Scandinavian waves. We shall there-

fore characterize it in the future parts of this discussion by the symbol a,

restricting this character to these northern waves. It does not ap])ear to have

extended longitudinally much beyond Christiania to the south-west, for we

do not find that decided rise of the barometer, even at the Orkneys, which

Wecharacterizes northern Europe.  have consequently a distinct termina-

tion of the crest in a longitudinal direction, the locality of which may be in-

dicated by a line passing towards the south-east between the Orkneys and

Christiania.

  We have already briefly referred (Report, 1847, p. 369) to the opposite

barometric movements in certain localities, arising from the transit of oppo-
site slopes, either of the same wave or of successive waves of the same sy-
stem, and these phscnomena, which are very distinctly marked in the instance
given, furnish us with an explanation of similar phaenomena in other loca-

lities. The curves of Alten and Lougan (fig. 1) present similar phaeno-
mena to those of Geneva and St. Petersburgh ; the movements are opposite,
and in this respect more decided, for we have two periods of opposite move-

ments at Alten and Lougan. We have consequently the half breadth of this

Scandinavian wave given from Alten to Lougan, 1592 miles ; first, when the
ON ATMOSPHERIC WAVES.  3»

anterior slope extended from Alten to Lougan, the crest transiting Alten,
while the anterior trough passed Lougan ; and second, when the posterior

                                                                Fig. 1.
                                                                 November 1842.

                                                                                      9
                                                 --31

--40, REPORT 1848.

       Time of transit of crest from Alten to Lougan, 1 ii hours.
       Amplitude of wave in time, 288 hours.

              ,, ,, ,, miles, 3184 miles.
       Velocity of wave, 1 1 miles per hour.

We have also the following determinations of the altitude of this wave :

                                             dh

The crest passed Alten                       Nov. U 21
The posterior trough                         Nov. 8 21 ?

Interval                                     ^^

Altitude of crest at Alten                   SO'G 1
         ,, posterior trough                 ^^'S^I ?
        ,, wave at Alten
                                               l'~^<"

Altitude of crest at Lougan                  30"109
          ,, anterior trough                 29*038
        ,, wave at Lougan
                                                1 "07

Nov. 2, 21, crest at Alten                   30-618
   ,, 2, 20, anterior trough, Lougan. . . .  29-038

 Altitude of wave from anterior trough. .      1-680

Nov. 8, 22, crest at Lougan                  SO' 109

       ,, 8, 21, posterior trough, Alten .... 29-341 ?

Altitude of wave from posterior trough . -768

   St. Petersburgh, which is situated nearly midway between Alten and Lou-
gan, and not far removed from the line cutting the wave transversely, affords

us an excellent mean of testing the accuracy of the views advanced relative
to the great Scandinavian wave. The following table exhibits the progression

of the crest across Lapland and Russia, and the distribution of pressure on

each side as it transits.

                           Table IIL

Barometric altitudes and differences arising from the transit of the Scandi-
                    navian wave across Lapland and Russia in 1 842.

                           November 3 to 9.

Date.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        --

                    ON ATMOSPHERIC WAVES.                                                                                                                                                                               41

   It may probably assist our conception of the transit of tin's wave if the po-
sition of the crest for each day is particularized as under :

   Nov. 3. Crest passing Alten. This crest evidently possessed considerable
breadth, for we find only a diminution of 0-317 inch pressure from Alten to
St. Petersburgh, 740 miles ; from St. Petersburgh to Lougan, 860 miles, the

dip is very much greater, ri34 inch above three times.

    Nov. 4. Crest between Alten and St. Petersburgh. In consequence of the
broad crest these stations are nearly on a level, the dip from St. Petersburgh
to Lougan still very considerable, 0"748 inch.

   Novr5. St.Petersburgh, the highest point ; the crest not yet arrived ; dip
from St.Petersburgh to Alten, 0-089 inch ; from St. Petersburgh to Lougan,

0-820 inch.

   Nov. 6. The crest rapidly approaching St. Petersburgh, which it transits
most probably this day ; the anterior slope still presents considerable steep-
ness ; dip from St. Petersburgh to Lougan, 0-784 inch ; Alten is only 0-318

inch above Lougan.

   Nov. 7. The crest has now clearly passed St. Petersburgh; this station is
slightly raised above Lougan, but the dip to Alten has become considerable,

0*517 inch.

   Nov. 8. The direction of the dip is reversed, being from Lougan to Alten

increasing.

    These phsenomena are rendered very apparent to the eye in the diagram,

fig. 2.

   The great Scandinavian wave presents very distinctly at Alten the well-
known characteristic of the north-westerly system of waves, namely, that of
a considerable and precipitous fall as the posterior slope passes ; this fall is
only interrupted by the crest of wave No. 2 on the 5th.

                    Fig. 2.

        1842, Nov.                                                                                                                                                                                          Nov. 1842.
31 inch

39 inch.                                                                                                                                                                                                                29 inch.

                    St. Petersburgh.                                                                                                                                                                        Lougan.

Distribution of pressure on the line from Alten to Lougan, from Nov. 3, the epoch of the

transit of  the Scandinavian wave at Alten                                                                                                                                   to Nov.  9, the  epoch of  the transit of the crest
                                                                                                                                                                          ;

at Lougan. Barometric altitudes half the natural scale.

    In addition to the determination of this large Scandinavian wave, with its
elements and phases, the additional observations at Alten, Geneva and Lougan,
assist us considerably in more distinctly defining and limiting the waves already

brought to light by former discussions. The breadth of the anterior slope of
crest No. 1 (Report, 1846, p. 142) is found to extend beyond Christiania, but
not so far as Alten, and the rise from Christiania to Alten, of -36 inch on the
1st of November, clearly indicates the posterior slope of a wave preceding
crest No. 1. The anterior slope of crest No. 1 is also more distinctly
manifested by the observations at St. Petersburgh and Geneva than by
those at Belfast and Christiania, the depression of St. Petersburgh below
                                                                       ;

--42 REPORT 1848.

WeGeneva being '89 inch.         have consequently two sections of the ante-

rior slope of crest No. 1, that from Geneva to St. Petersburgh cutting the

wave more transversely than the other. These observations also enable us to

determine with more precision the longitudinal direction and extent of this

crest, for we now trace it from Belfast across the centre of England, through

France to Geneva. It appears to have been depressed in France by the

anterior trough of crest No. 2.

While we thus have the anterior slope of wave No. 1 covering the northern

parts of Central Europe, and being distinctly terminated on a line parallel

to its crest, passing through or beyond St. Petersburgh and to the north of
Christiania, so that from the crest to this hne the pressure diminishes, we

have the posterior slope of the preceding wave passing off towards the

north-east, as shown by the Alten observations, which exhibit a greater

Wepressure than those at Christiania.  have also, crossing these waves, two

anterior slopes, one in Scandinavia and Russia, extending from beyond Alten

to the north-west to beyond St. Petersburgh to the south-east. It is this

slope that produces a considerable rise in the barometer at Alten, and from

this station to St. Petersburgh it measures '69 inch. This anterior slope

is distinctly terminated longitudinally by a line passing between the Orkneys

and Christiania. The other anterior slope alluded to is that of the wave

designated crest No. 2 ; it appears to be terminated on this day by its an-
terior trough in the neighbourhood of Paris. The crest is considerably to

the north-west of Great Britain and Ireland.

On the 2nd of November we find the posterior slope of the wave preceding

crest No. 1, more distinctly developed at Alten with its proper wind S.E.

--we also find the N. W. and S.E. parallel currents fully established from Great

Britain and Ireland to Alten, as under :

Posterior slope of wave-crest No. 0* S.E. at Alten.
Anterior slope of wave-crest No. 1. N.N.W. at Christiania.
Posterior slope of wave- crest No. 1. S.E. Great Britain and Ireland.

   The anterior slope of the Scandinavian wave from Alten to St. Peters-
burgh is very distinctly developed on the 2nd, possessing, although not to so
great an extent, the marked diminution of pressure towards its anterior
trough which obtains between St. Petersburgh and Lougan on the Srd.

   Nov. 3. The crest of the Scandinavian wave now transits Alten and its
anterior trough Lougan, so that we have the whole of European Russia and
Scandinavia covered by its anterior slope. The wave-crest No. 1 appears to
occupy a position nearly coincident witli the line terminating this wave longi-
tudinally ; and the wave-crest No. 2, which receives its greatest development
in Central Europe, approaches from the north-west, so that the three waves

contribute to produce high barometric readings in the north-west of Europe,
the area of greatest pressure, as indicated by readings above 30 inches, ex-
tending from Alten and St. Petersburgh across the Scandinavian peninsula

and Scotland to the north of Ireland.
   Nov. 4. The Scandinavian wave rolls onward towards the south-east,

depressing the barometer at Alten and raising it at Lougan. The wave-
crest No. 2 of Central Europe approaches from the north-west, raising the
barometer in Great Britain and Ireland. The wave-crest No. 1, a south-
westerly wave, still crosses the Scandinavian peninsula, keeping up the

   * This symbol is employed to designate the -wave preceding the south-westerly waves
determined by the discussion of Mr. Brown's obser\'ations. See Report, 1846, pp. 140 to 160.
             ----

             ON ATMOSPHERIC WAVES.                                      43

barometer in that part of Europe ; its presence is very distinctly marked,
Alten, Christiania and St. Petersburgh being nearly on a level : the order of

altitudes is as follows :

             Christiania            30'37
             Alten                  30-29
             St. Petersburgh        30-22

We have consequently the area of greatest pressure approaching the central

parts of Europe from the north-west ; the Scandinavian wave, which raises
the barometer in the north-east, being considerably in advance of that of
Central Europe, crest No. 2, which contributes to the rise in the south-west.

   Nov. 5. On this day we have the turning-points of tlie opposite curves,

Geneva and St. Petersburgh (see fig. 10, pi. 27, Report, 1847) ; they clearly in-
dicate the half-span or semi-amplitude of the wave-crest No. 1, the crest being
vertically over St. Petersburgh (max.) while the trough transits Geneva (min).
The semi-amplitude is consequently 1365 miles, and the velocity of the
crest, as determined from the epochs of its passing Geneva and St. Peters-
burgh, 1 4-22 miles per hour. This wave appears to have been rather larger
than its successor, wave-crest No. S or B°, the elements and phases of which
are given on p. 124, Report, 1845.

   The rise at Alten on this day, on the steep posterior slope of the Scan-
dinavian wave, enables us to extend the line of crest No. 2 from Cork, the
extreme south-western station, to Alten, the extreme north-eastern ; and the

reduced reading at Alten, 30-14, clearly indicates that the greatest swell
occurred in Central Europe : the readings along the crest are as follows :

Cork, 30-32; Belfast, 30-55 ; Orkneys, 30-52 ; Alten, 30-14.

From these numbers we learn that the greatest swell occurred in the north-
east of Ireland, and that the wave thinned off very considerably towards
Alten, being perceptible as a subordinate m.aximum only. Had not wave-
crest No. 2 extended to Alten, the barometric differences between Alten
and St. Petersburgh would have been much greater. The crests Nos. 1 and
2 intersected to the north-west of Norway. See Report, 184G, p. 167.

   The area of greatest pressure has much the same direction as on the 4th,
extending from the south-west of Ireland across Scotland and the Scandi-
navian peninsula to St. Petersburgh. The greater swell of the wave-crest
No. 2 in the neighbourhood of Ireland and Scotland contributes to the high

barometric readings ia those localities ; the intersections of crests Nos. I and
2 to the high readings in the southern parts of Norway ; and the intersection

of the Scandinavian crest a with No. 1 to the altitude, as observed at St,

--Petersburgh. The distribution of the crests is as follows :

Scandinavian crest a. .To the west of and approaching St. Petersburgh.

Crest No. 2  Extending from Ireland to Alten.

Crest No. 1  Crossing each of these on a line to the north-east of

             that terminating the Scandinavian wave longitu-

             dinally.

Scandinavia and Russia are now covered partly by tlie anterior and partly
by the posterior slopes of the Scandinavian wave ; Northern Central Europe
by the posterior slope of crest No. 1, and Western Europe by the anterior
slope of crest No. 2.

   The lowest reading on this day, with the exception of Lougan, is Geneva,
29-79, the posterior trough of crest No. 1. It is probable that the troughs
----

--44 REPORT 1848.

of I and 2 intersect in the neighbourhood of Geneva ; if so, we have for

--determining the semi-amplitude of crest No. ii, the following data:

Semi-amplitude. . . .The anterior trougli being at Geneva.

The crest at Belfast  792 miles.

     Nov. G. While the anterior slope of crest No. 2 is most strikingly deve-
 loped over Western Europe, extending from Belfast to Geneva, the posterior
 slope of the Scandinavian wave, which now transits St. Petersburgh, is also
 developed from that station to Alten ; and between these slopes, and crossing
 them more or less at right angles, we have crest No. 1 still between
 Christiania and Alten, so that we have a considerable elevation of the baro-
 meter in Great Britain and Ireland, the extremity of the Scandinavian pe-

 ninsula, and at St. Petersburgh. On each side this ridge of pressure the

 barometer exhibits lower readings; at Geneva, 29'S6; at Alten, 29"G9; both
 at the level of the sea.

    The area of greatest pressure has much the same direction as on the 5th,
with this exception, the north-eastern extremity makes a greater progress

 towards the south-east than the south-western. This is precisely a conse-

 quence of the waves being situated as the observations indicate. The area
 of greatest pressure does not result from a single wave-crest, but is due to
at least three contemporaneous crests in Northern and Central Europe, two
·of these having the same direction, but one being in advance of the other, and
'the third crossing these nearly at right angles. As the advanced north-west
wave passes off towards the south-east the pressure diminishes in the north-
·east, thus giving rise to the unequal motion of the two extremities of the

 area of greatest pressure.

    Nov. 7. The barometric movements over western Central Europe are very
small ; in Northern Europe they are greater. In the first area, Western
'Central Europe, the crest No. 2 is transiting ; this crest thins off towards
Northern Europe, and the Scandinavian wave considerably influences the
barometer in this the northern area. Barometric falls in Northern Europe,
iincluding the Orkneys :

The Orkneys           '^1
                      -27
Alten                 '20
St. Petersburgli      '19
Christiania

While the barometric falls at St. Petersburgh and the Orkneys appear to
·have resulted from two different causes, two distinct posterior slopes, the
·fall at Alten appears to have been compounded of these two slopes, viz.
that of the Scandinavian wave and that of crest No. 2. The area is thus
divided into two sub-areas, Alten, Christiania and the Orkneys falling from
 crest No. 2, and St. Petersburgh from crest No. 1 and the Scandinavian wave.

    During the operation of the causes just alluded to, by which the pressure
ihas been diminished at Christiania and St. Petersburgh, these stations are
brought more to a level with Geneva from the approach of crest No. 3. At
 Alten the barometer has been falling principally from the posterior slope of the
 Scandinavian wave ; a trough now transits Alten, but from the opposite
 curves at this station and Lougan it does not appear to be the posterior
 trough of the Scandinavian wave, which most probably transited on the 9th ;
it is most likely to be a secondary trough, or rather minimum, produced by
 the approach of crest No. 1, which probably transited this station on the 8th.

    The following table exhibits the distribution of the crests and troughs on
 this day :
                    ON ATMOSPHERIC WAVES.                    45

                                    Table IV.

--Distribution of Crests and Troughs on November 7,1 SiP. :

Phase.
                                  --

--46 REPORT 1848.

   The area of greatest pressure (just above 30 inches) extends from Ire-
land and England across France and Switzerland, and the central portions
of Western Russia, having nearly an easterly and westerly direction. In
the northern parts of Scotland (the Orkneys), Norway and Lapland, the

pressure is about "4 inch lower.

Nov. 9. Crest of Scandinavian wave .... Lougan      SO'll

Crest of wave No. 2                    Geneva       30*08

Crest of wave No. 2                    St. Petersburgh 29-92

   The passing off of the area of greatest pressure towards the south-east is
now most decided ; it extends from St. Petersburgh and Lougan towards
Geneva. The higher reading at Lougan is clearly due to the crest of the
Scandinavian wave, those at St. Petersburgh and Geneva to ihe crest of

No. 2 ; Paris and the stations to the north-west of it, including Christiania
and Alten, all exhibit lower readings, being under the contemporaneous and
continuous posterior slopes of the Scandinavian wave and of crest No. 2.

   We have some reason to believe that the readings of the 5th, at Belfast

and Geneva, assist us materially in determining the semi-amplitude of wave-
crest No. 2. The crest now passes Geneva, and from this we may gather
that the velocity was about S'25 miles per hour. In comparing these with
the similar elements of wave A°, as deduced from observations at Scilly,
Bardsey and Munich on this day, we find the present determination to be
less than that recorded in the Report for 1845, p. 127. It would, however,
appear that the amplitude 1856 miles is too great, the distance from Bardsey
to Munich being 785 miles. This amplitude has been determined from the
posterior slope. The observations at Geneva and Belfast enable us to deter-
mine the anterior, those at Munich and Bardsey the posterior slope ; by
combining them we have the amplitude determined from the two slopes.

Anterior slope, Geneva to Belfast . . . 792 miles.
Posterior slope, Bardsey to Munich. , 785 ,,

Amplitude of wave .... 1577 ,,

The near approximation of the values of the anterior and posterior slopes

gives a proportionate confidence in this determination of the amplitude.

   By taking the time of transit, Belfast to Munich, we have nearly the same

velocity given as from Belfast to Geneva, namely, 8"78 miles per hour.

The velocity of this crest or wave appears to have been variable ; it clearly

passed very slowly over Ireland, the barometer attaining a considerable

elevation. On the morning of the 8th we find its direction from the south-

west of England, past Norfolk, to the east of Christiania; aline of crest also ex-
tends from Scilly past South Bishop and Bardsey, connected probably in some

way with A'. From this time the velocity appears to have increased rapidly ;
for on the next day, the 9th, we find the crest south-east of Paris, and at
3 P.M. it appears to transit Munich. Its increased velocity appears to have
commenced upon its passing the coast of Wales. Taking the amplitude of

=the posterior slope from Bardsey to Munich 785 miles, and the time of
=the passage of the crest over this space 30 hours (see Report, 1845,

p. 126), the increased velocity is about 26 miles per hour.

   The altitudes of the anterior and posterior slopes from the Belfast and
Geneva observations appear to be as under :

Nov. 5. Crest at Belfast               30-55
            Anterior trough at Geneva  29-79

Altitude of wave from anterior trough -76

                                                              I
--

    ON ATMOSPHEHIC WAVES.                         4t

Nov. 9. Crest at Geneva                    30*08
              Posterior trough at Belfast  29"41

                            Altitude of wave from posterior trough '67

   The Bardsey and Munich observations appear to give a higher value for

the posterior slope.

   The preceding remarks have exclusive reference to the barometric move-
ments over Central and Northern Europe during the first nine days of No-
vember. Among the results obtained from combining the Alten observations
with those before enumerated, we have the extension of the crest No. 2
to the extreme north of Europe. In like manner it may be expected that
the succeeding wave-crest No. 4 would also stretch across the European
continent in the same direction, and that the Alten observations would con-

firm the suggestion published at the end of my third report (Report 1846,
p. 372), that this wave stretched to the very north of Europe. On con-
sulting them we find the barometer passed a maximum at 9 p.m. of the 18th,
value 30'114;. The epoch of this maximum, its value being considerably

lower than those of the maxima observed in Central Europe about the
same time, and the similarity that exists in this respect to the altitude
of wave-crest No. 2 as it passed Alten, the greatest swell occurring in
Central Europe, tends greatly to identify this maximum with wave-crest
No. 4, and that the greatest swell of this wave also occurred in Central

Europe.

   The following table exhibits the passage of crest No. 4 from Ireland to
the eastern borders of Europe during the 17th, 18th, 19th and 20th of
November 1842 :

                                            Table VI.

           Epochs of the transit of Wave-crest No. 4, November 1842.

    Stations.
48 REPORT 1848.

in connection with those eniunerated in former reports, our attention is

arrested by the distinctness witli which the waves Nos. 1 and 2 are exhibited,

and tlie striking individuahty appertaining to the wave a, determined in the

first instance by only two sets of observations, tliose at Alten and Lougan,

from the opposition of their barometric curves, and afterwards fully confirmed
by the observations at St. Petersburgh. The facility with which we are

enabled to trace, during the nine days of examination, the progression of the

area of greatest pressure, which results from the presence of the crests of

these waves, and the modification of form which this area of greatest pressure

undergoes from the different vositions of waves a and No. 2, and also from

the different direction as well as position of wave No. 1, such modification of

form not being at all recognizable as the effect of any single movement, but

clearly resulting from such movements as have by this discussion been

brought to light, leads to the conviction that during the first nine days of

November 1842, the waves having reference to that period, which are par-

ticularized in Table VII., were the only atmospheric waves of considerable

magnitude that during those days flowed over Europe. We are therefore

enabled to specify, as prominent results of this inquiry, two large waves,

one about double the breadth of the other, coming over from the north-west,

--the largest extending indefinitely so far as we can learn from the observa-
--tions before us towards the north-east, from a line passing between the

Orkneys and Christiania towards the south-east, and covering first with its

anterior, and afterwards with its posterior slope the whole of Northern

Europe. The smallest wave is traced to a much greater extent longitudi-

nally, Cork and Alten being the extreme stations indicating the presence of

its crest : its posterior trough appears to have been contemporaneous and

continuous with that of the largest wave ; so that while the crest of the
largest wave traversed Eastern Europe, the crest of the smallest crossed

Central Europe, the trough common to both passing over the British Islands

Weat the same epoch.  are also able, in addition to these waves, to parti-

cularize another, having a different direction, its crest extending N. W. to S.E.

from Ireland  to  Switzerland                                                      so  that  in  the  course of its  progress to the
                                                                                ;

north-east it crosses them : the half breadtli of this south-westerly wave, as

manifested by its anterior slope, extended from Geneva to or beyond St,

Petersburgh. The posterior slope gave a somewhat similar result.

While we are able to indicate the amplitude, altitude, direction, march,

and velocity of the atmospheric waves above specified, our knowledge is

greatly deficient relative to their longitudinal extent ; nor are we al)le to

exhibit on a chart, at any given moment, the line of crest and the bounding

troughs of any one of these waves so as to exhibit to the eye the extent of

surface it covers in the totality of its existence. That these blanks can be

filled with less difficulty than might at first sight be imagined, is evident

from the ease with which it is possible to determine the elements of a wave

from two sets of barometric observations, each at a different station, provided

such observations present opposite movements. In the case of the south-

vsesterly wave above specified, we have only to find a point as much to the

south-west of Geneva as that city is south-west of St. Petersburgh, and we

shall again have opposite movements to those at Geneva, provided the locality

of genesis of the south-westerly waves is situated still further to the south-

west, and that the movements do not receive considerable modification from

the influence of the north-westerly waves. The distance between the two

extreme points of opposite movements, as referred to the central point, will

mark the amplitude of the wave, and these points will be situated in the
       ON ATMOSPHERIC WAVES.                                                                     49

Howboiindinpr troughs, as exhibited on the chart alluded to.  far the con-

ditions above named exist, we are unable to determine in the present state

of our knowledge. The elements of the waves already ascertained, indicate,
however, the localities from which we may seek to obtain observations that

will immediately illustrate these desiderata ; and should we not be able to

obtain them for the year in question, viz. 184-2, observations in future years

on the lines of country indicated by the discussion of the observations in

1842, already obtained, may be very available for distinctly marking out

the great tracts of country over which the waves extend, and furnishing

data from which charts, such as have been alluded to, may be constructed.

  The three waves above specified, in consequence of t!ie minute inves-
tigation which the observations have undergone, may be considered as

exhibiting the nearest approach to accuracy in the determination of their

elements ; there are, however, other waves succeeding them, which, although

not so precisely determined as to their extent, velocity, &c., yet are so

clearly placed before us as to warrant the conclusion that the same close

discussion of the observations for succeeding days woidd furnisii similar

results with regard to them. These waves are particularized in the table

as No. 3 or B°, No. 5 and No. 4.

       PART II.

Taking a single station in the extended area, to which allusion has been

made in the first part of this report, and examining the barometric phseno-

raena exhibited at that station, the result of such an examination has in-

--dicated, first, that the barometric curve is compounded of the effects pro-

duced by each individual wave as it passes the station in its onward progress ;

and secondly, that so far as the symmetrical curve is concerned, the essential

characters of this symmetrical curve are repeated year after year. The objects

of the second branch of our inquiry are, therefore, essentially different from

--the first they consist of the seasonal barometric types or curves, such

curves being obtained from observations of the barometer at the station

myselected, without reference to observations at other stations. In                              report

1845, pp. 1^1 to 123, illustrated by plate 3, we have the characteristics
of the symmetrical curve for 1842, 1843, and 1844. Further notices of the

symmetrical curves for 1845 and 1846 occur in the reports for 1846 (pp. 130

to 132) and 1847. The lastreport has more especial reference to the curve

for 1846, and plate 25. (vol. 1847) illustrates the departure from symmetry

as we proceed from Brussels to the north-west. The most prominent re-

sults of this branch of our subject, up to the last meeting of the Association,

has been the determination that each station possesses its own barometric

type ; that at other stations, more or less, according to their distance or

proximity, certain differences from this type obtain : these differences are

strikingly exhibited in plate 25, Report, 1847. Such a result was certainly

to be expected, as the points of intersection of each wave of each system must

necessarily be different at different stations, so that the barometric curves
at the various stations must necessarily differ from each other. The con-

stancy of the symmetrical characters of the curves appertaining to the

middle of November renders it important to deduce the mean symmetrical

curve for the fifteen days constituting the period of the " great wave," for

as many stations as observations can be obtained from. 'Without doubt, the

mean curve at Brussels would be highly valuable ; it has, however, been out
of our power to determine it during the last year ; but the Greenwich
observations have afforded the opportunity of determining the mean curve

1848.                                                         E
                                                                                              .
--50 REPORT 1848.

for that station, from the observations 1841 to 1845 inchisive, already pub-
lished. In deducing this mean curve, the epochs given in tiie following table
have been regarded as marking the transit of the apex of the symmetrical
curve in each year.

                                            Table VIII.
Epochs of transit of the crest of the " Great Symmetrical Wave of Novem-

    ber," from 1841 to 1845 inclusive, at the Royal Observatory, Green-
    wich.

                                      Year.
ON ATMOSPHERIC WAVES.  51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;

--52 REPORT 1848.

terizo it, tlic cenivnl maximum forming the apex of the symmetrical curve,
 the renmiiuler being subordinate thereto (Report, 184G, p. 125). Upon a
close inspection of the curves of the "great wave" as laid down from the
 Greenwich observations, six subordinate maxima can be traced, three on

 eacii side tlic central apex, which in all the years is by far the most pro-
minent. The mean curve leads to the conclusion that Greenwich is not the
point of greatest symmetry, its closing portion being depressed more than
0-2 inch below the commencement. The most striking feature is the decided
rise of the mercurial column during a period of 68 hours preceding the
transit of the crest. The value of this rise is 0*7 inch, or about O'OIO inch
per hour. The fall is not so precipitous ; the barometer appears to be kept
up in this locality by tlie first subordinate maximum succeeding the crest
 so that at the epoch of 68 hours after transit, the value of the reading is
more than 0-2 inch higher than at 68 hours before transit. At 80 hours
after transit a precipitous fall commences which continues during the next
24 hours, the mercury sinking 0*36 inch, or about O'Olo per hour ; the fall
afterwards continues, with two slight interruptions, answering to the sub-
ordinate maxima until the close of the wave 148 hours after transit, the
entire depression being nearly 1 inch.

    It is worthy of remark, that in tlje determination of the symmetrical
curve from the Greenwich observations, extending in each year over double
the period embraced by the curve itself, and including five instead of
three years, the period of the wave should so closely agree with the period
assigned to it in 1845 when the ordinates of the mean normal curve
were deduced from the recurring curves of 1842, 1843, and 1844 (Report,
1845, p. 122), the observations in 1842 having been made at Leicester

Square, and those in the last two years at Cambridge Heath. The two
periods are identical, viz. 296 hours. It is necessary to mention here

that so close an accordance in the values of the ordinates is not to be ex-

pected. The Greenwich observations have been corrected for temperature,
and the mean ordinates are reduced to the level of the sea. The quantities
employed in the deduction of the ordinates recorded on p. 122, Report,
1845, were obtained from observations as read off from the scale without
any correction whatever.

   The barometric rise, to which allusion has been made, was very distinct
on the occasion of the return of the great symmetrical curve in 1846. I

have recorded in my last report (Report, 1847, pp. 359 to 363) the phseno-

mena of this rise as exhibited in Great Britain and Ireland, especially during
the first 50 hours, and it is not difficult to recognise them as repetitions of
the phsenomena from which the mean rise has been deduced.

   As regards the departure from symmetry manifested by the mean curve
at Greenwich, the first portion of the curve, viz., from 148 hours to 68
hours before transit, being thrown higher than the latter portion, that from
92 hours to 148 hours after transit, and t|ie bulging character of the fall

occasioning the readings at similar epochs to be higher after transit than
before, during a period of 90 hours preceding and succeeding the transit of
the crest, it appears pretty evident that this station is removed a definite

distance from the point of greatest symmetry. If we take the commence-
ment and termination of the wave at equal altitudes as indicating the greatest
symmetry, the departure from symmetry at any station will be measured
by the difference between the altitudes of the beginning and end; thus the
mean departure from symmetry at Greenwich, from the five years' observa-
                      ON ATMOSPHERIC WAVES.                                 53

tions, using tliese elements, may be expressed as '251 inch. Other features
of the mean curve may be employed for this ])urpose ; but wliatever value
may be adopted as a measure of tlie departure from symmetry, the points of

the curves from which such value has been deduced should be particu'arly

specified.

                                                                 PART III.

   The possibility of measuring at any one station the departure from sym-
metry which that particular curve known as the " symmetrical curve "

--manifests, brings us to the third part of this report, "The notice of any

results that may have been obtained during the past year of a character

not contemplated, or but slightly indicated in our former reports, and which

have particularly originated in the observations of the last return of the

November curve." The " symmetrical curve " on its last return was very

distinct ; it however presented some minor features which occasioned it to

differ slightly from the ttjjye, as expressed in the Report of 1846, p. 125,
The central apex was depressed at London below two of the subordinate

maxima on either side. Had these subordinate maxima exhibited the same

altitudes, and the interior minima preceding and succeeding the central apex

also exhibited similar altitudes, the symmetry on the last return would have

been complete at London, although the central apex was lower than those

preceding and succeeding it; as it was, the first maximum, that of the 10th,

Wewas depressed '051 inch below that of the 18th, the second.               have ac-

cordingly indicated, both from the mean curve as deduced from the Green-

wich observations and the features of the "symmetrical curve" as it passed

London during the last autumn, a mode of expressing numerically the

deviation from symmetry at any station ; and it is clear that this deviation
may be expressed for single years, as deduced from the individual curves,

or the mean deviation may be taken from several years' observations, as we

have done for Greenwich. The last method would be the most desirable in

Wedetermining the value of the deviation at other stations.                 are not, how-

ever, in possession of series of observations executed at such short intervals,

extending over so long a period, and noting such minute changes of pressure

as the Greenwich observations, in other parts of Great Britain, and also in

Ireland ; nor can we find observations even at longer intervals at stations
sufficiently near each other to enable us to determine either the law of

the departure from symmetry as we recede from the point of greatest sym-

metry, or the directions in which such deviations increase more rapidly than

in others,  by  this  method                                     but we may attempt some approximation to the
                                                              ;

determination of such a law, or the indication of such directions, by taking

certain points of the symmetrical curves lor individual years, as indicated

by the observations of last autumn regarding the differences between such

points as measures of the deviations from symmetry, and constructing charts

of equal deviation. The observations forming the subject of my last report,

embracing as they do the whole of Great Britain and Ireland, are admirably
suited for such an attempt. I have accordingly selected the maxima of the
5th and 12th (see plate 25, Report, 1847) as the points from which the

deviation from symmetry may be deduced, and laid down on a map of the

British Islands the differences between these maxima, and from them have

constructed the lines of equal deviation from '050 inch to "550 inch, being

nearly the range of these differences.
--54 REPORT 1848.

                                               Table X.
Values of the deviation from symmetry of the great symmetrical curves of

   November, as deduced from the depression of the maximum of the 5th
   of November below that of the 12th in the year 1846 in Great Britain

    and Ireland.

                      Station.
                       ;

ON ATMOSPHERIC WAVES.  55

conclusive evidence relative to it. It would consequently appear, in accord-
ance with previous researches (Report, 1846, p. 147), that contiguous
masses of land and water exert a decided and measurable influence on the
variations of atmospheric pressure. In the case before us, the symmetry of
the barometric curve is departed from in a greater degree at inland stations,
a greater difference between the points selected being exhibited at such
stations than at the sea-coast on either side.

   On turning to the last Report, pp. 357 and 358, we find the maximum

of the 5th referred to a wave-crest that passed rather rapidly over the area

from the south-west. The altitude of this crest was greatest in the south-
east, simply because it was contemporaneous with a north-westerly slope
a line from Jersey to Limerick on the chart will somewhat approximate to
a transverse section of this slope. On page 364 of the same report, we find
the maximum of the 12th referred to a wave-crest that came from the
north-west ; and at p. 367, the departure from symmetry is referred to the
greater development of this north-westerly wave. Stornoway, in the Western
Isles, exhibited the greatest development of this wave, the greatest baro-
metric range during tlie passage of the " symmetrical curve," and the
greatest difference between the points selected as indicating the departure
from symmetry ; and these phenomena clearly resulted from the greater
altitude which the north-westerly wave attained in the north of Scotland;
this would appear to indicate that the deviation from symmetry resulted
from the greater altitude of the north-westerly wave in certain localities, and
that the barometer had a tendency to rise higher over the land as the wave

transited. It is, however, difficult to determine this from the observations,
partly on account of the slow-moving wave [I] (Report, 1847, p. 358),
whose crest extended from Arbroath to Stornoway, and also from the south-
westerly system of waves ; ibr it is evicant that the same result, viz. an

approach to an equality of altitude of the maxima of the 5th and 12th, would
be produced as well by the higher readings of tlie 5th as the lower readings
of the 12th. Upon the whole it appears highly probable that the result is a
compound one, the approach to symmetry, as we proceed from the north-
west to the south-east, being occasioned by the higher readings of the south-
westerly crest of the 5th in the south-east, and the lower readings of the
north-westerly crest of the 12th in the same locality; the inflexions of the lines
being produced by the tendency of the barometer to rise higher as the anterior
slopes and crests, especially of the north-west wave, passed over the land.

    Regarding the chart before us as indicating the localities and directions of
certain barometric phsenomena characterizing the "great symmetrical curve

of November," we at once see that it exhibits to us but a small portion of
the area over which these particular phaenoraena can be traced. The lines
of deviation Irom symmetry, as determined from observation, extend from
·100 inch at Ramsgate to '550 inch at Limerick, '580 inch being the highest
determination at Stornoway. It would appear from the Galway observa-
tions that the deviation did not much exceed "580 inch, '480 inch being the
value at this station. Query, Shall we find the curves undergoing such a
modification of form to the north-west of Ireland and Scotland as to bring
these maxima more on a level, having other features, as the broad maximum
of the 8th, which is very apparent in the Galway curve, so developed as to
produce a difierent order of curves, the limit of deviation from symmetry
of the Greenwich type being somewhat in the direction of the "550 inch
line ? The area of the British Isles embraces the north-western side of the
deviation from symmetry, as determined by the inferiority of the maximum
--56 REPORT 1848.

Howof the 5th to that of the 12th.  far the lines of deviation extend to

the south-west and north-east we are at present ignorant : it would how-

ever be interesting to learn whether they continue to any great extent to
exhibit a more or less longitudinal direction, being simply inflected by the

masses of land over which they pass, or whether they form a system of

curves, the interior ones being closed. Of the direction and form of the

lines of equal deviation to the south-east of the symmetrical line we are

likewise ignorant. Taking the Jersey curve, although not the most symme-

trical, yet, with regard to the points selected, exhibiting the least deviation,

we find a development of a different and somewhat opposite character to that
which we observe in the Scottish and Irish curves. In these curves the
maximum of the 12th is by far the most prominent, that of the 5th appearing

as very subordinate. At Jersey that of the 5th is the most prominent, the
maximum of the 12th dwindling into a subordinate elevation on the pos-

terior slope of the curve. Query. Does the maximum of the 5th rise into

considerable importance south-east of the line of greatest symmetry, while

that of the 12th merges into the general curve so as to give rise to a series

of lines of equal deviation of an opposite character to those vvhich we have

traced; and do these lines of opposite deviation preserve a general parallelism

within certain limits to them ? If so, the lines of equal and opposite

deviation on each side the line of greatest symmetry, whether extending

indefinitely or forming closed curves, will mark out an .irea to which that

particular barometric curve known as the " symmetrical curve of Novem-
ber " is peculiar, and the line of greatest deviation on each side will to a

certain extent limit such area, curves of a different character, and exhi-

biting novel features, appearing beyond the lines of greatest deviation.
   It may probably be inquired if the general direction of the lines of equal

deviation are similar year after year? The amount of our present know-

ledge on this head indicates that such is not the case : taking similar points

in the curve on each return as indicating the departure from symmetry, the

direction of the lines varies, and this variation appears to be in accordance

Wewith a certain law.  have on former occasions noticed that in 1842 the

direction of the line of greatest symmetry was from Dublin to Munich, the

deviations occurring on the north-east and south-west of this line (Report,

IS'l'G, p. J6.3). In 1845 it appeared to be in the direction of the southern

shores of England (Report, 1846, pp. 130, 164), and it consequently formed,
with the line of greatest symmetry in 1842, a considerable angle. In 1846

this angle was considerably increased ; and from some observations received
last autumn, it appeared to be still further increased, so as to equal if not

exceed a right angle, the station affording the most symmetrical curve being

Norwich. The instability of the line of greatest symmetry, to which allu-

sion has been made in my Report of 1846, p. 126, is thus clearly established

and the character of the motion indicated. The line of greatest symmetry

appears to revolve around a fixed point or node, which is situated in the

neighbourhood of Brussels*. It is probable tlie node itself is situated a

little to the north-west of Brussels, the common intersection of the lines

already traced occurring to the north-west of that city.  W RR

   Postscript. I omitted to mention in my last Report, in connexion with

the observations made at the stations recorded in Table I. (Report, 1847,
p. 351), that the observations at Sir Thomas Brisbane's observatory, Makers-
toun, near Kelso, were made under the sole direction of J. A. Brown, Esq.

   * Sir John Herschel lias directed attention to the nodal character of Brussels in his
Report on Meteorological Reductions (Report, 1843, p. 100), especially in relation to the
revolution of the wind in one uniform direction.
                    ON COLOURING MATTERS.  57

On Colouring Matters. By Edward Schunck.

In the report which I had the honour of presenting last year to the British

Association on Colouring Matters, I gave the results of my investigation of

the colouring matters of madder. This investigation I have continued and

brought to a conclusion. The subject has however proved so extensive, the

number of questions arising in regard to this valuable and extensively-used
tinctorial substancebeing very great, that 1 have been unable to examme any

other colouring matters very minutely.

   I stated in my last report, that when finely-ground madder roots are treated

with hot water, a brown liquid is obtained having a sweetish bitter taste, in

which acids produce a dark brown precipitate. Tliis precipitate I stated to

consist of six substances, viz. two colouring matters, two fats, pectic acid and

a bitter substance. To these I now add a seventh : it is a dark brown sub-

stance which remains behind when the other substances have been removed

by means of boiling water and alcohol ; it is soluble in caustic alkalies with
a dark brown colour, and seems to be the substance lo which the colour of

the dark brown precipitate is due : I consider it to be oxidized extractive

matter. Concerning the method of separating the other six substances con-
tained in the dark brown precipitate, I have nothing to add to what I said in

my last report, as I have not been able to discover a shorter or better plan

of separating them than that which is there described. In regard to their

nature, properties and composition, which I have examined more minutely,

I shall in this report give a number of additional details ; before doing so
liowever I shall make a fev/ observations on the subject in general. I may

state, in the first place, that I have arrived at the conclusion that there is

only one colouring matter contained in madder, viz. alizarin ; the other sub-
stance, which I took for a colouring matter in the first instance, and which I

called rubiacin, I now consider to be no colouring matter at all, for reasons

whicli I shall presently state. I have also reason to believe that tlie two sub-

mystances which in  first report I called fats, are not fats, but resins ; they

are coloured resins similar to many others known to chemists. Of these two

resins I shall call the more easily fusible one, which dissolves in a boiling

solution of perchloride or pernitrate of iron, the alpha-resin ; the other less
easily fusible one, which forms an insoluble compound when treated with

perchloride or pernitrate of iron, the heta-resin. The method of preparing
them is the same as that which I described in my former report. After the
dark brown precipitate produced in a decoction of madder by acids has been

successively treated with boiling water and boiling alcohol, there remains

behind a dark brown substance ; on treating this substance with caustic
potash, it dissolves in great part with a dark brown colour ; on filtering there
remains on the filter a mixture of peroxide of iron and sulphate of lime ; on
adding a strong acid to the filtered liquid a substance in dark brown flocks is

precipitated, which is thrown on a filter, washed and dried. This substance,
when heated on platinum foil, burns without much flame, and leaves a con-

siderable ash. It is easily decomposed by boiling dilute nitric acid, which

converts it with an evolution of nitrous acid into a yellow flocculent sub-

stance. As it is insoluble in all menstrua except the alkalies, it may be
asked, how it can be extracted from madder by means of boiling water, in
which it is of itself insoluble, and whether it is not possible that it may be
formed during the process of boiling by the action of the air on some sub-

stance contained in the extract. I think the latter supposition very probable,
--58 REPOET 1848.

and 1 shall presently describe a substance of almost identical properties

formed by the action of the air on xanthin, the extractive matter of madder.

There can however be no doubt that the brown colour of the precipitate,

which is produced by acids in a decoction of madder, is due to this substance,

for the other bodies contained in it are not brown, but yellow or orange-

coloured in a precipitate state. This dark brown precipitate therefore con-

--sists of the following substances : alizarin, rubiacin, alpha-resin, beta-

resin, rubian, pectic acid, and oxidized extractive matter.

   I have examined the liquid filtered from the dark brown precipitate pro-

duced by acids more minutely since making my last report. If oxalic acid

be used as the precipitant, the excess of acid may afterwards be removed by

chalk, without leaving any lime-salt in solution. The liquid, which had a

light yellow colour, was evaporated on the sand-bath. During evaporation

it gradually became brown, and left at last a thick dark brown syrup, which

never became dry, however long it might be exposed to the heat of the sand-

bath. On re-dissolving tliis syrup in water, a considerable quantity of a dark
brown powder remained behind. On again evaporating the filtered solution

on the sand-bath, an additional quantity of this powder was deposited, just as

in the case of extractive matter. There can be no doubt that this powder is

formed by the action of the air, assisted by heat, on some soluble substance con-

tained in the liquid. On burning a small quantity of the brown syrup in a

crucible it swelled up enormously, and gave off a quantity of empyreumatic

products, which burned with a flame, leaving at last a considerable quantity of

white ash ; this ash was partly soluble, partly insoluble in water. The soluble
part had a strong alkaline reaction ; it consisted of a trace of lime and mag-
nesia, and a great deal of potash, combined with carbonic, sulphuric and

muriatic acids. The insoluble part consisted of carbonate of lime, carbonate

of magnesia, a trace of alumina, phosphate of lime and phosphate of mag-

nesia. The solution of the brown syrup in water had an acid reaction. It

gave no precipitate or peculiar colour with a persalt of iron, and therefore

contained no tannic acid. The addition of alcohol produced no precipitate
or coagulate, and therefore there was no gum present. On adding muriatic

or sulphuric acid to it, and then boiling, it became dark-coloured and de-

posited a green powder. Sugar of lead produced in the solution a dirty

brown flocculent precipitate, and basic acetate of lead a still more copious

Aprecipitate.  considerable quantity of the brown syrup was dissolved in

water, and basic acetate of lead was added until no more precipitate was

produced. The precipitate was separated by filtration, and washed with

water. The percolating liquid had a yellow colour. The excess of lead was

removed from it by sulphuretted hydrogen, and the filtered liquid was eva-

porated over sulphuric acid, since, if evaporated by the assistance of heat,

the substance contained in it was changed by tlie air, became brown, and

deposited a brown powder. After remaining over sulphuric acid for several

weeks, there was left a yellow or brownish-yellow syrup like honey, which

did not become dry. This substance, though not pure (as it contained salts

of lime, magnesia and potash), I conceive to be identical with Kuhlmann's

xanthin and Runge's madder-yellow.

If madder contains sugar, it is evident that, provided the method of ope-

rating described above be followed, it must be contained in the same liquid

as this xanthin. I have however not been able to prove its presence by

direct experiment ; but I have succeeded in ascertaining indirectly that

madder does in reality contain sugar of seme kind by means of the following

experiment. Half a hundred- weiglit of madder was treated with boiling
ON COLOURING MATTERS.  59

water for several hours. The liquor, after being reduced by boiling to a
convenient compass, was mixed with some yeast, and allowed to ferment.
By distillation an alcoliolic liquid was obtained, which, after a second distil-

lation, gave 2l|ozs. of alcohol of sp. gr. 0-935, which is equivalent to 9 ozs.
of absolute alcohol. It is therefore evident that madder contains sugar of

some kind or other.
   The precipitate produced by basic acetate of lead in the solution of the

brown syrup was decomposed with sulphuretted hydrogen. The filtered
liquid was evajiorated, and left after evaporation a dark brown syrup, having
a strongly acid taste and reaction. The brown colour was no doubt due to
xanthin in its oxidizud state. After being repeatedly dissolved, and the solu-
tion being each time evaporated, a dark brown powder was deposited,

just as in the case of the original solution : nevertheless the acid taste
always remained. It might be supposed that this taste was due to some

vegetable acid ; and indeed if any such acid, or the compound of any one
with the alkalies or earths, had been extracted irom the madder by boiling
water, it woidd most probably have been precipitated by the basic acetate of
lead, and it would be in the liquid obtained by the decomposition of the lead

precipitate tliat vve should have to look for any such acid. Now the syrup

obtained after decomposing the lead precipitate and evaporating the liquid,

though intensely acid, contained no oxalic, tartaric, malic or citric acid ;
neither did it show the least sign of crystallization ; but the watery solution
gave a crystalline precipitate with ammonia and sulphate of magnesia ; and
after destroying the brown organic matter contained in it by adding nitric
acid and boiling, and then evaporating to drive away the excess of nitric
acid, it gave a yellow precipitate with nitrate of silver and ammonia. I
therefore infer that the acid to which the sour taste of the brown syrup was
owing, was phosphoric acid*. The sulphuret of lead, produced by the de-

composition of the lead precipitate, was treated with boiling caustic potash.

A dark brown solution resulted, which after filtration gave with muriatic

acid a dark brown precipitate. This precipitate, after filtration, washing and
drying, cohered into masses, which were brittle and black, but became brown
when powdered. It was totally insoluble in boiling water and alcohol. It
was decomposed by dilute boiling nitric acid, and changed into a yellow floc-
culent substance. It was soluble in concentrated sulphuric acid, forming a
brown liquid, and was re- precipitated by water. I consider this substance,
that formed in a solution of xanthin during evaporation by heat, and the dark
brown substance contained in the precipitate produced by acids in a decoc-
tion of madder as the same, and that they are all produced from xanthin by

 the action of the oxygen of the air.
    It still remains for me to say a few words on the substances left behind in

 the root, after madder has been exhausted with boiling water. It has for
 some time been well known that if madder, which has already been used for
 the purpose of dyeing, be treated with a strong acid such as sulphuric or
 muriatic, and the acid be then carefully removed by washing with cold water,
 it is capable of being again used for dyeing in the same way as fresh madder.
 It is in this manner that the article known in commerce as garanceux is

    * On one occasion, after having added nitric acid to the acid syrup and boiled, I obtained
 on evaporation crystals of an organic acid, very similar to alizaric acid, but not identical
 with it. It was sparingly soluble in cold water, but very soluble in hot. It was volatile.
 The watery solution gave with acetate of lead a crystalline precipitate soluble in boiling

 water, with perchloride of iron a cream-coloured precipitate, with acetate of copper a green
 ciystalline precipitate, and with nitrate of silver and ammonia a white flocculent precipitate.
  Alizarate of lead is quite insoluble in boiling water, and not in the least crystalline.
--60 REPORT 1848.

manufactured. This is a convincing proof that it is impossible to extract tlie

whole of the colouring matter by means of boiling water, and tlmt part of it

Amust remain beJiind in some state in which it is insoluble in water.  quan-

tity of madder was treated with boiling water until the liquor gave abso-

Alutely no more precipitate on the addition of muriatic acid.  very long

boiling was necessary for this purpose. The colour of the madder was

changed by this process from yellowish-brown, as it appears in the fresh

Astate, to a dull red. It was then treated with boiling caustic potash ley.

liquor of a brownish colour was obtained, in which muriatic acid produced a

gelatinous precipitate of a brown colour. This was separated by filtration,

and, after being washed with cold water in order to remove all the muriatic
acid, was treated with a large quantity of boiling water, in which it proved

to be almost entirely soluble. The solution was light brown. It gave gela-

tinous precipitates with acids, with lime and baryta water, alcohol and most

Onsalts.  evaporation it left a substance in light brown, transparent, brittle

scales, which turned out to be pectic acid, much purer indeed than that ob-

tained in the first instance from the aqueous decoction. No colouring matter,

or any other substance besides pectic acid, seemed to be extracted by the

caustic alkali.

Another quantity of madder which had been completely exhausted by

boiling water, was treated with boiling muriatic acid, and the liquid, after the

boiling had been kept up for some time, was strained through a cloth and

supersaturated with ammonia, which produced a pinkish-white precipitate.

This precipitate was thrown on a filter and carefully washed. The liquid

contained an abundance of lime and magnesia. A part of the pinkish-white

precipitate vvas dried and heated to redness in a crucible. During ignition

a gas came off which was witliout odour, and burnt with a blue flame, being

probably carbonic oxide. After complete ignition it dissolved in muriatic

acid with an effervescence of carbonic acid, but without leaving much car-
bonaceous residue. On adding ammonia to the solution a white precipitate

was again produced. The filtered liquid contained a large quantity of lime

and a trace of magnesia. The precipitate consisted of alumina, peroxide of

iron, phosphate of lime, and a trace of phosphate of magnesia. As it became

probable from the preceding reactions that the pinkish-white precipitate con-

tained oxalate of lime, the rest of it was treated with boiling dilute sulphuric

acid. The liquid after filtration was evaporated. It gave crystals which

were dissolved in alcohol to separate the sulphate of lim.e. The alcohol on

evaporation gave colourless crystals of pure oxalic acid. Hence I infer that

the following substances were extracted from the madder by means of mu-

--riatic acid : lime, magnesia, oxalate of lime, phosphate of lime, alumina and

peroxide of iron. The madder which had been subjected to the action of

muriatic acid was now well-washed with water, and then treated with boiling

Acaustic potash ley.  dark red solution was obtained, which, after being

strained through a cloth, produced, on being supersaturated with an acid, a

dark reddish-brown precipitate. This precipitate was thrown on a filter,

and well-washed with cold water, to remove the excess of acid. 1 found

this precipitate to dye mordanted cloth quite full, and of the same colours as

madder itself. There could therefore be no doubt about its containing

alizarin. Moreover, on treating the precipitate with boiling alcohol, a

brownish-yellow liquid was obtained, which left on evaporation a brownish-

Ared residue.    small portion of this residue being heated between two

watch-glasses, an abundance of orange-coloured crystals of sublimed alizarin

appeared on the upper glass. By treating the precipitate with boiling water,
----

                    ON COLOURING MATTERS.              61

and filtering boiling hot, the h'quid deposited on cooling orange-coloured
flocks, which were impure alizarin, for they dyed mordanted cloth, and after
being dried and heated in a tube, they gave a crystalline sublimate. The
liquid gave on evaporation pectic acid. That part of the precipitate which
was left undissolved by boiling water, was treated with a boiling solution of
nitrate of iron. The fikered liquid gave, on the addition of muriatic acid, a
slight yellow precipitate, which was probably rubiacic acid from the rubiacin

of the precipitate. The greater part was insoluble in nitrate of iron. By

treating the insoluble residue with boiling muriatic acid, filtering, washing
with water, and treating with boiling alcohol, an abundance of beta-resin was
procured.

I infer from these experiments that the substances extracted from madder

by caustic potash, after exhaustion with boiling water and treating with acid,

previously existed in the root in combination with lime and magnesia ; that

these substances are not different from those extracted by boiling water, viz.

alizarin, rubiacin, resins and pectic acid ; that the compounds of these bodies

with lime and magnesia are insoluble in water, and, with the exception of

pectate of lime, insoluble in caustic alkalies ; and that therefore, in order to

extract them by means of water or an alkali, it is first necessary to remove

the lime and magnesia with which they are combined by means of an acid.

I shall now proceed to give some further details concerning the properties

--and composition of the substances extracted from madder.
   Alizarin. Concerning the properties of alizarin I have nothing to add to

mywhat I stated in  last report, except that when crystallized from alcohol it

contains several atoms of water of crystallization, which it loses when heated

to 212° F. The crystals after being heated to this point have not lost their

shape, but have become opake and of a much redder colour, resembling

that of native chromate of lead. On placing them in a tube immersed in a

sulphuric-acid bath, and heating the bath, no further change takes place until

about 420° F., when a sublimate of orange-coloured crystals begins to appear

on the cold part of the tube.

   On subjecting alizarin to elementary analysis I obtained the following

results :

   I. 0*3205 grm. of crystallized alizarin dried in the air gave, on being burnt
with chromate of lead, 0*6695 carbonic acid and 0*1210 water.

   IT. 0*3985 grm. of the same gave 0*8320 carbonic acid and 0'1850 water.
   III. 0*3140 grm. gave 0*6565 carbonic acid and 0*1670 water.
   These numbers correspond in 100 parts to

Carbon                      I.        II.        III.
Hydrogen
Oxygen               56*97       56*94      57*02
                       4*19        5*13        5*87

                      38*84       37*93      37*11

                    100*00      100*00     100*00

   The great discrepancy in the amounts of hydrogen in the preceding ana-

lyses arises from the circumstance tliat alizarin loses its water of crystalli-

zation with such extreme facility. No. I. was mixed with warm chromate of
lead in a warm mortar ; No. II. was mixed with warm chromate of lead in a

cold mortar ; and No. III. with cold chromate of lead in a cold mortar. In
the case of No. I. therefore we see that the heat of the chromate of lead and
the mortar combined was sufficient to drive away more water than what cor-
responds to 1^ per cent, of hydrogen, though this heat was not greater than
what might be borne by the hand. In order to determine the amount of
                -- ----                                             ----

--62 REPORT 1848.

water of crystallization, crystallized alizarin was heated in a water-bath until

it lost no more in weight.
    I. 0-4015 grm. treated in this way lost 0'0735 water.
    II. 0-357-5 grm. lost 0'0655 water.
   Alizarin which had been deprived of its water of crystallization by heat,

gave, on being burnt with chromate of lead, the following results :
      I. 0"2990 grm. gave 0'7575 carbonic acid and 0*1045 water.

    II. 0*3005 grm. of a different preparation gave 0*7620 carbonic acid and

0*1095 water.
   III. 0*2765 grm. of the same preparation as the preceding gave 0*7010

carbonic acid and 0*1025 water.

In 100 parts it contains therefore

Carbon                    I.                         II.      III.
Hydrogen
Oxygen              69*09                        69*15     69*14
                      3*88                         4*04      4*11

                    27*03                        26*81     26*75

                    100*00           100*00                100*00

On analysing alizarin prepared by sublimation from pure crystals, I ob-

tained the following numbers :
     I. 0*3970 grm. gave 1 0115 carbonic acid and 0*1340 water.

   II. 0*4110 grm. gave 1*0510 carbonic acid and 0*1375 water.

In 100 parts--

Carbon                                     I.                  II.
Hydrogen
Oxygen                               69*48                69*73
                                       3*75                 3*71

                                     26*77                26*56

                                     100*00               100*00

   It will be seen from this that sublimed alizarin does not differ materially in
composition from alizarin which has been freed from its water of crystalli-

zation.

   Of the compounds of alizarin with bases I prepared the lime, baryta and
lead compounds. The two former were prepared by dissolving alizarin in

ammonia, and precipitating with chloride of calcium and chloride of barium,
the latter by dissolving alizarin in alcohol and precipitating with an alcoholic
solution of sugar of lead. The latter forms a purple precipitate, which, after
standing for some hours, becomes of a dull red.

   The lead compound gave on analysis the following numbers :
    I. 0*4800 grm. gave 0*2095 oxide of lead and 0*0245 metallic lead, equi-

valent to 0*2359 oxide of lead.
    0*5125 grm. burnt with chromate of lead gave 0*7050 carbonic acid and

0*6780 water.

   II. 05865 grm. of a different preparation gave 0*3970 sulphate of lead,

equivalent to 0*2920 oxide of lead.
   0*6915 grm. gave 0*9370 carbonic acid and O'lOOo water. Hence was

deduced the following composition :

                                     Calculated                ^"T*^'
                                     Numbers.
                                                          'Z Z^

14 eqs. Carbon  84                    37*57       37*51              36*95
                                         1*78        1*67               1*61
4 ,, Hydrogen .. 4
                                       10*75       11*70             11*65
3 ,, Oxygen     24                    49*90        49*12             49*79

1 ,, Oxide of lead 111*7             100*00      100*00             100*00

                223*7
                                       -- ------                           ----

                ON COLOURING MATTERS.                                          63

The lime compound gave the following results :

I. 0'4685 grm. gave 0-206.5 sulphate of lime, equivalent to 0'0857 lime.

II. 0'4750 grm. gave 0'2125 sulphate of lime, equivalent to 0'0882 lime.

Assuming that the formula for this compound is C14 H4 O3 + CaO + HO,

its composition would be as follows :

                                       Calculated              ^°^°^-

                                       Numbers.         C               TT"

1 eq. Alizarin                112        74-91          18-30          18-58
                                  9        6-03
1 ,, Water
1 ,, Lime                       28-5     19-06
                                       100-00
                              149-5

   The baryta compound gave the following :
    0-2450 grm. gave 0-1420 sulphate of baryta, equivalent to 0-0932 baryta.
   Assuming that the formula of this compound is similar to that of the last,

+ +viz. C,4 H4 O3 BaO HO, its composition would be as follows :

1 eq. Alizarin                         112         Calculated.         Found.
                                          9
1 ,, Water                                           56-65             38-03
1 ,, Baryta                            76-68           4-57
                                                     38-78
                                       197-68
                                                   100-00

   Neither of these compounds loses the equivalent of water which it contains
on being heated in a water-bath for several hours.

   The composition of crystallized alizarin must therefore be as follows :

14 eqs. Carbon                                    84       Calculated.
 8 ,, Hydrogen                                       8
 7 ,, Oxygen                                                  56-75
                                                   56            5*40
                                                 148
                                                              37-85

                                                            100-00

or,                                    Calculated            Found*.
                                       Numbers.
          1 eq. dry Alizarin                                           Vp
         3 eqs. Water
                                                        j

                              121 8176

                              27 18-24 18-33 18-32

                              148 100-00

It follows that alizarin dried at 212° must consist of

U eqs. Carbon                                     84       Calculated.
                                                     5
 5 ,, Hydrogen                                               69-42
 4 ,, Oxygen                                     ^2             4-13

                                                 121         26-45

                                                            100-00

   If this be the true composition of alizarin, it follows that there exists a

very singular relation between it and the composition of benzoic acid. The

formula of benzoic acid is C,4 Hg O4, and alizarin only differs from it there-
fore by containing one equivalent less of hydrogen. If we compare alizarin

with isatin, we shall find that the latter only differs from the former by con-
taining in addition the elements of one equivalent of cyanogen. The formula

= +of isatin is C,g H5 NO4 C,4 H5 Oj C2 N. Anthranilic acid differs in

composition from alizarin in containing in addition the elements of amidogen,

= +for the formula of anthranilic acid is C,4 H^ NO4 C14 H5 O4 NHo.

                              * See p. 62.
                                                                       --

--64 REPORT 1848.

--AUzar'ic And. In my former report I stated that alizarin, when treated

with concentrated solutions of persalts of iron, is converted into a new acid,

which I called alizaric acid. I stated at tiie same time that I tliought it pro-

bable that alizaric acid might also be formed by acting on alizarin with nitric

acid. This supposition has since been confirmed. On treating pure cry-

stallized alizarin with boiling nitric acid, it is decomposed with an evolution of

nitrous acid, and the liquid on evaporation gives crystals of alizaric acid. It

is however not necessary to prepare pure alizarin in order to obtain alizaric

--acid. 1 have found the following to be the easiest method : Nitric acid of

about sp. gr. 1"20 having been put into a retort, garancin is introduced into

the acid, and the liquid is heated imtil the red fumes have ceased to be

evolved, and tlie colour of the garancin has changed from dark brown to

yellow. The reddish-yellow acid liquid which is obtained, is filtered or

strained to separate it I'rom the woody fibre, &c. of the garancin, and eva-

Aporated to crystallization.  yellow crystalline mass is obtained, which is a

mixture of oxalic acid and impure alizaric acid. After being washed with

cold water to remove the excess of nitric acid, the mass is dissolved in

boiling water, and chalk is added until all effervescence and acid reaction have

ceased. The liquid is filtered, and the oxalate of lime remaining on the

filter is washed with boiling water, until no more lime can be detected in the

percolating liquid. The liquid is a solution of alizarate of lime. Muriatic

Aacid is added to it, and it is evaporated to crystallization.  yellow mass is

acrain obtained, whicli may ben-ashed with cold water to remove the chloride

of calcium, then redissolved in boiling water. It forms a yellow solution,

which may be almost decolorized by animal charcoal. On again evapo-

rating, the alizaric acid is obtained in large crystals. Should these crystals

still retain a yellow tinge, which is generally the case, they must be re-

dissolved in boiling water. By passing chlorine gas through the boiling

solution, until every trace of colour has disappeared, perfectly colourless

crystals of the acid are obtained on cooling. Prepared in this way, it ap-

pears in large flat rhombic plates: it has the properties which I described in

my last report.

The salts of alizaric acid are mostly soluble. Alizarate of potash is formed

by neutralizing a watery solution of alizaric acid with carbonate of potash :

it is obtained on evaporation as a deliquescent mass. Alizarate of lime is

prepared by neutralizing alizaric acid with carbonate of lime, and evaporating

to crystallization. It crystallizes in prisms, possessing great lustre. Alizarate

of baryta, prepared in the same way by means of carbonate of baryta, cry-

stallizes in silky needles. Alizarate of silver, prepared by double decompo-

sition, is soluble in boiling water, from -which it crystallizes on the solution

cooling. Alizarate of lead is an insoluble white powder, obtained by jireci-

pitation of the acid with sugar of lead. With ammonia alizaric acid does not

seem to form a neutral salt. On supersaturating a solution of the acid with

ammonia and evaporating, the solution acquires during evaporation an acid

reaction, and at length a salt crystallizes out in flat plates, which is no doubt

a superalizarate of ammonia. All the salts of alizaric acid, when strongly

heated, are decomposed with an evolution of a fragrant smell similar to that

of benzin, and give, as a product of the decomposition, a thick brown oil, to

wiiich without doubt the smell is owing ; -wliile tiie carbonates of the bases,
or the bases themselves, remain behind mixed with much charcoal.

The elementary analysis of alizaric acid gave the following results :

I. 0".5250 grm. obtained by means of perchloride of iron and burnt with

oxide of copper, gave 1*1015 carbonic acid and 0"1810 water.
                      ----                                --

                      ON COLOURING MATTERS.                                                   65

   II. 0'4670 grm. obtained by means of nitric acid and burnt with cliromiite
of lead, gave 0'986j carbonic acid and 0M685 water.

   III. 0-4475 grm. of the same preparation as the preceding gave 0'9360
carbonic acid and 0*1625 water.

   IV. 0*4395 grm., purified by means of chlorine and burnt with chromate
of lead, gave 0*9335 carbonic acid and 0*1510 water.

   These numbers give in 100 parts

         Carbon             I.              II.        III.           IV.
         Hydrogen
         Oxygen       57*20            57-61        57*10          57*92
                        3*83             4-00         4*03           3*81

                      38-97            38-39        38*87          38*37

                      lOUOO            100-00       100-UU         100-00

   Alizarate of lead was analysed with tlie following results :--
   I. 0*8110 grm. gave 0*2665 oxide of lead and 0-2160 metallic lead, equi-
valent to 0*4991 oxide of lead.
    0*6660 grm. gave 0*5810 carbonic acid and 0*0915 water.
   II. 0-62.'i0 grm. gave 0*2040 oxide of lead and 0*1655 metallic lead, equi-
valent to 0-3822 oxide of lead.
   0-6515 grm. gave 0*5560 carbonic acid and 0-0860 water. Hence was

deduced the following composition :

       14 eqs. Carbon           84     Calculated            C     .
        4 ,, Hydrogen..          4     Numbers.
        6 ,, Oxygen....         48                         23*79         7p
                                         23*37               1*52
         2 ,, Oxide of lead 223*4          1*11                         23*27
                                                           13*15           1*46
                                359*4    13*37             61*54
                                         62-15            100*00        13*93
                                        100-00                          61*34

                                                                       100*00

The baryta salt lost nothing in weight on being heated for several hours

in a water-bath.
    I. 0-6725 grm. of baryta salt dried at 212° gave 0'5245 sulphate of baryta,

equivalent to 0*3442 baryta.
    II. 0*7330 grm. gave 0*5700 sulphate of baryta, equivalent to 0*3740

baryta.

Its composition is therefore probably as follows :

                                                                   Found.

                                       Calculated.                                         *
                                                              j»

                                                               I. II.

       1 eq. anhydrous Acid . 136      46*26
                                         2*36
       1 ,, Water                   9
                                       51*38
       2 eqs. Baryta            153*3                     51*18    51*03

                                298*3 100*00

It is probable that the silver salt also contains two equivalents of base to

one of acid.
   It follows from the analysis of the lead salt, that the hydrated acid has the

following composition :                              84       Calculated.
                                                       5
                   14 eqs. Carbon                                57*93
                   5 ,, Hydrogen                   _56             3*44
                  7 ,, Oxygen                      145
                                                                38*63

                                                               100*00

By the action of nitric acid on alizarin the latter takes up three equivalents

1848.                                                                      I'
----

--66 REPORT 1848.

=cf oxygen without losing any hydrogen, for C,4 H5 O4 4- 30 C14 H5 O7. It

appears also that alizaric acid contains one equivalent of hydrogen less, and
three equivalents of oxygen more, than benzoic acid.

  --Pipo-aitznric Acid. When alizaric acid is iieated it is totally volatilized,

and forms a sublimate in the shape of long white needles, to which I have

given the name of pyro-alizaric acid. By the action of heat alizaric acid

loses water, or the elements of water. Pyro-alizaric acid is soluble in boiling

water. The solution, however, produces exactly the same reactions as alizaric
acid itself, and on evapor;ition large rhombic crystals are obtained, which
have quite the appearance of the latter acid. It is probable therefore that,
by solution in water, pyro-alizaric. acid takes up again the elements of water,
and is reconverted into alizaric acid. The following results were obtained on

analysing this acid:

   I. 0-4405 grm. dried at 21 2° and burnt with chromate of lead, gave r0345

carbonic acid and 0-1185 water.

   II. 0-4255 grm. gave 09985 carbonic acid and 0-1215 water.
   From tiicse numbers it may be inferred that the composition is as follows :

                                                                                   Calculated

28 eqs. Carbon   168
  7 ,, Hydrogen
                     7
11 ,, Oxygen       88
            --

ON COLOURING MATTERS.     6?^

    I. 0'3785 grm. rubiacic acid, dried at 212° and burnt with oxide of copper,
gave 0"7940 carbonic acid and 00S45 water.

    II. 0-3605 grm. of another preparation gave 0'7610 carbonic acid and
0'0795 water.

   III. 0"4670 grm. of the same preparation as the preceding gave 0'9775
carbonic acid and 0'1050 water.

   Hence was deduced the following composition :

Calculated             .
--68 REPORT 1848.

ammonia. The ammoniacal solution gives purple precipitates with the chlo-
rides of barium and calcium, and a dirty red precipitate with alum. It dis-
solves in perchloride and pernitrate of iron with a dark reddish-brown colour,
and is re-precipitated by acids in flocks. Tlie alcoholic solution gives red
precipitates with alcoholic solutions of sugar of lead and acetate of copper.

If chlorine be passed through a solution of the resin in caustic potash, it is

decolorized ; acids however now produce no precipitate, so that the resin
seems to have been entirely decomposed by the chlorine. If mordanted

cloth be introduced into boiling water, in which a quantity of the resin is
suspended, the alumina mordant acquires an orange colour, and the iron
mordant a broivn colour. Nevertheless these colours are so slight, that it is
not likely that this resin contributes in any way to produce the desired effect
in the process of madder-dyeing. I shall presently show that, on the contrary,
it is ratiier injurious than otherwise in this process, since those parts of the
cloth which should remain white acquire from it a disagreeable yellow tinge,
which cannot afterwards be removed by merely washing with water, so that
even if it did contribute to produce any greater intensity of colour on the
mordanted parts, the advantage would be more than counterbalanced by the
injurious eflfect on the unmordanted parts.

  --Beta-resin. This resin also Ibrnis a constituent of the dark brown preci-

pitate produced by acids in a decoction of madder. If this precipitate be
treated with a boiling solution of jierchloride or pernitrate of iron, the beta-
resin forms a compound with peroxide of iron, which remains undissolved.

By decomposing this compound with muriatic acid, and dissolving the resin

in boiling alcohol, it is deposited on the alcohol cooling as a light brown
powder. It hardly melts at the temperature of boiling water, but merely
becomes soft and coheres into lumi)s. When heated on platinum foil, it melts
and burns, leaving a slight red ash. When heated in a glass tube, it gives
yellow fumes and evolves a disagreeable smell, leaving a carbonaceous residue.
 It is slightly soluble in boiling water, to which it communicates a yellow
 tinge; on the solution cooling nothing separates, but on adding acid some
yellow flocks are deposited, while the liquid becomes colourless. The alco-
 holic solution is dark yellow ; it reddens litmus-paper. Water renders it
milky, and acids precipitate the resin completely in yellow flocks. The resin
 dissolves in concentrated sulphuric acid with a dark brown colour, and is re-
 precipitated by water in light brown flocks. Concentrated nitric acid dissolves
 it on boiling and decomposes it ; on evaporation there is left a yellow, bitter
 astringent substance. It dissolves in caustic and carbonated alkalies with a

 dirty red colour, inclining to purple in the case of caustic alkali. It is re-pre-

 cipitated by acids in brown flocks. If chlorine be passed through a solution
 of the resin in caustic potash, it is decolorized ; but the substance itself
 seems to be thereby decomposed, as acids afterwards produce only a slight
 precipitate. The ammoniacal solution gives with the chlorides of barium
 and calcium dirty yellow precipitates. The alcoholic solution gives with an
 alcoholic solution of sugar of lead a red precipitate, and with an alcoholic
 solution of acetate of copper a brown precipitate. The ammoniacal solution
 loses its ammonia on evaporation, and the resin is left as a transparent brown
 skin. This resin has the same effect on mordanted cloth as the preceding;
 the alumina mordant acquires an orange, and the iron mordant a brown
 colour, while the unmordanted parts become yellow and unsightly. These
 effects are not however so decided as in the case of the alpha-resin, which is

--probably owing to its being less soluble in water than the latter.
    Rub'uin. I have "iven this name to the substance to which the bitter taste
ON COLOURING MA'ITERS.                                                     69

of madder seems to be due. I have described its metliod of preparation and

properties in my last report. I may state, in addition to what 1 there said,

that rubian seems to be a nitrogenous body, since, on treating it with boiling
caustic alkali, ammonia is evolved. This fact and the bitter taste seem to

indicate that the medical properties of madder, if indeed it possesses any,

reside in this substance.

   If a solution of rubian in water be evaporated in contact with the air and
with the assistance of heat, it deposits a dark brown substance, which sinks
to the bottom in resinotis drops, so that on treating the residue after evapo-

ration with water, it is not completely re-dissolved ; and if the filtered liquid
be again evaporated as before, a fresh quantity of the dark brown substance
is formed, just as in the case of extractive matter. This dark brown sub-
stance melts into drops in boiling water, but when cold it is brittle. It dis-
solves in alkalies with a dark red colour, and is re-precipitated by acids in

yellow flocks ; indeed it bears in all respects a great resemblance to the
body which I have called alpha-resin. Nevertheless it seems to consist of
more than one substance ; for if it be heated in a glass tube over a lamp, an
abundant sublimate, consisting of shining yellow crystals, is obtained in the

upper part of the tube : these crystals very much resemble rubiacin. If it

be treated with a boiUng solution of perchloride or pernitrate of iron, the

liquid becomes reddish brown, and gives after filtration a yellow precipitate

with muriatic acid, which is a proof of its containing either alpha-resin or

 rubiacin, or both. Hence it becomes very probable that rubiacin, the alpha-
 resin, and perhaps also the beta-resin, are formed from rubian by the action
. of the oxygen of the air. It becomes still more probable when we consider

--the following facts : If an infusion of madder with cold water be allowed to

 stand in contact with the air, it will be found that after some hours the liquid
 is filled with a number of long hair-like crystals, which are, as I have shown

on a previous occasion*, rubiacin, generally mixed with a substance having
all the properties of beta-resin. I have had one specimen of madder which

gave such quantities of rubiacin on allowing the infusion to stand, that it

collected on the surface of the liquor as a bright yellow scum, and by cry-

NowstalUzing it from alcohol it was obtained almost in a state of purity.             as

rubiacin is insoluble in cold water, it must in this case either have been

formed from some substance contained in the infusion by the action of the

air, or else it was at first held in solution by some other substance, such as
an alkali or alkaline earth from which it gradually became separated, as by

the formation of some acid in the liquid. 1 incline to the former supposition,

and think it probable that it is the rubian which by its oxidation gives rise to

--the rubiacin.
   Xanthin This substance, the method of preparing which from a decoc-

tion of madder after the separation of the colouring matters, &c. by acid, I

have described above, is of course not a pure substance, since after ignition

it leaves a considerable quantity of fixed residue : it is also probable that it

contains a small quantity of sugar, as I stated before. Nevertheless it pro-
duces reactions of a peculiar kind, which cannot be attributed to sugar, gum,

or any similar substance, and can only be due to a peculiar body which exists

--only in madder. It has the following properties : When prepared as above

described, it is a thick, viscid, yellow or brownish-yellow syrup, resembling

honey in colour and consistency, which cannot be rendered dry even by ex-

posing it to a heat at which it begins to be decomposed. When exposed to
the air, it becomes more liquid on account of its attracting moisture. When

* See the Report of the British Association for the Advancement of Science for 1846.
--70 REPORT 1848.

heated to ignition, it swells up enormously, giving off at the same time a very
perceptible smell of aceton and burns, leaving at last a considerable quantity
of ash, which consists of the carbonates of lime, magnesia and potash. It is
without doubt the acetates of those bases which, being mixed with the sub-
stance, produce the smell of aceton during ignition. 'I'he acetic acid was of
course derived from the basic acetate of lead used in the preparation of
xanthin, and the acid with which they were originally combined must have
gone to the oxide of lead. Now, as 1 stated above, the oxide of lead was
found to be combined with phosphoric acid ; hence it is probable that the
greater part, if not all, of the fixed bases left after the ignition of the xanthin
existed in the plant as phosphates. Xanthin has a disagreeable taste, between
bitter and sweet. The watery solution is yellow. It is soluble in alcohol,
and is left after evaporation in the same state as before. It is insoluble in

aether. On adding muriatic or sulphuric acid to the watery solution and boil-

ing for some time, a peculiar smell is evolved, the solution becomes gradu-
ally dark green, and a dark green powder is deposited. This is the most
characteristic property of xanthin. Nitric acid does not produce the same
dark green powder, or any deposit on boiling ; nevertheless the powder
which has once been formed by means of muriatic or sulphuric acid, is not
dissolved by boiling nitric acid, but only turned yellow. Acetic acid pro-
duces no effect. Oxalic acid gives a white precipitate of oxalate of lime.
Bichromate of potash and sulphuric acid produce no effect on a solution of

xantl)in, even on boiling. On adding caustic potash to the solution it turns

brown, and on boiling a slight smell of ammonia is evolved. Lime and
baryta water, acetate and basic acetate of lead, the acetates of alumina, iron
and copper, nitrate of silver, corrosive sublimate, and a solution of glue, pro-
duce no precipitate or effect whatever in a solution of xanthin. In fact it
does not seem to be precipitated by any reagent whatever without undergoing

decomposition.

    If a clear light yellow watery solution of xanthin be evaporated with the
assistance of heat and in contact with the air, as on the sand-bath, to a
syrup, and this syrup be again mixed with water and the solution again eva-
porated, the process being several times repeated, the solution gradually be-

comes dark brown, and at length a dark brown ])owder is deposited. The
brown solution now gives with acetate, or basic acetate of lead, a thick brown
precipitate. The filtered liquid is yellow, and if the excess of lead be re-
moved by sulphuretted hydrogen, the solution again gives, on evaporation

over sulphuric acid, a colourless or light yellow syrup, which however, if re-
dissolved and evaporated with the assistance of heat as before, again becomes
dark brown, and deposits a dark brown powder. There can therefore be no
doubt that this brown powder is a product of the oxidation of xanthin, that
xanthin is a species of extractive matter, and that the brown powder stands
in the relation to it of an apolhema. This brown powder has the following

--properties : When dry it is a dark brown mass, easily reduced to powder. It

is quite insoluble in boiling water and boiling alcohol. It burns without
flame, leaving much ash. It is soluble in concentrated sulphuric acid with a
dark brown colour, and is re-precipitated by water. Boiling dilute nitric
acid decomposes it with an evolution of nitrous acid, and changes it into a
yellowish-red flocculent substance. Concentrated nitric acid on boiling de-
composes and dissolves it entirely. It dissolves in caustic and carbonated
alkalies with a dark brown colour, and is re-precipitated by acids in light
brown flocks. The ammoniacal solution gives brown precipitates with the
chlorides of barium and calcium. The dark green powder which is produced

                                                     I
ON COLOURING MATTERS.  7l

by the action of sulphuric and muriatic acid on xanthin, has the following

--properties : When dry it has a dark olive colour. It burns with a flame

and a smell like burning wood, leaving a large quantity of charcoal, which
however burns away without any fixed residue. It is decomposed by boiling
dilute nitric acid, and changed into a yellow flocculent substance. It is in-

soluble in concentrated sulphuric acid, and also in boiling alcohol. When

treated with caustic potash, a part dissolves with a dark brown colour, and
is re-precipitated by acids as a dark brown powder, while the other part re-
mains undissolved as a black powder.

    Mordanted cloth acquires no colour in a boiling solution of xanthin, if the
latter is in its yellow unoxidized state ; but if the solution has become brown
by contact with the air, then both the alumina and the iron mordant acquire
in the boiling solution a brown colour, while the unmordanted parts, which
should remain white, become of a brown tint. Hence it follows that xanthin
is injurious in madder-dyeing, and must contribute, together with the two
resins, in impairing the purity of the colours, and sullying the whiteness of

those parts wliich should attract no colour. To get rid of the xanthin is one

object of changing madder into garancin.

   It remains for me to say a few words in regard to the part which the dif-

ferent substances described above play in the process of madder-dyeing. I

regret to say that in my last report there are contained some views on this

head, which I have found, on more exact investigation, to be erroneous.
The two principal points to be determined are, which is the substance that
produces the chief effect in dyeing with madder, and why is a certain pro-
portion of lime, either in the plant or in the dye-bath, necessary for the pro-

myduction of fine and durable colours. myIn last report I stated it as

opinion, that both alizarin and rubiacin take part in the process, that rubiacin
alone produces no effect, but that when it is in combination with an alkali or
an alkaline earth, it forms double compounds with the alizarin compounds
of alumina and peroxide of iron, and thus increases the intensity of colour in
the latter. I have since found that this opinion cannot be sustained, since
rubiacin, whether free or combined, produces no beneficial eflf'ect in the pro-
cess of dyeing, and is therefore no true colouring matter, as the following
experiments will show.

   Since the brown precipitate produced by acids in a watery extract of
madder contains all the free colouring matter of the root, and acts in dyeing
in the same way as madder itself, it was evident that by trying the constitu-
ents of this precipitate in conjunction with one another, both in a free state
and in combination with lime, a correct view of the part performed by each
would be arrived at. Having therefore taken a piece of calico on which
three mordants had been printed, one for red, one for purple, and one for
black, in alternate stripes, each stripe being one quarter of an inch broad, and
having intervals between them of the same width, it was divided into pieces
of six inches by three, and one of these pieces was taken for each of the fol-
lowing experiments. As the tinctorial power of alizarin is very great, so
great that one quarter of a grain was enough to over-dye one of these pieces,
I took one or two grains of crystallized alizarin, dissolved it in a measured
quantity of water, to which a little caustic alkali had been added, and was
then able to divide the solution into portions corresponding to quarters,
eighths, and sixteenths of a grain, so that by precipitating one of these por-
tions with muriatic acid, filtering and carefully washing, I obtained small
quantities in a state very well adapted for dyeing. By treating one of these
              --

72 REPORT 1848.

quantities while on the filter with lime-water, and washing out the excess of

lime, I obtained small quantities of the lime compound of alizarin for the
same purpose. The same process was used for obtaining small quantities of

rubiacin, alpha-resin, beta-resin, pectic acid and rubian, and their lime com-

pounds. Each experiment was performed with the same quantity of water,

at as nearly as possible the same temperature, and occupied the same length
of time, viz. half an hour. The substances used, and their quantities, were

as follows :

1. ^ grain of alizarin.
2. Jg- gr. alizarin.

 3. -^ gr. alizarin and ^-^r gr. alizarin in combination with lime.   that

  4. ^^2 §·"· alizarin and g^ S^- alizarin in combination with lime.
 5. ^ gr. alizarin and ^ gr. rubiacin.
 6. ^ gr. alizarin and ^ gr. rubiacin in combination with lime.
 7. 52 g""' alizarin and ^^ g'"- rubiacin in combination with lime.
 8. ^ gr. alizarin and ^ gr. pectic acid.
 9. ^ gr. alizarin and ^ gr. pectic acid in combination with lime.
10. ^ gr. alizarin and ^ gr. alpha-resin.
11. ^ gr. alizarin and ^ gr. alpha-resin in combination with lime.
12. ^ gr. alizarin and ^ gr. beta-resin.
13. ^ gr. alizarin and ^ gr. beta-resin in combination with lime.
14. ^ gr. alizarin and ^ gr. rubian.
15. ^ gr. alizarin and ^ gr. rubian in combination with lime.

--Now the following results were obtained : No. 1 was everything

could be desired in regard to all the colours. No. 2 was of course only half

as dark. No. 3 was lighter than No. 1, and the white parts had a pink hue.

No. 4 was a little darker than No. 3, but not as dark as No. 1. No. 5 was
much inferior to No. 1 ; the red had an orange hue, the purple a reddish cast,
and the black was brown, while the white was yellowish. No. G was equal

to No. 1, but not darker, and in no respect superior. No. 7 was about equal

to No. 4. No. 8 had almost no colour at all ; the red, the purple and the

black were mere tinges of colour, such as might probably have been pro-

duced by the tenth part of the quantity of alizarin employed, if no pectic

acid had been present. No. 9 was again equal to No. 1. No. 10 was lighter

than No. 1, the purple especially being pale and reddish, while the white parts
were yellowish. No. II was equal to No. 1, but not superior. No. 12 was

exactly the same as No. 10, the purple having a disagreeable reddish cast,

while the white parts were yellowish. No. 13 was again equal to No. 1.

No. 14 and 15 did not differ from one another, and were equal to No. 1.

--Hence we may draw the following conclusions : Alizarin produces the

greatest effect in dyeing when used alone. The addition of lime, even in

very small quantities, does not increase its tinctorial power, but on the con-

trary neutralizes the effect of that portion with which it combines. Rubiacin,

the alpha-resin and the beta-resin, in a free state, when used in conjunction

with alizarin, are injurious in about the same degree : they weaken the red,

the black, and especially the purple, while they render the white part yel-

lowish. In combination with lime these substances do not increase the tinc-

torial power of alizarin, they merely allow it to act without hindrance. Pectic

acid almost destroys the effect of alizarin. Pectate of lime is perfectly in-

different. Rubian in a free state, and in combination with lime, has neither

a beneficial nor an injurious effect. Of all the substances therefore contained

in madder, none is of use in dyeing but alizarin, while all the others are in-

jurious when in a free state. That which is the most hurtful is pectic acid.

                                                                                 I
                       ON COLOURING MATTERS.                                                                                               7^

When alizarin and pcctic acid are present together in the dye-bath, the

pcctic acid having most affinity for bases, combines with the alumina and

peroxide of iron, and the alizarin crystallizes out wiien the bath cools, as I
noticed in performing the experiment No. 8. The same is without doubt the
case when using rubiacin or the resins. The alumina and peroxide of iron

combine with tliese substances to the exclusion of the alizarin ; and tliese
compounds are either colourless, or have a poor and unsightly colour. The

use of lime is therefore easily explained ; it serves, not to increase the tinc-

torial power of the colouring matter, but to combine with and render harm-

Nowless the substances which are injurious in a free state.    if we treat

madder with muriatic or sulphuric acid, we remove all the lime and magnesia

from it ; the pectic acid, the rubiacin and the resins become free ; and if we

wash with water,  the  muriatic or sulphuric  acid  is  certainly removed                                                                  but
                                                                                                                                        ;

those substances being but little soluble in cold water, remain and destroy the

effect of the alizarin in dyeing. But if previous to dyeing we add lime, the
pectic acid, the rubiacin and the resins being more electronegative than

alizarin, combine with the strongest base, which is the lime ; and the alizarin,
which is less electro-negative, combines with the weakest bases, viz. the

alumina and peroxide of iron. If we add an excess of lime, then of course

the alizarin also combines with the lime, and the alumina and peroxide of
iron having no free body to combine with, remain colourless. The process

is thus brought into harmony with our previous knowledge of the relative

affinity of acids and bases. It is probable that lime is not absolutely neces-

sary for the success of the operation, and that it might be replaced by potash,

soda, magnesia or baryta ; but as lime is the cheapest substance that can be
used for the purpose, it would be of no practical importance to find a substi-

tute for it.

I have in the preceding remarks leftxanthin out of consideration. During

the process of madder-dyeing this substance no doubt becomes oxidized,

and deposits the brown substance mentioned above, on all parts of the cloth.

This substance, together with the pectic acid, the rubiacin and the resins, are

removed afterwards by passing the cloth through a boiling solution of soap.

The alkali of the soap dissolves these substances, which have more affinity

for alkalies than alizarin, while the fat acid remains on the cloth in combina-

tion with the alizarin, the alumina and the peroxide of iron.

In order to prove analytically that alizarin is the substance which produces

madder colours, I took several yards of cloth which had been dyed purple

with madder, but not soaped, and treated it with muriatic acid, which re-
moved the oxide of iron, and left an orange-coloured substance on the cloth.

After washing the cloth in cold water luitil all the acid had been removed, it
was treated with caustic alkali. The brownish-red solution thus obtained

was supersaturated with an acid, and the reddish-brown precipitate formed

was thrown on a filter and well-washed with cold water : it was then treated
with boiling alcohol. The alcoholic liquid, which was dark yellow, was spon-

taneously evaporated, and gave crystals of alizarin mixed with a powder re-

sembling beta-resin, and a few yellow micaceous plates, which were probably

rubiacin. There remained a brown residue insoluble in alcohol, part of

which dissolved in boiling water, and proved to be pectic acid. On treating

some cloth which had been dyed with madder, and then soaped, with muriatic

acid as before, and then with caustic alkali, I obtained a purple solution, in

wliich acids produced a yellow precipitate. This precipitate was treated with

boiling alcohol like the other ; it gave a yellow liquid, which on evaporation
--74 REPORT 1848.

afforded crystals of alizarin, together with white masses of fat acid. Hardly
any residue remained undissolved by the alcohol.

   The preceding observations have a great bearing on the manufacture and
treatment of garancin. Garancin is the technical name for a ])reparation of
madder, which is obtained by treating madder with hot sulphuric acid until
it has acquired a dark brown colour, tlien adding water, straining and wash-
ing until all the acid is removed. The advantages which garancin has over
madder are, that it dyes finer colours, that the part destined to remain white
does not acquire any brown or yellow tinge, and that its tinctorial power is
greater than that of the madder from which it has been prepared. These

effects have been attributed to various causes. It has been asserted that the
sulphuric acid destroys the gum, the mucilage, the sugar, &c., and leaves the
colouring matter unaffected ; hence the greater beauty of garancin colours.

To account for the greater proportional effect of garancin, it has been said

that a part of the colouring matter is enclosed in cells of the wood, so that it
cannot be dissolved by water, and that the sulphuric acid destroys the wood

and liberates the colouring matter. To these views it may be objected, that

concentrated sulphuric acid, though it does not affect alizarin, does not de-
stroy any of the injurious substances in the root except the xanthin, while
the rubiacin, the resins, and the pectic acid, escape its action : and as far
as the wood is concerned, I can affirm that the operation succeeds equally
well if acid be taken of such dilution as not to destroy woody fibre. I think
that the superiority of garancin can only be attributed to two causes. In the
first place, since, as I have shown above, there is a quantity of colouring
matter in the root combined with lime and magnesia, by which it is rendered
insoluble and incapable of dyeing, one effect of the acid is to remove this
lime and magnesia, and to set the alizarin at liberty, which is then capable
of application. In the second place, the xanthin, which has an injurious
effect in madder-dyeing, is removed by washing with cold water, since it is
not precipitated by acids, while the whole of the alizarin remains. If hot
acid is employed, then the xanthin, or a part of it, is converted into that dark
green substance which 1 have mentioned above as the product of the action
of muriatic and sulphuric acid on xanthin ; hence the dark colour of garancin,
which is not owing to the charring of the woody fibre, as sometimes asserted.
It must be remembered however that the rubiacin, the resins and the pectic
acid, as well as the alizarin, remain uncombined after treatment with acid.
Hence it becomes necessary to add some base with which these substances

may combine, so as not to interfere with the action of the alizarin. I believe
it is the practice of garancin manufacturers to employ soda for this purpose.
1 think it would be better to use a small quantity of lime-water.

    I may slate in conclusion that the experiments described in this and the
last report were made with Avignon madder. The constituents and pro-
perties of Dutch madder, which is of rather a different nature, remain to be

examined.
    I have been lately engaged in examining the colouring matter of fustic,

which 1 have prepared in a state of purity, but the investigation is not suffi-

ciently advanced to justify me in making known the results, on the present

occasion.
        ON THE ADVANTAGEOUS USE OP A GASEOUS ESCA'PE. 75

On the advantageous use made of the gaseous escape from the Blast
   Furnaces at the Ystalyfera Iron Works. By James Palmer
   BUDD.

                 [A Communication ordered to be printed entire among the Reports.]

I AM glad of the opportunity of laying before the distinguished scientific and
practical men who are gathered together at this meeting of the British As-
sociation, what 1 believe to be one of the most important practical improve-
ments that has yet been introduced into the iron trade, and the application of
which will, if my views are correct, probably lead to a radical change in the
smelting of iron ores, and the manufacture of iron in this country.

   As a practical man, I shall first treat of practical results, and I think my-

self fortunate that I have to bring this subject forward in a locality where I

am inevitably brought in contact with many who are intimately acquainted
with the details of the iron trade. I have had the pleasure to exhibit to many
members of the British Association, the improvements 1 shall describe in ope-

ration on a large scale at Ystalyfera, and I shall feel pleasure in aflbrding any
others, who take an interest in the subject, full opportunity for investigation.

If I venture to suggest, beyond my positive results, the practicability, or I

think I might say the certainty of an enormous oeconomy, by the further de-
velopment of the system I have partially introduced at Ystalyfera, I do so
only because the facts and results arrived at irresistibly point onward to greater
improvement and oeconomy.

   The iron trade of Great Britain is so enormous in extent, that any oeconomy
in its processes which admits of general application, becomes of national im-
portance. Even if the saving on the current expense be small as a tonnage,
the multiple of the annual quantity of iron produced is so great as to make the
total gigantic. Thus, taking the annual produce of iron in Great Britain in
round numbers to be 1,500,000 tons, or about .500,000 tons made in En-
gland, 500,000 tons in Wales and Monmouthshire, 500,000 tons in Scot-
land, a saving of even \s. per ton on the cost of production amounts to the
large sum of £75,000 a-year.

   There is no detail of the iron trade that has appeared to me to be more a
standing reproach to its management, than the non-utilization in this country

of the enormous escape of combustible and incombustible gases, heated to a
very high temperature, that is constantly taking place from the tops of blast
furnaces. Some of these enormous crucibles yield 150 tons, in Scotland even
200 tons of iron a week, and these devour internally from 300 to 400 tons of
coal weekly, and respire 4000 and 5000 cubic feet of air as blast a minute.
These great craters vomit forth murky volumes of smoke and flame, which
pass wastefuliy and uselessly away to contaminate the atmosphere. So great
and obvious a source of heat has not failed however to attract the attention
of ingenious men, but more especially so, since it was found advantageous to
heat the blast of air before injecting it into the furnace. The use of hot-blast
at the tuyeres, could not fail to suggest the application of some part of the
waste heat about the furnace to the purpose of giving the desired temperature,
which is the moderate one of 600 degrees of Fahrenheit only.

    Unfortunately these attempts took two wrong directions ; one series of
attempts consisted in either ranging iron pipes around the tunnel head, in
which the blast was to be heated by the flames as they escaped, or in coiling
pipes round the interior of the furnace, so as to be heated by contact with the
ignited materials themselves ; or blast pipes were built into the masonry, so
as to receive heat by transmission without being however in contact with the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;

76 REPORT-- 1848.

burning material ; but in all cases the contrivance formed part of the furnHce
itself. All these several obsolete plans are shown in the drawings of an ela-
borate work on Hot-Blast, published officially at Freiberg in 1840, which
contains drawings of all the different apparatus that have been known in
England, Wales, Scotland, Belgium, Germany, and Sweden. The fatal objec-
tion to these plans for heating the blast was, that in case of derangement of
the apparatus, the operations of the furnace had to be suspended during re-
pair ; and even according to several of the schemes, it would have been neces-
sary to blow out the furnace itself, and take it down in order to repair a leaky

joint. These attempts were speedily relinquished, and I am not aware that

any plan of the kind is in operation in the iron trade abroad, certainly not in
this country. Another series of attempts took an opposite direction. The
top of the furnace was either partially or wholly closed, except during char-
ging; the gases were thus collected and carried to a reservoir or gasometer;
they were passed through water to be cooled and purified ; air-pumps were
employed to force them towards the point, where they were afterwards to be
burnt in a gas furnace. Several patents have been taken out for this appli-
cation, the first as early as 1838, but, although tried in various works, I do

not know that any plan of the sort is in use in this country. It was found

that the combustible gases collected from the furnace were so diluted with
nitrogen (itself incombustible and incapable of supporting combustion), that

--it required two conditions to burn them in so mixed a state : 1st. That a blast

of air should be employed. 2nd. That such blast should be heated. When

once ignited, the heat produced by these gases, consisting of carbonic oxide
and hydrogen partly in combination with carbon, is intense, so much so, that
the tops and sides of the gas-furnace were speedily melted down. Still, if this
plan of consuming the gases to produce heat, instead of being directed to
stoves and boilers, had been employed as abroad, to carry on the processes of
converting pig-iron into malleable iron, which require a very high tempera-
ture and a steady fire, with a limited admission of air, I think practice would
have perfected the details and conquered the obstacles ; but in this country of
cheap fuel, the gases being ignited merely to heat the blast or to raise steam,
requirinof only a temperature of melting lead and boiling water, and for pur-
poses where a high temperature cannot be employed without danger, it was
found a fatal objection that a blast machine had to be provided, and a hot-
blast apparatus kept at work to impart the necessary temperature for the gas
furnace ; thus of course reducing, and in fact destroying, all the saving to be
effected, besides complicating the operations of the furnace by additional
machinery and apparatus.

    This want of simplicity has led to the abandonment of the gas-furnace in
this country as a means of consuming the vapours escaping from the tops of
blast-furnaces. At this point I found the subject, when four years ago my
attention was attracted to it. Truly necessity quickens invention, and but
for an obvious difficulty under which I laboured, I fear I also should have
allowed the huge volumes of flame and vapour to pass off as heretofore un-
heeded. But I laboured under two serious disadvantages at Ystalyfera in
employing the hot-blast. First, as the furnaces working on anthracite coal
cannot be made to drive like coke-furnaces, although they burden heavily, the
make is only 50 or 60 tons of iron per furnace weekly, and falling on this
small weekly quantity, I had the cost of the hot-blast apparatus, consisting of
three stoves or heating furnaces, consuming about 3b tons of coal together a
week, and requiring the attendance of two men, one by day .ind one by night
next, as the small or slack of anthracite coal burns very imperfectly in a re-
verberatory furnace from its not caking at all, so that the draught of a chimney
,^^^'
--Plate II. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1848, p. 77.
                     ----

ON THE ADVANTAGEOUS USE OF A GASEOUS ESCAPE. 77

is not sufficient to ensure a passage of air through the grate, I was obliged to

use for the stoves coal of a rubbly size, and consequently of increased cost.

In this way I found the charge on the ton of iron, of heating the blast, very

onerous, as compared with other districts where larger quantities of iron per

furnace are made, and where the small of bituminous coal is used for the heating

ovens. Fortunately, in my attempts to use the escape from the tunnel head
to heat my blast of air, I neither made my apparatus part of the furnace, nor
did I attempt to burn the gases. I built my stove alongside the furnace, of

which however it forms no part, and by means of a stack about 25 feet higher

than the top of the furnace, I was enabled to draw into it as much of the

heated air and flame as I required. The result of this plan has been a most

perfect success, from its thorough simplicity. I interfere in no way with the
operations of the furnace ; everything is as before; my apparatus is merely three

or four horizontal flues of about 12 inches diameter, constructed about 3 feet

below the top of the furnace and leading into an adjoining chamber or stove,

provided with a stack which makes the draught. Into this stove I am enabled

to draw as much of the gaseous escape as I require, and by means of a damper

on the stack (what is equally important), as little as I choose. The quantity

required to produce hot-blast for a furnace is very little, not being more, as

far as I can judge, than one-sixth of the quantity passing off the tunnel head.

I attempt no combustion of the gases, for as they rise from the furnace and

enter the stove with a temperature of about 1800 degrees, and leave it at a

temperature of about 800 degrees, whilst all the heat I require for the blast

is about 600 degrees, the mere passage of them, as heated vapours through

the stove, gives me all the temperature I want ; whilst having no combustion

going on, the pipes remain uninjured, the bricks unmelted, and the apparatus

Myalways effective.  reason for thinking there is little combustion of the

gases at 3 feet below the surface of the materials is, that when the vapours

pass through the stove and reach the top of the stack, where they come in

contact with the atmosphere, there bursts out a bluish flame, visible at night,

which is speedily extinguished from a reduction of temperature below the

point at which the mixed gases burn. When, on the contrary, I allow the

materials in the furnace to fall below the mouths of the flues, a combustion of

the gases takes place previous to entering the stove, and the vaporous appear-

ance disappears. Looking at the perfect simplicity of the arrangement, I think

I may warrantably boast that this plan is equal in simplicity and in cheapness

 to the supply of hot water from the boiler at the back of the kitchen grate.

j

     Plate II., with the references, will explain the details of the arrangements

j

  at Ystalyfera.

    a. Cross section through furnace and heating stove, showing
' b b. Flues from furnace to stoves.

    c. Hot air chamber, containing
' d d. Upright hot air tubes.
, e e. Stacks which create the draught and draw the gases through the flues i h into the hot

             air chamber.

 I

 //. Dampers on stacks, to regulate the supply of heat from the furnaces into the hot air

 I

             chambers.

 (

! g g. Cross pipes, on which the upright hot air tubes are fixed.
 h h. Side pipes, conveying the blast to the cross pipes.

    i i. Upcast pipes, conveying cold air to the stove.
   jj. Downcast pipes, conveying heated air to the tuyeres.
kI k. Front doors, by opening which the draught is reversed, and the hot air chamber cooled

             down.

     !

I 1 1. Roofs over heating chambers.
' m. Horizontal section of heating chambers and flues.

    M. Vertical section through heating chamber and stack.
78 REPORT--1848.

   The plan thus described has several great advantages, some of which I did

--not at all foresee : 1st, it requires no coal or labour; 2nd, the blast is better

heated and more regular ; 3rd, the apparatus is more durable.
   The pipes not being exposed to great and sudden changes of temperature,

from being sometimes overfired, and at other times neglected, do not wear

out rapidly : so well proved is this, that the first stove I erected and set to

work on the 8th of November 1844, now three years and nine months ago,

is in good repair; and I even think that a sort of cementation process takes

place, so that the iron in the pipes becomes gradually so tough as to be nearly

indestructible, whilst, according to the former plan of stoves, I never had a set

to last twelve months, and although their construction and treatment may have
been much improved, it is well known the repairs are still frequent and costly.

I will now notice some points which have always been felt as probable ob-

jections to this application by practical men.

First, as to the probability ot the flues becoming choked. The flues, if built

of fire-brick, and placed not lower than 3 feet from the furnace top, have no

great tendency to clink, whilst any loose stuff collecting in the mouths can be

readily removed by a rabble.

Secondly, as to the stove becoming full of dust. The quantity of dust that

collects in a stove is not great, and until it accumulates very much is of no

inconvenience, from there being such a surplus supply of heat at command.

On the contrary, we think the deposit of dust in the stove rather a protection
to the pipes, and we have gone on with a stove eighteen months without

cleaning, which continued to give good hot-blast.

Thirdly, as to the supposed cooling of the blast during stoppage of the

furnace. If a furnace stops from any cause, we lower the damper, and the

stove is so closed in and full of heat, with so little of its surface exposed to

cooling,  that we  have the  blast  hot within  a  few minutes  of starting  again
                                                                                              j

besides, we can always keep the damper up until the stove is in full heat, for

ordinarily the damper is nearly close down on the top of the stack.

Fourthly, as to the difficulty of obtaining hot-blast in blowing in a furnace.

As to starting a new furnace and a new stove, we put on a cold-blast load for

the first day's melting, after which the stove gets dry and gives us hot-blast

without further trouble. If the stove be of green masonry, I put a small

drying fire into the stove at the door, and continue it until the draught acts

readily through the flues. It happened to me in the first stove I erected that
the damper was let down until the stove should have dried ; the gas from the

furnace collected until it attained the condensation and temperature requisite
for explosion, which took place, blowing out the front of the stove. By the

precaution of leaving the damper up, this cannot happen.

Fifthly, as to the means of cooling the stove, so as to have access to it.

The mode in which this is effected is one of the most perfect parts of the
whole arrangement : each stove has a door in front. If we want to cool
down a stove so as to enter it, we let down the damper, which stops the

draught from the furnace, and we open the front door, which admits a draught

of cold air through the stove and flues into the furnace ; we either wholly
close the damper and open the door, or only partially so, if we think it best to
reduce the temperature gradually, and we have never done any damage to a

stove in cooling, which is far from being the case when the fire-bars are taken
out from an ordinary stove-grate to cool it down ; for it is a common saying that
the cooling down of a stove tostop a leak, generally produces a dozen fresh ones.

There is however one point to be attended to, from neglect of which I had

nearly made shipwreck of the plan.

Fortunately, I erected the first stove so low down the side of the furnace,

that the point where the flues entered was much above the cross pipes ; and
ON THE ADVANTAGEOUS USE OP A GASEOUS ESCAPE. 79

this arrangement worked well ; but I thought it would be an improvement in
building the next oven to raise the whole higher, which I did, so that the cross

pipes were on a level with the mouths of the fiues. The consequence of this

alteration was, that as the cemented joints are never free from pin-hole leaks,

the small jets of air that escape ignited the gases, working like so many

small blowpipes, and caused an immense local temperature, so much so, as
speedily to destroy the stove j I had however my first plan to fall back upon,
which enabled me to correct this error, or it would probably have been fatal to

the application ; accordingly we lowered the apparatus, and had no more in-

convenience.     The  remedy  is  easily                 explained                                     for by lowering the stove so
                                                                                                    ;

as to have the cross and side pipes below the mouths of the flues, as the gases

from their levity do not descend lower than the entrance into the stack, the

joints are not placed in a combustiblq medium, but, on the contrary, the space

below is probably filled with carbonic acid, the heavier gas, which being inca-

pable of supporting combustion, any small leak of air there may be is of no

importance whatever.

I have six furnaces at Ystalyfera, built in a row, and joined together by

arches j on these arches five stoves are placed, which heat the blast for the
six furnaces; each stove is consequently between two furnaces, and has flues

conveying the heat from both. I have also a hot-blast main pipe, so that all

the heated air is in a pipe common for all the furnaces. This is an excellent

arrangement for any one erecting new works, but is not at all necessary to

my plan, as I have No. 2 furnace working alone, with a stove on one side

only, which heats the blast perfectly ; indeed the means of heating the blast
are so excessive of what is required, that any length or drop in the flues
leading to the stove may be compensated for by an increased height of stack.
The gaseous escape could I am now convinced be carried a great distance,

and be equally eflective as a heating medium, if preserved from access of air,

and provided the temperature is kept up; if the flue is carried under ground,

both these ends will be attained. I calculate that the cost of erecting a stove

attached to a furnace on my plan, as compared with two or three stoves in

the ordinary way, at the base of a furnace, is about one- third less in favour of

my arrangement, as I have a much less weight of metal in the pipes, and a

great deal less  masonry  to  erect                      the  repairs are nothing.                     It will thus be
                                                      ;

seen that I take credit for having conquered a great practical difficulty, and

for having made a useful and oeconomical application of part of the gaseous

escape from the furnaces at Ystalyfera.

To me the saving is important, which I calculate as follows, compared with

the use of the ordinary heating ovens.

Thirty-three tons of anthracite coal saved a week of

        rubble size at 4a'                                                                             ,. £6 12

Two men, and wheeling coal and ashes                                                                             2

                                                                                                       £8 r2

per week, or                                                  £447  4                                  per annum.

Saving in repair of stove, say~]

one-fifth of £500, the cost S 100

of new stoves                                            J

                                                              £547

which on ten furnaces, the full extent of the works, would amount to
£5470 a-year, or on five furnaces our present scale of work, to £2735 a-year.
In the bituminous coal districts, where slack coal can be used for heating the
stoves, the coal consumed would only be worth 2s. 6d. or 35. per ton; but then
such coal is very wasteful, and probably a greater quantity would be required
than with anthracite, so as to make the expense of fuel equal.
--80 REPORT 1848.

   The caution and reluctance to entertain or adopt alterations in any pro-
cess of manufacture, is a safe and prudent feeling in those who manage ma-
nufacturing concerns, and I by no means complain of it, when applied to my-
self j but as time passes by, and the iron trade observes that my stoves do
not wear out, that there are no stoppages for repair, that I use no coal or
labour, and thus have the blast well-heated without any current cost, I expect
that a greater degree of interest will be felt in my improvement. If of the
1 ,500,000 tons of iron made yearly in Great Britain, we assume that 1,000,000
tons are made by hot-blast in 200 furnaces, making 5000 tons a-year each,
the saving of £500 a-year per furnace would be £100,000 a-year. Tiiis im-
portant amount will I hope soon be added to the profits of the iron trade, or

at least be a reduction from its losses.

    Having thus given an account of the use made of the gaseous escape from
the blast furnaces at Ystalyfera, to heat the air by which they are blown, I
will proceed to detail the further use made of the same plentiful and valuable,
though hitherto neglected vapours, to raise the steam for the engine.

     I stated that I do not consider that it requires one-sixth of the escape of a
furnace to heat the blast in the stove ; this sixth part does the work of from
·30 tu 35 tons of rubbly anthracite coal a week, burnt in the ordinary way in
ireverberatory furnaces. I was deterred until recently from applying any part

·of the other five-sixths going uselessly to waste, to the purpose of raising
«team in the boilers, by the distance of the boilers from the furnaces. I

ifeared that the heated vapours would be too much cooled down in the passage
to the boilers, and that the draught would consequently be faint. However,
'On tlie approach of the meeting of the British Association, I resolved to make
the attempt, to show the practical men who might attend it, that the long-
lieglected gaseous escape of a furnace would not only heat the blast, but with-

out combustion raise the steam also in the boilers. For this purpose I pre-
pared No. 9 furnace for blast, and as No. 8 furnace adjoining is out of blast,
the whole result attained is the independent effect from No. 9 alone. To

·carry out my purpose, besides applying part of the escape from No. 9 to its hot-

Wast stove adjoining, I constructed two flues, 24 inches in diameter, leading
into a main flue 32 inches in diameter, which is conducted into the tube of the
nearest boiler, the distance from the furnace to the boiler being 46 feet. The
tube of the boiler is divided by a brick partition into two compartments, and
the heated vapours pass four times through and under the boiler, a total
 length of 120 feet. The boiler stack is 80 feet high and 6 feet in diameter,
 and creates an overpowering draught, which takes off the gases from the
 furnace, and fills the boiler with these heated vapours. Although from the
 length of the flue required, 46 feet, to conduct the vapour from No. 9 furnace
 to the boiler, during which it is exposed to the cooling of the atmosphere in
 its whole length, being carried on girders as a bridge, I consider that a con-
 siderable part, say above one-half of the heating effect, is lost as compared
 ·with that produced in the stoves, where the flues are under cover in masonry,
 and the whole is kept close, yet the success of the attempt has been beyond

 my expectations. The boiler raised double the steam it did when heated by

 ·coal, so that I am already in the enjoyment of a saving of 35 tons of coal a
 week on the boilers' use. I am preparing to carry the gaseous escape from
 two other furnaces to two other boilers, and in doing this I shall protect the
 flue from exposure to the air, which will I expect give me sufficient steam for

 the engine, and I have little doubt of saving the consumption of boiler coal
 altogether, except we use one boiler with a fire, in order to make a start in
 case of stoppage. I might perhaps have deferred the attempt, which 1 have
 long contemplated, to use the vapours from the furnace to raise steam, but for
 the visit of the British Association, and this rousing one to action is among
                             ----

ON THK ADVANTAGEOUS USE OP A GASEOUS ESCAPE. 81

the many benefits such visits confer on a neighbourhood. Tiie saving alieatlv
effected by the application to one boiler is equal to £350 a-year, and the total

saving of doing away with the use of coal in the boilers, and consequently

with attendance, fire-bans, bricks, would at full work exceed £2000 a-year.

The savingis I have mentioned are so serious in amount, that they cannot safely

be neglected by the iron trade.

But although I save the use of 35 tons of coal a week in the stoves, and

35 tons a week in one of the boilers by taking off a portion of the heated

air from No. 9 furnace, and although the gas sent to the boiler wastes

half its heat in the passage, there still remains one-half of the quantity usually

escaping, passing off the tunnel head. If I closed the tunnel head of No. 9,
so as to collect all the gases, it would therefore appear that I should obtain a

heating power equal to the use of 1 40 tons of coal a week in air furnaces, and

that merely by the passage of such gases through the boilers and stoves in

contact whh iron vessels, containing the water and air required to be heated.

But as I only consume about 100 tons of coal a week in the No. 9 furnace,

this is 40 tons more effect than the whole coal used, vviiich melts besides

from 150 to 160 tons of iron ores and limestone flux, and produces 50 or

60 tons of pig-iron a week, and all this while I have not consumed the gases,

but merely received by contact with good conductors some part of the high
temperature acquired in the furnace. What other inference can I draw but

one, that a very large proportion of the fuel used in reverberatory furnaces

is unprofitably wasted ? for it would appear to be more profitable to employ

a blast-furnace, if as a gas generator only, even if you smelted nothing in it,
and carried off its heated vapours by flues to your boilers and stoves, than to
employ a separate lire to each boiler and each stove. These considerations

irresistibly suggest to me a great revolution in metallurgical practice ; a new

arrangement in fact of furnaces and works, by which considerably, above one

million a-year might be saved in the iron trade alone.

   The following is the analysis of the gas escaping from the Ystalyfera an-
thracite furnaces made by Dr. Schafhaeutl.

First, of the gas taken off 16 feet below the surface of coal and mine in the

furnace, he gave the following result :

           Carbonic acid                                00'136

           Carbonic oxide                , 18974
           Hydrogen
                                                27"844

           Light carburetted hydrogen                   3-212

           Sulphurous acid with traces of arseni-

           uretted and phosphuretted hydrogen           trace

           Nitrogen                                     49-844

                                                        100-000

A very considerable change takes place when the gas has access to the at-

mosphere.

At I foot only below the surface of the coal and mine in the furnace, the

following is his analysis :

           Carbonic acid                                 9546
           Carbonic oxide
                                                        12*012

           Hydrogen                                     21-278

           Light carburetted hydrogen                   2-548

           Sulphurous acid with traces of arseni-

           uretted and phosphuretted hydrogen           0-111

           Nitrogen                                     54-505

1848.                                                   Foo-ooo
                                                                          o
--S2 REPOBT 1848.

From close observation, I think at about 3 feet below the surface of the

materials, which is the point where I draw off my supply from the furnace,

very little combustion has taken place, and that the gases remain pretty much

Weas they were in the bowels of the furnace.  observe, that as the gases

rising from the furnace come in contact with the atmosphere, the whole burst

out into a spontaneous flame, and it is my object to take them off at a point,

where from the cover of the materials they are protected from this combus-
tion, and this from practice 1 find to be about 3 feet down. The large

quantity of hydrogen in the analysis is puzzling, as anthracite coal only con-

tains 2 or 3 per cent., and certainly the flame from au anthracite furnace,

seen at night, is very different in colour from that escaping from furnaces

using bituminous coal, the flame being of a bluish-white colour, and not at all

yellow. The absence of carbonic acid in the first analysis, and its presence

in the second, proves that thfe solid carbon of the fuel, after having been con-

verted at the tuyeres into carbonic acid gas, by combustion with the oxygen
of the blast, passing upwards into the middle region of the furnace, where

carbon is in excess, absorbs an additional dose of it, and is thereby converted

into carbonic oxide, a combustible gas ; and tlie whole gaseous escape of the
furnace, before the access of the atmosphere, appears to consist of about 50

per cent of highly inflammable gases and 50 per cent, of nitrogen, incombus-

tible, but heated to a very high temperature. What use shall then be made

of this great escape of combustible gas, after using it, as I do, as a mere heating

medium ? The passage through the boilers and stoves, where this heating

effect is given, and where all access of atmospheric air is carefully prevented,

would in no way interfere, under proper arrangements, with its subsequent

use as a highly combustible gas in a suitable furnace.

    In reverberatorv furnaces everything depends upon a good draught being
maintained, so that, although the chimneys may be full of combustible gases,

as we plainly see they are at night when passing the copper works, yet

nothing can be done to arrest them, they must pass oft' freely, so that a full

supply of air may be drawn through the fire-grate ; this difficulty will always
be a great obstacle to the curing of coal smoke, or to the condensation of me-

tallic vapours passing off therewith over the bridge. But this does not at all

apply to the blast-furnace ; nothing there depends on draught, but every-
thing on the power of the steam-engine to force a column of air through

40 feet of dense materials. The combustible gases passing over a rever-

beratory furnace speedily combine in the stack with a fresh dose of oxygen,

and become useless, whilst on the contrary, the carbonic acid resulting from

combustion at the tuyeres in a blast-furnace, meeting with an excess of carbon,

becomes again a combustible gas, as carbonic oxide.

It therefore appears that the whole of the present arrangements of an iron

works ought to be reversed, that the steam-engines and boilers for the blast,

and for the forge and mill, should be on a platform above the back wall, the

stoves being alongside the furnaces ; the steam should be raised in the boilers,
and the air heated in the stoves, by the mere passage of the gases from the

gas generator (the furnace) towards the gas furnaces, in which the refinery,

boiling, puddling and balling processes necessary to convert pig into malle-

able iron, should be performed. If the whole of the solid carbon put into the

furnace be present at the tunnel head as carbonic oxide, requiring another

dose of oxygen for saturation, and giving thereby a further production of
heat, its entire combustion would without doubt, in gas furnaces, be amply

sufficient for the mill and forge purposes. There is, besides, the hydrogen of

the fuel, which from its volatile nature never reaches the tuyeres, and per-

forms no useful part in a blast-furnace, but which would then be fully em-
        ON THE ADVANTAGEOUS USE OF A GASEOUS ESCAPE. 83

ployed, and from its igniting at a lower temperature, greatly assist in the
operations of the gas furnace ; and therefore I believe the fuel put into the
blast-furnace would, with such arrangements, not only by the combustion
of its solid part, at and near the tuyeres, smelt the pig-iron from the ore, but
by the mere passage of these vapours, heat the blast, raise the steam, and
finally, by the entire combustion of the gases, supply fuel for the forge and mill,
and thus complete the whole conversion from the ores to malleable iron, by
the consumption of about 2 tons of fuel, instead of using 6 tons or there-
abouts as at present. It cannot be doubted that the air-furnace is a most
imperfect instrument in metallurgy: a large proportion of the fuel is unprofit-
ably converted therein into combustible gases, which pass unburnt out of the
chimney. It requires indeed a very large drawback from the effect of the fuel
used in air-furnaces, to account for how I have attained such superior results,
by merely passing one-half of the gaseous escape unconsumed through a boiler

on one side of my No. 9 furnace, and through a heating stove on the other.

The difficulty that would remain in carrying out fully the utilization of the
whole power of the fuel put into the furnace, would be the management of
the gas-furnace. 1 regret I have not had opportunities of personally witness-
ing the use of gas-furnaces, consuming the escape from blast-furnaces, for the
purposes of the processes of the forge and mill, such being only practised
abroad, where the dearness of fuel has induced persistence and perseverance
in the application ; I have however witnessed a gas-furnace in successful opera-
tion at Ynyscedwyn, under the direction of the patentee, Mr. Detmokl. In
this case, the gas was not however derived from the blast-furnace, but was
generated in a sort of double furnace, in which the combustible gases are ge-
nerated by a blast of air injected into the ash-pit, whence it passes through I he
 coal in the grate, whilst the combustible gases thus produced are consumed by
 forcing amidst them in their passage over the fire-bridge, heated and com-
 pressed atmospheric air supplied in numerous small streams.

    Mr. Detmold had successfully introduced this description of furnace for
 forge and mill purposes into the anthracite districts of the United States,
 where from a deficiency of flame this fuel could not be used for boiling and
 puddling in the usual reverberatory furnaces, and he came over to this country
 to introduce his improvements here. The gas-furnace tried at Ynyscedwyn was
 for the purpose of refining pig-iron, or converting it into what is technically
 called metal, it being a desideratum to refine with anthracite coal, which from
 its great density we are unable to do. The heat produced was very great,
 yet by means of water-breasts, and other contrivances, the furnace stood
 pretty well. The iron was speedily converted into metal, which proved on
 trial to be of good quality ; and the loss of yield was much less than in the
 refinery process at present used ; but the metal had a dull appearance instead
 of the silvery appearance, by which its good quality is generally judged j and
 as a greater part of the anthracite melal is exported to distant markets abroad,
 this difficulty caused the process not to be pursued. It appears to me probable,
 from the difficulty there will be to use anthracite coal in puddling, boiling
 and balling, on account of the absence therein of the constituents that make

  the protecting flame necessary in these processes in reverberatory furnaces,
  that the gas-furnace will be introduced into use in this country in the

 anthracite districts, when the manufacturers of iron with this fuel feel the
 necessity of extending beyond the make of pig-iron. I may therefore, at
 some subsequent meeting of the British Association, have to detail the results
 of this application at Ystalyfera. At present, 1 shall carefully proceed to
  apply the heating power of the gaseous escape fully to the boilers, as I have
 done to the stoves, and shall also endeavour to calcine the mines in the same

                                                                                g2
                                                                  ;

Si REPORT 184S.

way, so as to reduce the expenditure of fuel to that which takes place in the

blast-furnace. Proceeding cautiously and in a commercial spirit, 1 do not

despair of so combining profit with experiment, as in practice to show the ex-

ample of the final oeconomy I have pointed out, namely, that for less than

2 tons of coal put into the furnace, 1 shall complete the manufacture from the

ores to malleable iron, thus oeconomizing two-thirds of the coal used in the

iron manufacture in this country.

If the result I have pointed to is ever arrived at, as 1 believe it may be, that

the whole process from the ore to the malleable iron be completed and

achieved by the coal put into the furnace, for the purpose only, according to

present practice, of reducing the iron from its ores, the saving of fuel in the

manufacture of iron in Great Britain will not be less than 5,000,000 tons a

year, worth considerably more than £1,000,000 sterling. Thus the blast-

furnace would come to be considered, not merely as a smelting-furnace for the

reduction of ores and metals, but as a gas generator, the source whence was

to be drawn all the heat necessary for all the subsequent processes. I will not

indulge myself further in speculating on the great revolution so vast an oeco-

nomy would produce, but will content myself with the hope that my observa-

tions will be received vvith indulgence, as I wish to divest them of all preten-

Mysions.  practice  makes  the  myfirst part of  subject  sure ;  and in speculating

on the further use of the gases passing off from our blast-furnaces as a substitute

for coal in the subsequent processes of converting pig into malleable iron, I

have followed the lead and indication which the facts I have arrived at obvi-

myously offer. I hope  notice of the subject will attract the attention of those

in the iron trade more competent than I am to pursue it to a satisfactory result
and I am content to place my views on record as those of one who is convinced

that the prosperity of the iron trade depends on the oeconomy of its processes,

and that in fact its profits must be made out of its savings.

Report ofpro(/ress in the investigation of the Action of Carbonic Acid

   on the Groivth of Plants allied to those of the Coal Formations. By
   Robert Hunt.

This investigation was assigned to the charge of a committee, and two sets
of experiments have been established, one by Dr. Daubeny at Oxford, and
the other by Mr. Hunt in London, upon ferns which have been supplied from
the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew. The arrangements are such, that two
sets of these plants, belonging to the same class, are made to grow under the
same circumstances, except that one set is supplied with measured quantities
of carbonic acid. Numerous preliminary experiments had to be made, and

several sets of plants have been destroyed in the progress of these. No

general result can be announced beyond the fact, that the plants, by being
gradually inured to the agency of the carbonic acid, can be made to bear a
greater quantity than when a large per-centage is given to them at once.
The experiments must be continued over a long period before we can arrive
at any decided result.

Supplement to the Temperature Tables printed in the Report of the

  British Association for 184'J. By Professor H. W. Dove, Cor.

   Memb. of the British Association ; containing 84 additional Stations.
..

[Dove.' ale Year.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (To face p. Si.^                [1]

                   I'lnter. Spring.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DiSF.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      &W.&H. C. DifF.  No. of    Hour of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Years.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      months. S.               ohservation.

Fort Ent«23-5o g-2o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18-83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   j      49-78 37-32

Iluluk .. 33-56 35-08                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          38-94  23-00            I| 8, I, 9 ....

Kotzebuej . .   j                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              26-83  31-28             4- dail. e,vtr. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               25-12  76-96
Neu Her(i4'3o' 36-15                                                                                                                                                                                                                      39-28 26 50                        24-48           8,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             70-20
Fort SiiuJii-o4 26-10                                                                                                                                                                                                                     59-16     26-24

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1

Anahuac .          68-15                                                                                                                                                                                                                  81-85    50-46
Boston. .28-29     46-09                                                                                                                                                                                                                  69-04    46-67
F. Crawfoig-go     45-28                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70-79
Flatbush 33-34     50-66                                                                                                                                                                                                                  69-47

Frederictii8-i7 36-67                                                                                                                                                                                                                     61-25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          73-07
Germant(^i'go 50-63                                                                                                                                                                                                                       76-90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7o"33
New Har^7-67 I 58-75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          80-33
Huntingtfe8-67 45'33                                                                                                                                                                                                                      68-83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7 5 '40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              j           68-11

Hunt's V^8-67 60-67
Ogdensbu8-84 41-76
Richmon(^7-2o 1 5573
Schenect%3-5g 44-82

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;
--s. Mean Temperature of each Month, each Season, and tlie whole Year.  (,To/,,cej,.si.)  cn
        . .. .                                                                                                                                                                                                               M ..                   .

[2]                e whole Year.                                                                                     (To face p. 84!.)                                                                                                                 [Dove.]

                                                                                                             Diff.                                                                                                  No. of             Hour of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Years.
                                                                              Spring           Aut.   Year.  H.&C.       Diff.                                                                                                       observation.
                                                                                                             months
                                                                                                                     S.&W

 Benedictbeu r                                                                47-27   62-99    43'47  45-98  38-18   32-82                                                                                                         7. 2. 9
 Breslau .                                                                            63-61    48-42  46-74  37-42
 Coblenz .                                                                    4573    66-62           51-47  35-64   34-42                                                                                                          6, 9, 12, 3, 9
Cronberg .                                                                                     5174   50-93  42-82   30-96                                                                                          6
[Edenkoben                                                                    51-86   67-58           52-12  34-69
                                                                              50-64   66-07    49-76                 3183                                                                                           1, red.     red. .
                                                                                               51-72                 29-14
                                                                              5374                                                                                                                                  1, red. M,

Eisleben .                                                                    48-44   62*22    5175   43-13  37-44   32-10                                                                                                               8, 2, 8 .
Elberfeld ...[                                                                49-41   63-08           50-00  30-37   26-47
Erlbach                                                                       51-15   63-92    50-90  48-63  35-26   31-97                                                                                          1, red. M, red. . -
Freiberg i. .                                                                 48-20   65-98           48-37  39-13   35-15
Glatz .                                                                       44-18   61-66    48-49  46-85  31-32   26-52                                                                                          9 9. 12. 3
                                                                                               48-57                                                                                                                                  7. 2, 9 .
                                                                                               46-42

Gottersdorf .                                                                 44-22   61-67    42-65  44-71  35-51   31-38                                                                                                      7. 2. 9 ·
Koethen . .                                                                   46-99            49-28  48-09  36-56   31-83
Kreuzburg .                                                                   44"3i   63-97    45-07  47-04  32-53   26-69                                                                                                      6, 2, 10
                                                                              45-40   62-74    47-07  46-25  36-86   33-"56                                                                                                     2-3 ···
Krumau . . .j                                                                 42-04            44'53  44-37  31-81   25-58                                                                                                      7. 2, 9 .
Kupferberg .»                                                                         6305

                                                                                      58-51

Landshut . . .t                                                               44-30   59-22    44-61  45-08  35-12   27-05                                                                                                            7, I, 10
                                                                              48-07   61-73    46-74  46-92  36-10   30-09                                                                                          1, red. M.
Landshut . . .j.                                                              43-81   61-94    45-84  46-90  33-01   25-92
Leobschutz .^                                                                         64-10    48-02  48-61  32-83   27-22                                                                                                            6, 2, 9
Liegnitz g. . .                                                               45'43   63-46    48-90  47-89  35-80   30-85                                                                                                           6, 2, 10
Meiningen . i                                                                 46-58                                                                                                                                                    6, 10, 1,6, io,red.

Mittenwald .                                                                  43"44   .';9*93  45*65  44-92  33-21   29-29
                                                                         f^.  44-41            47-59  47-85  32-58   25-49
                                                                              46-go   62-44    47-5°  49-45  40-59   32-15
Neisse          ^                                                                     67-78    46-64  47-82  46-60   34-31                                                                                                      6, 2, 10
                                                                              49-09   64-93                                                                                                                                     6, 12, 9
Oppeln          5                                                             46-52            50-99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7. 12, 9
Pless ...

Ratibor . . . |6

Crespano .                                                                    52-24   68-44    54-13  52-83  34-56   31-94                                                                                                      2-3
Marostica . e.                                                                56-36   72-40    58-50  56-59  37-04   33-28
St.JeandeMai5                                                                 50-05   65-74    49-63  49-47  37-27   32-29
Barcelona . Jg                                                                60-37   77-00    64-51  63-03  30-06   26-82

Malta          £                                                                               69-04         20-90
                                                                                               79-06         32-63
Ionian Islands                                                                        76-89
                                                                                      92-02
Alexandria . ^3                                                               69-31
                                                                              84-79
               -4                                                                                     80-10          27-48

Goteborg . . . .c 43-67                                                               62-17    47-74  46-27  33-22 30-67
                                                                                      62-72    51-74  47-31
HofFmannsgav5 44-61                                                                   62-08    47-04  45-15  40-75 32-57                                                                                                        9. 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Morn. 12
Lund                                                                          41-79                                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                red.
                                                                                                             3476 i 32-39

Oestersund . .b                                                               3404    56-12    37-88  35-81  48-60   40-92
                                                                                      61-19    48-99  46-33  32-59   29-76
Praestoe ...                                                                  43-70   56-03    43-75  41-51  33-78   28-93
                                              .[3                             39-16   57-89    32-10  31-06  57-99   51-48
                                                                              27-83
Sondmor . . . .b

Torneo     ,1

Carlo                                                                         33-04   59-65    38-21  36-41  51-50   44-89                                                                                                      6, 12,6.
Desert of Kir                                                                 35-57   65-91    32-95  34-78  80-57   6i-2i
                                                                                                             69-12                                                                                                              8.3.8 .
Nischney Tug
                                                                              34-14   61-66    31-23  33-94  65-14   52*99                                                                                                      7.2.9 .
Pyscbminsk                                                                    41-60   56-96    23-01  31-79  65-38   51-39                                                                                                      2-3 ...
Soliskamsk .                                                                          65-24    29-21  31-92  80-83   67-36
Uicimo Utkins                                                                 35-35

        a- Li al. p. 96.                                                              k. Ibid. p. 113.               «. Tidskr. for Natur. 3, 4.
        b- It 243.                                                                                                   o. Schouw, Veirligets Tilstand.
        d. Li                                                                                                        p. V. Buch, Can. Ins.
                         --10. Germany. Mean Temperature of each Monlh, each Season, and the whole Year.         iTofacep.U.)

 Bencdicibeurn.-                                                                                          48-63
                                                                                                          48-57
'Eislcbcn .-.                                                                                             46-85

.lEIberfeld...    30-38
                  31-73
EHbach
 Freiberg ...            , Spain. Coast of the Me:                                                                             I
 Gottersdorf                                s!;«
Kocthen
Kreuzburg .

Mittenwald .
Keiiie
Oppeln

Malta .
Ionian 1Ulands.
'Alexandria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;

        ON THE MONTHLY ISOTHERMAL LINES OF THE GLOBE. 85

Remarks by Professor Dove on his recently constructed Maps of the

    Monthly Isothermal Lines of the Globe, and on some of the principal
   Conclusions in regard to Climatology deducible from them : with an

   introductory Notice by Lieut.-Col. Edward Sabine, Gen. Sec.

[The report of the British Association for 1847 contained a communication
from Professor Dove of the mean temperature in Fahrenheit's scale of every
month of the year at above 800 stations on the globe, to which he has since
added in the volume for 1848 a supplemental list of 84 stations. From the
materials thus collected and combined Professor Dove has constructed maps
of the isothermal lines over the whole surface of the globe for every month of
the year, which maps have been partly engraved and partly lithographed at
the expense of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin. The Association
has received from Professor Dove the very liberal offer of a supply of any
number of copies of these maps that may be desired, at no other cost than
that of the paper and of taking off the impressions. This offer having been
received since the meeting of the Association at Swansea, the Council, who
in the intervals between the meetings act on behalf of the General Committee,

--have directed that 500 copies of the plates, which it is understood will be

three in number, one containing the isothermals for January and July con-
trasted, as being the months of greatest dissimilarity, and the other two

--containing the isothermals of each of the twelve months separately repre-

sented, should be asked for, for the purpose of being offered to the mem-

bers of the Association at a price which should merely cover their cost. It
is expected that these copies will be received in England and be ready for
distribution by the time of the Birmingham Meeting.

    In part fulfilment of Professor Dove's promise to lay before the British
Association a notice of some of the more interesting conclusions in regard to
climatology, to which he has been led by this extensive generalisation, he

has communicated the following paper (written in German and translated by
Mrs. Sabine), which the Council have directed to be inserted in the annual
volume, as a supplemental report to the one printed in the volume for 1 847
and they have also directed that a sufficient number of additional impressions
should be struck off to furnish copies to accompany the maps.

                                                                 Edward Sabine,

                                                                                               General Secretary.']
                          Professor Dove's Supplemental Report.

The preliminary works on which these maps are based, are printed in the
Transactions of the Berlin Academy. They treat of tlie elimination of the

non-periodic and periodic variations of the temperature.
   The temperature of any particular month varies very much in different

years ; its true value can therefore only be concluded from observations
during a long series of years, and we possess such for so few places, that if
we were to limit ourselves exclusively to them, the points through which the
isothermals are drawn would be too few in number. It was therefore
necessary to find some means of correcting observations which extend over
only a few years, so that they might be in some degree equivalent to con-
clusions drawn from a longer period. This would be impossible if the va-
riations in different years were local in a very restricted sense, and an inquiry

into this point was therefore tlie first thing required. The thermic march of
the weather during an interval of 115 years, from 1729 to 1843 inclusive, was
sought to be determined in four memoirs on the non-periodic variations of tem-
perature on the earth's surface ; this was done by forming tables of contempo-
raneous series of observations for a considerable number of years, and dedu-
--86 REPORT 1848.

cing the variations of the months in single years from the means of the same
months drawn from many years. It thence appeared that important varia-
tions are never merely local, but that the same character of weather prevails

over large portions of the globe ; that the anomaly reaches its maximum in
one spot, in receding from which it lessens more and more, until, passing

through places where the thermic conditions are in their normal state, an
opposite extreme is reached, which so compensates the first, that the general
sum of warmth distributed over the earth at any particular time of year is

the same in different years, although the values which make up the sum may
be very different. Knowing the prevailing character of the \veather in par-
ticular places in the different years, we are enabled to deduce from the devia-

tions at a few normal stations, where the observations extend over a long series
of years, the quantitative corrections to be applied to the results of observa-
tions continued for only a few years. The fourth memoir contains the cor-

--rections calculated for nineteen such normal stations : Madras, Palermo,

Milan, Geneva, Vienna, Regensburg, Stuttgard, Carlsruhe, Berlin, Copen-
hagen, Torneo, London, Kinfauns Castle, Zwanenburg, Paris, Salem, Al-
bany, Gothaab and Reykiavig. These four memoirs also contain the com-
plete data derived from observations at 700 stations ; or the monthly means

during the respective years of observation.

    The second necessary correction is that required for eliminating the
diurnal variation, and reducing the observations made at particular hours to
the mean of the whole twenty-four hours, as it is only at a few stations that
 observations were made hourly. These latter stations, twenty-nine in number,

 supply the values required to reduce the observations at any particular hour
 to the mean of the twenty-four hours, and are given in the memoir entitled

 " On the Diurnal Variations of the Temperature of the Atmosphere." They

--are : Rio Janeiro, Trevandrum, Madras, Bombay, Frankfort Arsenal, To-

 ronto, Rome, Padua, Kremsmiinster, Prague, Muhlhausen, Halle, Gottin-
 gen, Salzuflen, Brussels, Plymouth, Greenwich, Leith, Apenrade, Christiania,
 Drontheim, Helsingfors, Petersburgh, Catharinenburg, Barnaul, Nertschinsk,
 Matoschkin Schar, the Karian Gate, and Boothia Felix.

     It still remained to deduce from single years the monthly means for periods
 of many years. The temperature tables in the volume of the Transactions of
 the Berlin Academy for 1 SIT, contain the means for the months, for the seasons,
 and for the year, as they follow directly from the observations without cor-
 rection for diurnal variation. These tables have also been calculated in Fahr-
 enheit's scale, and are published in the Report of the Seventeenth Meeting

 of the British Association, held at Oxford, 1847. Since the publication of
 this work several stations have been added, and for other stations the means

 have been determined from longer series of observations.
     Lastly, it remained to fill up the wide intervals between the stations by

 the help of points in the intervening seas. This last work consumed a great
  quantity of time, as generally speaking the single observations are not even
 put together in daily means ; and besides the mean place of the ship must
  be determined for each occasion from the continually varying latitude and
 longitudes. It is only in Beechey's ' Narrative of a Voyage to the Pacific

  and Behring's Straits,' (which is a true model in point of redaction,) that this
  has been done. Besides the above work, I have made use of the following,

  viz. "The United States- Exploring Expedition" (in which however, as the

  distinct Meteorological Appendix has not yet been published, I could only
  employ the notices found in the text) ; Captain James Ross's ' Voyage of
  Discovery and Research in the Southern and Antarctic regions ;' and Du-

  mont D'Urville's · Voyage au Pole Sud et dans I'Oceanie sur TAstrolabe
                                    ON THE MONTHLY ISOTHERMAL LINES OP THE GLOBE. 87

et la Zelee'. These three works, with Clerk's 'Daily abstract of meteorologi-

cal observations made on board the Pagoda,' and King and FitzRoy's ' Nar-

rative of the surveying voyages of the Adventure and Beagle,' describing

their examination of the southern shores of South America, have rendered

it possible to deduce the isothermals of the Southern Hemisphere much

more extensively than could have been done a short time ago, and thus to

obtain an approximate determination of the temperature of the southern half

--of the globe. I have also made use of the following journals : Vaillant's

'Voyage autour du Monde sur la Bonite ;' Du Petit Thouars' 'Voyage

autour du Monde sur la Venus ;' Duperrey's ' Voyage autour du Monde sur

la Coquille;' Freycinet's 'Voyage autour du Monde sur I'Uranie et la

Physicienne' (which affords particularly abundant data for the tropical re-

gions)                              Liitke's  ' Voyage  autour  du  Monde  sur  le  Seniavine ; '  Meyen's
                                 ;

' Reise um die Erde ;' Rafaele de Cosa's 'Corsi di osservazioni meteoro-

logiche fatte nella Zona torrida a bordo del Vesuvio ;' Hasskarl's ' Me-

teorologische Waarnemigen op drie Reizen van en naar de Oostindien ;' a

journal of Dieffenbach during a voyage from England to New Zealand, and

one of Schaeyer's on a voyage from England to Australia ; Reynolds's ' Voy-
age of the Potomac durhig the circumnavigation of the Globe, ' and Erman's

' Observations on Board the Krotkoi' in his Russischen Archiv. Lastly, I
have used of older voyages, those of Peron and Baudin, La Perouse, Dentre-

casteaux, Lisianski, Krusenstern, Chamisso, and the journals of Lawson,

Peters and Newbold.

Although, by reason of the smaller variation of the temperature on the

surface of the Ocean, observations even of very short period give approxi-

mate results, yet the mass of materials which one fancies at first sight one
has at command contracts exceedingly in its dimensions on a nearer inspec-

tion ; for as on land, stations of observation are unnecessarily crowded in

some places and altogether wanting in others, so also at sea, there are nuich-

frequented routes, and on the other hand extensive tracts which are hardly

ever traversed. The influence of season encounters the inquirer the more

frequently in sea observations, because the prevailing winds of different parts

of the year determine the most favourable season of navigation for particular

routes. Against this inconvenience, we may place the advantage which sea

observations possess of getting rid of the often very uncertain correction for

the influence of elevation.

From the above materials I have constructed maps both on an equatorial

and polar projection of the isothermal curves of January and July ; the lines

in the January map being for every 4° of Reaumur (every 9° of Fahrenheit),
and those in the July map for every 2° of Reaumur (every 4i° of Fahren-

heit). It is in these months that the inquiry can be best pursued into the

higher latitudes, as in one of them, the southern pole, and in the other, the

northern pole, are most nearly approached by navigators. These two months

also represent the extreme difference of the distribution of temperature within

the annual period, the other months forming intermediate steps between the

two extremes. In addition to the isothermal lines, others are drawn which

may be termed lines of normal temperature : however different the tempera-

ture may be at different parts of the same parallel of latitude, yet every

parallel of latitude has a determinate mean temperature, which may be found

by a graphical interpolation, and which is tlie proper mean or normal tem-

perature of the parallel at that particular season. Places wliere the tempe-

rature agrees with this value have a normal temperature ; those wiiere it is
lower are relatively cold, and those where it is higher relatively warm. If we
--88 REPORT 1848.

reckon all places where the winter is too warm and the summer too cool, as

--belonging to a sea climate ; and all places where the winter is loo cold and
--the summer too hot, as belonging to a continental climate; the thermic nor-

mals will give the boundary lines between these two species of climate. An

inspection of the maps of the several months will show whether a place

belongs always to one or other of the above classes, or whether it changes

its character in this respect in tiie course of the year.

The greatest winter cold is known to fall in North Asia and North America :

on examining tlie map for January, we see that these two coldest localities form

a connected cold region ; for the thermic normals by which they are bounded
pass, on the Pacific side, along the west coast of America and the east coast

of Asia, and unite in Behring's Straits; and on the Atlantic side, when they

can be traced no further towards the north, they point exactly to the pole.

Now it is in the nature of things that a thermic normal must pass through

the pole, for as that point includes in itself all degrees of longitude, it must

necessarily correspond to the definition of a point of normal temperature.

The whole of Europe is included in January in the warm space, for the

thermic normal coincides almost exactly with the boundary between Europe

and Asia ; Greenland is also included, but of North America only the narrow

strip of coast on the Pacific, beyond the Rocky Mountains. In the tropical

region the sea is everywhere warmer in winter, therefore the interior of

Africa forms an insulated cool space in opposition to the warm West Indies

and the coasts and islands of the Pacific and Indian Oceans. Java and the

Sunda Islands have at that season, as compared with the West Indies and

WePolynesia, a continental climate.  see therefore that these names are un-

suitable when comparing places under different latitudes ; for it would sound
strange to say that Moscow has a sea climate, and that Singapore and Batavia

have a continental climate.

In conformity with the shape of the cold spaces, all the January isothermals

have their longer axes in a line from America to Asia, passing from the

middle of North America beyond the pole to Mandschury.
   The terrible January cold of Yakutsk is not corresponded to by any

equally cold point in North America. If therefore we assume for this month

two poles or maxima of cold, we must assign to them different intensities.

But this is not necessary ; the course of the curves appears rather to indicate

a connected narrow tract from Yakutsk to New Siberia.

But it may be said, how is it possible that if the isothermals for the whole

year curve round two separate poles of cold, these poles should not also ap-

pear in the several portions of the year? It may be observed in reply, first,

that the examination cannot be pursued into the higher latitudes for all the

months of the year with equal exactness ; but that besides, that may be true

on the annual mean which yet has no reality at any single portion of the year.
The following example will illustrate this.

  A mass of land within the tropics, when the sun is vertical, so increases

the heat, that under these circumstances continental stations show tempera-

tures such as are never met with at sea. Now although these continental

masses are cooler than the sea in the winter, yet this cooling is less than

the disproportionate heating before spoken of, and the mean of the whole

year is therefore above the normal. Thus the greater breadth of Africa

north of the equator, and the expanse of India, cause the line of maxi-

mum mean annual temperature not to coincide with the equator but to run

Wenorth of that line.  will now suppose the imaginary case of two belts of

tropical land at equal distances on each side of the equator, which latter shall
       ON THE MONTHLY ISOTHERMAL. LINES OF THE GLOBE. 89

be occupied entirely by sea : we should in such case have two lines of niaxi-
iTium temperature on the mean of the whole year ; but not in the separate
portions of the year ; for the summer heat of the northern zone of land would
be simultaneous with the winter of the southern zone, while the temperature
of the equatorial sea would always be intermediate between the two.

   Hence we see liow little one is justified in deriving from the distribution
of the mean annual temperature conclusions respecting its distribution in
the separate portions of the year : it might even be asserted, on the contrary,
that the annual isothermal lines become first elucidated by the consideration
of the monthly isothermals ; and that for this reason all attempts to refer
their form directly to the configuration of the continents have proved

unsuccessful.

   If we divide the globe at the meridian of Ferro, and compute the tempera-
ture of the parallels east and west of that meridian at every ten degrees of
latitude, we find (with the exception of the latitudes of 70°) the eastern half,
which has the largest mass of land, colder than the western half, the difference

diminishing constantly as the equator is approached.
    Within the tropics the diminution of temperature in going northward takes

place with great regularity. On the eastern side it is represented exactly

between 0° and 30° by the equation
                                               t^=2l cos 2a;,

t being in degrees of Reaumur, and x being the latitude; and on the
western side it is represented very approximately between 0° and 40° by

                                       t =21.4 cos (2a:-- 7).

No formula has been found applicable to all latitudes ; in latitude 30°-40° the

deviation is always considerable. The reason is easily seen ; on the Ameri-
can side the Gulf-stream flowing from America to the Azores, and in Asia
the lofty mountains and table-lands rising from the lowlands of the Ganges,
cause a sudden break in the progression of temperature. As a general for-
mula for the equator and the higher latitudes,

                            +t^= 24.5 4i5. 5 cos^x

does best ; for the lower latitudes,
                                            /^= 24 -1-45 cos^a;

is still nearer. According to this the temperature of the pole is 24^° of
Reaumur below the freezing-point.

    For the eastern half of the southern hemisphere the formula suits

                        =5 --^, -I- 26-2 cos2 (x 5).

    For the polar regions there remains an uncertainty, which however is of
less consequence, when the question respects the determination of the mean

temperature of an entire hemisphere. We obtain an approximate determina-

tion by calculating the mean temperatures of the zones and 10, 10 and 20,
and so forth, applying the observational values directly as far as observations
suffice, and employing tor the highest latitudes the value given by interpola-
tion. Admitting these determinations to be only a first approximation, they
still appear less uncertain than the wholly arbitrary method hitherto em-
ployed, of proceeding along a given meridian and deducing therefrom the
mean temperature of the pole ; the values may be improved subsequently
by combining the temperatures of the eastern and western hemispheres into
 a whole by means of Bessel's formula, and the form of the function being left
 indeterminate, by the addition of members the observational values will be re-
 produced as nearly as possible.
                                                                                                                                                           --

--00 REPORT 1848.

As provisional values, I find                                                                                                                                  Reaumur.                    Fahrenheit.

   January. Northern Hemisphere                                                                                                                                     7'5                       48"8
                       Southern                                                                                                                                   12-2                         59.5

                The Globe                                                                                                                                      9-9                            54-15

July.           Northern Hemisphere                                                                                                                            17"3                        71*0
                Southern                                                                                                                                         9-6                       53'6

                           The Globe                                                                                                                           13-5                        62-3

The temperature of the whole globe increases therefore fully 3i degrees of

Reaumur, or 8 degrees of Fahrenheit, from January to July. If we take the

mean between these montlis, we have as the mean temperature of the globe,

11°'7 Reaumur, or 58°'2 Fahrenheit; as the mean temperature of the north-

ern hemisphere 1^°*4 Reaumur, or 60° Fahrenheit ; and of the southern
hemisphere 10°*9 Reaumur, or 56°'4 Falnenheit. As when we move south-

wards we see the northern constellations sink and the southern rise above the

horizon, so the sun on entering new signs in his annual course, overlooks

constantly new portions of the earth's surface. This surface being a highly

varied one, the sun's influence on it is also constantly varying, for the

impinging solar heat is employed in raising the temperature of substances

which do not change their condition of ajrrrrejjation ; but when entf.'iged in cau-
sing the mcliing of ice or the evaporation of water, it becomes latent. When

therefore the sun returning from its northern declination enters the soutiiern

signs, the increasing proportion of liquid surface upon wiiich it shines causes

a corresponding part of its heat to become latent ; and hence arises the great

periodical variation in the temperature of the whole globe, which has been

noticed above.

These relations appear to contain within themselves an important mo-

tive force in the machinery of the whole atmosphere, for they are condi-

tions on which a periodical transition of aqueous vapour into a liquid state

depends. The circulation of moisture, which acts so importantly on all

vegetable and animal life, thus appears no longer dependent on merely local

effects of cooling, or the intermixture of currents of air of unequal tempe-

rature; the non-symmetrical distribution of land and sea in the two hemi-

spheres necessarily causes the aqueous vapour, which is developed in a pre-

ponderating degree over the southern hemisphere from the autumnal to the

vernal equinox, to return to the earth in the form of rain or snow during

the other half of the year. Thus the wonderful march of the most power-

ful steam-engine with which we are acquainted, the atmosphere, appears per-

manently regulated by laws of periodical action.

Men often complain that all physical circumstances are irregularly distri-

buted over the earth's surface                                                                                                                             but this very irregularity is,  as we have just
                                                                                                                                                        ;

seen, a preserving principle of the whole terrestrial life.

It is probable tliat the northern hemisphere acts as the condenser, and

the southern hemisphere as the water reservoir of this steam-engine ; and thus

that a greater quantity of rain falling in the northern hemisphere is one cause

of its higher temperature, since the heat which became latent in the southern

hemisphere is set free in the northern in heavy falls of rain.

But if all these phaenomena are essentially connected with the proportion
       ON THE MONTHLY ISOTHERMAL. LINES OF THE GLOBE. 91

and distribution of land and sea, they must have been different when these

proportions and distribution were different. Generally speaking, the rising
up of new masses of land must have condensed a certain quantity of the
existing aqueous vapour, from the proportion of latent heat having been
changed ; but the place where the solid mass was elevated must be of the
greatest importance in this respect. Thus considerable atmospheric convul-
sions would have been among the secondary consequences of sudden geolo-
gical revolutions, until the movements of the atmosphere had become accom-
modated to the new circumstances of the surface on which it rests. Speaking
generally, the temperature of the entire surface of the globe must have aug-

mented with every augmentation of the solid portion of its area.
    If we now return to the consideration of the annual periodical variation of

temperature over tiie whole surface of the globe, it may appear surprising to

find that it is greater than that of the southern hemisphere taken separately ;
the variation of the whole globe being 3^° Reaumur, or 8° Fahrenlieit ; and
that of the southern hemisphere only S'^'G Reaumur, or 5°-9 Fahrenheit;
whilst the variation of the northern hemisphere is 9°-8 Reaumur, or 22°"2
Fahrenheit. It is only the two latter values however which can be properly

 compared with each other ; for the difference between the periodical variation
of the northern and the southern hemispheres expresses the difference of effect
 produced by the variation of the sun's meridian altitude in his annual course,
 according as land or sea predominate in the surface which receives his rays:

 the annual variation of the temperature of either hemisphere taken separately,
 being due to the variation in solar action, the receiving surface remaining

 the same. The annual variation of temperature of the whole earth, on the
 contrary, arises from the periodical variation in the surface brought under the
 sun's rays, with no inequality in the conditions under which those rays are

 dispensed.

    We will now consider more closely the manner in which the position and

 form of the isothermals alter from January to July.

  --The concavities of the January isothermals fall, in America in the middle

 of the continent,-- in the Old World, although still in the interior, yet much
 nearer to the eastern than to the western coast : the convex summits are in
 the intervening oceans. The isothermal curves rise steeply from Labrador
 to Spitzbergen, and descend almost perpendicularly to the European coast;
 from Norway to Nova Zembla, their eastern sides even form overhanging
 summits. The influence of the Gulf-stream is unmistakeable. The line of
  0° Reaumur, or 32° Fahrenheit, passes from Philadelphia across the banks
  of Newfoundland, and through the southernmost part of Iceland up to the

  Polar circle, wliich it reaches in the meridian of Brussels. It thence descends
  quite perpendicularly, or in the direction of the meridian, to Holland, from
  whence it proceeds in a south-easterly direction to the Balkan : from the
  middle of the Black Sea it runs in a west and east course across Asia to the
  Corea, whence it rises to the Aleutian Islands and descends again in America

  to the latitude of Palermo. Thus we find that if we proceed in January from
  the Shetland Islands down the east coast of Great Britain to the channel, we
  do not alter the temperature, whilst with every step to the westward it
  becomes v,'armer, and that in no inconsiderable degree ; since both the west
  coast of Ireland and the extreme point of Cornwall are beyond the Ime of
  4° Reaumur, or 41° Fahrenheit. In Scandinavia the circumstances are still
  more extraordinary : from the intervention of the British Islands, the south-
  ern parts of Norway are less open to the warm sea current than the northern
  parts, and hence in the month of January the temperature actually becomes
92 REPORT--1848.

 warmer in proceeding from south to north, and at the north cape the south-
east winds are the coldest. Both the Scandinavian Alps and the Rocky
 Mountains in America form dividing walls in respect to climate.

    In approaching the tropics the curves flatten ; the isothermal of 1 6° Reau-
 mur, or 68° Fahrenlieit, nearly coincides throughout its course with the
tropic of Cancer, its concavities in Africa and Trans-Gangetic India, and
its intervening convexity in Hindostan, being quite inconsiderable.

    The dividing isothermal between the northern and southern thermal hemi-
spheres, 21° Reaumur, or 79°'2 Fahrenheit, is only a simple line in the neigh-
bourhood of the Gallapagos, but branches out beyond on either side so as to
enclose a connected space of highest temperature, narrow in the Atlantic,
but spreading out in width in South Amrica, the Indian Ocean, and Equa-
torial Polynesia beyond Australia. Out of this space it is only exceptionally
(as for example on the north coast of Australia) that we find temperatures of
22° Reaumur or 81^° Fahrenheit, but not forming any continuous line. The

fact of the space of highest temperature advancing farthest into the south-
ern hemisphere in the Indian Ocean, and of this being also the locality of
highest absolute temperature, are the reasons of the north-east trade be-
coming at this season a north-west monsoon.

    In the month of January the greatest difference of mean temperature com-
prised between 70° north and 70° south latitude, is 54° Reaumur, or 121°'5
Fahrenheit. The thermic equator falls everywhere, excepting in Columbia
and in Guinea, in the southern hemisphere ; but between this line and the
latitude of 70° south, there are only twenty-two isothermals, while between
it and 70° north there are fifty-four such lines.

   The isothermals of the southern hemisphere have the peculiarity of being
much more inflected in the torrid than in the temperate zone. Where the
alternation of land and sea from east to west ceases, the causes of inflection
are absent. Besides the different effect of radiation on a solid or a liquid

Onbase, the configuration of continents is also influential in other ways.

it depend the courses of marine currents, whose influence becomes clearly
apparent in the prosecution of such an examination as the present. In draw-
ing the isothermal lines across the Ocean, they depend exclusively on the
observations of atmospheric temperature, the numerous observations of the
temperature of the sea never being taken into account. This distinction is
imperative where the atmospheric isothermals are the objects of representa-
tion, and where we aim_ expressly at obtaining as accurate a distinction
between cause and effect as possible.

   The cooling influence of the polar current on the coast of Chili was dis-
covered by M. de Humboldt ; its amount is not the same throughout the

year, but it is unmistakeably sensible at all seasons. This causes the
convex summits of the isothermals (which in the southern hemisphere mark
the coldest localities) to be always on the western coast of America, and

the concavities on the eastern coast. The reason of this persistency is to be

found in the cold current in question not being a superficial one, but having,
as it appears from soundings taken in the voyage of circumnavigation of the
Venus, a depth of 5480 feet. " C'est une section considerable des mers
polaires marchant majestueusement du Sud au Nord."

   The great curvature of the isothermals in the Southern Atlantic, is shown
by a comparison of the temperatures of Rio Janeiro, St. Helena, Ascension,
Christiansburg, Cape Town, and the Isle of Bourbon. The character of the
vegetation at St. Helena must for this reason differ materially from that of

the New Hebrides. Even if we assume a greater decrease of temperature
            ox THE MONTHLY ISOTHERMAL LINES OF THE GLOBE. 93

       Kith increasing elevation tlian is shown by the observations at St. Helena,

V A'e shall still find the temperature there much lower than that of the Archi-
     Delagoof the Low Islands. The reason of this great inflection of the isother-
        nal lines having been hitherto overlooked, is probably that navigators usually
        :eep nearer either the American or the African coast, and that thus the
         outhern tropic is rarely crossed in the Atlantic in mid-ocean.
         To the south of the Cape of Good Hope, the isothermals flatten and are
       nuch crowded : this crowding is still more striking in March, when the
       sothermals of the torrid zone have their concavities, and those of the tempe-
        ate and frigid zones their convexities, in the meridian of the Cape.
          It has only been possible to determine directly the position of the line of
       »° Reaumur, or 32° Fahrenheit, in the southern hemisphere, for tlie four
        lonths of December, January, February, and March. It is comparatively
       )ut little inflected ; these determinations however can only be regarded as
       pproximate, if we consider that the drift-ice of the Antarctic regions,
        leing everywhere exposed to the uninterrupted action of an open ocean,
      .Ithough it may consist of more compact masses, yet "can never form into
       luch extensive fields as the ice of th.e northern seas, and from its state of
      lisruption is far more variable in its place in different years. The boldness
       vith which Captain Ross broke through the zone of moveable ice which he
      net with in the place where Dumont D'Urville had found an open sea, was
       ecompensed by finding beyond it a sea free from ice, which permitted him
        o advance to farhigher latitudes ; from a comparison of the different voyages,
       ve arrive however at a conviction, that before reaching the barrier of fixed ice
      he temperature dependent on the position of the moveable ice may vary very
      considerably in jlifferent years. If we were enabled to sketch the isother-
      Tials of a year, we might perhaps find an increase of temperature beyond the
      noveable belt of drift-ice. By the combination of the results of different
      tingle years, there may appear a local curvature which in the mean of many
     /ears would soften off into simpler forms. We may explain in this manner
       ;he apparently contradictory statements of different circumnavigators on the
      '.emperature of the southern hemisphere. From not being acquainted with
      (the part to be attributed to non-periodic variations, the observed atmo-
       spheric relations on each occasion have been regarded as the normal ones.
       It was overlooked that a traveller visiting Berlin in January 1 823, would have
      ibund there the mean January temperature of Godthaab (in Greenland), of
      Bear Island, and of Moscow; and in January 1834, a temperature higher
       han the mean January temperature of the plains of Lombardy.
         In February the isothermals in Northern Asia begin to move northwards,
       while in North America they are still moving southwards. In Baffin's and
      Hudson's Bay they become still steeper than before, while in Siberia they
       begin to flatten. Near the thermal limits between the northern and southern
       hemispheres, the temperature of 22° Reaumur, or 81^° Fahrenheit, is found in
       two separate spaces, one in the interior of South America, the other in Cen-
       tral Africa, where it extends to Australia, the larger part being in the southern
       hemisphere, but in Guinea extending to 10° north of the equator. In the
       southern hemisphere the distribution has altered but little ; in Australia the
       east and west sides continue to be cooler than the middle until after the
       beginning of March.
         In March the spaces in America and Africa, enclosed by the isothermal of
       22°, or 8 14° Fahrenheit, have united ; the inflection in the middle of the At-
      lantic still recalls their separation in February. The flattening of the Asiatic
      curves has become still more decided, and shows itself unmistakeably in the
--94 REPORT 1848.

European curves, with the exception of the Scandinavian curves, which main-
tain their deviating form. It is only in the Kirghis steppe th:it the depression
of temperature still continues to be remarkable, and docs not disappear until
April. The American curves become flatter in the interior of the continent,
but as they preserve their steepness on the eastern coast, their concavity
moves gradually towards Newfoundland. The Atlantic ocean shows the pe-
culiarity that the curves on this side of the tropic of Cancer have their con-
vex summits in the same meridian (that of the Cape de Verd Islands) in
which the inter-tropical curves have their concave summits. This is explained

by the Gulf-stream turning to the south at the bank of Flores. On the

western coasts of North and South America the form of the curves remains
the same, the convex summits are everywhere close to the coast. In the
Ethiopian Sea the curves are flatter, and are very close together near the Cape
of Good Hope and on the south coast of Australia, because the line of
0° Reaumur, or 32° Fahrenheit, has its convex summit in these meridians
in .57° lat., and the increase of temperature from thence, which is at first,
slow, becomes extremely rapid from 45° S. lat.

    In April two spaces of unusually high temperature, bounded by isothermals
of 24° Reaumur, or 8G° Fahrenheit, are developed in the middle of Northern
Africa and in the interior of Western India. Everywhere in Asia and
middle Europe, the isothermals are almost parallel with the parallels of

--latitude. It is only the curves of 4°, 0° and 4° Reaumur, 41°, 32° and 23°
--Fahrenheit, which preserve their extraordinary bend. The line of 4° Reau-

mur, or 23° Fahrenheit, passes from the southern part of Hudson's Bay
along the west coast of Greenland up to Spitzbergen, and sinks from thence
down to the entrance of the White Sea. The line of 0° Reautnur, or 32°
Fahrenheit, runs from Cape Breton to the south point of Greenland, through
Iceland, almost up to Bear Island ; thence to the North Cape, and sinks on
the crest of the Scandinavian Alps down to the latitude of Drontheim, from
whence it bends eastward. The ice drifting down from the coast of Green-
land and Baffin's Bay is the cause of this phaenomenon.

   MayIn this effect of the drift-ice is still more decided ; from Nova Scotia

to Newfoundland the isothermals are crowded most closely together : hence
arises in the spring of Newfoundland the remarkable phsenomenon of the silver
dew, when warm south winds cover the trees with a thick crust of ice, convert-
ing, as Bonnycastle tells us, every tree into a candelabra of the purest cry-
stal ; hence too the thick fogs which at this season obscure the entrance to
Baffin's Bay. Meanwhile the hot space in Africa, bounded by an isother-
mal of 24° Reaumur, or 8G° Fahrenheit, has extended and united itself with

the hot space in Western India. On the northern side of this space tlie

temperature decreases rapidly up to the shores of the Mediterranean : the
S.E. trade in the form of a S.W. monsoon, advances towards the hot space.
The curves in Northern Asia, which in the interior continue parallel to the
circles of latitude, on approaching the east coast of the old continent, rise
rapidly, and then sink down again with equal rapidity in Kamschatka, towards
the Aleutian and Kurile Islands.

    In June the relations are analogous ; the hot African space reacts in
Europe up tO' Christiania ; for the European isothermals still rise near the
west coasts, and do not begin their easterly course until the meridian of Berlin.

The Fox Channel, the Karian Gate, and Behring's Straits, as outlets of the
Icy Sea, show their influence in producing concave inflections in the generally

regular course of the isothermal lines at this season. In America, the lowest

parts of the lines are close to the east coast ; the warm space, enclosed by a
         ON THE MONTHLY ISOTHERMAL LINES OF THE GLOBE. 95

line of 22° Reaumur, or 81i° Fahrenheit, which had been formed in the Carib-
bean Sea in May, now embraces the whole of that sea and the entire Gulf of

Mexico. In the southern hemisphere the curves have become extremely

flat ; and even the difference between the east and west sides of South America
is less sensible. The cooling effect produced by the melted drift-ice has

undergone a considerable diminution.

In July the      extreme temperatures  manifest themselves                                                                                      within the elon-
                                                                                                                                             ;

gated space enclosed by the isothermal of 24° Reaumur, a space enclosed

by an isothermal of i6° Reaumur, or 90i° Fahrenheit, has been formed,

including Nubia and Southern Arabia. These are the countries of which

Hagi Ismael says the earth is fire and the wind flame. But in Western

India also the temperatures have become since May extraordinarily high.
The Afghans say, " Great God, why needest thou have made Hell when

there is Ghizni ?" It is no wonder therefore that the S.E. trade in the
form of a S.W. monsoon follows up the retreating N.E. trade to the foot of

the Himalaya. In Europe and Asia the isotheimals have overpassed the

circular form (J., e. coincidence with the parallels of latitude), and begin to be
convex in the interior of the continent. The thermic normal, enclosing a
space warmer than the normal condition, includes all Asia, Europe, and Africa
down to the equator ; only Scotland and Ireland belong to the proper sea

climate, as do also Labrador, Canada, New North and South Wales, and the

margin of coast from California up to the mouth of the Mackenzie River.
In the warm space of tlie Mexican Gulf, we find no traces of temperature

so high as those of Africa and Hindostan ; Maracaybo only reaches 24°
Reaumur, or 86° Fahrenheit. The thermal limit bttween the northern and

southern hemispheres is a little advanced towards the north in this part of

the globe, but on the eastern side it touches the northern tropic in several

places.

The longitudinal axis of the isothermals runs westward from the Aleutian

Islands towards Baffin's Bay, but the issues of the Icy Sea, tlie Karian Gate,

and Barrow's and Behring's Straits, draw out the circular form of the

isothermal surrounding the pole into a more nearly triangular shape. As

in North America the isothermals have moved laterally, their concavities

liaving advanced from the interior to the east coast, while in Europe and Asia

the concave form has been changed into a convex one, their July course in

the greater part of North America, in Europe, and in Asia is perpendicular

to the direction which they follow in January. In the southern hemisphere,

the isothermals, from 12° to 1° Reaumur, or from 59° to 34°*2 Fahrenheit,

are thickly crowded and extremely flat.

In Augicst, in the old continent the east side of Nova Zembla alone resists

the still continuing tendency of the curves to become more convex, and

hence they assume two characteristic convexities, one at Spitzbergen, and the

other beyond the mouth of the Lena. But on tlie coast of Greenland, as the

cold in the high north already begins to increase, the drifting of ice to the

southward is lessened, and the east coasts of North America are thus per-

mitted to retain more of the heat they receive, and the isothermal curves

become flatter.

   In Sejytember this is the case in a still greater degree ; and as the cold from

New Siberia now begins to invade the continent of Asia, the convex summits

are similarly flattened. This therefore is the season when the distribution of

temperature over the globe is most regular, even America forming no ex-

ception. Now begins the Indian summer, " the time which the Great Spirit

of the Red-skin sends to him that he may follow the chase." The same
96 REPORT-- 1848.

causes render September, as lias been shown in tbe memoirs on the " Non-

periodic Variations," the montli which shows the fewest anomalies in single

years ; for when the temperature is equally distributed in the east and west
direction, easterly and westerly winds or currents of air cease to exert any

disturbing thermal effect. Hence we prefer September as a travelling month,

and our after-summer, though less beautiful than that of America, is not witli-

out charms. Nature falls gently asleep in autumn, and awakens with feverish

starts in spring ; if the last-named season were not set off by winter as a foil,
autumn would surely stand the higher in our estimation.

AVithin the tropics the temperature begins already to sink, showing clearly

that as the sun passes from tiie northern to the southern signs, a larger por-

tion of the heat dispensed by his rays becomes latent. The West India Islands

are now withdrawn from the space enclosed by an isothermal of 22° Reau-

mur, or Sl^° Fahrenheit, which has now contracted to a narrow strip of coast

from Vera Cruz to Cayenne ; the space included by the same i'sothermal in

Africa has retreated from the west coast to tiie interior ; and the space en-
closed by an isothermal of 2t° Reaumur, or 86° Fahrenheit, now only in-

cludes Kordofan, Nubia, and Arabia, and no longer embraces Hindostan.

   In October itbegins to disappear. Thecold nowcomes in decidedly from the

-- --north ; at the mouth of the Yana the isothermal of 22° Reaumur, or 1 7|-°

Fahrenheit, already touches the continent of Asia, and the temperature of

-- --Melville Island has sunk to 16° Reaumur, or t°'8 Fahrenheit. The cold

comes in the old continent from the north-east, and in the new continent

from the north-west. But it is not until November that the isothermals be-

come in both continents decidedly concave. At the same time the curves in

the southern hemisphere become increasingly inflected as the increasing alti-

tude of the sun, causing the ice to melt, renders the difterenje between land

and sea more marked.

The isothermals of the torrid zone north of the equator, on the contrary,

run almost completely in the direction of the parallels of latitude. In Europe

meanwhile those extraordinary involutions have already begun which in

December are still more decidedly formed, and which cause the isothermal of

4° Reaumur, or 41° Fahrenheit, to run from the Feroe Islands to Rochelle,

passing along the west coast of Great Britain, In a similar manner the

south point of Nova Zembla and the Kirghis Steppe have now the same

temperature. In the curves of December we recognise already almost the

extreme forms of January.

Such important variations in the distribution of temperature cannot but

react in the strongest manner on the movements of the atmosphere, and

consequently also on the distribution of the atmospheric pressure. Graphi-

cal representations of a fresh and more detailed examination of the annual

variations of the pressures of the gaseous and aqueous atmospheres which

are now lying before me, show that the interchange between masses of air

does not only take place between the northern and southern hemispheres, but

that a lateraljlowing ojf also takes place at certain times. Thus in the spring

of the year the air accumulates over the part of America where the cold

still continues ; while in Asia the increasing warmth already causes it to ex-

pand so that its amount and pressure are diminished. Hence the countries

which have a cold sjyring (as the Arctic regions of North America), have the

maximum pressure in the spring, as the author showed fifteen years ago

(Pogg. Ann. xxiv. p. 205) ; hence the west coasts of America have the

maximum of pressure in  summer                                       and the interior of Asia, on the contrary,
                                                                  ;

has its minimum of pressure in summer, as the longitudinal axis of the isother-
ON THE PROGRESS IN ANEMOMETRICAL RESEARCHES. 97

mal lines falls in summer in the ocean, and in winter on the continents. In
the same manner the occurrence of two isolated closed spaces in Hindostan
converts the trade into a monsoon, while in summer northerly breezes (the
Etesian winds), which have their point of attraction in Africa, blow over the
Mediterranean. Hence the sub-tropical zone is wanting in Asia, while the

smallness of the alteration in the position of the isothermal lines, 12° to 20°
Reaumur, or 59° to 77° Fahrenheit, in the Atlantic, fixes it to a definite place.
Hence also the distribution of temperature in the thermic wind-rose is of an
opposite kind according as the place is situated on the eastern or the western
side of a continent.

    In conclusion, the results here communicated will, I trust, appear to justify
the expression of a wish, that when meteorological observations are pub-
lished, theirvaluemay not be lessened, as has so often been the case heretofore,
by publishing only the means of the seasons and of the year ; but that the
monthly means will be also published.

On the Progress of the Investigation on the Influence of Carbonic Acid
               on the Growth of Ferns. By Dr. Daubeny.

Dr. Daubeny reported that the ferns were now growing in a large excess

of carbonic acid, the amount of which had been ascertained daily during the

last month. He however suggested some modifications in the form of the

apparatus, the object being to secure the gas from leakage more perfectly

than had hitherto been done.

Notice offurther Progress in Anemometrical Researches.

                  By John Phillips, F.R.S.

Referring to the report on this subject, presented to the Southampton
Meeting of the Association and printed in the Transactions, the author reca-
pitulated the steps of the investigation by which he had been conducted to
propose the evaporation of water as a measure of the velocity of air-move-
ment. In the former researches, the conclusion which may be drawn a

priori from Dr. Apjohn's formula for the relation of the temperature of the
dew-point to that of an evaporating surface, was verified ; and the rate of
cooling oi a. wet bulb in the open air was found tohe, OBteris paribus, simply

--proportional to t t' (t being the temperature of the air, t' that of an evapo-

rating surface). The air-movement was found to affect the rate of cooling,
nearly in proportion to the square root of the velocity ; and thus by simply
observing the rate of cooling of a wet bulb exposed to a current of air, and

--also the value oi t t', the velocity of the air current becomes easily calcu-

lable. But this instrument is only an Atietnoscope, of extreme delicacy and
various applicability indeed, but incapable of being converted to a self-re-
gistering Anemometer.

It appeared to the author probable that the rate of evaporation followed

nearly or exactly the same law as the rate of cooling, the same reasoning in

fact applying to each case. This was tested by experiment in a great variety

of ways, with instruments of extremely various forms, and with velocities of

air-movement from 400 yards to 27,000 yards in the hour. The velocities

of the wind were measured by a very lightly-poised machine anemometer of

Dr. Robinson's construction, but without any wheel-work, the revolutions

being counted by the observer.

In the course of these experiments some apparently anomalous circum-

stances in the rate of evaporation occurred to the author, but these he hopes

to be able to interpret by further careful research, and finally to present in

the compass of a few cubic inches an anemometer specially suited to measure

and record the low velocities of wind, and furnish a useful complement to

the larger machines alreadv esteemed to be so important in meteorology.
       '

1848.                           H
                                                                               --

98 KEPORT 1S4S.

       To the Assistant-General Secretary.

        -- Dublin, 27th of July, 184».

ITear Sir, For the last four months I have been so much out of health by

previous over-exertion of mind and body, that some repose became indispen-

sable, and I regret to say that I shall be unable, from this cause, to complete

the Report on the Facts of Earthquakes, entrusted to me by the British As-

sociation, so as to present it, as 1 had hoped and intended, at the ensuing

Meeting. Much progress has been made with the most laborious parts of it,

and should health permit, I expect to have the honour of presenting it next

year, in case the Association deem me worthy of continuing the recommen-

dation for the Report.

It is also my duty, as the first named on a Committee for the Construction

of a Self-Registering Seismometer, to state the progress that has been made :

Working drawings of the instrument and of its several parts have been

prepared and carefully considered, but as the acting members of the Com-

mittee were unwilling to incur any outlay for actual construction, until per-

fectly clear in every respect as to the principles and details of the instrument,

and as some questions arose of considerable mathematical nicety in deter-

mining, they have not as yet put into hand any part of the work. Professor

Lloyd, one of the Committee, has kindly promised the reporter to solve those

questions, when we expect that the instrument will be forthwith completed,

Weand a plan determined for its being set to work.  have therefore to ask

the Association to continue to the same Committee and in the same form the

grant of 50/. made last year for the above purposes. Robert Mallet.

Concluding Report on the Gaussian Constants. By Adolphe Erman.

The annexed addition to this year's Report on the Correction of Gaussian

constants consists in tables containing primary equations for the 24 unknown,

viz. the corrections of the constants, resulting from magnetic elements ob-

served in the Atlantic Ocean, and in some points of the North Sea and of the

Baltic, and a final table (marked (14), and to be substituted for Table (6)
of the first report printed in the volume for 1846), presenting again the 24

final equations for the 24 corrections in the last and most complete form that

may be given to these expressions by the whole set of observations that has

till now come to our disposal. Indeed these equations are the full abstract

of what can be added to the Gaussian theory of terrestrial magnetism, by

610 magnetic elements between April 1828 and November 1830 ; and as each

of the primary equations relating to points between Taheiti and Portsmouth

reposes upon a due combination of from three to five single observations,

the number of contributing observations amounts to upwards of 900. A

simple resolution of these equations will now assign to the corrections A^^'°,
       -- --(that must be applied to 5i'^'"= 108-855, g*-^-- \o2-5m
A^'"'

viz. to the numbers previously adopted by M. Gauss), the most probable

values that can be obtained by the before-said stock of data for 1829, and

the weight of the same corrections.

                                                    A. Ekman.
1

= +Their form is
                          n c< Report, Brit. Assoc. 1848. Erman.

oef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef

     8'502i9 9-01911      9^68352 ^93   9-83309    ·82413    9*94529  9-66950TM
     8'496i3 9-01926      9-6S368 370   9-83314    -82416    9'94533  9-66940TM
2ra 8'4ioi7re 9-04980     9-70701 303   9'83396              9'94947  9-6537377
     8-41945 9-04550      9-71522 Sri9  9-78932    83273     9-94310  9-67731)8
     8-97874 9-02264      9-71992 *]ii  9*71423              9^93195  9-71199)8
     9-10575*1 9-02906    9-67358 156   9-90772    ·81355    9-95697  9*61555TM

                                                   77454

9-79355W 9-01796          9-67789 307 0-02973        -85856  9-98916  9-31913TM
9'8428ire 8-94650         9-63505 547 0-04736        -78123  9-99845  8-76984W
9-79686^ 8-80233          9-67208 337» 0*04208      64543    9^99797  8-93310
9'6ao85W 8-41097          9-60491 bi87j 0-02703    8-30850   9-98545  9-40433
9-6i33ire 8-48426         9-62909 203TM 0-01536              9-98589  9-38127
9"49553« 8*58022                                   8-35899   9-98726
                          9-68017 !i.62re 9-97858  8-40443            9'37544

     8-95697^ 8-41186 9-69450 20771 9-90413 8-21130 9-97530           9-51356
     9-30094 7-72682 9-68448 175W 9*74045 7-50934 9^94533             9-67379
     9'S7655 7-684447^ 9-65743 83378 9'47387 7-4577478 9-90648        9-77200
     9-64386 7-06336 9*57218 29cre 9*0876878 6-83402 9-82047          9-8750S
                                                                      9-89038
     9-63001 7-71018 9-54481 10571 9-3184478 7-48483 9-79909          9-93282
9« 9-45895 8-41531 9-40952 21278 9-7138578 8-21969 9-71234

ire 9-44830 8-42957       9-40664 P53?8 9-71872TM 8-23395    9-71034  9-93352
9re 9-38005 8-50648       9-38993 ^9678 9*7448 5« 8-31069    9-67892  9^93742
                          9-38950 39471 9-74540W 8*31142     9-69872  9-93750
      9-37930 8-50706     9-38928 3I5W 9-7460178 8-31571     9-67832  9-93764
      9'37497 8-51181     9-26538 33878 9-86543TM 8-61227    9-62754  9-95650
      7-870i8re 8-8oi6o   9-18761 53678 9-9108878 8-67409    9*59785  9-96235
<yn 9-oi59ire 8-84374
                          6-6o766rep78re 0-08426TM 8-96927   9-40725 9-98334
      9-94553*1 8-99857   8-754077ip78n 0-11751TM 9-07994    9-27240 9-98896
     0-06862W 9-08345     9-i44327ik20 0-12027TM 9-21785     8-82821 9-99298
     0-05518TM 9-24114    9-3285871087 0-07148TM 9-31016     8'74i26re 9-99005
      ^']6-jZ-]n 9-37286  9-3457678^95 0-05957TM 9-31975     8-84917TM 9-98919
      <)'6%-]6in 9-39108  9*3650978512 0-04870TM 9-32984     8-95278TM 9-98801
     9-59i86« 9-40338

      9-3536671 9-42751 9*39i72rep45 0*02596TM 9-34436       9*07303TM 9-9859J
                                                             9*21924TM 9-98163
9 8'5i325 9-46231 9*42994refc23 9-98178TM 9-36504            9-27419TM 9-97913
3 9-22295 9-49369 9-4467078P87 9'944i4» 9-37527              9-8892678 9-88288n
                                                             9-94321TM 9-88270TM
igre 8-10955 9'54327 9-8928178^54 9-94822 0-22484            9-9702774 0-04776TM
      9'i95i7 9'30395 9-9087678740 0-C0200 0-21142
                                                             9-96091TM 0-08922M
7» 9-68779W 9"SSo6s« 9-703457879 iw 0-19413 0-13730          90471 ire 0-10452)8
                                                             9-95149TM 0-1131578
,6» 9'97499» 9-6797971 9-592577830571 0-22621      0-10961   9-92781TM 0-12515TM
      0-0698 5?} 9-7049171 9-548097863671 0-22771  0-10179   9-99680TM 0*13951TM
                                                   0-09041   9-98790TM 0-15294TM
i8re o-io8o4re 9-7356371 9-5o56278fi57re 0-24072   0-08854
      o-i76o6re 9-7401 171 9-47402rej27re 0*22905  0-02333
      0-19504W 9-8317371 9-1919178^8878 0*31240    0-00678

(tn o-26982n 9-8419271 9-05i87re^i278 0*31693

0-3690471 9-84962TM 8-82024rei78>8 0*31156 9.98749           9-9629 178 0-17249TM
                                                             9-95703TM 0-17687TM
0-3884571 9-8510471 8-7404078^6978 0-30998 9-98223           9-95785TM o-i8oocTM
                                                             9-8462778 9-85265
0-4012771 9-8523174 8-589107815878 0-31392 9-97362           9-8171378 9-87764
                          --9-5487878^56 8-20378TM           9-88479TM 9-80730
.6 9-80860                                          00
                                                             9-90430TM 9^77598
987871                    --9-48165/8^37 9-20678TM  00       9*9142278 9-75685
                                                             9*91561TM 9^75394
0-15992                   9-3i695re|5o9 9-40988    -- 00     9-9264678 9-72914
                                                             9-90932TM 9-76661
9re 0-17546   -- 00       9-2350471522  9-64324              9-91669TM 9-75165
igre 0-1499               9-2141878137  9-73104
izre 0-16466       00     9-1687178512  9-74897
                          9*i7i74re532  9-82748
 in 0-09977   -- CO       8-8034078716  9-73162
              -- 00
qn 0-29192

«jn 0-27513               8-67963»562 9-79581

;9M 0*20344               8-4862I78J;   9-89415              9*9299178 9-72033
.ore 0-18266                                                 9*9327078 9-71286
'in 0-18414               8-4150 378375 991346               9*93331TM 9-71185
^I 8-2008771 9-91521                                         9*77647 9-77009
;o 9-2441178 9-90618      8-2638 18 9-91984                  9-78803 9-72762
'9 9-56521 19-77122                                          9-64357 9-72106
                          8-7195778^5978 9-96o37re 9^73558

                          9-119237)7    9-97176TM 9-76454

                          9-54039716    9-9923671 9-86194

                                                                      (7)
                                          PItlMAIlY EQUATIONS FOR THE CORUECTIONS OF THE GAUSSIAN CONSTANTS. Their form is = + +n cnef.A^^o (A^'") coef. ^                                                                                                                  lleport, Di-it. Assoc. 1848. Erman

               and obscncd elenie                                                    Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log, coef. Log.                           og. eocf. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef- Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. eocf. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log, coef. LLoogg,. ccooeeff. Log. coef. Log.

                                                                                                                                                                V-"-   -V-'.  -iA'-'.  Jf'-s.              iA"-».    iy'->.  AA'.3.               V'"-  V-'-  ^'''^-  V-'-  -lA^'--        -Jy''".  J?'.'.  A/

      Isk, upper pnrt of the town . . . . l

                                                                              32366  '64484
                                                                              87853
      r.mu'. .".'.'-'.'.--'.'-".'-'.... -.i.                                  89001  9^645 10                                                                                                                        9'336;  983903
      ml I.                                                                   B8369  9-67510                                                                                                                                  81804
                                                                              80771
                                                                                       58284                                                                                                                            6463711 'S9886
                                                                              77967
Ojasch                                    - i.                                       9-17839                                                                                                               9'9655o                   58979                             49547
Kasulka                                                                      09408   8151960                                                                                                                 '95577  9-970930 , 43H6«                                 9'8oot8R
                                                         >                 8 '20067  9'2i57on                                                                                                                9'79S   9-9S087n 9560130
                                                                           -36^02    9-495150                                                                                                                        9-S8750B 9-919250                                 '95»'S" 9'746om
On the ice of Lake Baikal                                  8.                        9-486730                                                                                                                                                                           '88838n 9-8654311
Mans.irsk                                                   !.              22245                                                                                                                                                      9-879i7'>
Ualknzk                                                    3.               S560I     49 s 5 J"                                                                                                                                      9-808960

Iwanowsk                                                   i.                        959635"                                                                                                                                   87348..
Nelensk                                                    3-                        9' 70564/1                                                                                                                                :83'8o»
                                                                                     975964"
                       '!'.'.'.''.'.  ..'.'..'-.'.         i.                        9-776890    '88347TM                                                                                                                      -505880
Anlzcba.                                            -. i.                                                                                                                                                                      ·9 60 96 n

KeUfi.ln                                                   i.                                    9-4S696rj                                                                                                                     -87304
Seaof Oclio/k                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -73817
                                                           i.                                    9-491000                                                                                                                     74434
Item                                                                                             9-519180                                                                                                                      -7584*

ircm \'.v.\v^^'.'.\'^'.'.'.' '.'.'. ....i                            ?78i                           5.962..                                             37930                          9-87S72.i                             9-63650 '
                                                                0-87670                                                                              9" 3749 7                         9-87807"

Klulshewsk                                          i.          057566.,                         636920                                                         8+374
            c                                                    1S473                           665450                                                         99857
                                                    i.
                                                    a.           4,5864    9904.S                                       '97954
                                                    i.           S+87S                                       3938" 19-76414
                                                    i.           13462^
                                                    J.           4366S
                                                    J.
                                                                           903989
                                                    1.
           Vrcliangelsk               -.  '         i.                                                                                                                          48139
Pacific                                             i.
                                                    z.                                                                                                                        9-848351,
                                                    2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                9-63657.1
San Francisco                                       ?                       68216.,
Item ......'..'.'....'.                                                                                                                                                                     .735891
                                                    :.                      679030                                                                                                            9-8i372«
                '.'.'.'.'...'..'.                                           6774in                                                                                                            9-684i2n
                                                     .-.                    S763aii                                                                                                           9-73781"
Item                                                                        53683..
New Archangclak - .                                 y-                      ·483410   ·196570                                          8-903040
Pacific                                             y-                      -467410   iSSsCn                                           9653450
                                                                           9'43967n   78573                                            9-97S9"n
                                                                                      77655
                                                                                      67147                                                 '469411

                                                                                     9-59967

San Pranciico                                       y-                                                                                                                                 9-96313
Pacific                                             y-                                                                                                                                 9-95750
                                                                                                                                                                                       9-94283
Item                                                y.
New ArcUangelsk                                     ^-                                           8-85680                                                                        66069
                                                                                                                                                                              851459
                                                                                                 86329
                                                                                                 '85549                                                                       8-17663

                                                                                     9-0873
                                                                                     7-55'38
                                                                                     8-37455
= +form is
                   w coef. Ap-^ort, Brit. Assoc. 1848. Erman.

coef. Log. coef. Log. coef.      g. coef. Log. coef, Log. coef. Log. coef.

                                                                                               AA'.i.

0277   9-69175     9'S6572re 9-          c/j 9-88389    9"58457  9*71288
       9"66633     9-55823/1     5^6313/! 19-88926      9'55758
834s   9*62672     9-56974/!                            9"54333  9-71499
0300   9-61994     9-54700/4       5750/1 9-89651       9-51665  970499
690Z   9-30036     9-62402/1      14283/1 9-89764       9-48891  971397
9127   9-17528     9-6ii58re       2946/1 9-92916       9-45740  9-63162
                                   1137/1 9-93522                9-62244
4-344

zSi2n 9-85435W 8-17436                        9-94266   9-96916TM o- 1 8686TM
532on 9-845 14» 8-95147                       9-89475   9-98740TM 0-19373TM
7702n 9-82383« 9-1,                           9-84249   0-C0042W 0-20017TM
                                              9-80490   0-00844TM 0-20353TM
           9-8o334w 9-30158                   974378    0-02032/1 0-20704/1
                                              9-63311   0-03435TM 0-21113TM
9933« 9-76346n 9-41185
io4Sn 9-67754» 9-52245                          -- 00
                                                -- 00
1993               7-83629                              9-93212/1 971442
7758               8-59205                       -- 00  9-9290C/1 9-72268
1744               8-82457                      -- 00
4173               8-91793                              9-92716TM 9-72741
7706               9-01387                              9-92582TM 973073
1766               9-10743                              9-92337TM 9-73665
                                                        9-92036/i 974358

1913   8-33500W 9-56666/1 97844394W 9-95371             9-35605  9'57355
8632   9-io385n 9-55668/1 9-7611117/1 9-96369           9-31640  9-52272
       9-3465IW 9-53295/1 9-73*7007/1 9-97198           9-26887  9-46862
4959   9*4459 ire 9-51212/1 970/3916M 9-97668           9-23460
1912   9-5502 6w 9-47377/1 9-66(58747/1 9-98264         9-17940  9-42969
6251                                                    9-07566  9-36612
       9-65393/1 9-38985re 9-56^8789/1 9-98974                   9-25244
5391

 70s 8-97497 9-58055TM 9-79(|8o32re 9'94i55             9-40678 9-61637
1960 8-90259 9-57272/! 9-79^7195/1 9-94314              9-39406 9-61390
3130 8-75329 9-57008/1 9-79^6477/1 9-94566
                                                        9"3837S 9-60590
   94» 9-57008W 9-58589 9753-3384 9-51028               0-04483/1 0-21291TM
\c^(>n 9-44666n 9-61074 978^3547 y-37791                0-04078TM 0-2l86c/!
1.26ore 9-33153/} 9-63018 9-80^4044 9-25831             0-04632TM 0-21803/t

7044B 9-05107/1 9-66613      9-8045387        8-97344 0-01       0-20906TM
1330W 8-68520/1 9*68147      9-8015974
                             9-795.6646       8-60658 0-08030/1 0-203 34M
'975« 7-43329 9-69892        9-7817217
7i3on 7-24944 9-71727                         7'35433« 0-09686TM 0-19351TM
.442^ 8-57136 9727S7         977J7454
)348w 8-88355 973705         9-7647594        7'i7i44« 0-11521/1 0-I8087W

                                              8-49226/1 0-12603TM 0-17243TM

                                              8-80508/1 0-13721TM 0-16263TM

)28ow 8-89321      9-74938   9-75(17666       8-81480/1 0-14965/1 0-15092TM
(.210 8-82452      9-76902   9-734.7509       8-74576/1 016866TM 0-13035TM
I603 8-98963       9-78004   9-7i]|.7io6      8-91174/! 0-18162TM 0-11335TM
»399 9-14625       9-78430   9-69.^6654       9 06946/4 0-18978TM 0-I006STM
                             9-67<|.6i25
          9-31740  977999                     9-24376/! 0-19493TM 0-09020TM
 208 9-49032       9-76329   9"63!l-5o87      9 -424 lore 0-20129TM 0-07356TM

  191  9-61000     9-73211   9-5843696        9"55479« 0-20633TM 0-05455TM
  509  9-68015     9-69318   9-52^2603        9-63628/! 0*20697/1 0-04298TM
 f687  9-72737     9-65055   9'473-i448       9-69506/1 0-20770TM 0-03070/1
 ;578  9-77006     9-59769   9-36^8212        9-75327re 0-21843/1 9-98760TM
 .522  9-78722     9-55701                    9-77889/1 o-2i58ire 9-98593TM
 .015  9-80972     9-48343   9'32;?7783       9-81597/1 0-21448TM 9-97384TM
                             9-24*6441
 1844  9-84974                                9-90289/1 0-20155/1 9'95972re
 038   9-85418     9-10627 8-8613736          9-96283re 0-18703TM 9-9491 iw
 ,967  9-85075     8-51622/1 8-27*1223        9-98335/1 0-16537TM 9-98465/1
       9-84176     8-96540/* 8-78^2612        o-oo7icre 0-15917/! 9"97359«
I1732  9-80939     9-22594/1 9-04*0884        0-04737TM o-i24i2re 9-99676re
 315   9-78769     9-47024/! 9-34*9697        o-o6365re 0-09455TM 0-02342/4
                   9-52640/1 9-4549406
 096

.719 9-74382       9-63366re                  0-08694/1 0-09435TM 9-99/89TM
                                   9*53f6232  0-12714/1 0-06234/1 9-97019/1
298 9-60724                                   0-14865TM 0-01054TM 9-99279TM
                   9-75952/1 9-66^0857        0-15115TM 9-96999TM 0-02524TM
624 9-46793        9-78245TM 976417941        0-16673TM 9-85931TM o"o6o58«
4i4n 9"44573       9-75027re 9-8047132
9i5« 9-25460                                  0-17556TM 9-76097TM 0-0766CW
204n 9-06625       9-69023/8 9*89139598
                   9-61967/1 9-93?i366

                                                                 C8)
=PRIMAHY EQUATIONS FOU THE COHRECTIONS OF THE GAUSSIAN CONSTANTS. Their form is                               + + +n coef. i-?'<'.(A^-") coef. Ay"'' .(A^,*.') .                         [Report, Brit. Assoc. 18+8. Erman.

                    Loe<* n  ^°^' '^°''^' ^°^' "^^^^ ^°^' *^°*^' ^°8' '^o'f- Log- coef. Log. cocf. Log. cocf.lLoR. eoef. Log. coef. Log. eocf. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. cocf.' Log. cocf. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. eocf. Log. coef. Log. cocf. Log. cocf. Log. cocf,

                             Aj^'O.  A</*-\  M*-K  a<f'K     ^h*--.  il^'^.    Ah*\  Ag**.  i\/i*-'.  ijJ.o.  ij^i.',     i/.'-i.  ij^-i.  iA'.i.  ip'.'i,  Ah".  Ag'-".  Ag^-'.  cK'^K  Ag'-h  <lft''».  Ag^-",  Ag^-*.  Ak^\

                                                                                                                       I

                                                                     r;4o37n

                                                                     '"49343"
                                                                     '49377n

                                                   ,6-,,-,,

        J 11 49
        7 37 ^f>

 j-37 38 58
1-44 4S

 -"-45 4
              '3 -

  -48 30 36
= +Their form 'is
                   « cc Report, Brit. Assoc. 1848. Erman.

lOg. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. ef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef Log. coef.

i'864i5n 8^4i673n 9-48225«    9-82944 0-191807? 9-574097? 0-079267?
·o8923» 9-37195W 8-7924071    9-05314 0-214667? 8-817587? 0-058367?
                              9-339967? 0-222017? 9-12383 0-040057?
·33441 9-5oo627» 9-11941      9-667907? 0-220047? 9^45913 o'032697?
·62270 9'468867i 9-44919      9-720037? 0-231897? 9^55i95 9-99198??
56343 9-63781W 9-57506        9-897857? 0-221437? 9-73784 9-983927?
·61773 9-4914271 9-73181

 6924.6   8-5742671 9-76760   0-037747? 0-19440?? 9-85168   0-00996??
 76350    9-26007 9-74043     0-123627? 0-166417? 9-91054   0-03700??
 84802    9-63209 9-64660     0-21505?? 0-12182?? 9-96879   0-07018??
·84222                        0-266307? 0-087627? 0-00546   0-084757?
          9-74225 9-54772                                   0-092357?
1-75566   9-80236 941597      0-30670?? 0-053147? 0-03826   0-09888??
·23311    9-85013 8-91834     0-3611 9-98563?? 0-08621

i*2374ira 9-85460  7-852067?  0-38154W 9-948527? 0-10855 0-096917?
58426re 9-85023
i"68923ra 9-84398  8-92739?j  0-396537? 9-913797? 0-13330 0-099147?
1-44688            9-1168471
                   9-15768    --0-4048 37? 9-891097? 0-12917 0-099577?
 '43715            9-18961    9-86201     00 9-917657? 9^74957
1-44484            9-20162
                              9-88675            9-92068?? 9-74286

                              9-87444            9-918797? 9-74708

1-50634             9-20472    9-79521    -- 00  9-90851?? 9-76834
1-53002             9-20254    9-74181           9-902407? 9-77936
1-55829             9-19351    9-64135    -- 00  9-89248?? 9-79583
1-58205            9-18087     9-47727    -- 00
1-59195            9-17196     9-32808    -- 00                   9-81418
1-59842            9-16063     9-06791    -- 00
                                          -- 00  9-871457? 2505
1-60136            9-14882     7^74453           9-861827? 9-83640
'·59477            9-12882     9-246757?  -- 00
'·57934            9-11007     9-493487?  -- 00  9-85012?? 9-84885
                   9-09389     9-606447?         9-82949?? 9-86780
  56271            9-07488     9-673387?  -- 00  9-81268?? 9-88095
'·54545            9'03737     9-753227?  -- 00
1-51299                                                          9-88950
                   8-98535    9-820177?   -- 00  9-790857? 9-89558
 46974                93755   9-847637?   -- 00  9-776407? 9-90413
-44000                        9-874307?   -- 00
 40675             8-88525    9-969987?   -- 00  9-760607? 9-91238
-26900             8-78297    9-966107?          9-752377? 9-91636
-26454             8-74662    9-978497?   -- 00
-22096             8-66533                -- 00  9-743437? 9-92043
                              9-967047?   -- 00  9-70474?? 9^93557
i-17762            8-30020    9-947667?   -- 00  9-705457? 9"93533
                   7-72761W   9-838927?   -- 00  9-6974^7? 9-93805
 26930             8-2398471  9-841527?   -- 00
1-23674            8-5031971  9-775207?          9-696517? 9^93834
-28238             8-8216971  9-422787?          9-699457? 9^93737
·31266             8-9418471                     9-74084?? 9-92156
                              9-5644371
·24853             9-0305571  9-591987?          9'73745'« 9-92303
-17406             9-1907371  8-763647?          9-77660?? 9-90396
-15460             9-3113171  9-25213            9-81102?? 9-88215
                   9-35461M   9-76937
13447              9-457487?  9-915357?          9'79227?? 9"89473
                   9-5120678
-89397                                           9-798587? 9-89073

42552                                            9-840437? 9-85818

                                                 9-875367?  oil

                                                 9-927597? 9-72632

                                                 9-95439?? 9-63876

-5435271           9-5869071  0-01440     -- 00  9-97977?? 9-47460
-86461W            9-6730774  0-05620     -- 00  9-999287? 8-75850
 77590W            9.69I38K   0-03044            9-99683?? 9-080627?
5414471            9-6740971  9-98562            9-98506?? 9-411 507?
 0030671           9-6951971  9-90370            9-973117? 9-533087?
 50828             9-632337}  9'75453            9-939397? 9-69331??

02310              9-529407? 9-63845             9-914517? 9-756237?
 17829             9-432507? 9^585Si             9-903647? 19-777187?
-26734             9-271107? 9-53629             9-894327? J9-7Q2937?
·33792             9-126767? 9-45588             9-88553?? 9-S06247?
42768              8-951537? Lt? 9-31064
                   8-386837? '?? 8-70796         9-87485?? 9-820767?

                                                 9-855737? 9-843067?

                                                            (9)
                          PRIMARY EQUATIONS FOR THE CORRECTIONS OF THE GAUSSIAN CONSTANTS. Their form's 0=h + coef.V'".{A^'')-|-coef.V'*(V') "!-··                                                                               [Repoi't, Brit Assoc. ISIS. Ermai
                                                                                                                                                                                             f. Log. coef. Log. cocf. Log. coef, log. coef. Log. coef, Log. coef, Log. coef.
Stations snd otiscrvcd e  ·«-- gSS: ·»«  Log. coef. Log. coct. Log.                 Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. cocf. Log. coef, Log.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9-64411                      9-99 198B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9'6o396n                          9"i>8j9ir

                                                                                                                                                                                             ij-57364 964477(t                          ' 9'9'oS4
                                                                                                                                                                                             9-57818 9-68o64« I                         > 9'96879
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        , 0-00546

                                                                                    0-58105              9-11556/.                                                                                                                                    974957
                                                                                       S9I9S                i3iiin
                                                                                      59841                                                                                                                                                               76834
                                                                                                            >+7SSn                                                                                                                                      . 779J6
                          576467.                                                                        . .67i3»                                                                                                                                        9-79583              \
                          4Sio9n                                                                         9'»7834"                                                                                                                                        g-81418
                          4765471                                                                        9181990                                                                                                                        9-87 145" 9-81505
                          38934"                                                                         9-17961R                                                                                                                       j'86i8in 983640
                          308780
                                                                                                            16510TM                                                                                                                     985012W 9-84885
                                                                           8-89837                                                                                                                                                      9-8194911 867S0
                                                                         8-8597+                            1371311
                                                                           8-7Z079                                                                                                                                                      9' 800400 88950
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9' 7908 5" 89558
                                                                          74S+S                                                                                                                                                         9-77640" 9-9041
                                                                         93914
                                                                         9-03610                                                                                                                                                        9-76o6on 9-91138
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9-75137.1 91636
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        974343" 92043

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9"935S7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        970545"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9'6974jn

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9-69651^
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9-699450 93737
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9-740840 91156
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        97374S" 991303
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9-77660.. 90396
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9'8iioin 88115

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9-79as7n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        979858"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9840431.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9-87536"

                                                                                              9.691381.                                                                                                                                 1 8-75850
                                                                                              9-674090
                                                                                              9-69si9n                                                                                                                                     9-533080 I
                                                                                              9-63a33»                                                                                                                                  1 9-693310

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9-756130 I

                                                                                                                     !-39i56.y o-i9099nU
1 1111

                   m coe^ort, Brit. Assoc. 1848. Erman.
= +Their form is

Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. L()g. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef
                                                       Ag^-K    Ah^-K
         Ap3'0.               AA2.2.

0-45831            7-28207    |68i72»i                 9-84359W 9-8552371
0-47949                                                9-8370771 9-86i237»
0-49110            8-34113 g. bo 58478                 9-8341871 9-8637871
9-63005                                                8-95882 9-12690
9-52404            8-52012 3.0981871                   8-81974 8-99756
9-40476                                                8-7043C 8-87607
         9-7ii38ra 9-28542n 9-ft7a77M 9-99423

         9-74294» 9- 1 5 36471 9-i33937« 9-99689
         9-758i6« 9-0418971 q.223427J 9-99821

9-04642 9-77285n              3.5506771 9-99952        8-44075 8-58092
                                                       8-08491 8-20795
8-83203 9-777i7» 8-4270971              9-99991        6-8491371 16-9457871
                                        O'OOOOO        6-6845971 6-7502574
7-286i4» 9-77815/1 7"i9iS5 7-134367                    8-0162874 8-0626871
6-9448o« 9-778ISW 6-82701 6-16449       o-ooooo
                                                       8-3404574 8-3638774
8-ii879» 9-77758W 8-35858 8-48373 9"9999S

8-i7a84« 9-7757in 8-68227 8-80412 9-99978

7-87989n 9'77559» 8-70441     8.81457   9-99977        8-3626274 8-3638974
8-29009 9-77628re 8-65449     8-7439°   9*99983        8-3125371 8-2742274
8-70019 9-774i5?i 8-83309     8,90604   9-99964        8-4916674 18-4233974
8-96626 9-76986ra 8-99831     8-05963   9-99925        8-6579378 8-5688374
9-20231 9-75947W 9-17618      9-22957   9-99832        8-8383174 8-7335874
9-452 1 9'73422w 9-35906      9^^0172   9-99613        9-0272074 8-8994774

9-63584  9-4947971 9-48908              9-99292        9-1661474 9-0143674
9-73385  9-65188W 9"S6538               9-98958        9-2516174 9-0876274
9-80775  9-605 i8w 9-61892              9-98624        9-3144674 9-1374674
9-92928                                 9-98183        9-3878174 9-1569874
9-94662  9-537i8» 9-67989                              9-4131974 9-i833i«
9-98278  9-49674M 9-69854               9"97945        9-4529974 9-2123574
         9-42044W 9-72684               9-97540

0-03121  9-0429971 9-77559              9-96218        9-5402074 9-2983774
0-04664  8-35391 9-79452                9-94863        9-5991774 9-3612574
9-97230  8-91890 9-78151                9-94278        9-6038874 9-4231674
9-98137                                 9-93511        9-6291074 9-4435274
9-84345  9-17797 9-78313                9-91913        9-6503074 9-5529474
9-60530                                 9-91137        9-6447774 9-5736474
         9-44134 975314
         9-51931 9-72197

9-73760 9-61399    9-71436    9^95361   9-89859        9-6806474 9-5781874
9-65160 974385     9-64783    9(89092   9-87058        9-7168474 9-6246974
8-91562 9"79933    9*55879                             9-7058074 9-6880574
9-39850^ 9-80524   9-51258              9"85i33        9-6702374 19-7254874
9-8559871 9-83897  9-35822                 " "35       9-5920274 9-7932974
9-92848n 9"85597   9-22555                             9-5132974 9-8289274
                                        .

                                        9-83196
                                        9-82118

9-85955W 9-88271   8-95174 ,174566 9-79846             9'36537« 9-8705474
9'i4790« 9-90896
9-41630 9-91385    7'938i5 ,,·63263 9-75805            8-6721374 9-9129174
9-69820 9-91275
9-67954 9-91704    8-05265 8'342677i 9-74218           9-00160 9-9178174
9-69772 9-91356
                                   _,-564427i 9-74660  9-33031 9-9040774
                   8-4571971
                   7-720x871 875696W 9-71784           9-46394 9-9039774

                   8-6954271            9-74350        9-61370- 9-8597874

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        j

                                                                              I

9-69450  9-88643   9-210747J (,^9606071 979442         9-64960  9-8078874
9-69764  9-83831                                                                                                                      j
9-69707  9-72873   9-4105271 ^h98o58»i 9-83233
9-63371  9-61654   9-5609971 ,,.'-984927j 9-87483      9-64256 9-7690274
9*49439  9-47024   9-6251371 .·9786178 9-89819
         8-95034                                       9-61372 9-7151174
                   9-6670271 ,-9662571 9-91647
                   9-7032071 9'92757« 9-94212          9-59283 9-6721274
                                                       9-57287 9-6269674

                                                       9-52766 9-5403374

8-8357071 7-8718971 9-7090974 -,-9006571 9-95229       9-50272  9-4910874
9-1400771 8-9412271 9-7033671 1-8731671 9-96004        9"47399  9-4498374
                                                       9-45384  9-4242474
9-2180171 9-1281271 9-6958371 9*85444» 9-96436

                                                                (10)
PltlMARY EQUATIONS FOR THE CORRKCTIONS OF THE GAUSSIAN CONSTANTS. Their form i                                                                            +r. A(/'" . (Af/'") coef. Ay'-' (Ay''') +.                                                                                                                          [Report, Brit. Assoc. 1848. Eit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .

Stations and observed elements.  Lalitude. nreMwicb' ^^'             coef. Log. coef. Log. coef.lLog. coef. Log. cfief. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. cocf. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef, Log. coef. Log. cocf. Log. coef.jLog. coef. Log. coef. Log, coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. cocf. Log. coef.'

                                 315 46 7                                                                                                                 8-54971                                                                                                                                                             0-16438.                  9-837070 9-86113"
                                                                                                                                                          9-4.53501                                                                                                                                                            07116
                                 316 3s 3+                                                                                                                9-33146.                                                                                                                                                             96363                     " 180986378"

                                 3'6 55 3                                                                                                                  -ii36«                                                                                                                                                                                34367
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16449
                                 HS 49 9                                                                                                                   giiosr                                                                                                                                                                             8-48373
                                                                                                                                                            55013'
                                 136 14, S4                                                                                                                 'zSSzo
                                                                                                                                                           89267

                                                                                                                                                          8-70769

                                                                                                                                                          8-70568

Taciti, Point Veiiun                                                                                             . 77948'                                                                                                                                                                                            6g654n
                                                                                                                 9-95161.                                                                                                                                                                                           .fiiajsn
                                                 -56 11 30 199 3+ I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9-59>69n
                                                                                                                                                 9-61654
Rio At Janeiro .                                                                                                                                 9-47014                                                                                                                             -91613.. |9-
                                                                                                                                             "95034
                                                                                                        7004 5H
                                                                                                        643675
                                                                                                     9'57"9S'»

                                                                               9-62437ti

                                                                       58597      SSaaSM             8-33539
                                                                               9-501 1 8«
                                                                     8-g+953                         8-73SS>"
                                                                       20184                         9-0344on

                                                                                           9-3x84.111 9-1508 in

                                                                                           9-06 1 i4n 8487^

                                                                        39356              8 '4409 5 n 8-86973n                                                        6oiz8
                                                                     9'486i4               "17645                                                                    8-9801Z

                                                                                              78301 9-41085                                                                                                                                                                          9-98581-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       91775'
                                                                                             83831 957446
                                                                                           8-76539 9-66889
                                                                                           8-1118 9-75681

                                                                                           8'z0334n
                                 FINAL EQUATIONS FOR THE CORKECTIONS OF THE GAUSSIAN CONSTANTS, RESULTING FROM US OBSERVED ELEMENTS.

     1^".     Aj<.'.  1  ih--'.

)

           I
                                   PRIMARY EQUATIONS FOR THE CORRECTIONS OF THE GAUSSIAN CONSTANTS FOR 1829 (Conlinued).  [lleport, Brit. Assoc. 1848. Ermaii.

mSolion. J obi.n,,l rfmenli  L.liliide I-"!- E»«l. . .,, ,, Log. coef. Log. coe(. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. corf. Log. coef. Log. corf. Log. cocf. Log. cocf. Log. cocf. Log cod. Log. corf.'Log. corf. Log. coef. Log. cocL Log. cocf. Log. coef Log. cocf. Log. corf. Log, cocf. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coeL Log. corf.

                             3iii
)))

IONS OF THE                [Report, Brit. Assoc. 1848. Ennan.

                           oef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef. Log. coef

                                       A/i2.2.                        AA'.'.

'57« 9'S9692« 8*922 78« 9-08II5        9-86950?! 9-95969    9-49630   9-42591?!
                                       9-85756?! 9-95881    9-52584   9-38960?!
         9'85984ra 8-870 72>l 9"36ii9  9-79890?! 9-97036    9-46470   9-31470?!
                                       9-77303?! 9-97426    9-43697   9-28390?!
v6Sn 9'8532i« 9'307 Sm 9'34S84         9-71212?! 9-98082    9-38255   9-2102
                                       9-66365?! 9-9S478    9-33742   9-15462?!
     9'86323« 9'39?        9-32907

     9"8522ow 9-520 2 5?« 9'32i8o

no're 9-83483»i 9-583 23?J 9-30061

114-8 9'8o67on 9-632M-i» 9'26935 9-61025?! 9-98817          9-28696 9-095 15?!
       970946« 9-705Jig« 9'i6723 9-47384» 9-99376           9-15546
                                                            8-90054 8-67814?!
I 9-48358re 9757P« 8-93987 9-21171?! 9-99813                8-75952 8-53709?!
                                                            8'45i53 8-22344?!
        9*34867w 9-76769" 8-80405 9-07203?! 9-99902         7-80917?! 7'57872
It 84'9"o4452W 9-775 83» 8-50025 8-760x4?! 9-99977
hi 198-40661 9-778.23'^ 7-86353JI 8-11651 9-99999

It< 97V16705        9773   8-62278^ 8-88417      9-99959    8-57522?! 8-34785
Ite'^S '56120                                    9-99772    8-95228?! 8-69280
Ite"3*''8i404       9-752 gin 9-03699?! 9'235i7  9-99288    9-20459?! 8-91076
Ite '57 89042                                    9-98766
Ite '74'9i232       9-694 z6n 9'3i875» 9'45579   9-98223    9-31345?!. 9'05535
Ite 1-92 88558                                   9-97284    9-38018?! 9'i6i2i
                    9-625 zgn 9'3866c« 9-58733              9-45185?? 9-28688

                    9'543 23W 9-39881^ 9-67796

                    9"365' z6n 9-36844*1 977844

Ite i'02Si092       8-977 45» 9-30394?? 9-85445  9-96074    9-51080?! 9-39010
Ite>-o6 75693       8-40057W 9-26853re 9-89892              9-55462?! 9-45380
Itei>-o854078       9-i6293» g'iy^6gn 9'93459    9-94897    9-58801?! 9'5i307
Itei)-o9ji7o8       9-40736« 9-07476?i 9'95925   9'93573
Itei )'09ii.6i9o                                 9-,921,96  9-61583?! 9'55933
Itei )-05i6645      9-48750^ 9-03331?! 9-96864   991472     9-62897?! 9-57868
                    9-583.49« 9-26614?! 9'97399  9"90322    9-66560?! 9-58103

Itei 97;4°47        9-668 ijn 9-48285?! 9-96932  9-88876    9-70963?! 9-57035
Itei ·7814828       9759 75« 9-66819?! 9-94521   9-86575    9-76463?! :9-54466
Itei -07:6800       9-8 50 9-81946?! 9-87439     9-83563    9-82230?! 9-47700
                                                 9-82619    9-85579?! 9-27891
Itei ·65!858i       9-848. 74 9-93668?! 9-69244  9-81463    9-87522?! 9-02513
Iter 85:5152                                     9-80131    9-88886?! 8-17930
Mo: 89-8695         9-864 73 9-97785?! 9"43753
                    9-879 23 9-99090?! 8-58260
                 }

Atl*-7i:3839n 9-164 22«                9-82420?! 0-17155    0-11249 9-53561?!
                                                            0-11137 9-26128?!
Ite*-88 8355ra 8-892       0-08906 9-54874?! 0-18054        0-10226 8-39274?!

Moi )-9o:9628« 7-204       0-07941 8-67111?! 0-18992        9-40839?! 9-98527?!
Atli )*oii8798«            --9-82192?! o-o66i6?!            9-14562?! 9-99571?!
                                                  00        8-29041?! 9-99992?!

Iter )-77J7364w            9-55802?! 009834?!

Moi t-89!'0467re           8-69371?! 0-10201?!

Noi)-72(;67i4       9749   9-99034  9-73560      8-65706    0-00083   9-66577
                    9785   0-01093  977115       8-81690    0-02231   9-66455
Iter |-73(i558i                     9-90369      9-11860              9-73312
                    9795   9-95770  9*95323      9-01787      -01649  9-78211
Sot; (-68<<i5ii     9785   9-84029               9-04844              9-82614
Bal (-46^8419       9773'                3200    9-05423    9'99559   9-83404
Gill 1*41^3053             975959                           9-96965
                    9774   9-63083  9-99065                 9-96656
Sm '47(62066
                                                                               PRIMARY EQUATIONS FOR THE CORRECTIONS OF THE GAUSSIAN CONSTANTS FOR 1829 (Co                                                                                                                                                    [Report, Riil. Assoc. 1818. Eiiiia

                                                 ^°'''S- East,  ,,  Log. coet  Log. coef.  Log. coef-  Log.  coef-.Log. coef.  Log. coef.  Log. coef.  Log. coef.  Log. cocf.  Log. coef.'Log. ooef.  Log. eocf.  Log.  couf.  Log. <-oef.  Log.  cocf. Log. cocf.         Log.  coef.JLog. coef.  Log. cocf.  Log. coef.tLog.  cocf.  Log. cocf.lLoR. coof.
                                                 (jregn^ci,     n.    ^^.o        ^^,,        ^^,,i,                    ^i,i_     j^,3_        ^^,.a_      ^gi,,_     ^^i.*                               iA».'.                   '!*'-·                  ^A".                           ^s"-         -i**'-     ·!?-"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ]
s Olid observed elements.  1l^-a*t:i.t,,uuic,,.                 ^^~ V'- V'- V"- M".,uo,,g,,.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lor. cocf-
                                                                                                                                                                               ^^,o_  j^.j,                                                                                                                                                                     lh'\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jj'-".
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Jjr'.'.

                                                 31J 50 35                                                                                 38444"                                                                              9-645S<      74474" ,994343n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5-610510     S'4i9»l9'9905ii
                                                 3H SJ J8                                                                                                                                                                                   '4081:11 ,9'9Sj84i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  735380
                                                 3ZI SI 50
                                                 321 3S                                                                                    ^75+7'
                                                 319 55                                                                                    816061

                                                                                                                                           8684in                                     9-5968                      53104
                                                                                                                                                                                      94807                       66033
                                                                                                                                            98054)1                                   9-137840                                                                                        91585                                              '99813
                                                                                                                                           gg970H                                                                                                                                    9-91991                                           9-99901
                                                                                                                                615851                                                                                                                                               9*93391                                           9-99977
                                                                                                                               '49594"     99745.1
                                                                                                                                31985.1    99978"

                                                                                                                                           '99S6on                                                                             9-83638. 8-585.
                                                                                                                                           97605.*                                                                             9-81143., 66175
                                                                                                                                           920150                                                                              975319' 3'375
                                                                                                                                           8661m

                                                                                                                                           799760

                                                                                                       9-31636
                                                                                                       9'=^'3SS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9'55757»                    94897
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9-49693 r.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               993459 993S73
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     417360    9959SS 99*'9'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      367500

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               481850 99693:                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '668190 9-9451:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               819460 9f7439

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9-81418                                                     -00

MotlierlMi,:.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              _ 65ii8b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9-65398^
North Scji
                                                                                                                                                                                                9-36586
Souiul near Coiieiiliagcn                                                                                                                                                                         3531S
Baltic
Giiir of Pinlaod                                                                                                                                                                                9"3S793
Snmll Hnxhour of CronBtc
                                    iport, Brit. Assoc. 1848. Erman.

SULTING FROM 61& TO 1830. ^

Ah^-K  Ag3        Ah^         Ag^-       Ag^.\       Ah^-K

+ - +10" 1 200                           11-4234 -- 42-2356
       8-0118     15' 1048    14-9021

                                         29-5294 -- 1-2964
 + + +4-8254
- + + -- +48'3232
         S"8373   43' 8090      i'5337   0-9272      31*9533
       20-0082      3' 7562   92-6496

+33-0834 66-9339  6-7196      28-2315 -- 57792 -- 44*4576

+ + + +-4-9707
       6-1487     82-5285     iT57°7     66-6874     9*9717

- + + --9-0877
       12-6693    3515872     --21-6373  30-3242     41-2272

- + -- + --0-3462
       6-1519     6-I4571     76-2811    5*5452      16-2815

- -- + + +79-3637
       10-2473    36-11764    37876      84*5546 331-0581
                              +41-8180 -- 246-4165 128-1702
+ -38-6233
       11-8660    52^^5733

- +37-1296                    86-6163 -- 14-8216 -- 31*0540
       -3*3584    2i-:5557

- + + + +10-8705
       0-4610     54'!57oo    o'4633     48-0652     0-6839

- -- + + +125-6877
       56-5210    1-14070 150-6053       1-5021      85-4451

+ + --56-5210
 - + +1-7727
       - --169-7015           34*4533    14*5636     83-68
                  13' 5259
                                         --103-6081
       13-0016 +273' 2024 26-5715                    5-9906

- +-25-3961                   25-0846 -107-3886 -113-1507
       9'783i     6o' 4931

+ + + +54-"4ii5 4- 74" 1 594
                  I9l3°57     10-6602    36-1565 132-7150

       --9"9759
+ +- --47-0076
                  6-19859 249-6279       4*3294      87-6357

       -- --6-0358
+ + +10-3064
                  i9-j6o24    7-8700 110-8758        18-3827

-- + + +-107-2394
       53'423i    12-0238     50-4110    17*6774 152-1985

       -- --107-3407
+ + +40-7005
- + + -- --16-4074
                  I7't55a7    30*9668     18-2472    14-3237
                                         180-8351    44-98
       17-5259 127-8179       10-4879

+ +-150-6053
       34"4533    26'4879 +496-6484                  103*3059
                  --103^8351                          35-2622
+ + + +1-5021
       14-5636                2-8865     346-7320

- -- + + +85-4451
       83-6846    5+9890 103-3059        35-2622 375*3757

94-1 546-0.                                          (14)
rman's Note in Rep. Brit. Ai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                [Report, Brit. Assoc. 1818. En
FINAL EQUATIONS FOR THE CORRECTIONS OF THE 24 GAUSSIAN CONSTANTS, RESULTING FROM 610 MAGNETIC ELEMENTS ODSERVED IN THE YEARS 1828 TO 1830.
--:

REPORT RELATIVE TO THE TORONTO OBSERVATORY. 99

Report relative to the expediency of recommending the continuance of
   the Toronto Magnetical and Meteorological Observatory until De-

   cember 1850, adopted by a Committee of the British Association at

 --Swansea, August 1848, consisting of the following Members Lord

   Wrottesley, Chairman, the Dean of Ely, Rev. Dr. Lloyd,

   President of the Royal Irish Academy, fmc? Lieut.-Col. Sabine.

At the Cambridge meeting of the British Association, it was recommended

that the Toronto Observatory should be continued on its then footing until
the 31st of December 1848, unless in the mean time arrangements could be
made for its permanent establishment.

   The Observatory is built on ground lent by the Council of King's College
at Toronto without charge, under the condition that when Government

should discontinue the conduct of the Observatory, the building should be

given over to the College, who would thereby have the option of continuing

the observations should it appear desirable to do so.
   The building of the University, in which some progress had been made,

has been suspended until a bill shall have passed the Canadian Parliament
by which the Board of Management will be determined ; when there is

reason to hope that the Observatory may be placed under the charge of the
Professors of the College, and become a permanent establishment ; to which
desirable result Government may possibly contribute by making a transfer of

the instruments as well as of the buildings-

   The question to be now considered is therefore the expediency of recom-
mending the continuance of the Observatory by Government for a year or
two longer, until the affairs of the College shall be in a condition to enable
the question of its permanent establishment to be brought before the authori-
ties by whom the College shall hereafter be conducted.

   The present state of the Observatory with regard to objects accomplished
and objects for the accomplishment of which provision is made, is as

follows :

   Six years of hourly-observation were completed on the 30th June in the
present year. This has been considered a sufficient duration for this la-
borious routine, and as furnishing a sufficient basis for the deduction of
mean numerical values and mean diurnal variations of the magnetic and me-

teorological elements for every five days throughout the year. From the

1st of July 1848, therefore, night observation has ceased except at times of

great magnetical and meteorological disturbance ; and a reduction of one of

the assistants has consequently been made. Observations are now made at

convenient hours of the day, which compared with the mean values at the

same hours in the corresponding periods of. the six years, furnish, for the

meteorological elements, the non-periodic variations which have become so im-

portant a feature in the extensive generalisations to which the science of

meteorology has advanced                                                                                                                 whilst for the  magnetic elements they furnish a
                                                                                                                                      ;

continuation of the differential results from which, assisted by monthly ab-

solute determinations, the secular and annual variations, which necessarily

require a longer series of observation than the diurnal, are in progress

of elucidation. By the aid of equations furnished by the six years' hourly
series, the.^e objects can now be carried out by a system of observation which
is comparatively extremely light ; so much so as to be already within the
compass of the College or other local direction. It does not however pro-

vide for the observation of disturbances, which require tlie continuous, or
almost continuous observation of several instruments siinultaneouslv.
100 REPORT 1848.

    For these, consequently, there is needed eitlier a larger staff of assistants,
than it would be reasonable to expect in a permanent establishment, or a
provision of efficient and proved self-recording instruments. Accordingly
for some months past, and particularly since the termination of the hourly
series, the attention of the Director has been turned to the introduction and
practical trial of photographic instruments of this nature. From prudential
reasons, one instrument only of each kind, one magnetical and one meteoro-
logical, has been thus fitted ; but the success with these is such as appears
fully to justify the application of similar apparatus to the other instruments.

   The chemical difficulties which might have been apprehended as obstacles
to the employment of such instruments in a distant colony, appear to be
surmounted, but experience is almost daily suggesting modifications and im-
provements, for which both apparatus and advice are required from home.

In this respect therefore the Observatory cannot be said to be yet in the
state in which it might be advantageously transferred to other hands ; some
short time longer is required for completing the equipment and comparing
the performance of the self-recording instruments during disturbances with
actual observations, for which latter a sufficient number of assistants is still

retained.

   There is no other observatory in America at which magnetic disturbances
are recorded ; and it is greatly to be desired that this record in a part of the
globe so important in magnetic respects should not be wanting for the ge-
neral comparison.

  A few months' longer continuance in the present hands is also desirable

for the purpose of bringing to a satisfactory conclusion the comparisons
which have been instituted between the instruments by which the great body
of observations have been made, and others which have been subsequently
devised for attaining the same objects by other processes. There is reason

to believe that the result of these comparisons will be in many cases highly
satisfactory, in confirming the dependence which may be placed on the To-
ronto instruments and their results. The knowledge acquired by such com-

parisons is also likely to be very beneficial in guiding the selection of in-
struments hereafter for similar purposes in other colonies.

   The cost of the Toronto Observatory with its present establishment (such
as is projjosed to be continued for a year or two longer) is £370 a-year, in-
cluding a contingent of £100 for repairs and incidentals of all kinds. In this
sum there is not included the regimental pay of the officer and non-commis-
sioned officers, because they remain on tlie strength of the Artillery and are

on the spot ready to serve in their military capacity should the public ser-

vice require it. The observations which would be made during this addi-
tional period would not require to be printed as before in detail; and would
form in substance a comparatively small appendix, which would have a place
in the concluding volume of the Toronto observations.
                     NOTICES

                                           AND

       ABSTRACTS OF COMMUNICATIONS

                                           TO THE

BRITISH ASSOCIATION

                                           FOR THE

        ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE,

                                             AT THE

          SWANSEA MEETING, AUGUST 1848.
                       ADVERTISEMENT.

   The Editors of the following Notices consider themselves responsible

only for the fidelity with which the views of the Authors are abstracted.
                        CONTENTS.

NOTICES AND ABSTRACTS OF MISCELLANEOUS
      COMMUNICATIONS TO THE SECTIONS.

                  MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

                                                                               Page

Rev. H. Lloyd on the Mean Results of Observations                              1

Herr Plucker's Account of Experiments belonging to a new Magnetic

Action                                                                         2

Rev. Prof. Powell on an Explanation of the "Beads" and "Threads" in

Annular Eclipses                                                               2

                  · on a new Case of Interference of Light                     3

                  's Collected Observations of the Annular Eclipse of October

9, 1847                                                                        3

Dr. SiLjESTROM on those Variations of the Force and the Direction of the Ter-  4
   restrial Magnetism which seem to depend on the Aurora Borealis

Mr. G. G. StOKES on a Difficulty in the Theory of Light                        5

                  on the Refraction of Light beyond the Critical Angle         5

- on the Perfect Blackness of the Centre of Newton's Rings 7

· on the Resistance of the Air to Pendulums                                    7

Prof. W. Thomson on the Equilibrium of Magnetic or Diamagnetic Bodies of       8

   any Form, under the Influence of the Terrestrial Magnetic Force

                  on the Theory of Electro-magnetic Induction                  9

Professor Wheatstone on a means of determining the apparent Solar Time by      10

   the Diurnal Changes of the Plane of Polarization at the North Pole of the
   Sky

Mr. John Ball on rendering the Electric Telegraph subservient to Meteoro-

logical Research                                                               12

Rev. J. Challis's Description of a New Instrument for observing the Ap-

   parent Positions of Meteors (in a letter to the Assistant General Secretary) 13

Mr. Mansfield Harrison on a Self- Registering Thermometer (in a letter to

Prof. Phillips)                                                                14

Mr. J. W. Childers's Comparative Temperature Table, showing the daily          16

   average height of the Thermometer ; at Jersey, in 49° 11" N. ; at Torquay,

  N50° 30'" N. ; Hastings, 50° 52'" N. ; and Loudon, 51° 30""

Extracts from a Letter to Professor Wheatstone, from J. D. Hooker, M.D. 17

Sir W. Snow Harris on a General Law of Electrical Discharge                    19

Mr. J. P. Joule on the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat and on the Constitu-

tion of Elastic Fluids                                                         21

Mr. John Jenkins's Notices of Aurorae observed at Swansea                      22

         *- -- Tables of Meteorological Phsenomena observed at Swansea 23

Dr. John Lee on Meteorological Observations continued at Alten in Finmark 32

Mr. J. F. Cole's Observations upon the Meteorological Observations for 1846    32
   and 1847 from Alten in Lapland (in a letter lo Dr. Lee)                     33

Mr. Matthew Moggridge on two cases of uncommon Atmospheric Refraction

Lieut. Maury's Observations accompanying Wind and Current Charts of the

North Atlantic                                                                 34

Mr. Thos. Rankin's Meteorological Observations at Huggate for 1847..           36
IV CONTENTS.

                                                                                                                                                           Page

Mr. George Roberts on a remarkable Tide in the British Channel, Friday,

July 7, 1848, as it appeared at Lyme Regis, Dorset                                    37

Rev. T. R. Robinson's Note on ' Shooting Stars' seen August 10, at Armagh 37

Mr. J. Scott Russell on certain Effects produced on Sound by the rapid

motion of the observer                                                                37

Capt. Stanley on the Lengths and Velocities of Waves (extract from a Letter

to the Rev. Dr. Whewell)               «                                              38

Lieut.-Colonel Sykes on the Fall of Rain on the Table-land of Uttree Mullay,
   Travancore, during the year 1846, from observations made by General CuUen,

Resident in Travancore                                                                39

                   on Atmospheric Disturbances, and on a remarkable Storm

at Bombay on the 6th of April 1848                                                    41

Sir David Brewster on the Compensation of Impressions moving over the

Retina, as seen in Railway Travelling                                                 47

                   on the Vision of Distance as given by Colour                       48

                   on the Visual Impressions upon the Foramen Centrale of

the Retina                                                                                                       48

                   Examination of Bishop Berkeley's " New Theory of

Vision"                                                                               49

                                  CHEMISTRY.

Mr. A. Claudet on the Action of the Red, Orange and Yellow Rays upon                   50
   Iodized and Bromo-iodized Silver Plates after they have been affected by day-
   light, and other Phenomena of Photography                                           50
                                                                                      52
Rev. Thomas Exley on the Laws of Chemical Combinations and the Volumes
                                                                                       53
of Gaseous Bodies                              ;
                                                                                      54
i on the Motion of the Electric Fluid along Conductors...                             54
                                                                                      54
Mr. John Goodman on the Identity of the Existences or Forces of Light, Heat,
                                                                                      55
   Electricity, Magnetism and Gravitation                                             56
                                                                                      56
Mr. W. R. Grove on the peculiar Cooling Effects of Hydrogen and its Com-              57
                                                                                      57
   pounds in cases of Voltaic Ignition                                                58
                                                                                      58
Mr. James Higgin on the Colouring Matters of Madder
Mr. Robert Hunt on the Influence of Light in preventing Chemical Action...            59

Prof. W. A. Miller's Analysis of Wrought Iron produced by Cementation                 60

       from Cast Iron                                                                 61

Dr. Moffatt on the existence of Ozone in the Atmosphere                               61
                                                                                      62
Mr. James Nasmyth on a peculiar property of Coke
                                                                                      62
                    -- on the Chemical Character of Steel                             62

Dr. John Percy on some of the Alloys of Tungsten

Mr. R. Phillips on some Properties of Alumina

Mr. W. B. Randall on Common Salt as a Poison to Plants           ;

Prof. R. E. Rogers and Prof. W. B. Rogers on a New Process for analysing

Graphite, Natural and Artificial

                                       on the Oxidation of the Diamond

in the Liquid Way

                                       on the Absorptiori of Carbonic

Acid by Sulphuric Acid

Mr. J. Tennant's Notices of Pseudomorphous Crystals from Volcanic Districts

    of India

Mr. W. S. Ward on a Galvanometer

                        on the Electromotive Force, Dynamic Effect and Resistance of
   various Voltaic Combinations

Mr. Francis Whishaw on the Chemical Composition of Gutta Percha
                             CONTENTS.                                             V

            GEOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY.

                                                                               Page

Mr. Spence Bate on Fossil Remains recently discovered in Bacon Hole,

Gower; also other Remains from beneath the Bed of the River Tawey.... 62

Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile in the Mountains of the Moon               63

Mr. Charles' Bun BURY on the occurrence in the Tarentaise of certain species

of Fossil Plants of the Carboniferous Period, associated in the same bed with

Belemnites                                                                     64

Mr. Starling Benson on a Boulder of Cannel Coal found in a vein of com-

mon bituminous Coal                                                            64

          · on the relative Position of the various Qualities of Coal          65
   in the South- Wales Coal-Measures                                           66
                                                                               66
Mr. Joseph Bonomi's Notice of a Map of Ancient Egypt of the Time of An-

   toninus Pius

Professor Buckman on the Discovery of some Remains of the Fossil Sepia in

   the Lias of Gloucestershire

            on the Plants of the "Insect Limestone" of the Lower

    Lias                                                                       66
                                                                               67
                               on some Experimental Borings in search of Coal  67
Dr. Carpenter on Marginopora and allied Structures
Mr. William Cunnington on a Peculiarity in the Structure of one of the

Fossil Sponges of the Chalk, Choanites Kiinigi, Mantell                        67

Dr. Daubeny's Reply to an Objection of Mr. Hopkins to the ' Chemical Theory

of Volcanos,' contained in the last volume of the Transactions                 67

Professor E. Forbes's Notice of Discoveries among the British Cystidea, made

since the last Meeting                                                         68

Mr. Evan Hopkins on the Polarity of Cleavage Planes, their conducting

   Power, and their Influence on Metalliferous Deposits                        69

Capt. L. L. BoscAWEN Ibbetson on the Position of the Chloritic Marl or         69
   Phosphate of Lime Bed in the Isle of Wight                                  70

Mr. A. Milward's Account of an extensive Mud-slide in the Island of Malta

            attempt to illustrate the Origin of "Dirt-bands" on

    Glaciers                                                                   71
                                                                               71
Mr. W. Morgan on some Bones found in the Bed of the Tawey
Mr. F. MosES on the Subsidences which have taken place in the Mineral Basin

   of South Wales, between the Llynvi Valley on the East, and Penllergare on

   the West                                                                    71
Professor Oldham on the Geology of the County of Wicklow                       71
                                                                               72
Mr. G. W. Ormerod on the Drainage of a Portion of Chat Moss                    73
Mr. Augustus Petermann on the Hydrography of the British Isles
Professor Ramsay on pome points connected with the Physical Geology of the     73
                                                                               74
    Silurian district between Builth and Pen-y-bont, Radnorshire
Professor H. D. Rogers on the Geology of Pennsylvania                          75

Mr. William Price Struve's Observations on the Great Anticlinal Line of        78
   the Mineral Basin of South Wales                                            79

Mr. Ferdinand Werne's Remarks on the Sources of the White Nile (com-
   municated by Sir Robert H. Schomburgk)

Rev. D. Williams's Supplemental Notice on the Geology of Lundy Island ...
Sir H. T. De la Beche on the Geology of portions of South Wales, Glouces-

tershire, and Somersetshiie                                                    79
vi CONTENTS.

ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY, INCLUDING PHYSIOLOGY.

                                                                                     Page

Mr. J. G. Jeffreys on the recent Species of Odostomia, a Genus of Qaste-             79
                                                                                     79
    ropodous Mollusks inhabiting the Seas of Great Britain and Ireland

Professor Owen on the Os huraero-capsulare of the Ornithorhynchus
, on the Communications between the Tympanum and Palate

    in the Crocodiles                                                                79
                                                                                     80
Lieut.-Col. Portlock's Note on Sounds emitted by MoUusca                             80
Mr. LovELL Reeve on a new Species of Argonaut, A. Otvenii, with some Ob-             81

    servations on the A. gondola, Dillwyn                                            82
Lieut. S PRATT on the Influence of Temperature upon the Distribution of the          82

      Fauna in the ^gean Sea
Mr. T. L. Taylor's Notice of an Observation at Bathcaloa, Ceylon, on the

        Sounds emitted by Mollusca

Dr. A. Waller on Cases of impaired Vision in which Objects appear much

        smaller than natural
                          on the Luminous Spectra excited by Pressure on the Retina

        and their application to the Diagnosis of the Affections of the Retina and

its appendages                                                                       82

              'a Microscopic Observations on the Movement of the Human

Blood in the Capillaries, and on the Structure of the Nerves in the Glands

at the Inferior Surface of the Tongue                                                83

Dr. Thomas Williams on the Structure and Functions of the Branchial

Organs of the Annelida and Crustacea                                                 83

            1 on the Physical Conditions regulating the vertical

Distribution of Animals in the Atmosphere and the Sea                                83

Mr. C. C. Babington's Additions to the British Flora, and an Exhibition of
       Drawings prepared for publication in the Supplement to English Botany... 84

Mr. John Blackwall on Periodical Birds observed in the Years 1847 and 1848

near Llanwrst                            84'.

Mr. Joshua Clarke on the parasitic Character of Rhinanthus Crista- Galti ... 84

Mr. A. Henfrey's Note on the Development of Pollen                                   84

Mr. E. Lankester on some Vegetable Monstrosities illustrating the Laws of

Morphology                                                                           85

Mr. Matthew Moggridgb on a Peculiarity in the Protococcus nivalis                    86

Mr. John Phillips on the Colour Stripes of a Rose {Rosa sempervirens) , single 86

Mr. G. H. K. Thwaites on an apparently undescribed state of the Palmellese,

with afew Observations on Gemmation in the Lower Tribes of Plants                    8?

Mr. W. H. Crook on a supposed connexion between an insufficient Use of Salt

       in Food and the Progress of Asiatic Cholera                                   88
Dr. Richard Fowler's Attempt to give a Physiological Explanation how

     Persons both Blind, Deaf and Dumb from Infancy interpret the Commu-

nications of others by their Touch only                                              88

Dr. Macdonald on the erroneous division of the Cervical and Dorsal Vertebrae,

and the connection of the First Rib with the Seventh Vertebra, and the

normal position of the Head of the Rib in Mammals                                    89

Professor Owen on the Homologies and Notation of the Dental System in

Mammalia                                                                             91

            on the Value of the Origins of Nerves as a Homological Cha-

racter                                                                               93
                            CONTENTS.

                            ETHNOLOGY.

                                                                                                                                                             Page

Dr. Beke on the Geographical Distribution of the Languages of Abessinia and

the Neighbouring Countries                                                                   94
                                                                                             94
Professor Elton on the Ante- Columbian Discovery of America
                                                                                             95
Mr. John Hogg on a quantity of Human Bones discovered in a Field near

Billingham, in the County of Durham                                     .'

Professor Retzius' Measurements of a Skull considered to be Burgundian                       96

               Notes on a Kirgis Skull                                                       96

Sir Robert H. Schomburgk's Remarks to accompany a Comparative Voca-

bulary of eighteen Languages and Dialects of Indian Tribes inhabiting

Guiana                                                                                       96

                                               on a Uniform System to reduce Unwritten Lan-  99
                                                                                             99
      guages to Alphabetical Writing in Roman Characters
Mr. John Phillips's Ethnographical Note on the Vicinity of Charnwood Forest

Dr. L. TuTSCHBK on the Tumali Language                                                       100

               on the Fazoglo Language                                                       100

Archdeacon Williams on the Gael, Breton and Cymry                                            101

                            STATISTICS.

Mr. Edward Balfour's Observations on the means of maintaining the Health

of Troops in India                                                                           101

Mr. Kenrick's Contributions to the Statistics of Darlaston                                   101

Mr. Joseph Fletcher on the Progress and Character of Popular Education

in England and Wales, as indicated by the Criminal Returns, 1837-1847 ·· 102

Sir J. P. Boileau's Statistics on Mendicancy                                                 105

Mr. W. Harding on Facts bearing on the Progress of the Railway System of

Great Britain                                                                                105

Rev. B. Powell's Contributions to Academical Statistics                                      105

Mr. Cadogan Williams on the desirableness of extending to the Working

Classes the opportunity of purchasing deferred annuities, as a provision

for old age                                                                                  105

Mr. Joseph Fletcher on the Moral and Educational Statistics of England and

Wales                                                                                        105

Mr. John Crawford on the Vital Statistics of a District in Java ; with prelimi-
      nary remarks upon the Dutch possessions in the East, by Colonel Sykes 112

Mr. Joseph Hume on the Annual Increase of Property, and of Exports and

Imports in Canada. Communicated by J. Fletcher                                               112

Mr. Augustus Petermann on the Distribution of the Population of Great

Britain and Ireland                                                                          113

Mr. Joseph Fletcher on the Statistics of Brittany and the Bretons                            114

Colonel Sykes on the Statistics of Civil Justice in Bengal in which the Go-

vernment is a party                                                                          116

Mr. J. C. Dennis on Improvements in the Reflecting Circle, more particularly

in reference to an instrument for the purpose of measuring angular distances

of the Sun and Moon                                                                          ^7

Mr. Joseph Glynn on the application of Steam Power to the Drainage of

Marshes and Fen Lands                                                                        117
VIU CONTENTS.

                                                                                                                                                              Page

Professor E. Hodgkinson on Investigations undertaken for the purpose of fur-

nishing data for the Construction of Mr. Stephenson's Tubular Bridges at

   Conway and Menai Straits                                                  II9
Mr. Richard Roberts on a new Element of Mechanism                            II9

Mr. H. E. Strickland on Anastatic Printing and its various combinations ... 120
Mr. William Price Struv^ on the Ventilation of Collieries, with a descrip-

tion of a new Mine-Ventilator                                                120

                      on a new Low-pressure Atmospheric Railway              120

Mr. William S. Ward on a new mechanical arrangement for communicating

Signals and Working Breaks on Railways                                       121

Mr. Francis Whishaw on the application of Gutta Percha to the Arts and

Manufactures                                                                 122

                      on the Patent Multitubular Pipes and Panergous

    Joints                                                                   123

·                     on the Subaqueous Rope for Telegraphic and other

   purposes                                                                                                      123

                   '  on the " Uniformity of Time" and other Telegraphs . 123

                      on the Improved Velocentimeter                         124

                      on the Telekouphonon, or Speaking Telegraph            125

                               ADDENDA.

Mr. Albany Hancock on the Boring of MoUusca into Rocks                       125

Prof. E. Forbes and Robert MacAndrew on some Marine Animals from the

Bristol Channel                                                              125

Mr. W. C. Williamson on Polystomella crispa and the Classification of Fora-

minifera                                                                     125

Rev. J. Bradley on the Boring of Sabellse                                    125

Mr. William Thompson on Additions to the Fauna of Ireland                    125
                                                                                    ;

             NOTICES AND ABSTRACTS

                                                      OF

MISCELLANEOUS COMMUNICATIONS TO THE SECTIONS.

              MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

On the Mean Results of Observations. By the Rev. H.Lloyd, D.D., M.E.LA.

It is well known that the mean value of any magnetical or meteorological element,
for any day, may be had appxo\ima.te\y,hy taking the arithmetical mean of any num-

ber of observed values obtained at equal m^eri'a^s throughout the twenty-four hours ;

the degree of approximation, of course, increasing with the number. It is important

to ascertain the law which governs this approximation.
   Any periodical function, u, of the variable v, being represented by the formula

              + + + + +smu=a(,
              ffli sin (v         «i)  «2  (2 w Xn) &c.,

in which a^ is the true mean, or

                                  «(,=--- / udv.

if Ml, M,, Mg, &c., ie,,, denote the values of the function w, corresponding to those of

the variable                                      --2 (w

              2 w 4 :r                     ,              1) TT

              nn                                  «

it may be shown that their arithmetical mean is equal to

                + + + +aQ-\-an sin (« r «,,) a2,, sin (2 nv os2n) &c.,

whatever be the value of v. Hence, as the original series is always convergent, we
have, when the number n is suflSciently great,

              = -- ++ + % +Co («i Ms
                                           &c. M,,),

nearly ; the limit of error being a,,, nearly. Hence, when the period in question is a
day, we learn that the daily mean value of the observed element will be given by the
meanof <M.-o equidistant observations, nearly, when Caand the higher coefficients are

negligible ; by the mean of three, when a^ and the higher coefficients are negligible

and so on.
   The coefficient az is small in the case of the temperature ; the curve which repre-

sents the course of the diurnal changes of temperature being, nearly, the curve of
sines. In this case, then, the mean of the temperatures at any two homonymous

hours is, nearly, the mean temperature of the day. This fact has been long known

to meteorologists.

   The Coefficient a-i is small in all the periodical functions with which we are con-
cerned in magnetism and meteorology : and therefore the daily mean values of these
functions will be given, very nearly, by the mean of any three equidistant observed
values. The truth of this was shown by the author in the case of the magnetic
decUnation, the atmospheric pressure, and temperature, as observed at the Magne-

tical Observatory of Dublin.

   In choosing the particular hours for a continuous system of observations, we

should select those which correspond nearly to the maxima and minima of the observed

elements, so as to obtain also the daily range. This condition is fulfilled, in the

1848.                                                            B
                                                                           --

--2 REPORT 1848.

case of the magnetic declination, very nearly, by the hours 6 a.m., 2 p.m., 10 p.m. ;
which give, moreover, the maximum and minimum of temperature, and of the ten-
sion of vapour, nearly, and the maximum pressure of the gaseous atmosphere; and
if we add the intermediate hours 10 a.m., 6 p.m., we shall have, nearly, the prin-
cipal maxima and minima of the other two magnetical elements. The author ac-
cordingly proposes, as the best hours of observation in a limited system,

                                                    6 A.M., 10, 2 P.M., 6, 10.

The case is different where the course of the diurnal curve has been already obtained
from a more extended system of observations. In this case the mean of the day
may be inferred from observations taken at any hours whatever ; and the hours of
observation should therefore be chosen, chiefly, if not exclusively, with reference to
the diurnal range of the observed elements.

    The author proceeded, in the next place, to consider the course to be pursued in
the reduction of a more extended system of observations (such as that prescribed by
the Royal Society in 1839, and adopted by all the magnetical observatories), when
some of the observations are deficient. He showed that, in this case, in deducing
the daily means from the remaining observations, we must attend, not only to the
elimination of the regular diurnal variation, but also to that of the irregular changes
of longer periods, which are sometimes (as in the case of the atmospheric pressure)
more influential in the result. With this view he determined the values of the
viean daily fluctuation for each of the elements already referred to; and compared
the mean values of the horary changes thence arising with that resulting from the

 regular diurnal variation.

    The author showed, finally, in what manner the monthly means of the results ob-
tained at any hour are to be corrected in the case of deficient observations, so as to
render them comparable with those in which none are wanting ; and he deduced the
probable values of these corrections for each element, with the view of ascertaining
in what cases the correction may be disregarded, and in what it is indispensable.

Account of Experiments belonging to a new Magnetic Action.

                       By Herr Plucker.

A crystal with one optical axis being brought between the two poles of a magnet,

there will be a repulsive force going out from each of the poles and acting upon the

optical axis. According to this action, the crystal, if suspended, will take such a

Whenposition that its optical axis is placed within the equatorial plane.  the crystal

has two optical axes there will be the same action on both, according to which the

line bisecting the acute angle, formed by the axis, will turn into the equatorial

plane. When the crystal is suspended in such a way that it may freely move round

any line whatever of the plane containing both axes, this plane will take the equa-
torial position. Thus in a crystal which is neither transparent nor shows any trace
of its crystalline structure, we may, by means of a magnet, find the optical axes :
at the same time we get a new proof of the connexion between light and magnetism.

When light is passing through a crystal, there are in general two directions where
it is affected in a quite distinct way : these same directions are acted upon by a

magnet.

 On an Explanation of the '^'^ Beads" and " Tlireads" in Annular Eclipses.

                      By the Rev. Prof. Powell, F.R.S.

   The principles on which this explanation is suggested are the following :
   1. The fact estabished by Mr. Airy, that the intensity of the sun's light increases
rapidly from the extreme edge of the disc to some short distance inwards. [See

Ast. Soc. Notices, vol. v. p. 216.]

   2. The admitted law that irradiation increases wiih the intensity of the light.

   On these grounds, when the irregularities of the moon's edge have their summits

beyond the limb of the sun, but their depressions within it, so that they leave patches
of light, these will be enlarged by irradiation, and will be much more enlarged as the
depression is deeper within the sun's limb, where the light is so much more intense ;
they will thus appear elongated in a direction perpendicular to the limb, if actually
          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                        3

broad at the top and shallow. When the summits come within the limb, then, by

the same causes, they will be melted down, or at least be reduced to their natural
proportions. But the encroachment of the solar light on the dark disc will be
greater towards the sides, where it is at a greater depth from the edge of the sun,
and there will be thus a general protuberance towards the point of contact.

   As to the cause of the diminution of the sun's light at the edge we are in entire
ignorance. Again, dark glasses by diminishing the light may destroy the effect of
irradiation, and the power and aperture of the telescope are known greatly to in-
fluence its amount. Hence it is quite conceivable that under different conditions
the phaenomena may be greatly modified, or may not appear at all.

On a new Case of Interference of Light. By the Rev. Prof. Powell, F.R.S.

The principal experiment evincing this new kind of interference consists in placing

a plate of glass or other transparent substance in a prismatic vessel containing a

fluid (as e.g. oil of sassafras or anise with plate or crown-glass), so as to intercept

the upper or thicker half of the prism, when the spectrum is seen covered with dark

bands parallel to the edge of the prism, the number and breadth of which vary

greatly with the refractive powers of the plate and medium, and with

the thickness of the plate. For many combinations the plate must      ^'S- ^·

be inserted in the way just described, or towards one end of the

spectrum, thus exhibiting an effect analogous to what was termed
" polarity " in the experiments by partial interception of Sir D.

Brewster: as in fig. 1. But for many combinations no bands are

produced by this arrangement. In these cases however, on placing

the plate to intercept the thinner part of the prism, as in fig. 2,

bands will be produced.

This remarkable relation, as well as the number and character of

the bands, can be all expressed by a formula derived from the simple

interference theory ; but for some more minute changes observed,      ^'S- 2.
recourse must be had to the diffraction theory, as in Mr. Airy's in-

vestigations (Phil. Trans. 1840, 1841). These investigations have

been pursued by Mr. Stokes, of Pembroke College, Cambridge.

  When plates of doubly refracting crystal are employed, two sets

of bands are seen superimposed, even in those of the most feeble

doubly refracting power, as quartz, &c. This may perhaps be ser-

viceable to the mineralogist for detecting this property when very

weak.

   In general the number of bands observed in different cases agrees sufficiently well
with calculation, and the method may be applied inversely for finding the refractive

indices of one substance, the other being known. There is also a close analogy

between these bands and those described by the Baron von Wrede, though pro-

duced in a totally different manner. [See Taylor's Scient. Mem. vol. i. pt. 3.

p. 487.]

               Observations of the Annular Eclipse of October 9, 1 847.
                        Collected by the Rev. Prof. Powell, F.R.S.

   The British Association having at the last meeting printed and circulated " Sug-
gestions for the Observation of the Annular Eclipse," a copy of which is also in-
serted in the last volume of its Reports (Sectional proceedings, p. 16), it has ap-
peared desirable that at the present meeting a short statement should be laid before
the members of the observations made, as far as intelligence has been received.

   Unfortunately the morning was cloudy over nearly the whole of that part of Eng-
land in which the eclipse was annular, so that numerous observers who might have
been expected to respond to the invitation of the Association, had no results to
communicate. On some parts of the east coast of Kent the eclipse was partially
seen, but not (as far as has been ascertained) in the annular phase.

   It being uncertain whether Greenwich would or would not fall within the limit
of annularity, the Astronomer Royal, with the aid of several scientific friends,

                                                                                                               B2
                                                                          -- .;

--4 REPORT 1848.

equipped four stations to the north and three to the south of Greenwich, but the

cloudy state of the weather rendered the preparations useless.

In communication with the Astronomer Royal of Great Britain, the astronomers

of Italy made similar preparations at Padua, near the southern limit, but the wea-

ther was equally unpropitious. [See Astron. Soc. Annual Report, 1848 ; Notices,

vol. viii. p. 79.]

In other parts of the world, however, several observations were made. The chief

results, bearing on the physical inquiries referred to, are as follows :

MM.1. At Orleans (under the direction of the Bureau des Longitudes),      Mauvais

and Goujon observed, as the cusps approached the ends extended more rapidly, but

unequably and with a wriggling motion. Then one or two luminous points (beads)

detached but melted into one again. Just before the completion of the annulus

many such appeared, along the limb between the cusps, more or less extended but

all very tkin -. they finally united. The ring did not exceed a few seconds in breadth.

The dark intervals did not draw out into threads, but decreased both in length and

thickness. (This is difficult to understand.) Upon the whole, they observe, the

appearances were merely those of irregularities in the moon's edge, and not such as

to require any supposition of irradiation or diffraction to account for them. [Ast.

Soc. Notices, viii. 13.]

   2. M. Schaub at Cilly in Styria observed the eclipse with a telescope having a

power of 40 and a red glass, and saw the annulus formed icithout any irregularity

He then applied a power of 60 and a compound glass of complementary colours,

giving a white image, and noticed the lunar mountains projected on the sun's disc

the limb undulated, but continued circular up to the second contact, which was

a contact with the tops of the mountains first, leaving bright intervals, but without

distortion. [Ibid. p. 13.]

3. Capt. Jacob, at Bombay, with a 3^ feet Dollond, power 40, saw just before

the formation of the annulus a faint light outside the cusp. At the south cusp a

break as if from a projection on the moon's limb, which increased to about 1' in

breadth, attaching the limbs ; then elongated and suddenly broke, the ends being

jagged. At the termination of the annulus a portion of 30° on the limb was sud-

denly occupied by beads, too many to count, but which lasted only two seconds.
No light was seen about the moon off the sun. [Ibid. p. 27-]

   4. Major Lysaght, at Hingolee, with 3§ Dollond, power 25, and glass giving a
greenish-yellow image, saw near contact the limb undulating, the edge " hillocky,"

which appearance subsided, till just at contact a dark band from one "hillock"

connected the limbs, followed by another : the mode of its disappearance was not
noticed. As the ring increased in breadth the limb of the moon became " pinnacled,"

and a blaze of light appeared on it. (This part of the description is very obscure.)

Then the limb became smooth again, except one hillock, which elongated and

formed a connecting band, as at first, and then broke in two. (This circumstance

seems extraordinary, but is not further explained.) [Ibid. p. 130.]

5. Dr. Forster, at Bruges (in a letter to Prof. Powell), states that he observed a

very remarkable luminous arc or ridge of light, differently coloured from the rest of

the sun, extending along and immediately on the limb of the moon between the

cusps. It lasted nearly five minutes. He considers it as unlike any appearance

described before, and remarks that it appeared as if ])roduced by a lunar atmosphere
refracting the light of the sun ; but the rapid transit of flying clouds prevented any

very accurate observations. It was seen with a telescope of low power. Perhaps

this was the same with the blaze of light described by Major Lysaght.

On those Variations of the Force and the Direction of the Terrestrial Mag-
 netism lohich seem to depend on the Aurora Borealis. By Dr. Siljestrom.

   The author stated, from observations made in Finmarken, at about 70° north
latitude, that in the course of an aurora borealis there are two magnetical periods
to be discerned, in both of which the disturbances are going on in a quite opposite
way, so as to increase and decrease successively the different magnetical elements.
He stated also that the simultaneous variations of these elements, with few excep-
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  5

tional cases, are following that simple law, that while the intensity and the western
declination increase, the inclination decreases. In respect to the variations of the
luminous phsenomenon itself, he had only been able to ascertain that during the first
of the above periods the aurora borealis was in general exclusively seen in the north-
ern part of the heaven, while during the second period it extended itself more to the
south, so that the magnetical variations before mentioned seem to be accompanied by

a translation of the light from north to south.

     On a Difficulty in the Theory of Light. By G. G. Stokes, M.A.

   The distinction between' common light and elliptically polarized light is fully
accounted for, on the undulatory theory, by the very natural supposition that in
common light the mode of vibration changes a great many times in the course of
one second ; so that even in a very small fraction of a second there is, on the ave-
rage, as much light polarized in one way as there is light polarized in the opposite
way. So unlikely does it seem that this should not be the case, when we consider
the enormous number of vibrations which take place in one second, that, as the
author contended, it would be a most serious difficulty in the way of the undulatory
theory if common light exhibited the rings in crystals, or any of the peculiar
phaenomena exhibited by elliptically polarized light. It had however been thought
necessary, in order to account for the phsenomena, to suppose that the mode of

vibration passed abruptly from one thing to the other. This abruptness of transition
was the "difficulty" alluded to in the title; and the author contended that there
was no occasion to suppose any such abruptness to exist. In fact, the apparent ne-
cessity for the supposition of an abrupt transition appears to have arisen from find-

ing that common light could not be represented by supposing the particles to move
in ellipses the major axes of which slowly revolve. But such a mode of vibration re-
sults from the superposition of two series of vibrations, of nearly equal length of wave

but of unequal intensity, belonging respectively to right-handed and to left-handed
circularly polarized light. Hence such a mode of vibration is not a fair representa-

tion of common light, the very notion of which imphes that it contains as much of

any one kind of polarized light as of the opposite.

              On the Refraction of Light beyond the Critical Angle.

                            By G. G. Stokes, M.A.

   The principal object of the author in this communication was to give an expres-
sion, obtained from the undulatory theory of light, for the intensity of the central
spot of Newton's rings, when the angle of incidence exceeds the critical angle. It
has been shown by those who have treated the subject of reflexion and refraction
dynamically, that when the angle of incidence exceeds the critical angle, the expres-
sion for the disturbance in the second medium contains an exponential, involving

the co-ordinate perpendicular to the surface, so that the disturbance is insensible at

a distance from the surface of a small multiple of X the length of a wave. The ex-
pressions for this superficial disturbance have not, however, so far as the author is
aj\'are, been hitherto applied to the explanation of anj' phsenomenon, although the
existence of the central spot in Newton's rings beyond the critical angle has been
unhesitatingly attributed to this cause by Dr. Lloyd, in his Report on Physical Optics.
The author has not entered into any particular dynamical theory, but has preferred
deducing his results from Fresnel's expressions for the intensity of reflected and
refracted polarized light, which, except perhaps in the case of very highly refracting
substances, are at least a very near approximation to the truth. The method
employed does not even render it necessary to enter into the question, whether the

vibrations of plane polarized light are in or perpendicular to the plane of polarization.

When the angle of incidence exceeds the critical angle, Fresnel's expressions become

imaginary ; and by reasoning similar to that employed by Mr. O'Brien in interpreting
those expressions in the case of reflected light, the author has arrived at the follow-
ing simple rule, which embraces all cases.

    Let X be measured along the reflecting surface, y perpendicular to that sur-
.;

--6 REPORT 1848.

face, and directed into the first medium, both being measured parallel to the plane
of incidence ; and let the expression for the vibration be put under the form

-- -- +^«sin-- (sin i .x -^ cos i .y -\- v i), fisin^ (s\ni. x cosi.y vt), or

             -- -- +vt).sin ^
                                    f^
                              [sin i' .x -\- cos »'. y]

according as the incident, reflected or refracted vibration is considered. Whenever

the coefficient of vibration becomes imaginar}^ put it under the form qi ^~', retain

the modulus j for the coefficient, and subtract & from the phase. Whenever the coeffi-
+ Vcient of y under the circular function becomes imaginary, and equal to A;
                                                                                    i^

remove y from the circular function and multiply by the exponential s ^.
   This rule having been established, the calculation of the intensity presents no

difficulty. If I be the intensity of the reflected light, that of the incident light being

unity, it is found that

                              l^ (1-9)'

In this expression it is supposed that the two media between which the spot is
formed are of the same kind, and that the incident light is polarized, either in the
plane of incidence, or in a plane perpendicular to the plane of incidence : q is the

                              _irE^^2sin2i_l

same in the two cases, being equal to e ^                , where T is the thickness

of the plate of air at the point considered ; but 6 is different, being equal to ^i in the
former case, and ^2 'n the latter, where

             = --^tan^i       /tan^2=secjA /n^am^i--l.
             Vfc

When the vibrations take place in the plane of incidence, it would be necessary to

consider separately the resolved parts of the vibration parallel to x and parallel to y ;
but the same expression would have been obtained for I if this consideration had

been neglected. It is unnecessary to write down the expression for the intensity of

the transmitted light, since the sum of the two intensities is equal to unity. For

this reason it will be sufficient to discuss the intensity of the reflected light.

From the expression for I the author has deduced the following consequences :
=1 At the point of contact T
                              T; and on receding from that point varies as »·",

r being the radius vector measured from the point of contact. Hence at the point

of contact there is absolute darkness ; en receding from that point the intensity in-
creases, at first very slowly, varying ultimately as »·'', so that for some distance round

the centre the darkness is as to sense perfect ; then the intensity increases more

rapidly, and then it very rapidly approaches its limiting value 1. This agrees with

observation.

   2. For different colours, the same fraction of the incident light is reflected at
points for which r varies as a/ ?i. Hence the spot is larger for red light than for violet
but the separation of colours is small. This agrees with observation.

   3. When the angle of incidence lies between the critical angle and the angle

+sin~^ (         Y, the spot is larger for light polarized in a plane perpendicular to

         \1  fi'/

the plane of incidence than for light polarized in the plane of incidence ; while be-
tween the latter angle and 90° the reverse is the case. This difference of size agrees
with observation, but it is impossible to say at what angle the change takes place.

   4. Suppose the internally incident light polarized at an azimuth of 45°, or there-
abouts ; and let the transmitted light be analysed so as to darken the centre of ttie
spot ; then a faint ring of light ought to be seen separating the dark centre from the
generally dark field of view. This ring ought to be slightly bluish inside and reddish

or brownish outside. The author has not tried this experiment.
                                                  --

                  TRANSACTIONS OF TUB SECTIONS.                   J

On the Perfect Blackness of the Centre of Newton's Rings.
                       Bxj G. G.' Stokes, M.A.

The absence of all reflected light at the ceatre of Newton's rings, when formed

between tvvo lenses of the same substance, was explained long ago by Frcsncl, by
the aid of a law discovered experimentally by M. Arago, that light is reflected in

the same proportion at the first and second surfaces of a transparent plate bounded

by parallel surfaces. It occurred to the author that this law might be obtained very

simply from theory, by means of what may be called the jsn'ncipZe of reversion. By

this is meant the general dynamical principle, that if in any material system, in

which the forces depend only on the positions of the particles, the velocity of each

particle be suddenly reversed, the previous motion will be repeated in the reverse

direction. It follows from this principle, that in the case of a series of waves of
light incident on the surface of an ordinary medium, and producing a series of re-

flected, and a series of refracted waves, if the vibrations in the reflected and refracted

series be reversed, the incident series will be produced, only in a reverse direction.

But the reflected and refracted series, when reversed, would each produce a series
of reflected, and a series of refracted waves ; and it follows from the principle of
superposition, that, of these four series, the two which are situated within the medium

must neutralize each other, and the two which are situated outside of the medium
must together produce the incident series reversed. Two equations are thus ob-

tained, whereby the perfect blackness of the centre of Newton's rings is explained.

&= --These equations are those which are written in Airy's Tract
                                                      e, cf=:l e^.

The detail of this method will soon appear in the Cambridge and Dublin Mathe-

matical Journal.

On the Resistance of the Air to Pendulums. Ry G. G. Stokes, M.A.

There are a few cases in which the resistance of a fluid to a pendulum oscillating

in it have been calculated on the common theory of hydrodynamics, in which the

pressure is supposed equal in all directions. The results in the cases of a sphere and

of a long cylindrical rod are very simple, and may be expressed by saying that the

mass of the pendulum must be conceived to be increased in the former case by

the half, and in the latter by the whole of the fluid displaced ; this additional mass

increasing the inertia of the pendulum without increasing its weight. These results

agree very nearly with Dubuat's experiments on spheres oscillating in air, Dubuat

having employed spheres of large diameter, and with Baily's experiments on cylin-

Hdrical tubes of inch diameter. With smaller spheres and thinner rods, however,

the results no longer agree with experiment, as appears from the experiments of

Bessel and Baily, the discrepancy being so much the greater as the diameter of the

sphere or rod is the smaller. The author stated that he had solved the problem

in the cases of a sphere and of a cylindrical rod, using instead of the common

equations of hydrodynamics the equations which he had given in the 8th volume

of the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions, and which had been previously ob-

tained, by difi^erent methods, by Navier, by Poisson, and by M. de Saint-Venant.

The result in the case of the sphere is very simple, although the function which

expresses the state of motion of each particle of the fluid is rather complicated. It

appears that the effect on the time of oscillation will be obtained by conceiving a

mass equal to (   -- m1- s ) ?» to be added to the mass of the sphere, being the

/mass of fluid displaced, ands =""a  -^, o being the radius of the sphere, t the

                        V"            '^f

time of oscillation, ^ the densit)% and (x. the constant so denoted in the author's

paper referred to above. This constant must be determined by experiment for each

fluid in particular, and even for the same fluid at difl^erent temperatures, since it

probably decreases as the temperature increases. Besides the effect on the time of

oscillation, the arc of oscillation slowly decreases, the expression for the decrement

-- +of the arc mvolvmg the quantity 9 s (1 s) m.

   The result in the case of the cylinder is much more complicated, and requires the
numerical calculation of functions belonging to this particular problem. The author
--8 REPORT 1848.

has expressed the effect on the time and arc of oscillation by means of ascending
series, which are always convergent. The result involves the remarkable trans-

(--Jcendent T'  ,T' (n) being the derivative of T (n). The author has also ob-

tained a descending series, which is much more convenient for numerical calcula-
tion when the diameter of the cylinder is large. It appears from theory that the
factor which Baiiy has denoted by n increases indefinitely as the radius of the
cylinder decreases : the mass of air which must be conceived to be dragged by the

cylinder decreases, but very slowly, varying ultimately as the square of the reci-
procal of the logarithm of a quantity which varies as the time of oscillation divided

by the square of the radius of the cylinder.
   The diameters of the cylindrical rods employed by Baily were '410, "185 and

·072 inch ; and the corresponding values of n, which according to the common

theory of hydrodynamics ought to be equal to 2, were 2"932, 4"083, and 7*530.
Each of these results furnishes an equation for the determination of ft, or rather of

/ --i , which is what enters into the calculation ; and the three results concurred

in giving to the latter quantity a value lying between "ll and '12, an inch and a
second being the units of space and time. The value "ll satisfied very nearly the
experiments on spheres suspended by fine wires ; the effect of the wire, which on
this theory is not quite insensible, being taken into account, and a small correction,

estimated at half the correction calculated for a spherical envelope of the same
radius, being made for the finite size of the hollow cylinder within which the spheres
were swung.

On the Equilibrium of Magnetic or Diamagnetic Bodies of cmy Form, under
 the Lifluence of the Terrestrial Magnetic Force. By Prof. W. Thomson.

If a body composed of a magnetic substance, such as soft iron, or of a diamag-

netic substance, be supported by its centre of gravity, the efi'ects of the terrestrial

magnetic force in producing magnetism bj'' induction, and in acting on the magnetism

so developed, are in general such as to impress a certain directive tendency on the
mass. The investigation of these circumstances leads to results according to which

the conditions of equilibrium of a body of any irregular form may be expressed in a

very elegant and simple manner.

In the present communication I shall merely give a brief general explanation of

the conclusions at which I have arrived, without attempting to state fully the pro-

cess of reasoning on which they are founded, as this could not be rendered intelli-

gible without entering upon mathematical details, which must be reserved for a

paper of greater length.

In the first place, if the body considered be an ellipsoid of homogeneous matter,

supported by its centre of gravity, it is clear that it will be in equilibrium with any

one of its three principal axes in the direction of the lines of force ; and if it be put
into any other position, the action of the earth upon it will be a couple, of which
the moment may be expressed very simply in terms of the quantities denoting the

position of the axes with reference to the direction of the terrestrial force, and cer-

tain constant magnetic elements depending on the substance and dimensions of the

body.                     '

In considering the corresponding problem for a body of any irregular form, we

readily obtain for the components of the directive couple, round three rectangular

axes chosen arbitrarily in the body, expressions involving nine constant magnetic

elements. I have succeeded in proving that six of these elements must be equal,
two and two ; so that the entire number of independent constants is reduced to six.
I have thus arrived at the interesting theorem, that there are, in any irregular body,

three principal magnetic axes at right angles to one another, such that if the body be

supported by its centre of gravity, it will be in equilibrium with any one of these

axes in the direction of the terrestrial magnetic force. If the body be held in any

other position, there will be a directive couple of which the moment is expressible
in precisely the same form as in the case of an ellipsoid, in terms of the magnetic

elements of the body, and of the quantities denoting its position.
                                                                  ;

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                  9

   From this it follows, that, as far as regards the directive action of terrestrial mag-
netism, the ellipsoid with three unequal axes may be taken as the general type for a

body of any form whatever.
   Besides other special cases of interest, to which it is unnecessary for me at present

to call attention, on account of the close analogy which is presented by the well-
known theory of principal axes in dynamics, there is one to which I shall allude, on

account of its importance with reference to the general principles on which the di-
rective agency depends. If the body considered be a cube, the three principal mag-

netic elements will be equal, and therefore the corresponding ellipsoid must have
its three axes equal ; that is, it must be a sphere. Hence a cube supported by its
centre of gravity cannot experience any directive tendency, and will therefore be

astatic.

  Now a mass of any form may be divided into an infinite number of small cubes,

and the resultant of the actual directive couples on all of these cubes will determine
the directive tendency of the whole mass. Hence if each small cube were acted
upon only by the terrestrial magnetic force, there would be no directive agency on

the body ; and it is to the modification of the circumstances introduced by the
mutual action of the different parts of the body that we must ascribe the directive

tendency which is actually experienced, in general by irregular, but especially by
elongated masses. This modification is distinctly alluded to by Mr. Faradaj' in his
memoir on the General Magnetic Condition of Matter (Experimental Researches,

§ 2264), and the directive tendency which he has observed in needles of diamag-
netic substances is shown to depend on essentially different physical circumstances

(§§ 2269, 2418) connected with the variation of the total intensity of the resultant

magnetic force in the neighbourhood of the poles of a magnet, and quite independent

Aof the actual directions of the lines of force.  mathematical investigation of the

circumstances on which these phsenomena depend will be found in the Cambridge

and Dublin Mathematical Journal (May 1847').

From the principles alluded to above, we may draw the following general conclu-

sions with reference to the action experienced by a body subjected to magnetic in-
fluence when the intensity of the magnetizing force is constant in its neighbourhood.

   1. The directive tendency on a diamagnetic substance of any form must be ex-
tremely small, probably quite insensible in any actual experiment that can be made
depending as it does upon the mutual action of the parts of the body which are
primarily influenced to but a very feeble extent in the case of every known diamag-

netic.

   2. An elongated body, whether of a magnetic or of a diamagnetic substance, will

tend to place itself in the direction of the lines of force ; so that, for instance, either
a bar of soft iron, or a diamagnetic bar, supported by its centre of gravity, would,

if perfectly free, assume the position of the dipping-needle.

  On the Theory of Electro-magnetic Induction. By Prof. W. Thomson.

   The theory of electro-magnetic induction, founded on the elementary experiments
of Faraday and Lenz, has been subjected to mathematical analysis by Neumann,
who has recently laid some very valuable i-esearches on this subject before the Ber-
lin Academy of Sciences. The case of a closed linear conductor (a bent metallic
wire with its ends joined) under the influence of a magnet in a state of relative
motion is considered in Neumann's first memoir *, and a very beautiful theorem is
demonstrated, completely expressing the circumstances which determine the inten-
sity of the induced current. It has appeared to me that a very simple a priori de-
monstration of this theorem may be founded on the axiom that the amount of work
expended in producing the relative motion on which the electro-magnetic induction
depends must be equivalent to the mechanical effect lost by the current induced in

the wire.

   In the first place, it may be proved that the amount of the mechanical effect con-
tinually lost or spent in some physical agency (according to Joule the generation

of heat) during the existence of a galvanic current in a given closed wire is, for a

   * A translation of this memoir into French is published in the last April number of Liou-

ville's Journal des Mathematiques.
                                                              --;

--10 REPORT 1848.

given time, proportional to the square of the intensity of the current. For, what-

ever be the actual source of the galvanism, an equivalent current might be produced

by the motion of a magnetic body in the neighbourhood of the closed wire. If now,

other circumstances remaining the same, the intensity of the magnetism in the in-

fluencing body be altered in any ratio, the intensity of the induced current must be

proportionately changed ; hence the amount of work spent in the motion, as it de-

pends on the mutual influence of the magnet and the induced current, is altered in

the duplicate ratio of that in which the current is altered ; and therefore the amount
of mechanical eftect lost in the wire, being equivalent to the work spent in the mo-

tion, must be proportional to the square of the intensity of the current. Hence if i
denote the intensity of a current existing in a closed conductor, the amount of work

lost by its existence for an interval of time dt, so small that the intensity of the cur-
rent remains sensibly constant during it, will be k .f . dt; where yfc is a certain con-

stant depending on the resistance of the complete wire.

   Let us now suppose this current to be actually produced by induction in the wire,

under the influence of a magnetic body in a state of relative motion. The entire

mutual force between the magnetic and the galvanic wire may, according to Am-

pere's theory, be expressed by means of the differential coefficients of a certain
"force function." This function, which may be denoted by U, will be a quantity

depending solely on the form and position of the wire at any instant, and on the

Umagnetism of the influencing body. During the very small time dt, let change

U U +from to  rfU, by the relative motion which takes place during that interval.

Then i d\J will be the amount of work spent in sustaining the motion ; but the

mechanical effect lost in the wire during the same interval is equal to k f dt ; and

therefore we must have

                              i d\J=^Jci'dt.

Hence, dividing both members by k i dt, we deduce

                              *·~-- i. £H
                                     k ' dt'

which expresses the theorem of Neumann, the subject of the present communica-

Wetion.  may enunciate the result in general language thus :

When a current is induced in a closed wire by a magnet in relative motion, the

intensity of the current produced is proportional to the actual rate of variation of
the "force function" by the differential coefficients of which the mutual action

between the magnet and the wire would be represented if the intensity of the cur-

rent in the wire were unity.

On a means of determining the apparent Solar Time hy the Diurnal Changes
  of the Plane of Polarization at the North Pole of the Shy. By Professor
   Wheatstone, F.R.S.

  A" short time after the important discovery by Malus of the polarization of light

by reflexion, it was ascertained by Arago that the light reflected from different parts
of the sky was polarized. The observation was made in clear weather with the aid
of a thin film of mica and a prism of Iceland spar ; he saw that the two images
projected on the sky were in general of dissimilar colours, which appeared to vary

in intensity with the hour of the day and with the position, in relation to the sun,
of the part of the sky from which the rays fell upon the film. The first attempt to
assign a law to the phsenomena of atmospheric polarization was made by Professor

--Queteletof Brussels in 1825 in the following terms : ' If the observer consider him-

self as placed in the centre of a sphere of which the sun occupies one of the poles

the polarization is at its maximum at the different points of the equator of this sphere,

and goes on diminishing in the ratio of the squares of the sines unto the poles where
it is at zero.' This law would be true did the reflected light proceeding from the

part of the sky regarded arise solely from the direct light of the sun sent to that part
but other secondary reflexions occur which complicate the result and give rise to
the neutral points since discovered by Arago, Babinet and Brewster. But for the

purpose of explaining the principle of the instrument now submitted to the examina-

tion of the Section, we need not take into consideration the intensity of the polar-
                               ;

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  11

ization of the part of the sky to which it is directed; the plane of polarization for
the time being is the only thing we need concern ourselves about, and a very simple

expression, stated first I believe by M. Babinet, defines the position of this plane

for any given point of the sky ; it is this : ' For a given point of the atmosjjhere
the plane of polarization of the portion of polarized light which it sends to the eye

coincides with the plane which passes through this point, the eye of the observer

and the sun.' The truth of this law may be easily demonstrated without any

--refined apparatus in the following manner : Let the observer be provided with a

Nicol's prism and a plate of Iceland spar cut perpendicularly to the axis, and stand
with his back towards the sun ; keeping the diagonal of the prism always in the
same vertical plane, let him direct it successively to every point of the sky within
that plane ; the intensity of the polarization indicated by the brightness of the

coloured image will vary very considerably at these different points, but the plane

of polarization indicated by the upright position of the black or white cross, as the

case may be, will remain unchanged. I leave out of consideration for the present

the inversion of the plane of polarization observed occasionally near the horizon
below the neutral point.

   " If we direct our analysing apparatus to the zenith during the whole day, the

change in the plane of polarization of that point of the sky will correspond with the

azimuths of the sun. Let us now turn our attention to the north pole of the sky :
as the sun in its apparent daily course moves equably in a circle round this pole, it

is obvious that the planes of polarization at the point in question change exactly as
the position of the hour-circles do. The position of the plane of polarization of the

north pole of the sky will at any period of the day therefore indicate the apparent
or true solar time. The point of intersection of the hour-circles, or the north pole

of the sky, corresponds on only two days of the year with the maximum intensity
of polarization ; these days are the equinoxes ; on all other days the points of max-
imum polarization of the respective hour-circles describe a circle round the point of

intersection ; but the angular distance thereof, which is greatest at the solstices,
never exceeding 23° 28', the polarization has always sufficient intensity to exhibit

brilliant colours in films of selenite, &c.

   " These points being premised, I proceed to describe the new instrument, which I
have called the Polar Clock or Dial. It is thus constructed. At the extremity of a

vertical pillar is fixed, within a brass ring, a glass disc, so inclined that its plane is

perpendicular to the polar axis of the earth. On the lower half of this disc is a

graduated semicircle divided into twelve parts (each of which is again subdivided
into five or ten parts), and against the divisions the hours of the day are marked,
commencing and terminating with vi. Within the fixed brass ring containing the
glass dial-plate, the broad end of a conical tube is so fitted that it freely moves round
its own axis ; this broad end is closed by another glass disc, in the centre of which
is a small star or other figure, formed of thin films of selenite, exhibiting when
examined with polarized light strongly contrasting colours ; and a hand is painted
in such a position as to be a prolongation of one of the principal sections of the
crystalline films. At the smaller end of the conical tube a Nicol's prism is fixed so
that either of its diagonals shall be 45° from the principal section of the selenite
films. The instrument being so fixed that the axis of the conical tube shall coincide
with the polar axis of the earth, and the eye of the observer being placed to the
Nicol's prism, it will be remarked that the selenite star will in general be richly
coloured, but as the tube is turned on its axis the colours will vary in intensity, and
in two positions will entirely disappear. Iii one of these positions a small circular
disc in the centre of the star will be a certain colour (red for instance), while in the
other position it will exhibit the complementary colour. This effect is obtained by
placing the principal section of the small central disc 22^° from that of the other
films of selenite which form the star. The rule to ascertain the time by this instru-
ment is as follows : the tube must be turned round by the hand of the observer
until the coloured star entirely disappears while the disc in the centre remains red
the hand will then point accurately to the hour. The accuracy with which the solar
time may be indicated by this means will depend on the exactness with which the
plane of polarization can be determined ; one degree of change in the plane corre-

sponds with four minutes of solar time.
--12 REPORT 1848,

   " The instrument may be furnished with a graduated quadrant for the purpose of
adapting it to any latitude ; but if it be intended to be fixed in any locality, it may

be permanently adjusted to the proper polar elevation and the expense of the gradu-
ated quadrant be saved: a spirit-level will be useful to adjust it accurately. The
instrument might be set to its proper azimuth by the sun's shadow at noon, or by

means of a declination needle ; but an observation with the instrument itself may be
more readily employed for this purpose. Ascertain the true solar time by means of
a good watch and a time equation table, set the hand of the polar clock to corre-

spond thereto, and turn the vertical pillar on its axis until the colours of the selenite
star entirely disappear. The instrument then will be properly adjusted.

 --" The advantages a polar clock possesses over a sun-dial are, 1st. The polar clock

being constantly directed to the same point of the sky, there is no locality in which
it cannot be employed, whereas, in order that the indications of a sun-dial should
be observed during the whole day, no obstacle must exist at any time betvi'een the
dial and the places of the sun, and it therefore cannot be applied in any confined
situation. The polar clock is consequently applicable in places where a sun-dial
would be of no avail ; on the north side of a mountain or of a lofty building for
instance. 2ndly. It will continue to indicate the time after sunset and before sun-
rise ; in fact, so long as any portion of the rays of the sun are reflected from the
atmosphere. 3rdly. It will also indicate the time, but with less accuracy, when the
sky is overcast, if the clouds do not exceed a certain density.

   " The plane of polarization of the north pole of the sky moves in the opposite di-
rection to that of the hand of a watch ; it is more convenient therefore to have the
hours graduated on the lower semicircle, for the figures will then be read in their
direct order, whereas they would be read backwards on an upper semicircle. In the
southern hemisphere the upper semicircle should be employed, for the plane of
polarization of the south pole of the sky changes in the same direction as the hand
of a watch. If both the upper and lower semicircles be graduated, the same instru-
ment will serve equally for both hemispheres."

    Several other forms of the polar clock w^ere then described ; the following is a

description of one among them, which, though much less accurate in its indications

than the preceding, beautifully illustrates the principle.

   On a plate of glass twenty-five films of selenite of equal thickness are arranged

at equal distances radially in a semicircle ; they are placed so that the line bisecting
the principal sections of the films shall correspond with the radii respectively, and
figures corresponding to the hours are painted above each film in regular order. This
plate of glass is fixed in a frame so that its plane is inclined to the horizon 38° 32', the
complement of the polar elevation ; the light passing perpendicularly through this
plate falls at the polarizing angle 56° 45' on a reflector of black glass, which is inclined
18° 13' to the horizon. This apparatus being properly adjusted, that is so that the
glass dial-plate shall be perpendicular to the polar axis of the earth, the following

will be the effects when presented towards an unclouded sky. At all times of the
day the radii will appear of various shades of two complementary colours, which we
will assume to be red and green, and the hour is indicated by the figure placed
opposite the radius which contains the most red; the half-hour is indicated by the
equality of two adjacent tints.

071 rendering the Electric Telegraph subservient to Meteorological Research.

                           By John Ball, M.R.LA.

   What is popularly termed the weather is a general expression for the physical

condition of the atmosphere with reference to heat, pressure, moisture, and the ve-

locity and direction of its motion. Two classes of causes determine these conditions
at any given point of the earth's surface. The first class maj' for short periods of

time be considered as constants, depending on the position of the point of observa-
tion on the globe and the physical conformation of the adjoining district. The
second class, upon which the proverbial uncertainty of the weather depends, arise
from the influence exerted by each portion of the atmosphere upon those surround-
ing it, by virtue of which a disturbance of equilibrium at any one point is rapidly

propagated in all directions. In common language this is expressed by saying that
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                             13

the direction of the wind is at once the cause and the indication of changes of the
weather. However far we may be from a general solution of the problem of atmo-
spheric disturbances, meteorologists have made considerable progress in tracing the
connection between successive states of the weather, owing to the mutual influence
of contiguous portions of the atmosphere. These cases have been studied a posteriori,
comparing the known results with observations extending over considerable areas.

Now that we have the means of receiving information in an indefinitely short space

of time by the Electric Telegraph, these problems, under favourable circumstances,

may be studied a i^riori. In London we may receive instantaneous intelligence of

the condition of the atmosphere, as to the five above-mentioned elements, from

nearly all the extremities of Great Britain. With a delay of about four hours we
can have similar intelligence from the western part of Ireland, and with a still
shorter delay our communications may extend to the centre of France, the banks of
the Rhine, and even to the frontiers of Hungary and Poland.

   I do not pretend to say that with such elements for calculation we should at once
be enabled to predict changes in the weather with absolute certainty. It would re-
quire some time to eliminate the action of accidental and local causes at particular

stations ; but there is no reason to doubt that in a short time the determinations
thus arrived at would possess a high degree of probability. The ordinary rate at
which atmoispheric disturbances are propagated does not seem to exceed twenty miles
per hour ; so that with a circle of stations extending about 500 miles in each direc-

tion, we should in almost all cases be enabled to calculate on the state of the wea-

ther for twenty-four hours in advance.

Description of a Neio Instrument for observing the Apparent Positions of

  Meteors. By the Rev. J. Challis, M.A., F.R.S., Plumian Professor of

   Astronomy at the University of Cambridge (in a Letter to the Assistant

    General Secretary').

Having had occasion to make use of observations of auroral arches and coronse,

and other meteoric phsenomena, I have seen the desirableness of noting the posi-

tions by instrumental means, rather than trusting to vague estimation and reference

to stars. Accordingly I have had a brass instrument constructed for me by Mr.

Simms, Fleet Street, London, which may possibly answer this purpose in some

degree. I propose to call it a Mefeoroscope. It is in principle an altitude and

azimuth instrument, in the form of a theodolite, having a horizontal circle graduated

from 0° to 360°, and a vertical arc graduated from 0° to 120°, each about 4 inches

in radius. The vertical arc is readily moveable about a vertical axis passing through

the centre of the horizontal circle, and instead of having a telescope, which would

be inapplicable to, the class of observations proposed to be taken, it carries a bar

18 inches long, having' a small rectangular plate at each end. One of these plates

is perforated by a circular hole one-sixth of an inch in diameter, through which the

object is viewed, and the other has its edges vertical and horizontal, the observation

of altitude being made by bringing the horizontal edge, and the observation of azi-

muth by bringing the vertical edge, to bisect the object. Both observations are

made at the same time by placing the angular point in apparent coincidence with the

object. The eyelet-hole should not be less than the pupil of the eye when 'dilated,

Nothat there may be as little loss of light as possible.  parallax of serious amount

will arise from the size of the hole, as it is always easy to judge when the centre of

the pupil and that of the hole are nearly coincident. The bar is moveable about a

horizontal axis passing through the centre, and perpendicular to the plane of

the vertical arc, and is carried by a radius so that the direction of its length is a

tangent to the arc. The direction of the radius is somewhat oblique to that of the
bar, in order that the line of collimation may pass the zenith about 20° when the

radius is brought to a horizontal position. For the same reason the centre of mo-

tion of the bar is elevated about an inch and a half above the plane of the azimuth

circle. For the purpose of viewing conveniently an object near the zenith, the

plate at the eye- end of the bar has a small silvered glass reflector inclined at an

angle of 45° to the plane of the plate, and adjustibleby a screw. The object is seen

by reflexion in a direction perpendicular to the line of collimation, through another
--14 REPORT 1848.

eyelet-hole made in a small plate attached for this purpose. The reflector is pro-
perly adjusted when a star is seen in coincidence with the left-hand angular point
of the plate at the opposite end of the bar, at the same time that it is seen by direct
vision through the other eyelet-hole in coincidence with the right-hand angular
point. There are two clamps, one for clamping the bar to the vertical arc, and the
other for clamping the vertical arc to the azimuthal circle. The latter may be held
by the right-hand to give the azimuthal movement, and at the same time to be

in readiness to clamp, while the bar is held by the left-hand for aiming. When

the bar is not clamped to the vertical arc, it is prevented slipping partly by a spring
and partly by a counterpoise. There are verniers to read off azimuths and altitudes
to single minutes, and the vertical arc carries a small spirit-level for the horizontal
adjustment. The instrument has a tripod support, with three screws for adjusting
horizontally, and when in use is placed on a wooden stand, to the upper surface of
which are fastened three brass Ys. The feet of the screws are placed in these Ys,

and thus the instrument is put expeditiously in a given position. When not in use,

it is kept under cover near the stand.

   On very dark nights the edges of the plate at the object-end of the bar were seen
with difficulty. To remedy this inconvenience the face of the plate turned towards
the eye was painted white, after which the light from a lamp at a considerable
distance made it sufficiently visible. In general the luminosity of the sky makes

the plate appear dark on a light ground.
    It is proposed to employ the meteoroscope in measuring the positions of arches

and coronse of the Aurora Borealis, the dimensions and position at different times
of the year of the Zodiacal Light, and the points of first appearance and disappear-
ance of meteors and shooting stars. Several of these observations, to be of any
value, require to be made simultaneously at different localities, and with the same

degree of precision. It seems to me surprising that meteorologists have not hitherto

provided themselves with instruments like that I have been describing ; manj' obser-
vations of meteors having been comparatively useless on account of want of accu-

racy. 1 consider that with care the altitude of a star may be measured by this
instrument with a probable error of two minutes, and that it is abundantly accurate
for the purposes to which it is proposed to apply it. In any case in which it is
employed it is advisable to take the altitude and azimuth of a known star at a noted
time near the place of the meteor, in order to eliminate index errors and errors of

adjustment.
    Cambridge Observatory, August 9, 1848.

                         On a Self-Registering Thermometer.
       By Mansfield Harrison (in a letter to Professor Phillips).

   The principle on which the instrument is constructed is the difference in the ex-
pansion and contraction of two metals, from the effects of heat and cold, and
it acts by the direct pull of the contracting metal, when it is kept in a perfectly
straight line. It is made sufficiently powerful to overcome anj' resistance which
the fulcra of the levers or the tracing-pencil may cause. I have selected cast iron
and hard rolled copper as the best suited for the purpose. I find from tables pub-
lished by Smeaton and others, that copper expands -s^^-jth of its length, while cast
iron only expands -g-^oth, with a variation of 180° of Fahrenheit's thermometer,
which leaves a difference of about the TaViyth of its length ; and as the range of the
thermometer in the shade in this climate is about 90°, or half of 180°, I have the
a-sVcjth part of the length of the copper bar employed as a moving power. I fixed
upon a bar 10 feet long as being a convenient length ; the two metals will then vary
nearly the one-and-twentieth part of an inch between the hottest day in summer
and the coldest day in winter. This variation I multiply by means of a compound
lever, so as to get a sufficient scale to divide. The end of the last lever carries a
pencil which traces upon a revolving cylinder the variations that take place. In
order to divide the scale accurately, I procured a standard thermometer by Trough-
ton and Simms ; I placed it in the same situation, and made several observations in
the day, for some weeks, in the spring of the year, when the range of the thermo-
meter is the greatest. After I had got the scale propeily divided, I engraved it on
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                            15

a plate of copper, in order to get a number of copies printed. The only attendance
the instrument now requires, is to put a fresh paper upon the cylinder, by means of
stretching-screws fixed on one side of it, once a week, when I wind the time-piece up.

Tabulated results for the year 1847, taken from tracings hy the instrument described.

General mean of whole year                   47'89

January                                      36-61

April '                                      44-13

July                                         61-80

     ... ... October                              49-35
                                                  80-00
Highest single observation, 1st of August    ... 22-00
Lowest single observation, 13th of February

A, copper bar, one inch in diameter and ten feet long. B, cast iron trough, to
                                                                                    ;

--16 REPORT 1848.

which the copper bar is made fast at the bottom. C, brass cap soldered fast to the

copper bar, with knife-edges on the under side, which rest on the tubular end of

Dthe first lever ; its fulcrum rests on the upper end of the cast iron trough B.

E, flanges to bolt the trough to the outer side of a wall, near the angle of a room.

F, part of the cast iron trough which passes through the wall into the room, carrying

Gthe fulcrum of the second lever I, and to which the revolving cylinder is fixed.
DH, a weight to keep the first lever steady on its bearings, and to counterpoise the

second lever I. K, tracing-pencil. L, a screw working in the edge of the wheel M,

and coupled to the minute-hand of the time-piece, making one revolution in an hour

Mthe wheel  is fixed to the axis of the cylinder, and has 102 threads cut in its edge,

and would make one revolution in eight days. N, a binding-screw to adjust the

pencil to the proper hour- line, when a fresh paper is put on once a week. O, brass

rings, made fast to the cast iron trough, to keep the copper bar steady, but through

which it can move ; the dotted line shows the side of the iron trough.

Comparative Temperature Table, showing the daily average height of the
   Thermometer; at Jersey, in 49° 11TM N. ; at Torquay, 50° 30TM N. ;

  Hastings, 50° 52TM N.; and Lo7idoti, 51" 30TM N. By J. W. Childers.

                                       Daily Mean Temperature.

                                1848.
                                                                                '

                   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.        l7

By the foregoing table it appears that Jersey and Torquay have the most mode-

rate temperature, the extremes being only 29° and 24°, whereas at Hastings and

--London they are 37° and 49° not rising above 78° and 75° at the former, and as

high as 84° and 86° at the latter, whereas at the latter two, the thermometer fell

to 47° and 37° : at the former only to 49° and 51°.

The highest temperature was reached at Jersey on the 6th, at Torquay on the

15tb, at Hastings on the 17th, and in London on the 6th. The lowest, at Jersey,

Torquay and London on the 1st, and at Hastings on the 15th. The barometrical

pressure was very uneven in Jersey : the mercurial elevation varied from 30"475 to

29'386, its greatest elevation being on the 13th; its greatest depression on the 24th.

At Torquay, the greatest elevation was on the 12th, 30-404 ; the greatest depres-

sion on the 20th, 29343. At Hastings, the elevation was 30-404 on the 13th, the

depression, 29-365 on the 20th. In London, the greatest elevation was on the

--12th, 30-448 ; the greatest depression, 29*299, on the 20th. The mean pressures

were Jersey, 29-630 ; Torquay, 29*943 ; Hastings, 29-806, and London, 29-860 :

showing that the unsettled state of the weather was caused by effects not indicated

by the barometer.

                   ,

Extractsfrom a Letter to Professor WHEATSTONEyy-o»J J.D. Hooker, M.D.

                   Dearee, West Bank of Soane River,

                   Main road to Benares, Feb. 15, 1848.

" During our three days' stay at Cairo I made a few observations on the effects of

the sun's rays on the soil, of the depth to which the heat penetrated, as also of the

power of nocturnal radiation and thickness of soil through which the heat is ra-

diated. In all these observations I find the great diflBculty to be in selecting a

position where the instrument shall itself be screened from radiation. Limestone,

sand and sandstone rock, in the desert, have all different temperatures, and, except

a brisk wind be stirring, give very different results. At the great Pyramid I selected

two stations, each I thought unexceptionable ; one at the N. face of the N.E. angle,

the other at the W. face of the N.W. angle, and was mortified to find as much as

5i° difference in the temperature, and several in the dew-point, &c. At each
angle I shifted the instruments from one to the other face, with the same results.

At the summit there was considerably more vapour in the atmosphere than at the
base. The temperature of the two chambers agreed (78°). On the Desert, mid-

way between Cairo and Suez, I found a little before sunrise, after a very cold night,

the dewy surface to be cooled down to 44° (if in shade 47°), and the increase of
temperature to be 1° an inch down to 10 inches ; similar soil on the previous and
succeeding day was heated (at 3 p.m.) to about 80°, and the power of the sun's rays

penetrated to more than that distance.
   " At Suez we embarked on board the Hon. Company's steam-frigate ' Moozuffer

for Calcutta, and I observed three times a day the temperatures, dew-point, &c., but

not the barometer, for my 'Newman's Portable' pumped so much as to render it

impossible to observe within two-tenths of an inch ; this was owing to the great

power of the engines. Some of the phsenomena are very curious. In the first

place, the waters of this Gulf are salter than those of any other sea having a free

communication with the greater oceans, and contains three-tenths more salt in an

equal bulk than the Indian Ocean does. This high specific gravity decreases on

the passage down to Mocha, where the increase is diminished to two-tenths, and

Mysuddenly to the usual standard of sea-water.       attention was first drawn to this

by the chief engineer, with whom I conducted such experiments as the motion of

the vessel allowed. During Ross's voyage I frequently examined the water (with

Capt. R.), and whether from the various oceans we passed through, or different

depths (down to 800 fathoms) in those oceans, always obtained a very constant

quantity of salts. I also inquired about the waters of the Persian Gulf, and am

assured' that they do not differ from that of the Indian Ocean. From the Straits of

Bab-el Mandeb to Cape Comorin I perceived no difference. There are further three

classes of winds in the Red Sea, very remarkable in their distribution. During all

June, July, August and September a north wind prevails throughout the sea, pro-

duced I suppose bv the heated continents of Arabia, and especially Africa ; and the

1848.                                                c
                                                                                   --

--18 REPORT 1848.

same wind continues all the year round from Suez to the Straits of Jubal, and with

particular violence down the Gulf of Akabar. During the remainder of the year

the winds in the middle part of the sea, from Jebbel-Teir, 15-30 to 19° or 20°'N.,

are light and variable. In the south part, again, from Jebbel-Teir to the Straits,

the S.E wind is constant from October till May, increasing in violence as you ap-

proach the Straits. This we experienced ourselves, for we carried N. and N.E.

winds from Suez to lat. 20, variables from lat. 20 to Jebbel-Teir, and southerly from

Jebbel-Teir to the Straits. I do not know how far the accompanyiug phienomena

may account for the great saltness and well-known depression (below the level of

the Mediterranean and of the Straits amounting, if I remember aright, to 35 odd

myfeet) of the upper part of the sea ;  observations give the following results :
                                                                                                 ;

TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                                                    19

usual, though possibly owing to the hills we are now close to, and which are new

features in our landscape.

" Monday, Feb. 14.      Barroon,   East  bank  of Soane                 River,  9  p.m.  Barom.  29'924
                                                                                                                                  ;

Atmos. temp. 58 ; Temp, air  62 ;  Wet-bulb    51-5                     Grass 53.  Blue sky and clear
                                                                     ;

horizon ; moon and stars clear ; milky way invisible ; zodiacal light invisible ; moon

by photometer 3'07 inches (sun at 3 p.m. being 4'17 inches).

" Observed the auroral arch well defined, 12° broad ; alt. of upper limb (best de-

fined) 20°. Extremes bearing W. 20 S. and N. 50 E. Light, pale but bright, rest-

ing on an arch no darker than sky at zenith. Beams crowded, from 20 to 30

linear and lancet-shaped, crossing the zenith and converging in opposite horizon

towards S. 15 E. All beams bright, clear and well-defined, moving slowly, forked

at the apices or split from apex to zenith, almost obscuring stars of first magnitude.

Longest beams point to S. 10 E. descending to 25° alt. Middle beam broad, crosses
zenith, points S. 50 E. and descends to 40°. N.W. beams almost parallel to

horizon, point S. 70 E. and descend to 20°.

  " 10 P.M. General appearance more diffused, upper limb of arch less defined. No

beams cross the zenith. Two detached ones 15° above horizon at S. 15 E. ; after a

few minutes one beam reappeared on zenith.

  " 10'^ 15TM. Appearance to W. of N. as before. One beam on zenith, two cross the

meridian, one to S. 30 E. at 15° above horizon, which disappears towards the arch

in S.E. Arch- more difl'used and descending to horizon, forming a pale mass, alt. 25°.

Beams broader, shifting 'and splitting more frequently. Soon a dark horizontal

band 4° broad crosses the arch, extending from N. 55 W. to N. 10 W. ; upper
limb 12° alt. ; it appears as a break in the auroral arch. Whole horizon all round

covered with a pale diffused light, strongest towards arch and in opposite quarter.

Beams still clear, the lateral broadest and best defined. Dark band becomes broader,

breaking up the arch.

" 10" 30"'. Beams from arch still clear, linear 2° to 6° broad, about 12 in number ; .

none reach the zenith ; a few lateral ones cross the moon's meridian, the upper
approaching within 8° of her orb, and still well-defined. N.E. beams most crowded

N.W. best defined and broadest. Dark band broader, severing the arch. Whole

phsenomena fading : longest and brightest and most numerous beams stretching

along N.E. horizon.

  " lOi" 50TM. Still fading. Beams and arch all disappear to W. of N. 18 narrow

beams between N. and N. 20 E. from remains of arch. Cold southerly breeze

sprung up.
   " 10'' 55"". Breaking up as before.

   "11 P.M. Difl'used light over all horizon (possibly reflexion of moon's light on

ground mist, which however is not discernible) . Scattered beams like cirrhus here

and there; linear along N. and N.E. horizon.

   " Midnight. Two faint beams to N.E., and two strongly-defined lance-shaped

parallel ones to S.W."

                   On a General Law of Electrical Discharge.
                       By Sir W. Snow Harris, F.R.S.

   An interesting discussion having arisen, at the last Meeting of the Association at

Oxford, relative to the laws and nature of the attractive force between two conduct-
ing spheres electrically charged, the author was led to undertake certain experimental

W.investigations with a view of verifying the application of a series by Professor

Thomson, of Glasgow, (relative to this interesting physical question) who, by a pe-
culiarly striking and very elegant method, had associated such forces with the
principle of optical reflexions, conceiving that in the common case of electrical at-
traction between two conducting spheres, certain electrical reflexions or images of
force, as it were, may be conceived to be continually reflected between the bodies in
infinitum, and that, by a particular series which he had deduced for such forms of
action, the problem might he completely brought under the dominion of analysis.

   The object of the present paper was to determine principally the relative degree of
force between two conducting spheres at the instant of discharge, and to compare
that with the quantity of electricity requisite to produce the discharge at given di-

stances taken between the nearest points of the spheres,

                                                                       c2
20 REPORT 1848.

 --In the following table will be found the results of the first series of experiments,

in which is given the distance in inches between the nearest points of the spheres
(n) ; the measures or quantity of electricity requisite to produce an attractive force
of 1 grain (6) ; the measures or quantity of electricity requisite to produce discharge
at the given distance (c) ; the force of attraction at the instant of discharge (d).

                                                                 Table I.

                                              Distance in
                                                     inches.
              .

              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  21

    The points q q' therefore are calculable as to position and distance, and they are
found to recede further and further from the surface as the distance between the
nearest points of the spheres increases ; it is only at an infinite distance that they
can coincide -with the centres of the spheres.

    Taking the force of the attraction to vary in the inverse duplicate ratio of the
squares of the distances, it is not diificult to determine the force in the points of dis-
charge from column d of the last table, supposing that column to represent the force
in the points q q' at the instant of discharge.

  --With this view, the author was led to the results given in Table II., in which is

given, as before, distance between the nearest points (a) ; measures equal to a force
of 1 grain (b) ; measures to produce discharge (c) ; attractive, force in points q q' at

the instant of discharge {d). To which is now added, distance of points q q' within

the hemisphere (e) ; distance of points q q' from each other (/) ; calculated force at
the nearest points given in column a and taken at the instant of discharge {g) ; this
last column being deduced from columns (o) and (/)

                                                              Table II.

   Distance
     of the

near points.
--22 REPORT ] 848.

Since the above experiments were communicated to the Association a slight alte-

ration in the form of the apparatus, calculated to give greater exactness to the results,

occurred to Mr. Joule, and he has therefore commenced a new and extensive series

of experiments in order to determine the equivalent of heat with all the accuracy

which its importance to physical science demands. The result arrived at after a series

of forty experiments was an alteration of the equivalent before stated to 771, which is

beUeved to be within ^^J^dth of the truth, and therefore may for the present be assumed

as a tolerably good basis for calculation.

 --The author conceives the following points to be established : 1st. His experi-

ments on the friction of fluids, confirming the views and experiments of Davy

and Rumford on the friction of solids, afford another decisive proof that heat

is simply a mechanical effect, not a substance. 2nd. His experiments, showing that

the thermal effects of the condensation and rarefaction of air are the equivalents of

the mechanical force expended or gained, prove that the heat of elastic fluids con-

sists simply in the vis viva of their particles ; and 3rd. The zero of temperature,

determined by the expansion of gases, is at 491° below the freezing-point of water.

  We may, the author thinks, employ the above propositions as a basis on which to

calculate the specific heat of the gases. For whether we conceive the particles to

be revolving round one another, according to the hypothesis of Davy, or flying about

in every direction according to Herapath's view, the pressure of the gas will be

proportional to the vis viva of its particles. Thus it may be shown that the par-

ticles of hydrogen gas at the barometrical pressure of 30 inches and temperature

60°, must move with a velocity of 6225'54 feet per second in order to produce the

Nowobserved pressure of 14*714 lbs. on the square inch.  a lb. moving at that

velocity is equivalent to 781°*45 of heat in a lb. of water, which will therefore re-

present the absolute heat of a lb. of hydrogen at 60°. But 60° is, as already stated,

                                       ---- --781°*45
519° of temperature from zero, whence  - =: 1'5157 will be the heat required

to raise the temperature of a lb. of hydrogen 1°, compared with that necessary to
give the like increase of temperature to a lb. of water, in other words, 1"5157 will

be the specific heat of the gas.
   Further, since oxygen is 16 times as heavy as hydrogen, its particles must move

at one-fourth the velocity in order to produce the same pressure. The specific heat

=of oxygen (as of all other gases) will be inversely as its density, or 0"09473.

Hydrogen ....  Theory.                                 Experiments of De la Roche and Berard
                1-5157
Aqueous vapou  0-1684                                  referred to capacity at constant volume.
Nitrogen       0-1074                                                         2-3520
Oxygen . .     0-0947                                                         0-6050
Carbonic acid  0-0685                                                         0-1953
                                                                              0-1686
                                                                              0-1579

 Notices of AurorcB observed at Swansea. By John Jenkins, F.R.A.S.

   Dec. 3, 1S45, after a general luminosity in the north, a flat elliptical arch, from
near the vertex of which two pyramidal coruscations shot up to the zenith, grow-
ing fainter upwards, while a third rose between the crown and the northern extre-
mity of the arch. At half-past 8 the arch was higher, its upper edge nearly inter-

=secting the Pleiades and passing through Gemini and Taurus. Its breadth \^

diam. of the moon, light yellowish.

  --Sept. 29, 1847. At a quarter past 7 this fine aurora had the appearance of a

white striated band extending from E. to W. and crossing the zenith. Jupiter was
about 1 diam. of the moon from the upper margin of the brush near the eastern

horizon.

   Oct 24, 1847.--The characteristic radiating canopy of light of this great aurora
was observed at Swansea ; light red and filmy, vanishing round the moon in a circle,
whose radius was 6 lunar diameters. Apparent motion of the light upwards ; light
brightest in the N.W., where silvery as well as red pencils were constantly emitted.
To the N.E. of the moon near the zenith, a partial halo or corona was formed.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE 8ECTI0NS.  23

               Tables of Meteorological Ph(Enome7ia observed at Swansea.

                           By John Jenkins, F.R.A.S.

     In presenting to the British Association the accompanj'ing records of the Meteo-
 rological Phasnomena observed at Swansea, I can only hope they are of value as
 adding to the number of continuous and regular observations by a series taken at a
 position far separated from any other spot where similar observations are registered

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;

 this being the only series, as far as I am aware, obtained in Wales.
    Any attempt to examine the occurrence of instrumental registries which gave ano-

 malous indications, would be occupying time with an inquiry that can be better pro-
 secuted in the study, and then when assisted by a long series of corresponding ob-
 servations. There are, however, some local conditions which it will be desirable to
 notice, that the great difference between these tables and others taken at stations
dissimilarly situated may be explained. The first relates to temperature.

   A comparison of the temperature of the inland towns of England with the tem-

perature of Swansea would surprise the casual inquirer ; for instance, the tempera-

ture of May 1844 was unusually low. On Friday the l7th, the thermometer at the

Dock-master's office, St. Katherine's, London, stood at 51°, while at Swansea, in the
open air, the mean temperature on that day was 60°. Again, on the 24th of June, at
7 A.M., the thermometer at London stood in the shade at 70° Fahr. ; at Swansea, on
the same morning at 9 a.m., 66° ; deducting the increase of temperature for two hours,
2°*5 per hour, the temperature at Swansea was 61°, being 9° less than at London.

    These considerable variations are to be accounted for by the position of Swansea,
being on the margin of an extensive bay communicating with the Bristol Channel.
The temperature of its water, being in the first example above the temperature of the
air, imparted so much heat to the atmosphere as to modify the cold to the amount
mentioned ; while, in the second instance, the water in the bay being below the

temperature of the air lowered the thermometric indication.
    2ndiy. The direction of the wind is given for the total number of days in each

month, from daily observations taken at 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., when the other re-
gistries of the instruments are made. This direction must not be regarded as the
direction of the great aerial wave, but of the current modified by the headlands,
which extend to the peninsula of Gower on the west and Kilvay Hill with its con-
tiguous high lands on the east ; a correction consequently becomes necessary when
comparing the direction of the wind at Swansea with other places not similarly cir-
cumstanced. Careful registers kept at the Nash and Mumbles light-houses and
Wormshead, would enable tables of equation to be constructed for such correction.

    3rd!y. The time and height of high water.
    Swansea Bay being situated at the mouth of the Bristol Channel, and having its
shores lashed by the waves of the Atlantic, often exhibits in its undulations the im-
pression of distant gales propagated over the surface of that broad mass of water

long before the atmospheric disturbance itself has reached the coast.
   The height of the tidal wave in Swansea Bay is consequently dependent on the

direction and force of the wind passing over the Atlantic, being increased when
westerly and reduced when easterly. Another influence which belongs to this sub-
ject, although of minor import, is the pressure of the atmosphere at the time of high
water. La Place seems to think that this flux and reflux at Paris is attributable to
the tidal waves which form a variable base tci*the atmosphere.

   The Swansea tide tables contain the heights of water in the river for every day during
the year ; but these tables being computed without reference to the disturbing causes
alluded to, their accuracy is destroyed as often as the wind blovvs stronglyfrom either of
the points mentioned. Thus the depth of water on the bar is not always the greatest on
the day mentioned in the Tide Table. This discrepancy occurred during the high tide
of 1846, when the highest tide did not occur on the day stated in the Tide Table, but,
on the contrary, the second tide on the following day was the highest. Again, on one
occasion, in the Tide Table the depth of water on Swansea bar is stated to be 23 feet,
whereas it amounted to 30 feet ; an increase in the tidal wave equal to two-thirda
the average depth of water on the bar at high water during the lowest neap tides.

   It is much to be desired that the amount of disturbance occasioned by the various
winds should be ascertained and arranged as the equation table is for the sun-dial,
so that persons who may be interested in the inquiry may be enabled to ascertain

the accurate height of tide at high water.
--24 REPORT 1848.

                                                              Tables of Meteorological Phcenomena

                                                                  Hygrometer.

                                                       9 A.M.     3 p.m.         Mean Mean
                                                                                 temp, temp.
Mean height.  Highest.
                                                                                of dav. of night.!
                                                       Dry. Wet.  Dry. Wet
                                                                                  70
30'25 a.m.                   i. 3.              26,    65-9 59-5 6-4 700 61-9     66
30-24 p.m.                          29-60 p.m.                                     71
              30-57 p.m.                                                           63
                                                                                  53
3003 a.m.     30-45 a.m.'           29-63 a.m. &p.m, 640 59-7 4-3 66-2 61-3        46
                                                                                   47
30-05 p.m.                                                                         44
                                                                                   40
30-17 a.m.                   31.                 10,   66-9 64-3 2-6 69-9 66-2     48
              31-30 p.m.            29-79 p.m.                                     54
3008 p.m.                                                                         58
                                                                                   68
29-92 a.m,      ^ 3. 4. 14.                     24,    61-1 58-0 31 62-9 58-6      71
29-92 p.m.                          29-44 a.m.                                     72
              30-26 a.m. & p.m.                                                    72
                                                                                  57
30-05 a.m.    30-55 p.m.                        23.    51-5 48-8 2-7 53-3 50-3    50
30-05 p.m.                          28-98 a.m.                                    51
                              17.
29-71 a.m.    30-42 p.m.                        24,
29-51 p.m.
                                    28-85 a.m. & p.m. 46-6 455 1-1 47-3 46-2

3006 a.m.                     19.               27.    47-7 46-9 0-8 48-2 47-5
                                    29-38 a.m.
30-06 p.m.    30-46 a.m. & p.m.

29-81 a.m,                     19.             12,     43-7 42-3 1-4 44-9 44-0
29-76 p.m.
              30-47 a.m.            313 p.m.
29-68 a.m.
29-66 p.m.                    12,               27.    39-3 37-5 1-8 41-0 39-3
                                    28-91 p.m.
29-98 a.m.    3008 a.m. & p.m.
29-65 p.m.                                   21, 22,
                            ^9.     29-43 p.m. &a.m, 45-8 44-0 1-8 48-9 46-8
              30-60 p.m.

29-91 a.m.                    15.                 4.   51-8 50-9 0-9 53-9 53-1
29-93 p.m.                          29-41 a.m.
              &30-23 a.m. p.m.

29-90 a.m.    30-30 p.m.                         16,   57-7 56-5 1-2 58-8 57-8
29-89 p.m.                          29-59 a.m.
                             21,
29-97 a.m.    30-32 a.m.            29-14 a.m.         61-8 59-5 2-3 63-6 60-9
29-88 p.m.
                          16, 17,            5. 23,
30-14 a.m.
              30-46 p.m. & a.m.     29-77 p.m.&a.m, 64-4 61-6 2-8 66-7 63-4
3016 p.m.

30-11 a.m.    30-43 a.m. & p.m.                 22,    66-3 63-5 2-10 69-1 651
30-12 p.m.                          29-67 p.m.

30-34 a.m.               23. 24.                  15.  64-7 60-8 3-9 68-0 64-0
30-34 p.m.                          29-92 a.m.
              30-70 p.m. & a.m.

29-89 a.m.                     19.          27>        52-2 50-2 2-0 53 6 51-8
29-93 p.m.                          1-28 p.m.
              30-52 p.m.

29-96 a.m.                  29.                 23.    45-6 45-1 0-5 47-1 46-2
29-97 p.m.                          29-44 a.m.
              30-58 p ro.
30-50 a.m.                                       31.   48-0 47-4 0-6 49-0 48-4
30-48 p.m.                  24,     29-86 p.m.
              30-68 a.m.
                          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  25

observed at Swansea,

        Thermometer.
26
--28 REPORT 1848.                            Table

                                 Barometer.
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  29

Thermometer.
--30 REPORT 1848.                             Table

                                  Barometer.
                         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  31

contimied).
           Thermometer-
--82 REPORT 1848.

On Meteorological Observations continued at Alten in Finmark.
                  B^JoHn Lee, LL.D., F.R.S.

   Dr. Lee presented to the British Association the observations made by Mr. J. H.
Grewe at Alten in 1846 and 1847.

The annexed tables contain the principal results of those observations reduced to

the English scale, the observations being made with French instruments.

These Meteorological Observations are a continuation of others presented by Dr.

Lee to the Society at York, Cambridge and Southampton for the years 1843, 1844

and 1845, and which were made by Mr. Grewe and Mr. J. F. Cole.

The observations for 1846-47 have been made by Mr. Grewe alone, Mr. Cole

having returned to England. They contain the twelve tables for the months, with

the daily observations, as formerly, for 1846, and the same for 1847 ; also two
tables with the summary of the contents and the results for each year.

The former observations for 1843, 1844 and 1845, contained in addition the half-

hourly observations made on the 21st of each month, which have been discontinued,

as Mr. Grewe had no assistance as formerly, and his avocations at the proper hours

prevented him, as also did occasional illness. There was no want of zeal or inat-

tention to the subject.

Mr. Grewe and Mr. Cole were both assistants in the employ of the British Copper

Mining Association established at Alten, and only able to devote their leisure time

to these subjects as an amusement and an object of gratification. They laboured

under great disadvantages, not only from climate, but from the want of encourage-

ment and the means of communicating with persons of science. They carried on

their observations in a climate in which in the winter they could hardly touch their

instruments, and where they are deprived of the light of the sun in the winter for

several months. Notwithstanding these disadvantages, they fixed a thermometer on

the highest mountain (Storvandsfjeld) to the west of the Alten Copper Works before

the winter commenced, and examined it again in the spring. Dr. Lee recommended

a similar experiment to be tried at Swansea. Also they observed the auroras during

the winter, and in a former year presented a paper concerning them.

   These Alten Observations have not been already without some use and interest.
Col. Sabine has referred to them in one of his papers on the Meteorology of Bom-

bay, and Mr. Birt, in his papers on the atmospheric wave, sets great value on the

Alten Observations. So likewise do Mr. Ronalds of Kew and the Rev. Mr. Fisher

of Greenwich.

With respect to the Christiania Observations, Dr. Lee remarked, that since his

arrival at Swansea he had received the Christiania Observations for 1847 from J. R.

Crowe, Esq., Her Britannic Majesty's Consul-General at Christiania in Norway.

They are a continuation of others made last year, and which Dr. Lee had the

honour of presenting to the Association, in Mr. Crowe's name, at Oxford*. Mr.

Crowe formerly was the British Consul at Alten, where he resided for several years,

and it is in a great measure owing to his judgement and zeal that the meteorological

observations were commenced at Alten, and continued, since his promotion and re-

moval to Christiania, by Mr. Grewe and Mr. Cole.

Mr. Thomas, the Manager of the Alten Copper Mining Works, and a pastor, a

Professor Loestadius, an eminent botanist, are, I believe, the principal patrons of

science at Alten.

               Christiania, N. lat. 59° 54' l", long. 10° 45' O" east.

               Alten,    +N. lat. 69° 58' 3" +, long. 23° east.

Observations upon the Meteorological Observations for 1846 and IS'i? from
        Alten in Lapland, in a Letter from Mr. J. F. Cole to Dr. Lee.

                                                                                         London, July 22, 1848.

  --Sir, According to your desire I have examined the Alten Meteorological Obser-

vations for 1846 and 1847, which you have recently received from my former col-
league, Mr. Grewe, and I have derived much pleasure from their inspection.

        * See the Report of the Association for 1847, Transactions of the Sections, p. 33.
Table <ars 1846 and 1847, being a conti

       »bove ground; reduced to Fahrenheit's scale).
                            Minimum 3 p.m.

            Day and        Day and      1846.  1847.
       H7. time of          time of

                  1846.      1847.

            24th,          31st,        7-6 -1-3

            morn. morning.

            5th,           12th, -14-8 -31

Februa^'^ morn. morning.

March,10     4th,          14th,        0-4 -31
            morn.          night.

            3rd,            3rd,        + 8-6 +2-3
        3-6                night.
April           night.

            2nd,           14th,        6-8 140
                           night.
May     4-5
                night.

                     4th,   8th,        320 320
June ,4-2 night.           night.

            11th,          4th,         19-4 37-4
July 47 morn. morning.

                     10th, 14th, 31st,  230    410
August""^ morn. morning.

            29th,          15th,        27-5 32-9

Septeu'     morn. morning.

            15th,          24th,        10-4 12-2

Octobi      mom. morning.

            28th,          -16th,       2-2    10-4

Noven       morn. morning.

Decen<1i4A  23rd,            22nd,      -11-2  5-9
            ^^^^^          morning.

Means 7-3                               7-6 151

                almost calm, and 10=hurricane ; and

        =uded, and 8 all clear.

Highest 1846. The year 1847 was warmer th
Lowest The atmosphere was drier, the wind

Total ral'l from the Alten results in French milli
            Snheit. Hours of observation 9 a.m., 3
Table oi' the principal Results of the iVIeteorological Observations made by .1. H. Gb                                              --I the Alten Copper Works, Finmark, in Norway, during the years 1846 and 1847, being s                               [Brit. Asaoc. Report, Sectione, p. 32.]

                                                                                                                              by I  . J. H. Grewe and J. F. Cole. N. lat. 69° 58' 3", E. long. 23°.                          I of those made at Alteo in 1843, 1844 and 184^,

......
                                                                     .

                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                    33

    I find that several blanks occur in the course of the observations ; also that the

half-hourly observations on the 21st of the month are entirely discontinued. All
this is not to be wondered at, since Mr. Grewe is nowr without any scientific assist-

ant ; and allowing for all the accidents of health and occupation, I consider that
this gentleman deserves great praise for his diligence and perseverance in carrying on
the observations as he has done. The Alten Meteorological Observations for 1843,
1844 and 1845 do not contain a single blank, as Mr. Grewe and I made it a point
to endeavour to obtain three years' observations complete, so as to sei-ve as a basis
in comparing any observations that had been made at Alten before that time, or
that might be made hereafter, and also to serve in comparing observations with any
other part of the world. As those observations have been presented by you to the

British Association, I have no doubt that they will prove highly interesting in assist-

ing persons in their endeavours to find out meteorological laws or in following out

any theories that meteorologists may advance.
   The observations for 1846 and 1847, now forwarded by Mr. Grewe, and which

you intend to present to the British Association, will prove interesting in conse-
quence of what has already been done.

These observations show, that the mean of the barometer for 1846 was 755'8432

millim. or 2975755 Engl, inch., and for 1847, 755*9854 millim. or 29-76315 Engl,

inch.

   The mean of the thermometer for 1846 was -|- 1*667 Centig. or -f-35°0006 Fahr.,
and for 1847, +2*594 Centig. or +36°*6692 Fahr.

The mean fall of rain per day was, for 1846, 1*266 millim. or 0*04984 Engl,

inch,, and for 1847, 1*186 millim. or 0*04669 Engl. inch.

   Themeanforceof the wind was, for 1846, =1*611, and for 1847, =1*974 (accord-

= =ing to the scale of forces adopted at Alten, viz. 1 almost calm and 10 hurri-

cane ; these means will fall between almost calm and gentle breeze)

The mean proportion of clear sky for 1846 was 2*502 parts, and for 1847, 2*796

parts (the sky is supposed to be divided into eight parts).

The highest range of the barometer for 1846 was 772*80 millim. or 30*42514

Engl, inch., and the lowest range was 733*62 millim. or 28*88262 Engl, inch.,

being a total range for 1846 of 39'18 millim. or 1*54252 Engl. inch.

The highest range of the barometer for 1847 was 778*10 millim. or 30*63380

Engl, inch., and the lowest range was 721*40 millim. or 28*40152 Engl, inch., being

a total range for 1847 of 56*70 millim. or 2*23228 Engl. inch.

The    highest  range  of the thermometer for  1846  was  -f-28°*5  Centig.  or      83°-3

                                                                                 -f-
-- --Fahr., and the lowest range was 26°*0 Centig. or 14°*8 Fahr., being a total range

for 1846 of 54°*5 Centig. or 98°*1 Fahr.

   The highest range of the thermometer for 1847 was -)-29°*3 Centig. or +84°*74

Fahr., and the lowest range was -- 19°*5 Centig. or --3°* 10 Fahr., being a total

range for 1847 of 48°*8 Centig. or 87°*84 Fahr.

From the foregoing it will be seen that 1847 was much warmer than 1846, and

that the mean height of the barometer was greater in 1847 than in 1846.

The total oscillation of the barometer was much greater in 1847 than in 1846,

but the reverse was the case with the thermometer.

   The atmosphere was drier, the wind was rather more powerful, and the sky was
clearer in 1847 than in 1846.

   I feel grateful that my humble labours, or rather amusements, and those of my

excellent friend Mr. Grewe, have been deemed by you worthy of being introduced to

the notice of the British Association of Science, and I beg to subscribe myself.

                                          Sir,

                                Your obedient and humble Servant,

To John Lee, Esq., LL.D., 8fc.                 (Signed)      John Francis Cole.

                    Hartwell,

       On two cases of uncommon Atmospheric Refraction.

                   By Matthew Moggridge.

About midday on the 27th of January last we saw a schooner which appeared

erect and resting on the top of the high sand-hill east of the mouth of the Neath

1848.                                                                   D
--34 REPORT 1848.

River, the whole of her hull being visible. As we passed on the image retained its
position for some time, but vanished when we came to a turn of the road.

   On arriving at a point where I could look down the river, I saw within about 150

yards of the sand-hill above referred to a schooner lying dry, which was evidently
the vessel we had previously observed. She was much out of the proper channel,
but had gone ashore by accident and remained there many weeks. The top of her
masts was below the level of the sand-hill, so that her picture was thrown up more
than the height of her masts.

   The weather was cold, with a strong north-easterly wind and a bright sun ; the
schooner lying under the sand-hill, protected from the wind and in the full sunshine,
which was powerful for the season. Two very different conditions therefore ob-
tained in the atmosphere at that place ; the air immediately surrounding the vessel
being warmed by the sun, not under the influence of the wind, and probably chai'ged
with vapour evaporating from the wet sand ; while the air above the level of the
sand-hill was rapidly changed by the keen, frosty wind, and must have been of a
very different temperature and density.

   The other phenomenon to which I would direct attention occurred about nine-
teen years ago, and was witnessed by many most respectable parties, among others
by the then vicar of Swansea, the late Dr. Hewson. The whole promontory
of the Mumbles was seen reflected in the sky, so that at the same time the true
image and the counterfeit were visible. There was a width of sky seen between the
two of a breadth about equal to the height of the Mumble rocks, and the refracted

--image was a correct copy of that below, except that the perpendicular objects as
--the lighthouse were somewhat too tall, and became still more so before the disap-

pearance of the illusive image, which was observed during about ten minutes.

Observations accompanying Wind and Current Charts of the North Atlantic.

                        By Lieut. Maury, U.S. Navy.

[A. Letter addressed to Prof. H. D. Rogers, by whom it was communicated to the Association.]

                                                               Ts^ational Observatory, Washington, July 10, 1848.

   These charts are offered not for what they are, but for what they may be. They
are a mere first attempt, a rough beginning, incomplete and faulty, by reason of the
very defective materials used in their construction. They are compiled from abs-
tracts of old sea logs kept without order, system or arrangement. Some are with-
out record as to cun-ent, temperature or variation; and others are faulty in many
respects. But it was found necessary to make a beginning in order to attract the
attention of navigators to the subject, and so procure labourers for the field; and
this these charts have succeeded in doing, in this country at least.

   Every navigator who will apply, is furnished gratis with a set of them and .with a
blank form, for recording results of the requisite observations. And though but a few
weeks have elapsed since the publication of these charts, such has been the eager-
ness of navigators to procure each his copy, and such their readiness to contribute
the requisite data for a more complete set, that fleets of ships are now engaged in

-- --all parts of the world (as they go to and from across the sea), in making and record-

ing all by a prescribed form the necessary observations.
    I have secured the co-operation both of the military and commercial marine of

the United States, and before the end of the year, probably, not less than a thousand
vessels will be collecting materials for the completion of these charts. Could the
vessels of Great Britain be engaged in like manner, the value of the results would be
greatly enhanced, because then we should probably have vessels enough engaged to
afford synchronous observations for the space of a year, or longer, should it be
desired, of the winds, currents, temperature of the ocean, &c. in all parts of the world.

   The plan is, to construct similar charts of the three great oceans, to lay down the
tracks of all the vessels engaged, in colours according to the season. Thus the
tracks in winter will be all black; those in spring, green; in the summer, red; in
the autumn, blue. Each track has marked on it, in such a manner as to show at
once the daily experience of the navigator who made it, the winds, currents, tem-
perature of the water, variation of the compass, &c. j thus placing at a glance before

                                                                    fl
       TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.        35

each one, the combined experience of all who have sailed before him over the same

part of the ocean.

   To illustrate the importance of this undertaking, I may be excused for alluding to

some of the practical results already obtained.
   In consequence of the better knowledge afforded by this chart with regard to the

winds in the North Atlantic Ocean, the average passage from the ports of the United
States to the Equator (and consequently to all ports the way to which leads across

the Equator) has been shortened several days. I have the tracks of four vessels
which have been to Rio de Janeiro in Brazil, by the new route proposed on this
chart. They have invariably made shorter passages than vessels sailing at the same

time by the old route. The average passage by the old route to the line, is forty-one
days ; the mean of the four which have tried the new route is thirty-one days, the

shortest being twenty-four days, the quickest of the season, and the longest thirty-

nine days.

  The information already collected has enabled me to strike out numerous vigias

and fabulous dangers which deface our best general charts of the ocean, and which

greatly increase the sources of anxiety which at all times surround the navigator.
The positions of these vigias are laid down on the chart as doubtful, and when the
ship is in the vicinity of any of them, it is a sleepless time with her master. I have
the tracks of several hundred vessels which pass over and within 5° of some of these
vigias, so that, if they were in existence, they certainly would have been seen by one
or more. But they are not mentioned in the log, and it may therefore be fairly con-

cluded that they do not exist. At the proper time I shall publish a list of vigias

which these charts show ought to be erased.

   The grouping together such a mass of facts in the manner proposed, will lead to
many collateral, highly interesting and valuable results. Take as an example what is

shown on the charts before you. If you will examine sheet No. 3, you will see that

the trade-winds between tlie parallels of 5° and 10° N. from the coast of Africa
nearly to the middle of the Atlantic, lose their trade character and become the
baffling, variable airs known to sailors as the doldrums, whereas between the same
parallels (sheet No. 2) on the American side, they blow with great regularity from
the northward and eastward. In the former case, the sun shining upon the plains and
deserts of Africa rarefies the air to windward, and this calls upon the winds of the
sea to return and restore the equilibrium. In the latter case, the sun shining upon

the plains of South America heats the air to leeward, and causes the trade-winds to
hasten on and restore the equilibrium. In the one case the rarefaction takes place
to windward, in the other to leeward, and the effect produced is clearly indicated by

the chart, and is precisely such as might be expected.
   Again, examine the winds in the Gulf of Mexico, sheet No. 1. The prevailing

winds here are from the southward and eastward, while between the same parallels
(sheet No. 2) and upon the broad ocean, the prevailing winds are the N.E. trades.
As soon as the effect is seen the cause becomes obvious. Is it not to be found in
the action of the sun upon Texas and the States of Northern Mexico ? There is an
immense body of land in this direction, and the heat of the sun upon it causes the

winds to set towards it from the Gulf of Mexico. What effect a day of rain or of

clouds over this body of land has upon the winds off the Pacific coast of Tehuan-

tepec and Central America, is one of the interesting results to be anticipated from

the work before us.

  --But perhaps the most interesting- result yet obtained and the undertaking is but
--just commenced is the discovery within the limits of the N.E. trades in the At-

lantic, of a region in which the prevailing winds are from the southward and west-

ward.

This region is limited in extent, and is somewhat in the shape of a wedge, with its

base towards the coast of Africa between the Equator and 10° N, It extends from

long. 10=" W. to about 25° W., being bounded by the Equator for one side, and by a

W. W.line drawn from lat. 10° N. long. 10°  on the other.
       to lat. 5° N. long. 25°

How the case may be to the south of the Equator, I am not prepared to say. But

to the north of it, I have discussed 2292 independent observations made within the

above-described region by different vessels on their voyages across it. Included

among these observations, calms were encountered on 246 occasions, leaving 2046

                                                                   V2
                                               --

--36 REPORT^ 1848.

observations upon tlie winds. Of these, the winds were found from the northward

and eastward (tiie regular trade quarter)          442 times.
                                                   408 ,,
                     From the S. and E             J)51 ,,
                      ,, ,, S. andW                245 ,,
                       ,, ,, N.andW

Tlie law which governs the trade-winds is here reversed : they blow from the oppo-
site quarter. And the natural tendency of winds cannot be so suddenly and com-

pletely reversed without creating violent atmospherical disturbances. Accordingly,
the facts show this region to be one of violent squalls, sudden gusts of wind, of

thunder-storms, heavy rains, lightning, baffling airs and calms. It is known to

sailors as the region for the equatorial ' doldrums.'

   To the westward of this region and between the same parallels, the winds again

assume their normal direction, and prevail from the eastward.
   It is not a little singular that vessels bound from any of the ports in the United

States to Brazil, should cross the Atlantic nearly twice, and if they be bound round
the Cape of Good Hope they cross it three times. The usual route of vessels bound
from the United States to any port beyond the Equator is to steer almost an east
course, many of them making the Canaries, and most of them Cape de Verde islands,
as the chart will show. Tliey then shape their course through this " doldrum "

region and steer to the southward and westward for their port. Now the log-books
in my possession show that southward-bound vessels in traversing this region may

expect to encounter either head winds or calms about 1400 times out of 2292.
The navigator would therefore have about two chances to one against a fair wind in

this portion of the route.

   To the west of this region and more directly in the straight line from the United

States, the chart shows a blank space through which a straggling vessel passes only

now and then. The chart indicates, and facts subsequently obtained show, that here
the prevailing vvinds are more favourable than they are by the usual route, for a
short passage to the Equator. The materials so far collected--and they are ex-

--tensive show that if a Rio bound vessel were to keep to the westward of 25°, the

wager instead of being two to one against fair winds, would be three to one in favour

of them. Between the meridians of 25° and 35° W. I have 800 observations ex-

tending from the Equator to 5° N. Of these,

257 give the wind from N. and E.

     366 ,,                                ,,      S. and E.
     102 ,,                                ,,
      30 ,,                                ,,      S. andW.
and 45 calms.                                      N.andW.

   Hence it appears that in this region there are three calms and four S.W. winds
to the east of long. 25°, to one calm and one S.W. wind to the west of that meri-
dian. The wager against head winds and calms by this route, and in this part of it,
would be one head wind for three fair one?, instead of two head winds for one fair
one by the usual route. Moreover the distance by the new route is nearly 1000

miles less than by the old.

   It may be asked, why has not a route which is so obviously better and more direct
been tried before? The answer is ready j sailors more than any other class of men
are prone to follow in the wake of their predecessors. They know and feel that the
experience of any one of them as to winds and weather at sea is at the best very
limited. It is confined to the spot where he may be; they are therefore prone to
follow their guide-books. Cook went that way in 1776. Hydrographers put his
track on their chart as a guide, the next to come after him took the same track, and

each has continued to follow the other.

  Meteorological Observations at Huggate for 1847. By Thos. Rankin.

   Greatest degree of cold, therm. 16°, March 11 th; 7° colder than last year. Hot-
test day 78°, July 14th; 5° less than last year. Greatest range of therm, for any
given day 33°, July 3rd ; least range 1°, Jan. 8th. Greatest range for any given
                      --;

                      TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                  3/

month 43°, March ; least range 20°, December. Range for the whole year 4° greater

than 1846.

   Maximum of barometer 30"33, March 4th ; -20 less than 1846. Minimum 27'80,
December 6th ; -52 less than 1846. Greatest range for any month 2-05, December ;
·65 greater than 1846. Least range -12, February; -33 less than 1846. Range

for the year "59 greater than 1846.

   Rain fallen 30'232 inches ; 4-838 inches less than 1846. Least rain in any month
1-000 inch, February; most, 5-375 inches. May.

   Winds: east 2 days, west 45, north 2, south 1, north-east 15, north-west 27,

south-east 8, south-west 39-
   Weather: clear 127 days, rain 48, frost 23, snow 18, mist 18, thunder 3.
   The author adds remarks on aurorae, characteristic clouds, and other phsenomena.

Remarkable Tide in the British Channel, Friday, July 7, 1848, as it

     appeared at Lyme Regis, Dorset. By George Roberts.

Weather warm and calm. Dead neap tides. Fine for twenty-four hours before

the phsenomenon. About two hours and a half before the phsenomenon, at 14 a.m., it
blew hard for ten minutes. The wind before and after this gust was gentle, and had

gone round to all points of the compass. At dead low water, or perhaps just after

the water had begun to flow at 4 a.m., the tide began to run into the Cobb, so that

a boat rowed with two oars could not make head against it, but was carried along

Mywith it.  informant estimates the height of the water to have been a.bout six or

seven feet, and that it took eight minutes to flow in, or at most ten minutes, and

the ^ame time to flow out. Then when out it began to flow in again, and so con-

tinued till eight o'clock, a space of four hours, when the sea was quite calm, and so

continued all the day. The same was experienced at Dartmouth and Portland. Some

of the sailors said it was a bore ; others that it was caused by thunder- weather

some said there had been an earthquake in the ocean : some sailors say the tide ran

ten knots an hour *.

               Note on ' Shooting Stars ' seen August \0, ai Armagh.

                     By the Rev. T. R. Robinson, D.D.

   Though last night was mostly cloudy here we saw a good many 'shooting stars.'
From 12'' to 12'' 45"° thirty were seen through a thick covering of the stratus family ;
their light was bluish-white, and most had long red trains. Towards morning it
cleared, and from 1'' 41" to 2'' 41'" three of us counted 117 ; but as two used deep
spectacles in which the margin of the field of view must be indistinct, it is probable
that many of the smaller were missed. Many of them were large and brilliant, and
with few exceptions their motion was directed to a point which I estimate to be

near r) Ophiuchi. It is remarkable that nearly five-sixths of the whole were north
of the prime vertical. Several seemed to explode in their course, and so decidedly
that we actually listened for explosions. None were however heard, though the night

was perfectly still.
    In the earlier part of the evening aurora was seen in the N.E., and it must have

been rather intense, or it could not have been visible in the moonlight.

 On certain Effects produced on Soimd by the rapid motion of the observer.
                      By J. Scott Russell, F.R.S. Ed.

   Until the production of the very high velocities now given to railway trains, no

   * In Mr. Roberts's Collection of Historical Matter respecting Lyme Regis, are three en-
tries made by old clerk Read as follows :

   " May 31, 1759 : the sea flowed three times in one hour.

   " Aug. 18, 1797 : the sea flowed three times in one hour, attended with lightning.
    " Jan. 26, 1799 : the sea as above about 4 o'clock a.m."
   Upon a summer's day about 1813 something similar took place. Mr. Roberts asks whe-
ther the Seiches of the Swiss lakes are referrible to the same cause as these movements of

the water of our British Channel.
38 REPORT--1848.

opportunities have existed of observing any phsenomena in which the velocity of the
observer has been sufficient to affect the character of sounds. The author having
had occasion to make observations on railway trains moving at high velocities, has
been led to notice some very curious effects in sounds heard at 50 and 60 miles an

hour. These effects are not heard by an observer who is stationary. He found
that the sound of the whistle of an engine stationary on the line was heard by a

--passenger in a rapid train to sound a different note in a different key from that in

which it was heard by the person standing beside it. The same was true of all
sounds. The passenger in rapid motion heard them in a different key, which might
be either louder or lower in pitch than the true or stationary sound. The explana-
tion of this was given as follows. The pitch of a musical sound is determined by

--the number of vibrations which reach the ear in a second of time 32 vibrations per

second of an organ-pipe give the note C, and a greater or less number give a more
acute sound or one more grave. These vibrations move with a velocity of 1024 feet
per second nearly. If an observer in a railway train move at the rate of 50 miles
an hour towards a sounding body, he will meet a greater number of undulations in
a second of time than if at rest, in the proportion which his movement bears to the
velocity of sound ; but if he move away from the sounding body he will meet a
smaller number in that proportion. In the former case he will hear the sound a
semitone higher, and in the second a semitone lower than the observer at rest. In
the case of two trains meeting at this velocity, the one containing the sounding body
and the other the observer, the effect is doubled in amount. Before the trains meet
the sound is heard two semitones too high, and after they pass two semitones too

--low being a difference of a major third. There were next explained the various

effects which the noises of a train produced on the ears of passengers at high velo-
cities. The reflected sounds of a train, from surfaces like those of bridges across
the line, were at ordinary velocities sent back to the ear changed by less than a
tone, so as to cause a harsh discord, which was an element of the unpleasant
effect on the ear, of passing a bridge. In a tunnel also the sounds reflected from
any irregularities in the front of the train or behind it were discords to the sounds

of the train heard directly. He showed however that at speeds of 112 miles an
hour these sounds might be those of a harmony with each other and become agree-

able, for the sounds reflected in opposite directions would have the interval of a
major third.

   On the Lengths and Velocities of Waves. By Capt. Stanley, R.N,

               · (^Extractfrom a Letter to the Rev. Dr. Whewell.)

   The method I adopted for the determination of the length and speed of the sea,
was to veer a spar astern by the marked lead-line, when the ship was going dead
before the wind and sea, until the spar was on the crest of one wave while the ship's
stern was on the crest of the preceding one. After a few trials, I found that when
the sea was at all regular I could obtain this distance within two or three fathoms
when the length of wave was fifty.

   In order to ascertain the speed of the sea, the time was noted when the crest of
the advancing wave passed the spar astern, and also the time when it reached the
ship ; and by taking a number of observations, I have every reason to believe we have
obtained a result not very far from the truth. The officer noting the time in all
these observations having only to register the indications of the watch when the
observer called stop, had no bias to induce him to make the differences more regular.

   For measuring the height of the waves, I adopted a plan recommended to me by
Mrs. Somerville, which I have tried for ten years with great success. When the

ship is in the trough of the sea, the person observing ascends the rigging until he
can just see the crest of the coming wave on with the horizon, and the height of his
eye above the ship's water-line will give a very fair measure of the difference of level
between the crest and hollow of a sea. Of course in all these observations the mean

of a great many have been taken, for even when the sea is most regular apparently

there is a change in the height of the individual waves.
   I regret that we have had so few opportunities of making these observations, but

it is only under very favourable circumstances, when the ship is going directly
before both wind and sea, that they can be made with any chance of success ; but
       --

           TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  39

I mean to lose no opportunity of obtaining more. The foUovring is a summary of

the observations :

Date.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;

--40 REPORT 1848.

cessation occurs in September, when the monthly minimum of 22 inches in August
of the S.W. monsoon is reduced to 7'3 inches. The N,E. monsoon commences in
October with 38-2 inches, gradually diminishing in amount until January, the last
month of the N.E. monsoon, when the fall in 1846 was reduced to 4-6 inches, the
whole fall in the four months of the N.E. monsoon being about 75 inches. Fe-
bruary, March and April are the precursors of the S.W. monsoon, and September
intermediate between the termination of the S.W. monsoon and the commencement
of the N.E. monsoon. The average annual fall of rain upon this elevated table-land

during the day and during the night does not appear to differ materially, although it
is somewhat in excess at night, being 123'1 inches to 112-7 inches during the day.

The excess at night however does not hold good through all the months. In May

there were 17*1 inches by night and 19'7 inches by day; in August 8-8 inches by
night and 13-3 inches by day ; and in September l-Q inch by night and 5-6 inches
by day. Neither is there any uniformity in the fall of rain in the same months of
the two monsoons in successive years, but the maximum monthly fall will be found
in one of the four months of the respective monsoons, although it may occur in

May in one year and in August in the following, or in October of one year and in

December of the next in the N.E. monsoon. While 235-8 inches fell in 1846 at
 Uttree Mullay, 69-9 inches only fell at Trevandrum, and 74'7 inches at Quilon ; in

May 11-4 inches fell at Trevandrum, but 22-7 inches at Quilon on the coast; in

October the case was reversed, 17'5 inches fell at Trevandrum and only 9-4 inches
 at Quilon. In 1844-45 an instance was given of a fall of 9 inches of rain in one
daj', on the 10th of October, at Uttree Mullay; and on the 26th of November of
 7-35 inches. Nothing similar to the first fall occurred in 1846, the greatest being

7-6 inches on the 25th of May ; and there are three instances of a daily fall of nearly

 7 inches on the 24th of April, 12th of July, and the 13th of October. The monthly
mean temperature at Uttree Mullay, at 6 a.m., varied only from 57°-5 in January to
 65°-75 in August and September ;'at 2 p.m. from 66°-25 in June to 73°-75 in April
 and at 6 p.m. from 62°-25 to 67° in the months of April and July. The annual
mean at the respective hours was 63°, 69° and 65°- 16, and the mean of the whole
 observations 65°-66. The extreme annual range of the thermometer was from 55-5
 on the 31st of January and 15th of December to 78° on the 6th, 21st and 22nd of
 April, so that the extremes differed from the mean by only 10°- 16 minus and 12°-34
 plus. With such limited general results it would be superfluous to particularize
 monthly variations of temperature.

                                                                       Abstract.

                       Months in 1846.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.        41

                      Eain in 1846.

     1846.
                 ---- -- ----

--42 REPORT 1848.

--titles of snow, tiles, slates, &c. They were like inverted cones of vapour, revolved

swiftly on their axes, and coursed along at the rate of 20 miles an hour. Rotatory

whirlwinds in the midst of winter, which are only seen in tropical climates in the

most intensely hot weather, seem remarkable phenomena. Amongst the other phy-
sical phenomena in accord with the tumults amongst men, was that of the eruption

of Vesuvius, which during my stay in Naples the last days of March and beginning

of April in the present year, was pouring out four fiery streams of lava amidst ex-

plosions.

   But meteorological anomalies were not confined to Europe ; and if we look to
the records of India for the last year, we shall find that observers have had equal

cause for surprise and comment.

 --"Tuesday, February 16. From the Bombay papers it appears that they have

actually had ice at Poona." From Bengal Hurkaru.

This was almost a miracle, for such a circumstance had never been recorded

before.

   " The cold weather, which bo suddenly and unexpectedly returned upon us, has
now taken what we may consider its final departure for the season." Calcutta

Hurkaru, Feb. 18, 1847.

 --" There had been a very severe storm in the northern hills al; Simla snow lay

three feet deep and all the high grounds about the Dehra Dhoon were covered."

Bombay Times, May 2, 1847.                                                      have

 -- WeFrom the Deccan the accounts, on the 22nd of February, 1847, state, "

had rain all over the Deccan from the south-east, strange at this season ; the rain

was also heavy and continuous, quite monsoon weather."

  On the 15th of November, 1847, the editor of the Bombay Times, Dr. Buist, a

distinguished meteorologist, has the following remarks in his paper respecting the

great anomaly of a large fall of rain in November, a month of the dry season :
  " November has opened as if another monsoon were just commencing. On Sa-

turday and Sunday the thermometer rose on the Esplanade as high as 90° ; in the

coolest and most airy buildings in Colaba it stood at 87° ; the wind dry and blowing

strong till past noon from the north-east. On Sunday evening there was some

thunder and a few drops of rain, and on Monday a stiff breeze blew about sunset

from nearly east, and the sky looked most threatening. All yesterday it was close,

--hot and muggj', a slight shower having fallen in the morning thermometer 85°,

the barometer slightly down." Bombay Times, Nov. 3.

  We" mentioned in our last that we had had some thunder with a threatening of

November showers : they have come in greater abundance than was expected.
About midnight on Tuesday a very heavy fall of rain commenced and continued for

a couple of hours, and all over the morning it looked thick and lowering. Little

rain fell next night, but there were showers over the morning, and bet\vixt one and

three on Thursday it rained heavily, and continued cloudy all the afternoon and

evening. About ten o'clock a thick close rain commenced, with a bleak north-east

wind : both have continued ever since. Yesterday was more like the middle of the

monsoon than a day in clear and dry November. The thermometer, which on Sunday
stood at from 85° to 90°, has all at once plumped down to betwixt 70° and 75°--

a change great and sudden enough to be very iinpleasant to the feelings. More than

3 inches of rain fell. The barometer has all this while stood high, and made no sign I

The rains appear to have been general all along and below the Ghauts : the Maha-

Webuleshwar range seems to have suffered severely.  have just heard of much

mischief having been occasioned to the unstacked rice all over the island, and the

damage must be general wherever grain crops are still in the field : all the low

grounds are flooded, and the dry channels running torrents.

                            Fall of rain in the Fort during November.      in.

           Up to 6 P.M. 1st Nov                                        0-00

                          ,, 2nd ,,                                    000
                          ,, 3rd ,,
                 » ,, 4th ,,                                           0-65
                          ,, 5th ,,
                                                                       ^0-06

--Ibid. Nov. 6.                                                        3-58 "
                            -- ----                                           ;;

             TRANSACTIONS OF THE) SECTIONS.                                   43

" The weather has taken this week almost as sudden a change as if did last, but

on the present occasion fortunately it is in the right direction. The rain, which

continued to pour in torrents till early on Saturday morning (upwards of two inches

--of rain fell during Friday night making a total fall of nearly six inches during

WeNovember), faired up on that day.  have now in fact fairly got into the cold

--season with all its nipping freshness : a coat is at no time unpleasant blankets

overnight indispensable. The thermometer ranges from 72° to 79°. So thoroughly

drenched have been the paddy-fields that we have still two or three inches of water

all over the surface of the flatter portions of the ground."' Ibid. Nov. 10.

 --" The weather has now set in steady and cool, the thermometer ranging from

70° to 79° water in exposed situations falling as low as 65° overnight. The sea

and land winds are fresh and strong." Ibid. Nov. 13.

" From out stations we gather the following items :
--A" SuRAT.
             letter from Surat informs us of an unexpected flood which had oc-

curred on the Taptee, which had commenced at nopn on the 7th, the river continu-
ing to rise for about twenty hours, when it had attained near the town a depth of
fifteen feet above its previous level. The cut connecting the river from Burcutcha

with the sea relieved the flood and saved the city from desolation similar to the visi-

tations of this sort which formerly afflicted it in cases of freshes in the river. Seve-

ral pattimars had been driven from their anchorages ; some cattle had been drowned,

Aand three carts on their way from Broach were said to have been carried away.

heavy fall of rain in the Malwa district was supposed to have been the cause of the

flood. The -rains which prevailed here betwixt the 3rd and 5th must in fact have

been very general ; the commencement of them at the former date on the Coro-

mandel coast is mentioned by our Madras contemporaries : at Foona upwards of

three inches of rain fell ; and a heavy fall occurred at Belgaum ; while all along the
Ghauts the storm seems to have prevailed. It is curious that at Poona more than

--twelve inches of rain have this year fallen in April and November both falls in the
--fair season." Times, November 13.

These notices of atmospheric disturbances, which I could very considerably in-

crease, I have thought to be suitable precursors of a notice of a remarkable storm

in Bombay on the 6th of April last, in which the barometer rose instead of falling

the facts being supplied by the Magnetic Observatory, and the comments by that

very zealous and able promoter of scientific research. Dr. Buist, LI^.D,, the Editor
of the Bombay Times.

             The Stokm of the 6th of April 1848.

                        State of the Weather.

April 6th, 9a.m. Nimbi, cirrocumuli and cirri throughout, except in the S, W., which

             is clear.

10 a.m. Overcast by nimbi and cirrocumuU.

11 A.M. Overcast by nimbi and cirrocumuli ; a few breaks in the N.
12 a.m. Nimbi scattered throughout.

I P.M. Nimbi in the horizon from N.E. to S.W. (by E.) ; masses of fleecy
               clouds scattered throughout the zenith.

2 p.m. Nimbi scattered ; clear in the S.W.
3 P.M. Nimbi all round the horizon, and cirri in the S.W. ; zenith clear.
4 P.M. Nimbus and cumuli all round the horizon, very dense in the S.E.

             zenith clear.

5 p.m. Nimbus; cumulostratus extending from N.E. to S.E. ; cirri scat-
               tered throughout the whole of the sky.

6 P.M.       Electrified cumuli extended from N. to S.E., and nimbi scattered
7 P.M.
8 P.M.         throughout; masses of scud coming from the S. and W.

             Nimbus and scud coming from the S.W. and forming into dense
                masse§ in the N.N.E. and S.E. ; lightning at intervals of 5 min.

             Densely overcast ; thunder in continued peals, N. and E. of zenith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;
                vivid lightning, flash after flash, from N. to S.W. (by M.) ; rain

                 in large drops since 7'' 30"",

9 P.M. Densely overcast; thunder and lightning increased, and in all
--44 REPORT 1848.

                                  quarters. Drizzling rain, in large drops, has continued to fall
                                     since last observation.
April 6th, 10 P.M. Densely overcast; squalls of wind and rain; lightning flashing
                               and thunder pealing in all quarters ; at 9*" 20"" violent gusts of
                               wind, which lasted 20 minutes.

       --11p.m. Densely overcast ; drizzling rain thunder and lightning still con-

                                      tinuing.

April 7th, midnight. Overcast ; rain falling in small drops ; thunder and lightning

                                     decreasing.

               1 A.M. Overcast; no rain; lightning in the S. and S.W. at two seconds
                                 interval ; the thunder has ceased.

                2 a.m. Do. do. do. do.
               3 a.m. Nimbi; stars faintly seen ; lightning in theS. at intervals of 15 min.

             4 a.m. Nimbi; zenith clear; lightning in the N.W. horizon.
              5 a.m. Overcast; lightning in the N.E. ; thunder in the N.

                6 A.M. Nimbi.
               7 A.M. Nimbi ; fleecy clouds moving from the N.E.
               8 A.M. Nimbi; cirrocumuli in the zenith.

             9 a.m. Cirrostratus and cirrocumuli ; many breaks in the zenith.

 Abstract of Meteorological Observations from the Observatory Report, from 9 a.m.
                                         April 6, to 9 a.m. April 7, 1848.

                                                           Bombay, Magnetic Observatory, 8th April, 1848.
                                                                                     ;

                   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                       45

these were masses of nimbi that came floating from the S.W., from which quarter
the wind was blowing with a force of 046 lbs. ; deep mutterings of thunder were
heard : and lightning was seen to flash vividly, upwards, from the summit of the
clouds along their whole breadth, or from N. to S.E.

   At e*- 45"".--The wind changed from S.W. to S., and the clouds in the N.E.

and E. became more threatening in their appearance ; and at this period the light-

ning, which   was  of a  brilliant  purple  colour  and  very  vivid,  flashed continually
                                                                                                                                                               ;

each flash was followed by loud peals of thunder. The character of the lightning

in this second appearance was more terrific than before, as every flash was vertical,

and several times these vertical streams were visible simultaneously, and as many as

five were distinctly counted, at irregular distances from each other, varying from 2°

to 12°.

 --At 7'' 30". Rain began to fall in large drops ; the thunder and lightning in-

creasing till 9^ 00", when the wind moved round to N.E. (by E.), and the whole

of the sky presented^ one dark mass of nimbi ; the thunder and lightning still conti-

nuing.
--AAt 9'' 15".
                   gale of wind came on from the N.E. with a force of nearly 6 lbs.

and at 9^ 20" it reached its maximum force, which was nearly 9 lbs. ; the whole

time which it lasted was about 20 minutes. During this gale the barometer rose
(instead of falling) to 29'920, or about O'l of an inch above its true level ; when the

gale was over, it rapidly descended to nearly its former readings, as will be seen from
the accompanying observations of the meteorological instruments ; at lO*" 40" the

wind became due north.

   The thunder and lightning continued, but at greater intervals ; and the rain faUing
till midnight, at which time the rain ceased. But the thunder and lightning may be

said to have continued all night.

From the peculiar rise of the barometer during the worst part of the gale, it is

supposed that a heavy storm was felt somewhere on the mainland to the E.N.E.
and the gale which we felt was only the momentum that the air received when
rushing towards that place ; it is also possible that the storm was raging there very

heavily at sunset. During the worst part of the gale the temperature suddenly de-

creased 10°.

It may be here remarked, that during the continuance of the gale, which was felt

along the coast, and very slightly in Bombay, in April last year, our magnetic in-

struments remained perfectly steady ; but as soon as the gale passed away, they be-
came disturbed, and continued so for 54 hours. This year precisely the same re-

markable phsenomena have taken place, as during the whole time of the meteoro-

logical disturbance of the last few days they remained steady, but at 8 o'clock this

morning they became disturbed (or the magnetic storm commenced), and continue

so up to the present time.

The rising of the barometer with the storm and the falling after it ; the magnetic

instruments remaining quiescent during the storm, and being disturbed after it ; and

--the sudden fall of temperature of 10°, are all sufiiciently remarkable facts. Upon

the above return Dr. Buist observes, " The disclosures made are singular ; the

wind on the morning of the 6th blew from S.S.E., an unusual quarter ; from this it
swept round by S. and S.W. to N.N.W., and then moved back again to W.S.W.,

where it remained till evening. It then set first to S.W., and then veered round to
S. From this it travelled round in an easterly direction to N.E,, E.N.E., N.N.E.,

--and so swept back by E. to S., having in the course of twenty-four hours twice

swept round three-quarters of a circle and so swept back again, leaving the segment

betwixt W.N.W. and N.E. untouched. At ten o'clock (p.m.), when the storm was at

its wildest, the barometer actually rose instead offalling, and that by no less than about

OO'OS above the level due to ten o'clock, interpolating from the readings of nine and

eleven. The diurnal curve, indeed, is remarkable. On the 6th the mercury reached

--its maximum elevation at eleven a.m. instead of a quarter before ten the average

hour for maximum, and its afternoon minimum at three instead of a quarter past

four; so that instead of six hours and a half, the usual time, there was less than

four hours of an interval between the epochs of maxima and minima. These things

are of very great importance as subjects of attention, considering the smallness and

extreme inequality of our range. It attained its maximum at the proper hour, ten
                                                   --

--46 REPORT 1848.

--P.M. this, as already stated, being marked by a sudden jump of no less. than eight

hundredth parts of an inch above what was due. The epoch of morning minimum,

again, was two o'clock, or two hours earlier than usual, the interval having been
this much shortened. The return does not afford the morning maximum of the 7th,

but the mercury continued steady till nearly nine o'clock, and would probably reach
its turning-point at ten, giving an interval of no less than eight hours of time. The

range betwixt the evening minimum and maximum on the 6th was '219, or, if we

--subtract '080 for the jump, "139, a high range for the season. At ten o'clock the

air was saturated with moisture, the wet-bulb standing '7 higher than the dry, the
latter having in two hours' time tumbled down from 79° to 69°, and in the course of

--the ten hours having had a range of no less than 20'^ a very unusual circumstance

in Bombay. From the rise of the barometer, it was inferred at the observatory that
a storm was raging on the mainland somewhere to the E.N.E. of us. Just after the

gale had ceased, the magnetic instruments began to be disturbed, and this is tlie third

time the same thing has happened at the observatory on the back of a storm within little

--more than two years on the 4th of December 1845, and in April 1847 and 1848.

On the first-named of these days there was a magnificent display of Aurora in the

northern sky, and a great magnetic disturbance all over the world ; on the last two

occasions just named we have seen no account of any irregularities anywhere but at

NowBombay.  that it has occurred so frequently as to call attention and forbid the

idea of the coincidence being accidental, it will be interesting to learn from other ob-
servatories what has occurred, and to watch with extreme care whether these things
always occur coincidently, or whether there are local laws at work here to stir the

magnets after a storm at certain seasons only. The first notice of the subject we
remember is that published by Mr. Orlebar in the Bombay Courier of December
1845 ; for the three preceding years the magnetometers were in general remarkable
for their steadiness during tempests. On the evening of the 6th we had streams of

electric fluid rushing like a handful of beads in rapid torrents to the ground ; this
beautiful and sublime appearance, only witnessed when the thunder-clouds are near

us, has been frequently before described.

   " Since writing the above we have been favoured with the following notice of the

state of the weather at Nassick on the 6th and 7th. From this it will be seen that

the conjecture of a storm having occurred to the north-eastward of us about sunset

proves correct. It is unfortunate that Dr. Stuart should not have been possessed of
a barometer or any other means of measuring pressure, or we should in this case
have been able to trace the analogies or anomalies existing at the two localities.

Nearly all the phfenomena observable at Bombay betwixt nine and twelve were ob-

served at Nassick betv^ixt five and eight, or with a regular interval of four hours.

The following will show with what exactness these things may be made out :

         -- Nassick.                                               Bombay.

   " 6^ P.M. Strong breeze from SE.         --" 9 p.m. Gale of wind came on from
This soon became a perfect hurricane,
and so continued a little more than half  N.E. Lasted about twenty minutes. At
an hour, when it suddenly abated. It      ten wind bore due north. Thunder,
was accompanied by heavy rain and some    lightning and rain continued till two a.m.

                                          Wind had veered round from S.E. to

hail ; vivid flashes of lightning speedily S.S.E.

followed, with crashing peels of thun-

der, till three o'clock a.m., when the

breeze again freshened from S.E.

   "The storm at Nassick was in reality in the sky seen at sunset from Bombay,
though it did not reach us till four hours afterwards. The duration of this irregular

state of things leads to the inference that atmospheric disturbances must have
stretched far into the interior. The Nassick storm moved towards Bombay at the

rate of twenty-four miles an hour."
   Dr. Buist concludes by observing, " at present the irregularities of the weather at

this usually regular and tranquil season of the year are so remarkable as to deserve

every attention from the meteorologist." He then adds the letter giving an account

of the storm at Nassick on the first eight days in April.
   Subsequently to this storm, the Bombay papers of the IQth of June speak of an

earthquake which extended over 10° of latitude and as many of longitude, having
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  47

been felt all along the line from Bombay to Simla ; 35 inches of lain had also fallen

in the first nineteen days of June, a quantity nearly equal to one-half of the average
fall for the whole four and a half months of the monsoon.

   Meteorologists need a philosophic and comprehensive explanation of the causes of
such atmospheric disturbances, which not only have an important bearing upon
vegetable development, but unquestionably have a most disastrous effect upon the
public health. At one period during the last quarter in London the excess of deaths
exceeded by 200 daily or 1400 per week the usual average, and this mortality,
chiefly from influenza, exceeding that from the Asiatic cholera, was attributable to
atmospheric causes.

   I have thought it right to append the following rain-table as a valuable record.

                Register of the Pluviometer at Bombay from 1817 to 1847.
--48 REPORT 1848.

carriage, and quickly transfer the eye to the same lines further back, the stones or
gravel or other objects are, for an instant, distinctly seen, just as we see distinctly

rapidly revolving objects in the dark when they are, for an instant, illuminated by

an electric flash, or seen in daylight through rapidly revolving slits. I have observed
the same phaenomenon less perfectly when travelling in a mail-coach, when its ve-
locity was ten or twelve miles an hour. It may be also seen and studied by means
of the revolving disc of the phenakistoscope. If we suddenly transfer the eye from

the marginal parts of the disc, where the velocity is greatest, to the parts nearer the
centre of rotation, where the velocity is less, we shall, for an instant, perceive di-

stinctly the figures drawn upon that part of the disc. I have not been able to find
a satisfactory explanation of this phsenomenon. It may be connected with the
transverse motion which appears upon closing the eyes when under these moving im-

pressions*, or from an opposite secondary motion accompanying the primary one,

the velocity of the primary one being diminished during the transference of the eye

to lines moving with the velocity to which the impression is then reduced.

The principal object of this notice is to describe a new fact which presented

meitself to  lately.  If we look directly through a slit at the lines of moving stones,

and suddenly look away from the slit, so as to see the moving lines through the slit

by oblique or indirect vision, the stones will be distinctly seen.

   This neutral line, or line of compensation, arises from a quite different cause from

the former, and admits of a satisfactory explanation. When the eye is turned away

from the slit, a part of the retina, not previously subjected to any impressions, must

see the stones for an instant, but only for an instant, as their motion immediately

obliterates the first distinct impression. The neutral line thus produced is not so
easily observed as in the other experiment, where the stones are seen by the part of

the retina on which vision is most distinct, the vision being in the one case oblique

and in the other direct.

                  On the Vision of Distance as given by Colour.
  By Sir David Brewster, K.H., D.CL., F.R.S., ^ V.P.R.S. Edin.

  When the boundary lines on a map are marked with two lines of different colours,

the one rises above or is depressed below the other, and the two lines appear to be
placed at different distances from the eye. This remarkable effect is most clearly seen
when we look with both eyes through a large reading-glass, spectacles being used along
with it by those who require them. The more the two colours differ in refrangibility,
the greater, and consequently the more distinctly seen, is the difference of distance
at which the lines appear to be placed. The effect is finely seen in the coloured
patterns of red and blue paper which Prof. Wheatstone has had executed on paper
for exhibiting the mobility or shaking of one part of the pattern. The difference of
distance of the coloured lines or spaces may be appreciated even with one eye.

   The explanation of this phsenomenon is very simple. In binocular vision the con-
vergency of the optic axis to different points at different distances corresponding to
the different points in the eye, to which the differently coloured rays are refracted,
gives us the vision of a different distance for each coloured line, in the same manner
as it is given in the stereoscope f. In monocular vision the distance is given by an
analogous process to that by which the single eye sees distances.

     On the Visual Impressions upon the Foramen Centrale of the Retina,
   By Sir David Brewster, K.H., D.C.L., F.R.S., ^ V.P.R.S. Edin.

   The foramen centrale of the retina is an opening in that membrane varying from the
30th to the 50th of an inch in diameter. Although there is no nervous membrane over
this opening, it is nevertheless the part of the eye which gives most distinct vision,
and hence it has been supposed that the retina is not the sole agent in conveying
visual impressions to the sensorium. Various attempts have been made to discover
the existence of \he foramen centrale by optical means, or to discover any effect pro-
duced by it on the incident light. In making some experiments on vision I was led

                                        * See Report of 1845, Trans, of Sect. p. 8.

                                    t See Edin. Transactions, vol. xv. p. 360.
                                                                                             --

       TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.     49

to the solution of this difficulty, and at the last meeting of the Association at Oxford
I mentioned the general fact, that when the eye had been for a short time closed
and rested, and was then opened and directed to a moderately illuminated surface, a
dark circular spot with a reddish brown penumbra, corresponding to the size of the
foramen, was distinctly seen. The same effect was produced when the eye was not
closed, but merely protected from light, which proved that the spot was not pro-
duced by the act of closing the eye, or by any pressure of the eyeball on its socket.
By various measurements of the diameter of this spot I found it to subtend an
angle of about 4 degrees 35 minutes ; and by taking the radius of curvature of the
retina atO-5 of an inch, I found the diameter of the spot to be the ^Vth of an inch,
a result corresponding with sufficient accuracy with the measurement of the fora-
men in the dead eye, as given by Soemmering, who makes it about the-5\jth of an inch.
From this experiment it follows that when the eye is in its normal state, or in a state
of rest, the choroid coat is less sensible to certain luminous impressions than the re-

tina with the choroid coat behind it.

   I now put the eye into an abnormal state, by exposing it for some time to a con-
siderable degree of light, and upon repeating the preceding experiment, I saw upon
the white ground a luminous spot, proving that when the eye was fatigued, or its
sensibiUty diminished, the choroid coat was less affected than the retina and choroid
acting together. Between these two extreme conditions of the eye, namely, when

the eye was neither in a state of rest or fatigue, no spot whatever appeared, the cho-

roid coat alone and the retina and choroid coat acting together, being equally sen-

sible to light.

    Anatomists have differed in opinion respecting the true form of the foramen cen-

trale. Soemmering, the original discoverer of it, makes it circular. Some describe
it as a. fold in the retina, while others represent it as a double opening in the form

of a cross. I have seen it myself in this latter form in the eye of a healthy person
a few hours after death; but there can be no doubt that the process of removing
the eye from its socket, and the pressure upon so tender a membrane as the retina
by its separation from the membrane containing the vitreous humour, must alter the
form of a circular foramen, shutting up the aperture and producing the appearance
of a fold, or causing a double fold when it has the appearance of a cross. The
roundness of the spot of variable sensibility I consider as establishing the true form

of the /oramere centrale, or of the limbus luteus which surrounds it.

      An Examination of Bishop Berkeley s " New Theory of Vision."
   By Sir David Brewster, K.H., D.C.L., F.R.S., S,- V.P.R.S. Edin.

 --The object of this paper was to examine the theory of Dr. Berkeley the founda-
--tion of the Ideal Philosophy in its optical relations. The author demonstrated (in

opposition to the fundamental assumption of Dr. Berkeley*), " that distance, both in
monocular and binocular vision, is represented by lines on the retina." Hence every

proposition of Dr. Berkeley's founded on that erroneous assumption falls to the
ground. But even if the fundamental proposition on which he rests his theory had
been true, it would have been true only in vision with one eye, and therefore could
not be applicable to human beings, whose vision is performed by two eyes.

   In support of his opinion that we see outness and distance directly by the eyes, and
distinctly within a certain range of limited extent, while we judge of difference of

distances beyond that range by various acquired means, the author described a
number of experiments in binocular vision, where the eyes placed the object at a

fixed distance, which the nicest sense of touch, and the most accurate knowledge of

the true place of the object, could not in the least degree influence ; and he supported

his views by showing that the lower animals perceive distance at the instant of their

birth, and that in every well-described case of the sudden restoration of sight in man

by the extraction of the crystalline lens, or by the formation of an artificial pupil,

outness and distance were invariably seen.

· " It is I think agreed by all, that distance of itself, and immediately cannot be seen ; for

distance being a line directed endwise to the eye, it projects only one point on the fund of the

eye, which point remains invariably the same, whether the dista.'ace be longer or shorter."

An Essay, &c. § 1.

1848.                                 E
--50 REPORT 1848.

                                   CHEMISTRY.

On the Action of the Red, Orange and Yelloio Rays upon Iodized and Sromo-
   iodized Silver Plates after they have been affected by daylight, and other
  Phenomena of Photography. By A. Claudet.

It was shown by M. E. Becquerel, that the light which permeates red and yelloW

glasses had the propertj' of continuing on a Daguerreotype plate the action of th6

light which causes the condensation of mercurial vapour on the surface. This pro-

perty being in contradiction to that announced by Mr. Claudet when operating paf-

ticularly with bromo-iodide of silver, he made some new experiments which com-

pletely confirmed the first, but showing at the same time the correctness of the fact

discovered by M. E. Becquerel, as far as the action relates to a certain coating of

iodine.

M. Gaudin, experimenting on the discovery of M. E. Becquerel, had found that

red and yellow glasses not only continued the effect produced by light, but that

an image might be developed under their influence without the action of mercurj'.

Investigations on these various subjects have enabled Mr. Claudet to discover that

light alone also produces an image without mercury, quite similar to that obtained

by M. Gaudin with the second action of red or yellow glasses. This curious fact,

which had escaped Daguerre and all his followers, affords to Mr. Claudet a meand

of offering an explanation of the phaenomena elucidated by M. E. Becquerel, and

proposing a new theory of the formation of the Daguerreotype image.                       '

Mr. Claudet thinks that the image produced by light alone is due to the decora-

position of the iodide of silver, by which silver is precipitated on the surface in A

finely divided powder or crystals, producing an effect similar to that caused by th6

condensation of mercurial vapour.

The red or yellow rays having a photographic action of their own, very slow on the

non-affected parts, but capable of operating more strongly on the parts already affected

by white light, continue that precipitation of finely divided silver, and when the ac-

tion of the red or yellow rays is added to the condensation of mercurial vapour, it

doubles the effect by which the image appears visible. This would explain the ac-

tion called continuation by M. E. Becquerel, as well as the phsenomenon of the image

developed by the red or yellow glasses according to M. Gaudin's discovery; the

only difference being that M. Gaudin continues the action of the red or yellow rays

until they have fully and visibly determined the precipitation of the silver.

Mr. Claudet concluded by stating, that he had been able to ascertain that the pure

light of the sun can produce on the surface of bromo-iodide of silver the change of

modification by which it acquires the aflSnity for mercurial vapour in the inci'edible

short space of time of about toW^h part of a second.

On the Laws of Chemical Combijiations and the Volumes of Gaseous Bodies,

                      By the Rev. Thomas Exley, M.A.

   Were we acquainted with the laws of force at minute distances, as we are with
gravitation, the grand difficulty respecting chemical combinations would be over-
come; but while these laws remain unknown the subject will remain in its present
state, involved in a labyrinth. It has been of late too much the fashion to discard
hypotheses. Newton discovered the lavv of gravitation ; but how ? by first admit*
ting it hypothetically, and then testing the hypothesis by calculation. Newton failed

to assign the laws of force at very small distances ; he carried the law of gravitation
to a limit near the centre of an atom, and concluded from phenomena which he
obsen'ed, that there follow several spheres of force alternately attracting and re-
pelling. So long as the laws of these forces remain unknown, no true theory can
be estabhshed. It is therefore best to assign some hypothesis which fixes some pro-
bable law of force, and then to calculate the effects ; the author assumes nothing
more than that the force of gravitation is continued to the centre of atoms, and that
it acts outwardly in a small central sphere, constituting a small sphere of repulsion :
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  51

 this is the peculiar feature in his new theory of physics ; and all the varieties of
 atoms arise from differences in their absolute forces and the extent of their spheres
 of repulsion. Deductions from this theory agree with experiment and observation.

    From this theory he has deduced the alternate spheres offeree observed by Newton
 with electrical attraction and repulsion, not as peculiar forces, but as circumstances
 dependent on the combinations of the classes of atoms mentioned below, and the

--following laws of chemical combination, viz. Law I. That two atoms, simple or

 compound, combine one with one without the intervention of a third, and that the

 volume remains unaltered, or is contracted one half. Law IL Two atoms combine

 by the intervention of a third, and the volume remains the same as that of the two
 combined atoms, or is reduced exactly one half. These laws he has examined in
 about one hundred cases, in which he finds them confirmed by experiment without

 exception.

  --In order to explain these laws, he takes what is presented by many phsenomena,

 that there are three classes of atoms. Class L Such as have comparatively a small
 sphere of repulsion and a great absolute force ; such are the common elements of

 chemists; hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon, &c. Class H. Such as have a large sphere

 of repulsion and a small absolute force ; these he is persuaded constitute the electric
 fluid. Class IlL Such as have a very large sphere of repulsion and a very small

 absolute force, which, when in motion, as it seems to him, constitute caloric, light

 and actinic rays, one or other, according to their velocity.

   Now if into a vessel containing atoms of the second and third classes under com-

 pression there be introduced a considerable number of those of the first class, each

 of these will become a supporting centre against the reaction of the other classes :
 it is evident that these centres will be uniformly disposed, and that their distances

 will be equal to the distances between the atoms of the interior surface of the vessel
 and the adjacent atoms of the gas, and the pressure between the atoms will increase
 with the number of these, considered as supporting centres ; hence under a given
 pressure the volume will depend on the number of supporting centres. Thus if the
 same number of atoms of nitrogen be substituted for the hydrogen, the volume will
 not be altered, although the nitrogen is fourteen times heavier than hydrogen ; it will
 be still the same if we have the same volume of chlorine, which is thirty-six times
 heavier than hydrogen. The same observations apply to iodine, bromine, &c. and
 to oxygen, taking its atomic weight at sixteen ; thus we find that the volume depends
 not on the absolute force and sphere of repulsion of the atoms, but on the number

 of supporting centres.

    The same holds good in compound atoms; thus, muriatic acid is H.'.Cl, nitric
 oxide O.'. N, carbonic oxide O.-. C, which are instances of the first law where the
 volume remains unaltered, and this doubtless takes place when the electric matter
 collects between the combining atoms ; thus light acting on a mixture of hydrogen
 and chlorine causes the electric fluid to collect between them ; hence the number of
 supporting centres remains the same, and the distance between the atoms of hydrogen
 and chlorine is unaltered ; which holds good in the other examples, and all similarly

Ncombined. Examples where the volume is contracted one half are, cyanogen C,
 HE. Davy's carburet of hydrogen C, &c. ; here the electric fluid collects on the

 exterior sides.

    As illustrations of the second law take water vapour H(0)H, carbonic acid
 0(C)0, alcohol H^CCHaOCHj, ather vapour H4C3(HsO)C2H4, oenanthic Kther
 H4 CsCHas Ci4 Oa, H30)C2 H4, etlial H,6 CgCHa 0)Cg Hig, &c., in which and all such
 the volume is the same as that of the extremes, where the connecting atom makes no
 l)art of the volume, being protected and prevented from becoming a supporting cen-

 tre by the intervening electric fluid, which produces the combination ; thus, for in-
 stance, in oenanthic aether, the forty- five atoms of oenanthic acid do not alter the

I

I distance of the elherine H4 C3, H4 C2, and the same in all such cases, where the
 volume is the same. As examples, where the volume is reduced exactly one-half,

i

 we have olefiant gas HCH, nitrous acid ONO, benzin or Dr. Faraday's carburet of

 I

 hydrogen HC, HC, HC, where the extremes connected by the intermediate atom

 are reduced to one centre of support, the electric fluid collecting on the exterior sides ;

 sulphur vapour is analogous to benzin, being S, S, S reduced to one centre of sup-
 port. In all cases where the specific gravity of the gas is found, these laws of com-

                                                                           e2
                                         --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :'

52 REPORT-- 1S48.

bination and volume are found to hold universally. On these principles Mr. Exley

calculates the specific gravity of gaseous bodies by multiplying the atomic weight, on
the hydrogen scale, by 10, and dividing by 144, when the volume is contracted one
half; and again, by 2, when the volume is unaltered; thus, for aether the atomic

weight is 74, then 740-f- 12 X 12 X 2=2-5694. Gay-Lussac finds it 2-586 by ex-
periment. Thus are these laws established.

    Since it is shown by the theory, and proved by experiment, that equal gaseous
volumes of hydrogen H, nitrogen N, nitrous acid OoN, olefiant gas HjC, etherine
HjCo, cetine HigCs, &c., contain an equal number of atoms, the centres or centres
of gravity of the atoms, simple or compound, are equidistant, and that distance is
not altered when every two are united by intervenient electric atoms, or by such
atoms and any number of elementary atoms whatever, if they are screened by the elec-
tric atoms, so as not to become centres of support.

               On the Motion of the Electric Fluid along Conductors.

                       By the Rev. Thomas Exley, M.A.

    Professor Wheatstone made some valuable experiments, showing that in traversing
 a long conductor the electric spark occurs at the same time at each end of the circuit,
 and latest at some part near the middle ; this has been considered as a proof that
there are two electric fluids ; but this conclusion is too hasty, for it may be shown
 that the phenomena ought to be such on the supposition of a single fluid.

   When an electrical charged plate is discharged, there are only three ways, worthy

 of notice, by which the equilibrium can be restored ;
    1. The passage of the fluid through the circuit, commencing either at the posi-

 tive or negative end.
     2. Its passage in pulses beginning at one or the other end.
     3. Its passage in pulses taking their rise simultaneously at both ends and closing

 about the middle.

    In order to obtain correct views we must attend to the phenomena of charging
 an electric plate.

     If the knob of the prime conductor, electrified to a certain intensity, were pre-
 sented to the bare surface of a thin plate of glass, the particles of the glass would
 receive and retain a small quantity of the electric fluid without suffering it to pass on
 far, or they would give a small quantity without receiving a fresh supply from distant
 particles ; a higher intensity or a nearer approach of the prime conductor would give
 or take another spark, and the neighbouring particles of the glass would receive or
 give fluid to a small distance farther, where the progress would be arrested.

    But when the plate is furnished with the usual coating, the spark of electric fluid
 affects in like manner all the superficial particles of the glass to the limits of the
 coating. If now an uninsulated conductor be presented to the opposite side, a spark
 will pass between it and the coating, and at the same time another spark between
 the prime conductor and the coating, and a succession of simultaneous sparks on the
 opposite sides will occur so long as the same intensity of the conductor is maintained,

 until the plate is charged.
     These phsenomena assure us, that although the fluid penetrates only to a very

 small depth in the glass plate, yet the additionor abstraction of the fluid affects the
 particles of the plate, as far as the opposite side, producing in them a tendency to
 give fluid to, or to receive fluid from, the uninsulated conductor on the other side.
 Thus the particles of the glass have obtained a tendency to receive fluid on the sides
 towards the positive conductor and to give it from their opposite sides. Thus will
 all the particles of the glass which are situated directly between the opposite con-
  ductors be affected ; but at a distance from that line of particles, both sides of the f
 plate will be in the same condition as the prime conductor by which the charge is

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          j

 made. When the charged plate is removed, the receiving sides of the particles will

 be towards the negative surface of the plate, and the delivering sides towards the]
 positive surface, llie discharging rod being now applied with its knobs at such a
 distance as not to receive a spark, the same condition of the particles will remain in
 the plate, and will be propagated in the same direction on the particles of air conti-
  guous to the rod through the whole circuit ; the particles of air contiguous to th(
                     TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                        53

rod will be in a condition to receive on the sides facing the positive coating, and

of giving on the sides facing the negative coating ; that the rod is neutral in the

Nowmiddle arises from the opposite and equal tendencies of the extremes.  let the

knobs approach to make the discharge. This is not effected by a continuous pas-

sage of the fluid from one end to the other, since, at any break in the circuit, a card,

being interposed, is pierced so as to have a bur on both sides, showing that the pas-

sage was made in pulses ; nor do these commence at either end and proceed to the

other, for the one end cannot wait to receive or to give during the time of the pas-

sage. The pulses must therefore commence simultaneously at both ends, and close

about the middle, where, consequently, the spark would be last seen. Besides there

is no reason whatever that the motion should begin at one end rather than the other ;

and the same follows from this, that the one side of the discharging rod is positive,

and the other equally negative, while it is neutral in the middle.

Therefore, on the supposition of only one electric fluid, the spark ought to be seen

precisely at the same time at the two extremities, and latest of all about the middle
of the rod : also the explanation by one fluid presents fewer difficulties than by two
fluids. The observations made were applied to the explanation of some other elec-

trical phcenomena, as the residual charge, the charging of thin and thick glass, the

star and brush, &c.  _^____

On the Identity of the Existences or Forces of Light, Heat, Electricity, Mag-

                netism and Gravitation. By John Goodman.

   The author has already shown in a former communication that the substance
potassium, which displays the highest chemical properties, possesses also the most
exalted electrical powers. In order to show the further prominence of this metal
in its calorific phfenomena, he devised several experiments, and has succeeded in
showing that potassium contains also the greatest known amount of caloric of any

solid material body.

   When this metal was subjected to percussion or screw compression in a steel

cyUnder by means of an air-tight piston, also of steel, aflame of considerable dimen-

--sions was discovered to issue from a minute orifice being given otF from the interstices
--of the metal as water from a sponge and this frequently accompanied by a loud ex-

plosion. By enlarging the orifice the flame and explosion would gradually diminish,
until large portions only of red-hot metal would exude during percussion.

   The explosion was found by experiment to be caused by the combustion of the
finely-divided particles of heated metal which escaped, depriving the atmosphere of
its oxygen and producing an instantaneous collapse of the surrounding air, as is

represented to be the case immediately after the transition of lightning.
   The author attributes the escape of caloric through so small an orifice, and by the

sides of the piston, instead of by radiation to the adjoining excellently conducting

cylinder, to the intense attraction of caloric for potassium.

   The pure flame seen in these experiments was projected in vacuo as in oxygen,
but with considerably diminished splendour, showing that it exists independently of

combustion.
    The author ascribes to caloric attraction for other kinds of matter, and supposing

fhat all bodies are naturally either minus or plus as regards their amount of caloric,
and attract each other simply as in electrical phsenomena, proposes to explain thus

the force of gravitation and the attraction of cohesion.

   He points out the great precision with which the numbers given by philosophers

to represent capacity correspond with the powers of electric affinity of the various
 metals, as exhibited in thermo- and mechanical electricity, and suggests that electrical
affinity and " capacity" are not improbably analogical.

    " Potassium is thus found (says the author) to possess a vast amount of caloric
 and to exhibit calorific phenomena, of which no other solid substance in nature
is known to be capable, and it is therefore not improbable that its extraordinary
 chemical and electrical powers are derived from the quantity of latent heat which it

 contains."

    Employing the argument used in his former communication that chemical and
 electrical phsenomena are one and the same thing, because the substance producing
--54 REPORT 1848.

the highest chemical, developes also the most exalted electrical, phaenomena, the
author infers that chemical and electrical forces and caloric are one and the same
thing, because the substance developing the highest chemical and electrical powers
displays also the greatest capacity for, and contains the most intense quantity of
heat. Thus chemical and electrical forces appear to be only modifications or mani-
festations of calorific agency.

   The author shows that M. Melloni employs the same arguments for the proof
of the analogy of light and heat. He adduces certain experiments of Professor
Draper to show that a strip of platinum heated by the voltaic current corresponds

with minute precision in the development of light and heat at all times ; but that
author has overlooked the equally manifested analogy of these two forces with the

-- --force from which they are developed the fountain whence they are derived employed

in these experiments.

On the peculiar Cooling Effects of Hydrogen and its Compounds in cases of
                  Voltaic Ignition. By W. R. Grove, F.R.S.

   This communication was illustrated by an experiment, in which it was shown that
a platina wire, rendered incandescent by a voltaic current, was cooled far below the
point of incandescence when immersed in an atmosphere of hydrogen gas. This'
remarkable cooling property of hydrogen of course became the subject of experi-
mental examination in comparison with other gaseous media. By a peculiar arrange-
ment, tubes containing coils of platina wire were filled with hydrogen and other
gases, and then being plunged into water in which delicate thermometers were
placed, the wires were traversed by the same current from the battery, and it was
found that the water was always more heated in a given time by the wire in the tubes
of oxygen, nitrogen, or carbonic acid, than in those of carburetted hydrogen, defiant
gas or pure hydrogen. It became necessary now to ascertain the cause of this pe-
culiar phsenomenon of hydrogen. It was found not to be due to specific heat, to
specific gravity, nor to any conducting power of the gases; and some difficulty was
found upon examination to exist if it was attempted to refer it to the greater mobility
of the particles of hydrogen gas as the lightest known, than of oxygen, nitrogen,
carbonic acid, &c. It was found that this peculiar property also belonged, but to a
less extent, to all the hj^drocarbonous gases. The author considered it might be
due to a readiness of convection of heat from the ignited surface, hydrogen being,
as compared with the other gases, in the same relation to the heated body as a black
surface is when compared with a white one.

           On the Colouring Matters of Madder. By James Higgin.

   The author, after describing tbe three colouring matters of madder, xanthin, ru-
biacin and alizarin, and the means he emploj's to separate them in a pure form, pro-

--ceeds to show that the opinion usually entertained that it is the alizarin only which
--is the valuable part of madder is incorrect ; and experiments are adduced to prove

that in proper circumstances, such as obtain in ordinary madder-dyeing, the xanthin
and rubiacin contribute very materially to the efl^ect. They are shown not to act
directly, but through becoming changed into alizarin, which then combines with the
mordants. This change is considered by the author to be induced by a peculiar azo-
tized ferment, found in madder, whereby xanthin becomes rubiacin and this latter
alizarin ; and the opinion is held out that all colouring matter in madder is derived
primarily from xanthin.

            On the Influence of Light in preventing Chemical Action.
                                By Robert Hunt.

    Having called attention to several experiments in which certain luminous rays had
been found to protect photographic agents from chemical change, particularly in the
researches of Sir John Herschel, the author proceeded to describe his own experi-
mental investigation of this subject.
--

    TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                 55

   Taking a piece of highly sensitive photographic paper, which would blaclcen in a
few seconds by the light of an Argand gas-burner, he threw upon it a condensed
spectrum which had been previously analysed by a peculiar yellow medium, and then
by means of a mirror reflected the strong light of the sun upon the paper. It was,
therefore, under the influence of the reflected radiations without any change, and
also of the spectrum from which the chemical agency had been as nearly as possible
separated. The result was, that the paper was blackened over every part, except
that portion upon which the strong line of spectral light fell, which was protected
from change and preserved as a white band in the midst of the darkened paper. This
experiment was thought by the author strongly confirmatory of the view which he
had taken, that actinism, or the chemical principle, and light, so far from being
identical, were opposed in action to each other.

Analysis of Wrought Iron produced by Cementation from Cast Iron.

               By Prof. W. A. Miller, M.D., F.R.S.

   The following are the results of an examination of the chemical composition of a
specimen of brittle cast iron, which was by a subsequent process converted into
malleable iron by cementation.

   The ore from which this iron was obtained is the Lancashire brown haematite
from the neighbourhood of Ulverstone ; it is smelted with charcoal instead of with

coke : the articles to be rendered malleable are first of all cast in the desired form.
They are in this state formed of a nearly white, very hard, brittle iron, which exhi-

bits a crystalline grain on fracture. To convert these extremely brittle articles into
malleable iron fit for the forge, they are imbedded in powdered haematite and maintained
at a red heat for some hours ; the carbon is thus gradually removed by inverting the
usual operation of converting bar-iron into steel, and the result is the production of
a tough iron, which may be hammered either hot or cold.

  A careful qualitative analysis showed that besides iron, carbon and silicon, traces

of aluminum, sulphur and phosphorus w^ere present, while no arsenic, antimony or
manganese were there ; titanium was not detected.

   The author stated in detail his process for the analysis, and added the following

observations :

    It is to be noticed that considerable change in the specific gravity occurred in the
iron after cementation ; it was forged, and was then found to have increased in den-
sity : the brittle iron had a specific gravity of 7'684 ; the malleable, 7'7l8.

   The results of analysis are briefly these ; the quantity both of carbon and silicon
are materially diminished by the cementation, though still the proportion of both is
greater than in good bar-iron. It also appears that the portion of carbon which is
insoluble in acids is nearly the same both before and after the iron has been rendered
malleable, the diminution being confined almost to that portion of carbon which
was chemically combined with the metal, and which therefore would be in a state
for propagation through the mass more readily by cementation.

                      Cast Iron.

                      Brittle.  Malleable.

    Specific gravity  7*684     7"718

    Iron              2-80      0'88
    Carbon            0-951     0-409
                      trace     trace
    Silicon           none      none

    Aluminum          none      none
    Manganese         0'015
    Titanium                    trace
                      trace
    Arsenic           0-502
    Sulphur
    Phosphorus
    Sand

    Carbon combined   2-217     0-434
    Ditto uncombined  0'583     0-446
56 REPORT-- 1848.

Prof. Miller also had occasion to examine a specimen of iron known as cold-short

from the Staffordshire district. In texture it appeared to be entirely destitute of

the fibrous character, but to consist of a series of small larainse or plates. In

addition to carbon and silicon, he found phosphorus, an appreciable quantity of cop-

per and decided traces of potassium. The copper he has no doubt is derived from

the coal employed in the smelting, from an examination of several species of coal

lately made in the laboratory of King's College by Mr. Vaux. Copper is found in

manv, none being met with in the Newcastle coal, but a quantity distinctly appre-

ciable in the ashes of the Staffordshire coal. The potassium, it is just conceivable,

might have been derived from the glass vessels in which the operation was con-

ducted, but the author has little doubt it was furnished from the iron itself : upon

this point however further experiments are needed to remove all ambiguity.

Red-short iron is frequently supposed to owe its defective qualities to the pre-

sence of sulphur. In a specimen, however, which he examined with great care.

Prof. Miller could not find any notable proportion of sulphur, and indeed though

minutely examined for tin, arsenic, antimony, titanium, manganese, chromium, alu-

minum and calcium, he could not find, with the exception of a trace of the latter,

any substance beyond the ordinary constituents of wrought iron, viz. iron with a

Asmall quantity of carbon and silicon.  trace of phosphorus was however distinctly

ascertained (it did not exceed 0"0114 per cent.), and the sulphur was not more than

0-016.

He believes, however, that traces of potassium exist in this iron also.

                                        Staffordshire Iron.

                                        Hot-Sliort. Cold-Short.

        Specific gravity                7-426   7-921

        Iron                            0-245   0-275
        Carbon                          0-232   0-288
                                        none    none
        Silicon                         none    none
                                        none    none
        Aluminum                        none    none
        Manganese                       none    none
        Titanium                                0-041
                                        0-016
        Arsenic                         0-011   trace
                                        trace   0-337
        Chromium                        traces
        Copper                                  none

        Sulphur                                 trace
        Phosphorus
        Calcium
        Potassium

        On the existence of Ozone in the Atmosphere. By Dr. Moffatt.

           On a peculiar property of Coke. By James Nasmyth.

   The following fact, which was observed by the author some years ago, appears to
furnish additional evidence as to the identity of the diamond with carbon. Mr. Nas-
myth states that coke is possessed of one of the most remarkable properties of the
diamond, in so far as it has the property of cutting glass. He uses the term cutting
expressly in contra-distinction to the property of scratching, which is possessed by
all bodies that are harder than glass. The cut produced by coke is a perfect clear
diamond-like cut, so as to exhibit the most beautiful prismatic colours, owing to

the perfection of the incision.

   Coke hitherto has been considered as a soft substance, doubtless from the ease
with which a mass of it can be crushed and pulverized ; but it will be found that the
minute plate-formed crystals, of which a mass of coke is formed, are intensely hard,
and, as before said, are possessed of the remarkable property o{ cutting glass.

   This discovery of the extreme "diamond-like" hardness of the particles of coke
will no doubt prove of value in many processes in the arts as well as interesting in
a purely scientific sense.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  5/

         On the Chemical Character of Steel. By James Nasmyth.

   Were we to assume as our standard of the importance of any investigation the
relation which the subject of it bears to the progress of civilization, there is no one
which would reach higher than that which refers to the subject of steel ; seeing that
it is to our possession of the art of producing that inestimable material that we owe
nearly the whole of the arts. Mr. Nasmyth is desirous of contributing a few ideas
on the subject, with a view to our arriving at more distinct knowledge as to what
(in a chemical sense) steel is, and so of laying the true basis for improvement in the

process of its manufacture.

   It is well known that steel is formed by surrounding bars of wrought iron with
charcoal placed in fire-brick troughs from which air is excluded, and keeping the iron
bars and charcoal in contact and at a full red heat for several days ; at the end of
which time the iron bars are found to be converted into steel. What is the nature
of the change which the iron has undergone we have no certain knowledge ; the
ordinary explanation is, that the iron has absorbed and combined with a portion of
the charcoal or carbon, and has in corisequence been converted into a carburet of
iron : but it has ever been a mystery, that on analysis so very minute and question-
able a portion of carbon is exhibited. It appears that the grand error in the above
view of the subject consists in our not duly understanding the nature of the change
which carbon undergoes in its combination with iron in the formation of steel.
Those who are familiar with the process of conversion of iron into steel, must have
observed the remarkable change in the outward aspect of the bars of iron after their
conversion, namely, that they are covered with blisters. These blisters indicate the
evolution of a very elastic gas which is set free from the carbon in the act of its com-
bination with the iron. Mr. Nasmyth is led to think that these blisters are the result
of the decomposition of the carbon, whose metallic base enters into union with the
iron and forms with it an alloy, while the other component element of the carbon is
given forth, and so produces in its escape the blisters in question. On this assump-
tion, that steel is an alloy of iron with the metallic base of carbon, it would be a most
interesting subject of investigation to endeavour to ascertain what is the nature of
the evolved gas which produces these blisters. In order to do this, the author pro-

--poses the following process : Fill a wrought iron retort with a mixture of pure

carbon and iron filings, subject it to a long-continued red heat, and receive the
evolved gas over mercury. Having obtained the gas in question in this manner, then
permit a piece of polished steel to come in contact with this gas, and in all probabi-
lity we shall then have reproduced, on the surface of the steel, a coat of carbon re-
sulting from the reunion of its two elements, namely, that of the metallic base of
the carbon then existing in the steel w^th the (as yet) unknown gas, thus synthe-
tically, as well as by analytic process, eliminating the true nature of steel and that of
the elements or components of carbon.

   On some of the Alloys of Tungsten. By John Percy, M.D., F.R.S.

   Dr. Percy detailed a series of experiments upon the economic use of tungsten in
alloys. The tungsten employed was obtained in the form of steel-gray powder from
tungstate of ammonia in the usual way. It was heated at a very high temperature
with gold, silver, copper, nickel, and the alloy of metal, copper and zinc, called
German silver, respectively, charcoal powder being added to prevent oxidation.
Apparent alloys were thus obtained ; but on testing them by the ordinary manufac-
turing processes of rolling, scratching and polishing, it became evident that the

tungsten was simply diffused through the mass in minute grains. A mixture, for it

cannot be called an alloy proper, of copper and tungsten was produced containing
22 per cent, of tungsten ; the colour of the copper was not thereby very minutely
altered, so that tungsten does not possess the whitening property of nickel. The
results of these experiments were quite unsatisfactory in regard to the economic
application of tungsten. The subject still deserves the attention of metallurgists.
                              --

--58 REPORT 1848.

          On some Properties of Alumina. By R. Phillips, F.R.S.

   It has been observed by Wittstein, that the precipitate which is obtained from the
persulphate or perchloride of iron, if kept for a great length of time in water, loses
almost entirely the property of being soluble in acetic acid. Mr. Phillips had noticed
a similar phajnomenon with alumina, arising without doubt from the action of the
cohesive forces. Whereas the sesquioxide of iron requires one or probably two years
for the production of the effect, alumina undergoes the change partially in a very

--short time ; the precipitated alumina does not, however, assume a crystalline ap-

pearance stated to be the case with the cohering sesquioxide of iron. If the pre-
cipitated alumina is kept for two days moist and in the solution from which it was
precipitated, even sulphuric acid does not immediately dissolve it. Experiments
were brought forward in proof of this fact. It was also shown that the interposition
of magnesia or of carbonic acid prevented the alumina from cohering.

On Common Salt as a Poison to Plants. By W. B. Randall.

   In the month of September last, three or four small plants in pots were shown to the
writer, nearly or quite dead ; and he was at the same time informed that their destruc-

tion was a complete mystery to the party to whom they belonged, and that Dr. Lindley

had expressed his opinion, from the examination of a portion of one sent to him, that
they were poisoned. Having searched in vain for any strong poison in the soil, and
in the plants themselves, he inquired more minutely into the circumstances of the
case, and found that these wore only specimens of many hundreds of plants both in
the open air and in green-houses (but all in pots) which exhibited, in a greater or
less degree, the same characteristics. The roots were completely rotten, so as to be
easily crumbled between the fingers ; the stems, even in young plants, assumed the
appearance of old wood ; the leaves became brown, first at the point, then round the
edge, and afterwards all over, while the whole plant drooped and died. At least
2000 cuttings in various stages of progress, and 1000 strong healthy plants had been
reduced to this condition, including different varieties of the fir, cedar, geranium,
fuchsia, rose, jasmin and heath. The sight of this wholesale destruction, coupled
with the fact that all the plants were daily watered from one particular source, sug-
gested the conclusion that the cause of the evil might be found in the water thus used ;
and this was accordingly examined. It yielded the following constituents, making
in each impei-ial pint of 20 fluid ounces, nearly 9^ grains of solid matter, entirely
saline, without any organic admixture :

Carbonate of lime      0'600
Sulphate of lime       0-462
Chloride of calcium    0'200
Chloride of magnesium  1*252
Chloride of sodium     6"906

                                                                                               9-420

   The mould around the plants, and an infusion of the dead stems and leaves also
afforded abundant evidence of the presence of much chloride of sodium. Further
inquiry showed that the well from which the water was procured had an accidental
communication, by means of a drain, with tli£ sea, and had thus become mixed with
the salt water from that source, and had been used in this state for some weeks, pro-
bably from two to three months. From about that time the plants had been observed
to droop, but it was not until nearly the whole of a valuable stock had been destroyed
that any extraordinary cause of the evil was suspected. To place it beyond doubt
that the water was really the cause of the mischief, twelve healthy fuchsias were pro-
cured from a distance and divided into two parts, half being watered morning and
evening with the water in question, and the others with rain-water. In a week the
six plants watered from the well had turned brown and ultimately died, while all
the rest remained perfectly flourishing. Assuming from these facts that the com-
mon salt in this water was the chief cause of the results described, it is proved that
water containing about seven grains of salt in each pint is, in its continued use, an
                                       --

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                  59

effectual poison to the weaker forms of vegetation, or that when a soil is continually

watered with a weak solution of salt it gradually accumulates in it until the soil be-

--comes sufficiently contaminated to be unfit to support vegetable life. In either case

an interesting subject of inquiry is suggested What is the weakest solution of salt

which can produce this poisonous effect ? or in other words, at what degree of dilu-

tion does the danger cease ? For salt is an important natural constituent of much

spring-water, quite independent of any infiltration from the sea, as in this instance.

Thus, the water of the Artesian well, Trafalgar Square, London, con-

tains in each gallon about                                            20*0 grains.

That at Combe and Delafield's brewery                                 12"7 ,,

That at Woolverton Railway Station                                    6*0 ,,

One lately sunk at Southampton for supplying a private manufactory 40'0 ,,

  May it not be asked whether the subject of the suitableness of waters in general

--for the various purposes to which they are applied, be it in manufactures or for
--steam-engines, domestic purposes or drinking, is not worthy of a greater share of

scientific attention than it has hitherto commanded ?

On a Neio Process for analysing Graphite, Natural and Artificial. By
   Professor R. E. Rogers, and Professor W. B. Rogers, University of

     Virginia.

   The present abstract will be limited to a brief statement of the principal steps of
the new process, and such reference to the results as is necessary to give assurance
of its accuracy. The details of the operation, with a description and drawing of the
apparatus employed, will appear in the forthcoming number of tiie American Journal

of Science.

   The extreme obstinacy with which graphite, natural as well as artificial, resists
oxidation by liquid re-agents is shown by the fact that neither nitric nor sulphuric
acid, used singly, even with the aid of heat, produces any sensible effect upon the
flakes of this substance. Sciiafhaeutl succeeded in oxidating scales of artificial
graphite by surrounding them with boiling sulphuric acid and then dropping concen-
trated nitric acid upon the liquid, but the action was so slow as to require several suc-
cessive digestions of the same specimen to dissipate the whole of the carbon.

   The new process is founded on the fact that a mixture of bichromate of potassa
and sulphuric acid, when applied in great excess to very minutely-divided graphite,
converts the carbon rapidly and completely into carbonic acid. The fact of such a
reaction was noticed by us more than two years ago, but the details of the present
process were not matured until the winter of 1847, since which time we have used it
in a number of instances for determining the carbon of graphite, and always with

consistent and satisfactory results.
   Our method of proceeding is briefly as follows :
   1. Apparatus used.--The object of the experiment being to convert the carbon of

the graphite into carbonic acid, and by absorption to collect the whole of the latter,
with the view of deducing from it the weight of the carbon, the apparatus is con-
structed of the following parts -.--First, a retort for receiving the powdered graphite,
bichromate of potassa, and sulphuric acid; second, a large drying tube of chloride of
calcium to arrest moisture ; third, a Liebig tube charged with standard solution of
potassa followed by a small U-tube of fragments of potassa, both designed for the
detention of the carbonic acid evolved ; fojirth, an additional U-tube to arrest the
moisture which might otherwise pass backwards from the aspirator,- &n A, fifth, a
large aspirating apparatus, to be used at the close of the experiment. The neck of
the retort is bent upwards at right angles and enclosed in moistened cloth or by a
glass refrigerator, to prevent the passage of sulphuric acid vapour into the chloride

of calcium.

 --2. Preparation of the Graphite. To ensure a prompt and complete result, the

graphite must first be brought to the most viinute division. This cannot be effected
by triturating it alone, but is readily done by grinding it with pure quartz sand, or
what is better, with small fragments of granular quartz, adding this substance in suc-
cessive portions during the grinding, until it amounts to some thirty times the weight
                      -- ----

--60 REPORT 1848.

of the graphite used. The success of the oxidating process is greatly dependent on
this preparation. Ground in the ordinary way, we have found 6 grains of pure

graphite to require upwards of twelve hours for complete oxidation, while the same

amount finely ground with silica was completely dis^ipated in about thirty minutes.

  --3. Mixture. With a retort of about 13 cubic inches we find 6 grains of graphite

a convenient quantity to operate with. When prepared as above, it is to be mixed

with 500 grains of powdered bichromate of potassa, and the whole being transferred
to the retort, we add 1 cubic inch of water, and then pour slowly upon the mass
5 cubic inches of sulphuric acid of the common density, taking care to mingle the in-
gredients by gentle agitation as we add the acid. A moderate lamp-heat soon excites
brisk reaction, which is afterwards to be regulated by withdrawing or renewing the
heat. At the close, the small tube attached to the tubulure of the retort is opened
to permit aspiration, and a volume of air, equal to two or three times the capacity

of the retort, is drawn through the apparatus.

 --Results. The consistency of the results obtained by this method will be seen from

the following examples, selected as fair specimens of a number of experiments per-

formed in the same way :

  --Native Graphite. A crystalline variety found in Albemarle county, Virginia. It

occurs in long flat narrow plates of a curved form, packed closely together like the

fibres of asbestus.

6 grains of this mineral yielded                       Carbonic acid, 2079
           In the first experiment
               ,, second ,,                            Carbonic acid, 20-82

                    The mean corresponds in 100 grains to Carbon 94-56.

  --/Irtificial Graphite or Kish. In large crystalline plates with adhering iron and

slag. The former was removed by digestion in acid, but some of the vitreous matter

remained.

6 grains of this substance yielded

In the first experiment                                Carbonic acid, 16'58
                                                       Carbonic acid, 16'63
           ,, second  ,,

           The mean corresponds in 100 grains to Carbon 754 grains.

   To test the accuracy of the results, weighed specimens of graphite were carefully
burnt to ash in a current of oxygen gas. The weight of carbon found by subtraction

closely corresponded with that determined by the liquid process applied to the same

specimen.
   It is proper to add, that the native graphite used in these experiments was first

freed from any adhering carbonates or organic matter, by digestion in dilute sulphuric

acid and subsequent ignition.

  We have made numerous experiments to test the applicability of this process for

determining the carbon of coals. In the driest varieties of anthracite, the results
presented a good degree of uniformity in repeated trials with the same specimen ;
but wherever the coal contains a volatile compound of carbon, this is in greater or
less part evolved without oxidation in virtue of the high temperature of the reaction.

    In the case of perfectly dry coke however the process gives uniform and accurate

results.

               Oxidation of the Diamond in the Liquid Way.

             By Professors R. E. Rogers and W. B. Rogers.

The processes for oxidating the diamond hitherto described, consist in actually

burning this gem, either in the air, in oxygen gas, or in some substance rich in oxy-

gen, as nitrate of potassa. In all these experiments a very elevated temperature is

Werequired.  have therefore been much interested by discovering that the diamond

may be converted into carbonic acid in the liquid way and ata moderate heat, by the
reaction of a mixture of bichromate ofpotassa and sulphuric acid; in other words, by
the oxidating power of chromic acid. This fact, although suggested in the progress

of our experiments on graphite, was not unequivocally ascertained until lately.
   The method of proceeding is much the same as in the oxidation of graphite, but

the progress of the oxidation is a great deal slower.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                        61

   To succeed in this experiment, it is necessary first to reduce the small chips of
diamond used in the process to a very tine powder. This is done by crushing them

in a steel mortar, and then grinding the coarse powder that results with repeated
portions of pure siliceous sand in a mortar of agate. By patient manipulation we
have in this way succeeded in bringing the diamond to very nnnute division.

  A single grain weight of the gem will suffice for several experiments. In our re-

peated trials we have never used more than half a grain, and we have obtained clear

evidence of oxidation, by the evolved carbonic acid, with even one-tenth of a grain.

   In operating with half a grain, we employ a retort of about ] 5 inches capacity fitted
up as in our apparatus for the oxidation of graphite. The Liebig tubes and U-tubes

of that arrangement are replaced by tubes or small bottles charged with perfectly clear

lime-water, and connected by bent tubes and perforated corks, so as to be air-tight at
all the junctures. The drying tube of chloride of calcium is omitted, and in its place
a slender tube connected with the beak of the retort carries the gas through a short

test-tube containing a small quantity of water. This is adopted as a precaution in
the event of sulphuric acid vapour escaping uncondensed.

   As the process is slow we find it necessary to use a large amount of the oxidating

materials. In our experiments with half a grain the retort is charged with 4 cubic
inches of sulphuric acid and 500 grains of bichromate of potassa.

   It is important to remark that these materials, of themselves, when heated to the
temperature at which oxygen is evolved, never fail to yield a small amount of car-
bonic acid. This result, due no doubt to the presence, in the bichromate, of a trace
of carbonate or some carbonaceous matter, we have found it impossible entirely to

prevent by re-crystallization or the addition of acid to the salt, or even by continued

ignition. But we avoid all chance of error from this cause, by first heating the acid
alone in the retort to about 350'', then adding the bichromate by degrees, and

Astirring the mixture so as to effect a complete separation of the chromic acid.

very brisk reaction takes place, much oxygen is disengaged, and with it any carbonic

acid which these materials themselves are capable of evolving.
   By using successive tubes of lime-water to test the evolved gas, and occasionally

applying a lamp to the retort, we readily ascertained when the oxygen ceases to be
mingled with carbonic acid ; and as soon as we are assured of this we add the
powdered diamond, and begin the main experiment.

   The evolution of carbonic acid is soon evinced by the growing milkiness of the

lime-water, and this continues slowly to augment as long as there is free chromic acid

in the retort.

   Operating in this way with half a grain of diamond-powder and the proportions of
sulphuric acid and bichromate above stated, we have in a first process obtained
about six-tenths of a grain of carbonate of line, about one-seventh of that due to the
weight of diamond considered as pure carbon, showing that about one-seventh of the
gem had been consumed in the process. By washing out the contents of the retort
with distilled water, and carefully collecting the powder suflfered to subside in a
covered glass jar, we have found that in a second similar process it yielded an amount
of carbonic acid nearly as great as at first ; and in like manner, in a third trial, we

have found it still capable of giving milkiness to the lime-water.
   In order to complete the oxidation at a single trial, it would be necessary to have

the diamond still more finely comminuted, or to use a much larger amount of the
oxidating agent than in the experiments here cited. The chief point of interest in
the subject however is the fact which we believe has now for the first time been shown,
that diamond is capable of being oxidated in the liquid ivay, and at a comparatively
moderate temperature, ranging between 350 and 450 degrees.

        On the Absorption of Carbonic Acid by Sulphuric Acid.

                By Professors R. E. and W. B. Rogers.

Notice of Pseudomorphous Crystals from Volcanic Districts of India.

                         By J. Tennant, F.G.S.
--62 REPORT 1848.

                     On a Galvanometer. By W. S. Ward.

    This was a modified form of an instrument exhibited at Oxford, in which a coil of
 wire conducting the electric current was suspended around the poles of a U-shaped
 permanent magnet. The coil had fixed upon it a small beam to which scales were
 attached : the improvement particularly described consisted in the length of the
beam being so adjusted that the weights required to counterbalance the deflecting
force gave the measure of the current in grains, corresponding to the number of
grains of zinc per hour dissolved in each cell of the battery when a short coil was
used, and corresponding to sixteen grains balanced by the electromotive force of one
pair of Grove's elements when a long coil of fine wire was used.

On the Electromotive Force, Dynamic Effect and Resistance of various
                     Voltaic Combinations. By W. S. Ward.

    Tables were exhibited showing the results of measurements made with the gal-
vanometer described in the paper previously read to the Section.

                   On the Chemical Composition of Gtitta Percha.
                          By Francis Whishaw, C.E.

            GEOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY.

On Fossil Femains recently discovered in Bacon Hole, Gower ; also other

   Remains from beneath the bed of the River Tawey. By Spence Bate.

The cave in which the fossil remains were found, to which allusion is chiefly made

in the following paper, is formed by a fissure or fault in the mountain limestone. It
is situated on the sea-coast, about 20 feet above high-water mark, on the western
coast of the headland of Gowev, and about nine miles from Swansea. It is upon the
southern side of tlie anticlinal axis, which passes through Gower from a little to the
north of the Worm's Head, tbiough Cefn Brynn, crosses Caswell Bay, and loses itself
in the sea at the back of the Mumble Head. The strike of the limestone in which
the cave is situated is nearly north and south, with the dip to the east. The cave
narrows rapidly from the mouth, but is 30 feet wide about the centre of the main
channel. It is 128 feet long, and possesses evidence of having once been a great
deal more extensive, since the rocks below its mouth are strewn with blocks and
large masses of breccia, together with broken fragments of stalagmite, which must
have fallen both from its roof and floor. The floor of the cave, from the extreme
end where it is divided into two chambers, caused by the fault separating itself into
two fissures, gradually rises towards the entrance, and in such a manner as to indi-
cate that the mouth itself was at a time when the cave extended to a greater length
blocked up, and argues that this could have been the only entrance which the cave
ever possessed, and that no communication through the roof, as is sometimes found,
could have existed by which the angular fragments now fonuing the bone-bed of the
cave could have existed. Since in the bed of stones no stalagmite is found, and in

the stalagmite not a single stone has become entangled, we may infer the introduc-

tion of the stones, together v.ith the bones found amongst them, to have been a simul-
taneous injection, since which natural causes have qiTietly put a seal upon them.
The elevation of the cave exceeds, scarcely 12 feet at the highest point of the main
cavern, where, as in the two inner cliambers, it becomes mucli more lofty. This cave
seems in itself to afibrd sufficient evidence that thickness of stalagmite is no proof of
age, since the greatest thickness of carbonate of lime follows the line of the fissure
throughout, being greatest where the two faults meet, in which place it attained a
thickness of 2 feet and more, and required blasting for its removal ; it decreases in
substance gradually on either side and towards the entrance, where it in some places
                                                       TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                       63

scarcely exceeds an inch. This corresponds with the deposits of carbonate of lime in

the roof, where the fault is choked up by the material, but which hang in no graceful

stalagmites but unite in one large mass, except near the entrance, at which extremity

a square original-shaped portion impends, which in the eye of the tradition of the neigh-

bourhood has assumed tlie form of a flitch of bacon, hence the peculiar cognomen

Bacon Hole, by which the cave is known. From the fault on either side the roof

descends in a direct line until it meets the flooi-, forming a triangular entrance.

The most important remains which yet have been found in this cave consist of

teeth of the ox, deer, and other ruminants, together with a portion of the cranium of

a deer and a few bones of a bat; all the last save one were found in such close prox-

imity as to lead fairly to the inference that they belonged to the same bird ; and
many other bones, the most of which seem to belong to the deer. Teeth of cai-nivo-

rous animals were also found, among which were the left under canine of an old Ursits

spelcBus                                    also  the  canine  and molar of a  young bear of the  same  species ;  also a  molar,
                                         ;

the milk tooth, probably of a young hysna.

At the same time were exhibited many specimens of antlers of the Cervus elaphus,

and one probably of the moose deer ; these are all attached to portions of the skull,

affording evidence of having not been cast in the annual shedding season. These,

together with a human skull, were discovered at the depth of six feet in the clay below

the bed of the river Tawey.

 On the Sources of the Nile in the Mountains of the Moon. By Dr. Beke*.

   This paper was in continuation of one 'On the Nile and its Tributaries,' read be-
fore the Royal Geographical Society of London during the Session of 1846-47, and
printed in the 17th volume of that Society's Journal.

   The author's hypothesis is, that the principal sources of the Nile, according to
Ptolemy, are in the coimtry of Mouo-Moezi, near the east coast of Africa, and that the
name " Mountains of the Moon," arose from the translation of the word Moezi,
which signifies moon in the language of the Sawahilis, or " dwellers on the coast,"
from whom the Greek merchants and seamen of Alexandria trading with India and
Eastern Africa, obtained the particulars respecting the Upper Nile which are re-

corded by Ptolemy.
   Dr. Beke exhibited two maps, showing the Nile and the east coast of Africa, the

one according to Ptolemy, and the other according to his own hypothesis; and ap-
plying the positive knowledge possessed at the present day to the correction of the
fundamental error of Ptolemy's map, namely its general extension much too far
southwards, he inferi-ed that the head of the Nile, which that geographer places on
the western side of the country of the Anthropophagi, bordering on the Barbaricus
Sinus, in the vicinity of the island of Menuthias, is most probably situate in about 2° S.
lat. and 34° E. long., at the extreme eastern edge of the table-land of Eastern Africa,
and at a distance of about 300 or 400 miles from the island of Zanzibar, which island

he identified with Menuthias.
   The author next showed how, in his opinion, Ptolemy fell into the very natural

error of making the Mountains of the Moon extend from east to west across the con-

tinent of Africa, at right angles to the general direction of the course of the rivers
flowing from them ; whereas the actual direction of the eastern edge of the table-land,
which to the Sawahilis or natives of tlie coast has the appearance of an extensive
range of lofty mountains, and which Dr. Beke identifies with the Mountains of the
Moon, is from about S.W. to N.E. ; aud by measuring 600 miles in the latter direction

--such being the distance that Ptolemy makes exist between the two heads of the

--Nile in those mountains he hypothetically placed in about 7° N. lat. and 39° E. long.,

the source of that geographer's second arm of the river. This second arm Dr. Beke
identifies with the Sobat, Telfi, or river of Habesh, which joins the Bahr el Abyad or
White River in about 9° 20' N. lat., and which was considered by the officers of the
Egyptian exploring expeditions, who ascended it 80 miles, to contribute to the Nile

nearly a moiety of its waters.
    The author adverted particularly to the fact, that the confluence, at Kharttim fit

--15° 37' N. lat., of the White and Blue Rivers commonly but erroneously called the

" Printed in extenso in the Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, vol. xlv. pp. 221-251.
                                                             --

--64 REPORT 1848.

--White and Blue Nilcs is merely the junction of the Astapus with the Nilus ; and that,

in reality, the confluence of Ptolemy's two ai'ms of the Nile, namely the White River
and the Sobat or River of Habesh, is in 9° 20' N. lat., upwards of 6° beyond Khart-
I'un ; and while establishing that these two principal arms of that river have their
sources at the extreme eastern edge of the table-land of Eastern Africa, he showed,
further, the existence of a third great arm of the Nile, namely the Bahr el Ghazal or
Kei'lah, which joins the central stream from the west in about 9° 20' N. lat., and
which there is reason to regard as the Nile of Herodotus and other writers anterior
to Ptolemy.

    In conclusion. Dr. Beke called attention to the journey undertaken by Dr. Biallo-
blotzky into Eastern Africa, for the purpose of exploring the southern hmits of the

--basin of the Nile ; and he solicited subscriptions in support of this undertaking.
   jiddition by the Author. The Rev. Mr. Rebmann, of the Church Missionary So-
ciety's East-Africa Mission, has lately sent home an account of a journey made by
him into the interior. Within 200 miles due west from Mombas he came to the
eastern edge of the table-land, which thus appears to be much nearer to the coast
than I had been led to conclude. Directly before him Mr. Rebmann saw a lofty
mountain, named Kilimandjaro, the summit of which is covered with perpetual snow.

   This mountain may be .^pproximatively placed in 4° S. lat. and 36° E. long., and

its elevation cannot well bo less than about 20,000 feet. It is crossed by the road to
the country of Mono-Moezi ; and there is now scarcely room to doubt that it forms a

portion of Ptolemy's Mountains of the Moon (Moezi), the snoivs of which are de-
scribed by that geographer as being received into the lakes of the Nile. It is by

--proceeding into the interior in this direction that Dr. Bialloblotzky may be expected

to discover the sources of that river. See Athencciim, No. 1119, of the 7th inst.
April 14, 1849. [Mr. Rebmann's Journal, with a Map, is since published in the

Church Missionary Intelligencer for May 1849, vol. i. p. 12 et seq.']

On the occurrence in the Tarentaise of certain species of Fossil Plants of the

   ByCarboniferous Period, associated in the satne bed ivith Belenmites.

   Mr. Charles Bunbury.

   The fossil plants were stated to be in a very bad state for examination, being washed
up together in a taleose schist, and often curiously distorted by the molecular action
which the rock has undergone. In the Turin collections, Mr. Bunbury had made
out nine species of Ferns, two Calamites, and three Asterophyllites, which he consi-
dered identical with Carboniferous species ; a conclusion formerly stated by M.
Adolphe Brongniart.

On a Boulder of Cannel Coal found in a vein of common bituminous Coal.
                       By Starling Benson of Swansea.

    Whilst the shales and sandstones of the lower coal-measures of South Wales appear
to have been for the most part deposited or formed in comparatively quiet water, the
Pennant series of rocks above them, which are easily traceable throughout the coal-
field iroiii the greater hardness of their sandstones, contain frequent conglomerates
of rolled pebbles of coal and ironstone, drifted plants, and occasionally small boulders
of granite, with other proofs of drift to a considerable extent having occurred during
their formation.

    The boulder, which is 13 inches long, 7 wide, and 3 deep, was found in a seam of
common bituminous coal at Penclawdd near Swansea, which is in geological position
one of the lowest in the Pennant series. In the subjacent measures some seams of
cannel coal are known to exist about 700 yards below the Penclawdd vein, and lying
conformably with it. If the boulders and drift, which occur throughout the lower
portion of the Pennant se.'ies, were derived from the subjacent coal-measures, it might
have arisen from a partial destruction of the south-west portion of those measures during
the formation of the Pennant rocks; and if the boulders of granite are, as supposed,
equivalent to that of Pembrokeshire, they would also point to the same line of drift.
The writer concluded by remarking, that if the suggestion is admitted that these
boulders are derived from the lower measures of the same coal-field, the inference
                    --

                    TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                    65

would follow that sufficient time elapsed between the deposit of two successive veins
to allow the perfect crystallization and formation of the lower one.

    It also yielded information interesting with reference to the ascertaining of the

manner of the formation of coal, as it would authorize an inference that the material
of which in this instance the bituminous vein was formed, was originally too soft and
yielding, notwithstanding its present hardness and density, to fracture the boulder
during the period of pressure necessary for its formation ; and also, that any mixture of
gases or other ingredients acting or escaping during the formation of the bituminous
coal, do not appear to have in any way affected the cannel coal deposited within it.

On the relative Position of the various Qualities of Coal in the South Wales

             Coal- Measures. By Starling Benson of Swansea.

   The varieties of coal found in the mineral basin of South Wales may be classified

under three heads :
     1. Bituminous; the small of which will coke.
    2. Free-burning ; which burns with rapidity, emits a considerable volume of flame,

and is best adapted for steam purposes, but of which the small does not coke.

    3. Stone coal and culm, or anthracite.
    These three varieties are not suddenly altered as they approach each other ; on the
 contrary, there is often a gradual change from bituminous to free-burning within the
limits of the same colliery, whilst the free-burning coals would also appear to become
 culms, burning without flame, probably from the diminution of volatile matter, before
 the quality of the true anthracitic coal and culm is attained.
    The annexed sketch of the coal-measures between Pontypool and Kidwelly will

 serve to illustrate the position of each variety of coal.
    With a few exceptions, arising from portions of seams of coal removed from their

original relative positions by favdts or anticlinals, a central line of quality may be
 assumed to extend from Merthyr to Pembrey mountain near Llanelly; the bitumi-

 nous veins of coal on the south gradually becoming less so until they are free-burning
 in the centre, whilst these again change into culms, burning without flame, imtil the

 true anthracitic coals and culms are found on the north crop.
     Exclusive of the Pembrokeshire portion of the coal-measures, which is anthracitic,

the area between Pontypool and Kidwelly, where both crops merge in the sea, may be
 estimated at fully 750 square miles, of which about y^ths consist of stone-coal and

 culms, T^ths of coking, smelting and free-burning coals.
    It is often remarked that each vein on the south crop gradually loses its bituminous

 quality as it dips to the north, but the more southern veins not so rapidly as those
'above them : and it has been suggested, that a line or plane a dipping to the south
 might be so placed as to intersect each vein at a point where its relative proportion of

 bituminous quality has disappeared.

North.                                                       South.
       Anthracite.
                        \ Bituminous.

   Supposing anthracitic coal to be formed by the removal of certain volatile matter,

chiefly oxygen, from bituminous coal by means of heat, may not a line, b, drawn at right

angles to this intersecting plane, point to the direction whence such heat was derived
from beneath the carboniferous measures? The surface-map, which shows that the

seams of coal east of Merthyr are not anthracitic, but retain more of the bituminous

1848.                                              f
66 REPORT 1848.

quality, would also imply that the source of heat lay rather to the north-west of the
existing coal-field.

   The existence of this variety of coals in the South Wales hasin is an object of such
interesting inquiry, that the writer ventured to offer these remarks in case they might
in any way tend to assist in leading the minds of others to the discovery of a true

solution of the cause.

                                                    N

                                            t

1. Anthracite.  2. Culms.  3. Free-burning, gradually becoming 4 and 5.  Bituminous.

     Notice of a Map of Ancient Egypt of the Time of Antoninus Pius.
                               By Joseph Bonomi.

   It is divided into Nomes or provinces from C. Ptolemy's Geography, and contains
the roads from the Roman Itinerary. Against the towns in the land of Goshen are
written the Hebrew names from the Book of Exodus, which mark the march of the
Israelites, and a reference to Isaiah, chap. xl. 15, explains that the head of the Red
Sea had been separated by the sands since that interesting event, and left in the form
of a lake. The Lake of Mceris is also laid down as discovered Isy Linant in 1843.

On the Discovery of some Remains of the Fossil Sepia in the Lias of Glou-
                    cestershire. By Prof. BucKMAN, F.G.S.

   Remains of the Belemnite and other animals allied to the recent Cuttlefish, abound
in the lias formation, but the chambered portion of the Belemnite is seldom present,
and the ink-bag of the Sepia is still more rar6. One specimen discovered by Mr.
Euckman in the lower lias is rather more than half the shell or "bone" of a Sepia,
nine inches long and six inches wide ; in the centre of the specimen is preserved the
ink-bag, which consists of about six drachms of a jet-black, hard and splintery sub-
stance, easily ground down, and capable of being used as sepia or Indian-ink. An-
other specimen is four inches long and two inches wide, and is marked by three raised
lines, which meet in a point at the base ; the ink-bag is seen in the centre of this spe-
cimen also. They were obtained from a bed of fissile marl about four inches thick,
in the upper lias near Cheltenham, along with plants, insects. Ammonites, and four
species offish, besides the uncinated arms of another fossil Cuttlefish.

          On the Plants of the "Insect Limcstotie" of the Loicer Lias.
                           By Prof. BucKMAN, F.G.S.

   The band of limestone at the base of the lias is well known in Gloucestershire and
the adjoining counties from its use in flooring barns and kitchens, and to the geologist
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                           Bf

fi-om having afforded abundance of insect remains, resembling those of ordinary
occurrence in temperate climates. The plants associated with these insects at
Strensham in Worcestershire are Ferns (Otopteris), Calamites, Confervse, Naidita
lancL'olata, Brodie, Hippuris, and Equisetum Brodiei, Buckman. The ferns occur in

fragments, and may have floated from some distance; the rest are small aquatic

plants, which confirm the opinion that this limestone was deposited in an estuary,
and in a temperate climate.

                On some Experimental Borings in search of Coal.
                           By Prof. Buckman, F.G.S.

   The first experiment was made four miles from Droitwich in Worcestershire, on an
estate purchased by a gentleman mainly from belief in a prevalent tradition that coal
had been found there many years before. Having sent into StaiTordshire for some
practical miners, a boring was made to the depth of 100 yards, and not being attended
with success, Mr. Buckman was consulted, and by his advice the undertaking was
abandoned. In this locality the lower lias approached closely to the experimental
ground, so that, in order to reach the coal-measures, the whole thickness of the Keuper
marls and new red sandstone must have been piissed through.

  A second attempt for coal was made near Malmsbury, Wilts, where former unsuc-

cessful trials had been made, and where, as upon all Crown-lands, " mining rights " were
reserved at sales ! The formation at this place is Oxford clay, which occasionally con-
tains small beds of lignite; a shaft had been carried to a depth of nearly 100 yards
without getting below the Oxford clay, when Mr. Buckman was consulted, and the
attempt given up.

       On Marginopora and allied Structures. By Dr. Carpenter.

On a Pecidiarity in the Structure of one of the Fossil Sponges of the Chalk,
          Choanites Konigi, Mantell. By William Cunnington.

The author requests attention to some peculiarities in the structure of those fossil

sponge-like bodies of the chalk-formation to which Dr. Mantell, in his ' Geology of

Sussex,' gives the name of Choanites,

He describes them as being of a subcylindrical form, with root-like processes, and

having a cavity or sac which is deep and small in comparison with the bulk of the

animal. The inner surface is studded with pores which are the terminal openings of

tubes, disposed in a radiating manner, and ramifying through the mass.

" The species named by Mantell C. Konigi is figured in the ' Geology of the South-

AEast of England,' tab. 16, fig. 19 and 20.  partially decomposed specimen of one of

these fossils, which I discovered some years ago, disclosed a long spiral canal winding

round the siliceous cast of the central cavity. This I was at first disposed to think was

the shell of a Serpula, but subsequent investigation, and the dissection of a large series,

have convinced me that it forms part of the original fabric of the Choanite itself. It

commences near the base of the central cavity, and quickly attaining its full diameter

(about the eighth of an inch), it ascends with considerable regularity in a spiral

direction, and terminates on the upper surface at a short distance from the centre. In

large specimens there are as many as five or six volutions. Many of the tubes, which

radiate from the central cavity, anastomose with the spiral canal, and an intimate

connection is thus established between it and the other parts of the sponge. I have

not found a similar structure in Polypotheeia, Hallirhoa, or any of the allied genera

which are associated with the Choanites in the chalk and chalk-flint. With regard

to the purposes which this remarkable canal served in the economy of the animal,

I can only conjecture that it may have been connected with the reproductive system,

probably constituting the ovarium." ^_^_^^

Reply to an Objection of Mr. Hopkins to the ' Chemical Theory of Volcanos,'

    contained in the last volume of the Transactions. By Dr. Daubeny.

   The difiiculty in question, which, as Mr. Hopkins states, was first suggested by
M, Gay-Lussac, has never, in his opinion, been explained away. It consists in

                                                                         f2
--68 REPORT 1848.

the supposed admission of air and water to the lower regions of the volcanic mass
through fissures conducting the sea- water to the fluid lava; for supposing such fis-
sures to exist, it would seem that the fluid matter below ought to ascend into them
and fill them, provided the hydrostatic pressure at the bottom of each fissure was
greater than the weight of the descending column of water, which must often happen,
especially in such volcanos as Stromboli, in whicli the permanent position of the sur-
face of the fluid mass is known to be at a great height above the level of the ocean.

   In reply to this Dr. Daiibeny remarks, that M. Gay-Lussac does not deny that

water gains access to the focus of volcanos, but, on tlie contrary, asserts that the ad-
mission of water cannot be doubted, since no great eruption ever occurs that is not
followed by the evolution of an enormous quantity of aqueous vapour, which, with that
of the muriatic acid accompanying it, cannot be conceived to take place without an
admission of sea-water to the interior of the volcano. The French philosopher, in-
deed, urged the difficulty alluded to only as militating against the notion of the inte-
rior of the earth being in an incandescent condition, and gives it as a reason for pre-
ferring the very theory which Mr. Hopkins impugns. The difficulty started, therefore,

although it may call for explanation from mechanicians, cannot obh'ge us to reject the
fact itself, established, as it is, on undeniable evidmce; and all that chemists are
concerned in is to speculate upon the consequences tnat might result from the admis-
sion of water to the interior of the earth, as Dr. Daubeny has attempted to do in his
lately-published Work.

    Nevertheless, it may be suggested, that the immense pressure exerted by a deep
incumbent ocean, coupled with the resistance of a considerable thickness of solid rock
intervening between its bottom and the focus of the volcanic operations, might oppose
an obstacle to the ascent of lava sufficient to occasion lateral fissures, through which
the melted matter would find an easier vent at some point on the contiguous land.
It is true, that fissures of some sort must be supposed to have existed in the rock
which the sea- water percolates, but these may readily be supposed to have been
stopped up, at the commencement of each volcanic crisis, by injections of lava, which
latter cooling in its progress upwards, would create an impediment to the further
egress of melted matter by the same channels.

   It may be observed, that volcanos do not occur in the vicinity of shallow seas, such
as the German Ocean, and that many parts of the Mediterranean, near which active

vents are found, are of great depth.

    Nor is it necessary to suppose the elastic force equal to what would be required for
elevating a column of lava to the summit of Etna or Teneriffe, but only such as
might be adequate to produce the modern eruptions, which ahvays take place from the
flanks of these mountains ; and this degree of elasticity, it is conceived, might be re-
pressed by the weight of a deep sea, coupled with that of a considerable thickness of in-
tervening rock, and thereby miglit determine the issue of the lava at some distant part.

    The recurrence of eruptions Dr. Daubeny has always referred to the cracks occa-
sioned by cooling in the incumbent rock, whereby a fresh ingress of water to the vol-
canic focus might be allowed. Be that however as it may, the fact of the presence of
water stands unaffected by the truth or error of these attempts to account for the
mode of its introduction.

Notice of Discoveries among the British Cystidese, made since the last Meeting.

                           By Prof. E. Forbes, F.R.S.

    At Oxford Prof. Forbes had given an account of this group of fossils, considered
by Baron von Buch as the lowest Radiate animals and representing the rudimentary
forms of the superior orders, but believed by the author to be higher than the Cri-
noids, and leading up from them to the Starfishes and Sea-urchins. Since last year, a
specimen formerly discovered by Dr. Bigsby in North America, and figured in the
Zoological Journal, but mislaid, had been re-found, and proved to be a remarkable
member of this tribe, having a globular body like a sea-uvchin, with five depressions
radiating from the oral aperture, in whicli arms were lodged; in the space between
two of the arms was a circle of six ovarian plates. Another specimen very like this,
 but specifically distinct, had been discovered by the geological surveyors in the oldest
 Silurian rocks of Wales, showing that species provided with better arms than any
 other Cystideans appeai-ed as early as the armless species. Some other species had
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  69

been discovered in a Silurian stratum in North America by Mr. Vanuxem, and de-
scribed by the name of Agelocrinites. They were all provided with stems like the
Sphaeronite and Pseudo-crinite.

On the Polarity of Cleavage Planes., their conducting Power, and their
   Influence on Metalliferous Deposits. By Evan Hopkins, C.E., F.G.S.

   The writer states that, taken on a large scale, " all the primary crystalline rocks, and
the sedimentary beds in contact, have been more or less cloven in a direction approach-
ing the meridian, and in planes but slightly varying from the perpendicular." These
cleavage planes he compares with the structure of the medullary rays of a tree, the
contortions of the schist he compares with the bending of the grain in the neighbour-
hood of knots, and the ascending sap is represented by " the polar current and the
mineral solutions." An action, commencing in the moist crystalline granite, has
formed, and still forms, this laminated and fibrous polar structure ; the granite is
transformed into gneiss, the gneiss into micaceous schist, and the termination of
the crystalline transition into clay-slate. These great cleavage planes are the cause
of the varying structure of the primary rocks, and give rise to the mistaken idea of
their being sedimentary rocks subsequently thrown verticallj'. He says they are
developed on a gigantic scale in South America ; they cut the Isthmus of Panama
transversely and extend into Mexico and the United States ; and that the same
phsenomena have been observed in Scotland, and in fact in all Europe. He then
compares the effects of the polar force with those produced in the magnetic battery,
and states that he has seen masses of claj', in old mines and moist rocks, lodged in
fissures acquire a cleavage identical with that of the bounding rock. He insists
that cleavage planes must in every instance be developed in the same direction as
the internal molecular polar current ; and that the polar elongation of the crystal-
line rocks gives rise to tension, and consequently east and west fractures, thus pro-
ducing mineral and other veins. The subterranean current in the semifluid mass

always causes, according to the author's experiments, a westerly deflection of the

magnetic needle. When sea-water is employed the variation amounts to about

10°. Hence the direction of the conducting polar structure, or cleavage planes, will
always he found to run N.E. of the undidating magnetic meridians. After showing
the important practical bearing of this subject on all questions connected with rocks,
veins, minerals, dislocations, &c., the author concludes by stating, that "polarity of
matter is the key by which we obtain a clue of the cause of the great changes virhicli
have taken place in the surface of the earth, and is the agent which is silently work-
ing within the crystalline film on which we exist perpetually moving and modifying

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

and rendering it suitable to our wants during all ages of transformation, and con-
stantly providing inexhaustible stores of mineral wealth for successive generations."

On the Position of the Chloritic Marl or Phosphate of Lime Bed in the Isle
      of Wight. By Capt. L. L. Boscawen Ibbetson, K.R.E., F.G.S.

    In this communication the author pointed out the position of the chloritic marl or
phosphate of lime bed in the Isle of Wight, and called the attention of the proprietors
and farmers in the island to the importance of knowing the true position of this va-
luable manure. It is a gray mai-1 full of green grains of a silicate of iron and fine
quartz sand ; it is very fossiliferous (the author appended a list of the fossils found
in it in the Isle of Wight). The upper part of the bed forms in some places a con-
glomerate of pebbles and small boulders, and the fossils ai-e broken as if rolled on a
beach. The lower beds contain the fossils whole, and appear to have been formed
in still water. Ammonites varians, Am. splendens, and Scaphites striatus, are the
most characteristic fossils ; but it also contains abundantly nodules of a coprolitic form,
which Mr. Thomas Hetherington Henry hns kindly examined, and finds they contain
a large per-centage of phosphate of lime.

    Mr. Austen mentions it being found near Guildford, and Mr. Nesbit has found it
near Fareham, containing in the nodules 28 per cent, of phosphate of lime, and in the
whole mass 2 to 3 per cent. Mr. Morris and the author have also found the chloritic
marl very abundant at Chaldon near Lulworth, and also in the railway cutting of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         --;

--70 REPORT 1848.

Wilts and Weymouth railway at Holywell. (The author mentioned the fossils oh-

tained from these localities*.) The strata at Chute Farm consist of chloritic marl,

but the fossils are more numerous and varied.

The general position of the chloritic marl in the Isle of Wight is as follows:

From C'ompton Bay along the south slope (adjoining the chalk marl) of Shalcomb,

Mottestone, Brixton and Lammerstone Downs; near the farms of Compton, Coomb,

Rancomb,  Northcourt,                                                                                                          Shorwell,  Chillerton                                                between Chale  Farm  and Chillerton
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

Down ; largely developed near Gatcomb ; between New-barn and Gausons on the

Bridle road and hill between Gausons and Carisbrook; a great thickness on the road

from Mount Joy to Whitconib, near the farms of West Standen, Sullons and Arre-

ton ; the south slope of Arreton, Messley, Ashey, Brading, and Bembvidge Downs

near the farms of Messley, Grove, Upper Martin and Yaverland running into the sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

near the Culver Cliff. The chloritic marl is also found on Shanklin, St. Boniface, Kew,

Week, Appuldercoomb, St. Catherine's, and Niton Downs ; at the top of the Undercliflj

Ventnor Sliute near Steep-hill Castle ; in large blocks on the sea-shore, and also near

tlie farms of Shanklin, Luccomb, Wroxhall, Winson, Span, Kew, Week, Dean, Little

Stenbury, Slieep Wash, Niton and Chale, always immediately imder the chalk marl,

and separating it from the upper greensand. This cliloritic marl or phosphate bed
may be applied with great profit on the adjacent arid ferruginous sandy soil so common

and unproductive in the centre of the south side of the island, viz. at Brixton, Chale,

Kingston, Godshill, Newchurch, Bleak Down, Rookley, Queen's Bower, Sandy-way, &c.

The drift or gravel beds of the island on the north side are com])osed of angular flints

very little waterworn, and in some places perfectly shai'p, and they are interstratified

with a fine brown sand and marly brick earth. The sand and clays in which they arc

imbedded are the same                                                                                                          it has every appearance of being                                     similar        to the flint gravel
                                                                                                                            ;

in the neighbourhood of London, &c. The nortli side of St. George's Down is thickly

covered with this gravel, but at the south end, beyond the greensand and gault, there

is a thick bed of very hard flint and chert conglomei'ate. Strongly cemented with

iron, it is stratified in places with zones of the broken ferruginous bands of the upper

beds of the lower green sandstone, on which strata it is reposing; and the sands and

clays in which they are imbedded are debris derived from the lower greensand. The

whole of the drifts in the centre of the south side are the same but do not form con-

glomerates, but merely ferruginous flinty gravels stratified with ferruginous sands.

It appears from the above that the drift beds on the north side are the detritus

derived from the flints of the chalk and sands and clays of the tertiary series, and do

not appear to have been accumulated on a sea-beach, in consequence of the angular

form presenting little evidence of their having been subjected to much attrition.
   On the south side of the chalk range the drift has resulted from an admixture of

chert and flints, probably from the upper greensand with the debris of the sands of

the lower greensand, and appears to be local. The tops of the highest liills are not

covered by this drift ; on them we find only the angular or unrolled flints without any

intermixture of sand or clay.

The author does not regard a vertical upward movement as the cause of the singular

position of the chalk and tertiary beds, but conceives that slides occasioned by the de-

composition of the fuller's-eavth and the abrasion of soft sandstone by currents of water

may have produced these effects.

Since writing the above paper, the author has found that Mr. Nesbit has analysed

some of the strata, and found that a nodule in the lower chalk at St. Catherine's Down

contained ID'OO percent, phosphoric acid and 3900 per cent, phosphate of lime, and

that the upper greensand contains, on an average of twenty difterent specimens, 16 per

cent.>phosphoric acid and 25 per cent, of phosphate of lime.

             Account of an extensive Mud-slide in the Island of Malta.

                                By A. MiLWARD.

   The writer gives this account with the view of elucidating the motion of viscous

 --* Note by Professor E. Forbes. Hitherto no species of Neoera, so far as I am aware, lias

been found in cretaceous strata. Capt. Ibbetson discovered a species of Nesra in tlie oolitic
rocks, and several are known in the tertiary and recent formations. This cretaceous form
supplies the deficient link in the series of Nesera in time.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                             7l

bodies and the analogous phiEnomena of glaciers. Previous to the autumn of 1846, a
large quantity of mud, dredged from the harbour of Valetta, was deposited on level
ground between the harbour and cliff, and covered about two acres of ground ; the
autumnal rains, aided by the overflow of a tank on the cliff, caused the main body of
tlie mud to flow from the side next the sea, where it was piled up highest, towards the
cliff; the mud descended in streams whose inclinations were greatest at their origin,
and their surface was marked by alternate curved bands of coarse and fine material,
the rough bauds being slightly in relief; where the descent was steepest, the curved
bands were broken and irregular ; as the surface of the mud dried, two sets of fissures
were formed, one in the direction of the stream, the olher following the curved bands.
In the spring of the present year a smaller slide took place, in which the surface of
tlie mud was raised into curved bands or waves li to 2 feet high, the ridges being
formed of the coarser materials. It appears that in the first instance the surface-mud
was semi-fluid, and flowed over a comparatively dry and hardened surface, but after-
wards the surface-mud dried by exposure, whilst that below remained moist.

      An attempt to illustrate the Origin of " Dirt-bands " on Glaciers.
                                 By A. MiLWARD.

   The surface of a glacier is composed of alternate bands of porous and compact ice,
and the former becoming discoloured more readilj' than the latter, give rise to " dirt-
bands," which follow the direction of the hyperbolic curves marked by the outcrop
of the structvu-al planes, known as the "ribbon" structiu-e, which are elongated low
down the glacier and compressed near its source; they are also most apparent low down,
where the ice has been longest exposed to the weather. The writer suggests that the
porous bands may be formed during the winter season, when the ice is less saturated
with water and forms more slowly; and that the compact bands mark the quantity of
ice added to the glacier each summer, when its motion is greatest. He also recom-
mends the examination of the upper part of glaciers, with the view of ascertaining
whether their surface is originally marked by waves such as those before described on

the mud-slides.

     On some Bones found in the Bed of the Tawey. By W. Morgan.

On the Subsidences ivhich have taken place in the Mineral Basin of South
   Wales, between the Llynvi Valley on the East, and Penllergare on the

  West. By F. Moses.

   Mr. J. G. Jeffreys exhibited specimens of the following rare and recent British
shells, and species which he considered identical with them in the Crag formation.

                             RECENT.                             FOSSIt.
Buccinum ovum, Turt.
Fusus scalariformis, Gould.                ^ Dalei, Sow.
Saxicava arctica, var.?, Forbes SfHanley.      Id., Sow.
Natica helicoides, Johnst.
                                           Sphenia cylindrica, Sow.
          sordida. Lam.
                                           Id., Soiv.

                                           N. cirriformis, Wood.

   The Marquis of Northampton read a letter from M. Boguslawski on the fall of a
Meteorite, in two pieces, at Braunau in Bohemia, on the 11th of July 1847. Another
meteorite of larger size, but exactly agreeing in appearance and chemical composition,
had been dug up from a depth of fourteen feet at See Lcesgen.

 On the Geology of the County of Wicklow. By Prof. Oldham, M.Tt.I.A.

  This communication was illustrated by a new Geological Map of Wicklow and a

number of sections in the mining districts, published in connection with the Geolo-
gical Survey of Great Britain. Through the centre of the county passes the granite
ridge, which extends from Dublin to Waterford, nearly N. and S. ; its highest point,
                                                                                                                                                         ;

--72 REPORT 1848.

Lugnaquilla, 3000 feet above the sea. On both flanks of the granite rests a series

of sedimentary deposits whose general strike is N.E., dip S.E., and therefore oblique

to the granite, -which cuts them all in succession ; the oldest of these rocks are at the
north end of the east flank of the granite, and consist of sandy and slaty beds altogether

from 4000 to 5000 feet thick (" Barmouth Sandstones"). These are followed by

argillaceous beds, and volcanic ash and breccia with contemporaneous greenstone

a considerable number of fossils have been found in these beds, the equivalents of the
lowest of all the Silurian remains in Wales. On the western flank of the granite only

this upper series is found. Both series of sedimentary rocks have been upheaved,

subjected to lateral pressure, contorted and fractured; besides which, they have all

been altered along the line of contact with the granite to the extent of 5000 or 6000

feet, and over a breadth of half a mile on the surface ; the influence of the formerly

heated granite is shown in alteration of structure, and in the production of minerals

not existing in the unaltered rock; in the conversion of sandstone into i]uartz-rock,

and of the volcanic beds into a crystalline hornblendic rock. The dip of the slate,

&c. is sometimes 70°, but usually much less ; the granite extends under them, and

is  shown  again  at a  distance  by denudation                                                                  portions of the  altered  slate remain  upon
                                                                                                              ;

several summits of the granite hills, and show the original height of the surface of

the granite, which in these points has been preserved from the rapid decomposition

which has wasted it all around. The summit of Lugnaquilla is a mass of slate of this

kind, traversed by numerous large veins of granite ; similar veins pierce all the rocks
in contact with the granite, and many of these, having taken the direction of the

bedding of the rock, appear as if interstratified. In Glen-malur these granite veins

may be seen extending with parallel edges for hundreds of feet. Besides these and

the contemporaneous greenstones, there are numerous dikes like the Cornish Elvans

in the southern and metalliferous part of the county ; these never cut the older sedi-

mentary rocks, but abound in the upper series. Glen-malur, in which several lodes

of lead are worked, is formed by a great fault ; and there are several other nearly

parallel glens, some occupied by lakes ; the Vale of Avoca is also caused by a fault

which shifts all the lodes ; these dislocations extend into the granite itself In Wick-

low there are no formations newer than the lower Silurian, except the drift; but a

little westward the edges of the Silurian rock are covered by the conglomerates and

sands of the Old Red system. The drift consists of clays and sand mixed with lime-

stone boulders, which are scratched and furrowed ; in some parts of it organic remains

occur in such a manner as to prove they lived on the spot; some of the species how-

ever are Arctic, and occur 700 feet above the present level of the sea. In the north-

ern part of the county the drift is gravelly and mixed with angular fragments of older

rocks adjoining; Imge blocks of granite and quartz-rock are strewed over the county,

the lower surface occasionally retaining distinct scratches and furrows. The surface

of the county appears to have undergone extensive denudations since the deposit of the

drift, and many of the ravines and caldron-shaped hollows are quite free from drift.

                   On the Drainage of a Portion of Chat Moss.
                      By G. W. Ormerod, M.A., F. G.S.

   The surface of the moss varies from 80 to 100 feet above the sea-level ; the bottom
at the deepest part proved, is at least 100 feet below the sea-level. Part of this moss
is now being laid dry by means of open drains, under the direction of M. Ormerod.
After cutting the drains, the level of the peat falls rapidly; near the main leader it
sunk pei-pendicularly 5 feet 6 inches in about nine months; and in one part 2 feet
6 inches in a single week.

    Lieut.-Colonel Portlock communicated some observations on apparent changes in
the level of the coast near Portsmouth, and contended that as these evidences of sub-
sidence could be traced back to the most ancient times, so they had continued up to
the present day, and expressed his conviction that a parallel might be found in exist-
ing nature to all the phcenomena of ancient times. It appears that part of Fort Cum-
berland near Portsmouth stands on a bank of gravel and sand, and that owing to some
new groins made to protect it from the sea, a fresh direction was given to the tide, and
a portion of the bank undermined and washed awaj', in the course of which a thick
                       --

                TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                            73

plank with a bolt was discovered, showing that tliis part of the bank had no great

antiquity. An Artesian well has also been made to supply Block-house Fort, which

for the first sixty feet exhibits nothing but clear shingle, and then a layer of sandy clay

full of common oyster-shells, another example of the great changes iu the ancient

coast and sea-bottom.

Hydrography of the British Isles. By Augustus Petermann, F.R.G.S.

   Mr. A. Petermann exhibited a new Hydrographic Map of the British Isles, on

which about 1550 rivers are distinguished by names, 480 lakes and ponds, and 40
waterfalls- the canals with their altitude, as well as that of the I'ivers and lakes, and
the great drains in the fen districts. It was stated that there are 20 rivers in En-
gland, 10 in Scotland, and 10 in Ireland, each draining 500 square miles and up-

wards.  =Of these, 18 drain an area

                                     500 to 1000 sq. miles.

                       14 ...      ... 1000 ,, 2000

                       8 ...   ... 2000 ,, 10,000

These last eight are,

The Humber (including Trent andOuse), to Spurn Point... 9550 sq. miles.

        Severn, to Flatholm Light                            8580

        Shannon, to Loop Head and Kerry Head                 6946

        Thames (including Medway), to Nore Light             6160

        Barrow                                               3410

        Great Ouse                                           2960
        Bann                                                 2345
        Tay, as far as Rhynd                                 2250

The River Amazons drains a tract of 2,275,000 square miles.

On some points connected with the Physical Geology of the Silurian district
 between Builth and Pen-y-bont, Radnorshire. By Prof. Ramsay, F.G.S.

   In this paper Professor Ramsay first laid down certain established geological pro-
positions, on which much of the reasoning in the communication depended.

  When a stratum rests unconformably on the upturned edges of another series of

strata, the lower rocks were denuded, either previous to or during the deposition of
the higher stratum, and we know of no power at any considerable depth beneath the
level of the sea fitted to effect such pheenomena, which therefore took place either above

or at its surface.

   In the district described (near Builth in Breconshire), the Wenlock shale rests

unconformably on the Llandeilo flags, which there consist of black slates associated

with beds of trap and volcanic ashes. These rocks having been disturbed and raised

above the level of the sea, formed the land round which the lowest beds of the un-

conformable Wenlock shale were deposited, and gradually sinking beneath the level of

the sea was covered up by higher Silurian strata, which accumulated above it to the

Avertical thickness of 5000 feet.  part at least of the old red sandstone was added

to this, and during subsequent oscillations of level these higher rocks (beneath which

the old land had been so long and deeply bTu-ied) were removed, and the Llandeilo

flags of the district are now land for the second time.

The sections exhibited also aflfbrded data, by which coxild be ascertained the angles

of inclination of the Llandeilo flags at the time they lay under the Wenlock and other

superincumbent beds, previous to the disturbance that raised these latter formations

into an anticlinal curve, the lowest bed of which rested unconformably on the up-
turned and denuded edges of the Llandeilo flags.

   They also indicated a method by which it may sometimes be possible to determine

the vertical thickness of accumulations above certain other deposits, thus pointing to

a means of forming a proximate idea of the degree of heat the latter may once have
endured, supposing the same ratio of increase of temperature as we descend beneath
the surface to have existed at that geological epoch that now obtains.
                                                                                    ;

--74 REPORT 1848.

On the Geology of Pennsylvania. By Professor H. D. Rogers.

Professor Rogers exhibited a general map of North America, the State Survey of

Pennsylvania, and many other maps and sections coloured geologically.

1. After pointing out the general accordance in the succession of the older rocks

in America with those of Europe, he stated that the rocks composing the great

Appalachian chain had been deposited near the eastern shore of the Palaeozoic Sea

in North America, and detailed a variety of circumstances in evidence of the exist-

ence of an ancient continent in the direction of the Atlantic.

2. Amongst these hills there is a well-defined series of rocks, containing a suc-

cession of fossils; but further west, where the same strata spread out to an enormous

extent (in Kentucky and Tennessee), we seem to have arrived at the deep-sea part of

these formations, in which ail distinctions melt away, and an uniform succession of

sedimentary deposits have accumulated to a much greater thickness than near the

coast. Wherever the tributaries of the Ohio, or the rivers of Virginia break through

the hills, we find beds of grit diagonally stratified, with conglomerates and all other

indications of a shallow sea ; but passing westward the same beds become finer and
finer, the conglomerate passing into grits and these into fine-grained sandstones. The

carboniferous limestone, which is but a few feet thick in the Appalachian, becomes

500 feet thick in the Mississippi.

3. After the elevation of the greater part of this region, the sea still covered the

whole of Florida, the great plains of Arkansas, and extended far up the Missouri, and

Newalong the Atlantic plain as far as  Jersey; over this area was deposited first the

cretaceous series and afterwards the tertiary.

   4. Between the tertiary plain and the Appalachian hills is a great tract of un-
fossiliferous rocks ("Azoic" and " Metamorphic"), at least 10,000 feet in thickness,

and along their western boundary, for 100 or 150 miles, the newer rocks all dip under

them. This extraordinary circumstance was first explained by Professor Rogers, who

has shown that it is the result of the folding of the rocks. The Appalachian chain

consists, in fact, of a series of parallel anticlinal and synclinal folds, all leaning over

to the west, so much as to invert the series of beds on the west of each synclinal

these folds are steepest where they plunge beneath the azoic series, and open out

gradually westward, until the strata become horizontal in the Ohio coal-field.

Professor Rogers then gave a summary of his theory of the origin of these great

parallel foldings in the Appalachian strata, which he attributes to a series of earth-

quake movements, flowing forward in a particular direction in parallel lines; and he

illustrated this view by a description of three remarkable earthquakes in the year

1833. The first, that of St. Domingo, was experienced by the officers of a British

vessel at sea, who stated that looking at the coast they had seen " the crests of the

hills waving like the back of a serpent in gentle motion ;" these undulations had

been traced along lines on which they were synchronous. 2. The earthquake in the

Vale of the Mississippi, in which the lines of synchronous shock ranged N.N.E. and

S.S.W. for 500 miles; at a parallel 300 miles east of the line the shock was ex-

perienced eight minutes later; and all along the Atlantic shore twenty minutes

later. The sensation was not that of a harsh grating of subjacent rocks, but a

Abillowy heave. 3. few months later another earthquake affected the whole vol-

canic line of the Windward Isles and Bermuda simultaneously, and was attended by

a sudden return to activity of some of the dormant craters ; in the course of twenty-

two minutes it had flowed to the United States, and rocked the whole coast from

Florida to New York. All these phasnomena were considered to prove the doctrine

of a flexible crust resting on a fluid nucleus ; and, as in former times, the crust may

have been more flexible and the volcanic forces more energetic, the whole surface

may have been thrown into billowy undulations, and there have become permanently

fixed by the successive injection of lava into the craters and fissures of the various

folds, thus preventing their return to horizontality.

5. The three great coal-fields of America are, that of theOhio, 740miles long, and 180

wide, covering an area of 63,000 square miles, a surface greater than that of England

and Wales; the Illinois coal-field, covering 50,000 square miles; and the Michigan,

occupying 15,000 square miles. Besides these, there are numerous anthracitic

basins in Pennsylvania and Virginia, the furthest being 100 miles S.E. of the margin

of the Ohio coal-field. In passing across these coal-fields there is a gradual diminu-
                                                                                       ;

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                          75

W.tion in the quantity of bituminous matter from   to E. In tlie Illinois it amounts

to 40 or 45 per cent.; in Western Ohio, from 35 to 40; in Eastern Ohio, 25 to 30;

in the table-land of the Alleghanies it is reduced to 18 or 20 per cent.; in a little

coal-field 20 miles E. of the great field it is only 14 or 15 per cent.; in the western

edge of the anthracite field 10 or 12 per cent.; and in the great body of the anthra-

cite only 1 or 2 per cent, of gaseous matter exists, and this not in the form of bitumen.

Further south, in Kentucky and Tennessee, the same change takes place, and the

associated rocks become metamorphic eastwards ; all the coal, of every kind, rests

on the same basis of rock, with the same fossils distributed through it, and the par-

ticular coal-beds can be identified even when separated by an interval of fifty miles.

The anthracite field is 5000 feet deep, and contains fifty seams of coal ; the bitumi-

nous coal-field of Ohio is 2800 feet dee[). The working of these coal-fields is in-

creasing rapidly; 3,000,000 tons of anthracite and 1,000,000 tons of bituminous coal

are annually raised; and 700,000 tons of iron manufactured. A process for melt-

ing iron-ore with anthracite was long wanted, and the government of Pennsylvania had

offered a premium for such a discovery,- this was first achieved by Mr. Crane, in

South Wales, by whom a patent was obtained in England ; and for the use of it in

America one iron-master guaranteed him a premium on all the ore melted; but for

want of an international patent-right, the process was soon imitated, and in some

cases improved upon, by other parties in America.

Drawings were exhibited of the anthracite coal-mines on the Lehigh-river, Penn-

sylvania, which are worked like an open quarry on the slope of a mountain rising

900 feet above the river; the coal is sixty feet thick, and surrounds the quarry in

black glistening walls, capped by forty feet of yellow sandstone; it is conveyed by a

self-acting railway for eight  miles  down a declivity of from  100 to  140  feet per  mile
                                                                                                        ;

the whole cost of obtaining it being 2d. a ton. This great bed of coal splits np into

a number of divisions when quarried at some distance.

6. Professor Rogers then alluded to the subject of the drift, which had received

new interest in America from the visit of M. Agassiz. This deposit is spread over

the whole of the States and extends westward to the Upper Missouri; when it rests

upon the older strata its Jioor is worn and striated with furrows, which follow the

pre-established contour of the surface, diverging when they meet any obstacle, and

coalescing on the further side ; their general direction is N. and S. This drift is

strewed indiscriminately over all the high ground as well as the valleys ; neither the

White Mountains in New York, 6000 feet high, nor those between Lake Champlain

and the St. Lawrence, 5000 or 6000 feet high, being centres from which the drift

was dispersed. Besides this general drift, with its boulders, there are long trains of

angular masses of rock running N. by W. and S. by E. on the borders of New York

and Massachussetts, derived from great ragged chasms in the summits of the

Alleghanies 1000 feet above the plain. These angular blocks rest upon the surface

of the drift, which overspreads the country to the depth of twenty or thirty feet

they vary in size from that of a hogshead to a small house, one of them being fifty
feet long, and they do not much diminish in size from N. to S. One of these

trains has been traced to a distance of fifty miles, another parallel line at a distance

of half a mile is twenty miles long, and there are various others; they are about

200 yards wide, and the blocks are not in contact, but lie a little apart. They are

not strewed like moraines along the flanks of hills, but pass alike over mountain and

valley, climbing summits higher than that from which they originated.

Observations on the Great Anticlinal Line of the Blineral Basin of South

                 Wales. By William Price Struve, C.E,

   The object of the few observations which 1 have to offer on this subject, is to
describe the great central uprise of the coal-measures in Glamorganshire, between
the Vale of Taffand the estuary of the Burry, in Carmarthen Bay.

   In doing so, I will at the same time me:ition some of the governing features of the
South Wales coal-field, confining myself principally to that portion of it situated be-
tween the TafT Valley and Carmarthen Bay.

   This district comprises Glamorganshire and portions of the counties of Carmarthen
and Brecon, and occupies an area of about 560 square miles. It is intersected by six
                          --
                                                                                                                                                                                    |

--76 REPORT 1848.

principal valleys, down which the mineral produce is convej'ed by canal or railway to
the several ports of Cardiff, Porthcawl, Port Talbot, Neath, Swansea, and Llanelly.

   In order that the remarks which I have to offer may be brief and intelligible, I have
prepared, from my own notes and the information supplied by the Geological Survey

of Great Britain, seven sectional representations of the coal-fieid in the district alluded

to, and shall at once refer to them for a description of the stratification.
   The base of our coal-measures is carboniferous limestone, which, it will be observed,

is basin-shaped, having a general rise from its centre towards the north and south,

to which all the coal-measures conform : and they may be described as consisting of

the following convenient divisions :

                                                                                                                                                                                       ^^'-                  Coal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Band.

                                                                                                                                                                                       Ft. In. In. Ft.

First.--The Farewell Rock or Millstone Grit, containing \ ^^^
                                                              f
--no coal, and averaging a thickness of
Secondly. Argillaceous and arenaceous shales with "1 gg^                                                                                                                                    ,,q

some beds of sandston es                                      /
--Thirdhj. Strata of a similar nature, containing several ~|

seams of coal, some of which are very thick, and associated I                                                                                                                          g^Q  22   ... 43

with mine, and are extensively worked at all the great iron-

                                                              |

works                                                         J
-- AFourthly.
               similar stratification, but with some thick"]

beds of quartz rocks, called the Cockshuts, particularly well |

Cwmseen along the anticlinal line between   Avon and S- 420                                                                                                                                 12   ...      3

Waesteg, and regarded by the miner as sure guides to some

--of the accompanying rich coal beds                          J

Fifthly. Arenaceous and argillaceous shales, with oc-                                                                                                                                            r 18 T

casional beds of sandstones, and containing black bands, [ .^^                                                                                                                              '"   J to I   11
                                                                                                                                                                                                 [ 3(3 J
Cwmworked extensively at  Avon and Maesteg, and lately f

discovered at the Ystalyfera Iron- Works                      J
-- ASixthly.
              great accumulation of sandstones called the~|

Pennant Rock, intermixed occasionally with some argilla- \^qqq                                                                                                                                            7
ceous shale, repi-esented in this neighbourhood by the Kil-

vey and Town Hills, measuring in thickness                        |

                                                              J

Seventh and last division, containing shales and some"! ,,qqq                                                                                                                                             g-

thick masses of sandstone, and measuring about                J

       Making a total average thickness of                                                                                                                                             8260 60 36 101

  In this statement I have only included the workable seams of coal and mine, my

object being to convey a correct impression as to the available portion of the South Wales
coal-field ; and in order that the geological arrangement of these divisions may be easily

understood, I have distinguished them on the sections by various shades of colour.

                                      [The section was here explained.]

   An important governing feature of the coal-field is the Pennant Rock, its outcrop
being nearly as well marked as that of the carboniferous limestone. It may be traced

in neai'ly its whole thickness from Swansea to Carmarthen Bay on the west, and east-
ward towards Briton-Ferry, Margam, Llantrissent, round by Pontypool, back to Mer-
thyr, and across the tops of the valleys to Pembrey, where it again disappears under

Carmarthen Bay.

   On inspecting the Section No. 1, from Hirwain to Llantrissent, it will be observed

that the lower portion only of this deposit caps the hills about the Rhonddas, and that
it then bends over towards Llantrissent, accumulating the whole of its thickness, and
bringing in the Uyhewydd seams, which may be considered equivalent to Hughes's
seam, near Swansea, or to the commencement of the highest division of that coal-field.
The denudation from the Rhondda of this thick deposit of sandstone removes, as it
were, an impermeable cover, which, in other portions of tlie district where it is found
to prevail in its full thickness, must serve as a seal to shut out for ever from the uses

of man the lower thick beds of coal and mine so extensively worked along the margin

of the coal-field ; whereas, in this locality, they lie within an attainable depth for mi-

ning, and as flat as can be desired by the miner.
                                                                                                                                                                  --

              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                                                                       77

   The next Section, numbered 2, crosses Llangeinor Mountain ; here the Pennant
Rock accumulates considerably. It is, however, broken through at Maesteg, which

lies one mile to the west, by the central uprise of the coal-measures; the lower divi-
sion of which is brought up to the surface, and woiked extensively for the supply
of three large iron-works. As we proceed more to the westward and approach the
eastern confines of the Swansea Bay, the Pennant Rock becomes more extensively
broken through, so that the whole of the lower measures are brought to view, and

workings of a most extensive kind have been opened upon them for the supply of a

large iron-works, rolling-mills, tin-plate-mills and copper-works.

On inspecting Section No. 3, it will be observed that the Pennant Rock stands on

Cwmthe north and south side of  Avon, and that the lower measures must necessarily

pass under Margani Mountain and crop out towards the sea. In conformity with
this theory, pits are now being sunk in the neighbourhood of Port Talbot.

   The next Section to which I shall refer is No. 5, from Caswell Bay, in Gower, to
the Great Mountain, in Carmarthenshire, constructed by Mr. Logan and myself,
and published in the Geological Survey. It will now be observed that the uprise has

completely removed the continuation of the southern portion of the coal-field which
exists between Margam and Llantrissent, and the limestone only is to be seen torn
up and contorted in the manner described in the section. Pi-oceeding still more west-
ward through Gower, the limestone is found completely broken up, and the old red

sandstone protrudes through from beneath, which is illustrated in Section No. 6, con-

structed by Mr. Logan, and which shows a small portion of the lower shales reposing
on the limestone at the western side of Oxwich Bay.

   Section No. 4, also constructed by Mr. Logan, from Port Tennant to Castle Cerig
Cennen, is introduced for the purpose of illustrating, by an addition which I have
made to the section, the probable partial removal of the coal-measures under

Swansea Bay.

It would appear, therefore, that the great central uprise of our coal-field, which has

served so usefully to bring up the lower coal-shales in various portions of it, is merely
a continuation of what has acted with so much more violence in Gower ; and that
this movement may perhaps be traced back into Pembrokeshire, where, from the evi-
dence afforded by Sir Henry de la Beche's valuable surveys, it appears that a great

disturbance in the limestone and old red sandstone has also taken place.
   I shall now close these remarks by some general observations. The annexed sec-

tions describe, with sufficient accuracy for general purposes, the governing features

of the South Wales coal-field ; which, from the description I have given, has been

shown to contain enormous mineral wealth. Section No. 1, for instance, exhibits 57

feet thick  of workable  coal;  60 inches of workable  argillaceous mine                                                                                and from  18
                                                                                                                                                     ;

to 36 inches of black band, all within an attainable depth, averaging a distance by the

TaflT Vale Railway of about 20 miles from the port of Cardiff. One square mile of

such a coal-field ought to produce, according to ordinary calculations, 40,000,000 tons

of coal, 8,000,000 tons of mine, and 3,000,000 tons of black band.
   The Swansea Section contains the coal-measures above the Pennant Rock, which

may be estimated at 25,000,000 tons of coal per square mile ; and to this may be

added the last estimate for the coal and mine below the Pennant, which is available
for many square miles at the tops of the valleys, where they are found to crop out in
proximity with the limestone, and on which all the great iron-works of South Wales

are established.

   The extent of coal-field, therefore, which may be considered available chiefly to the
ports of Swansea and Cardiff, may be estimated at about 400 square miles. The
South Wales Raihvay will pass at the foot of all the valleys, so that on its completion

the whole extent of this country will be in a condition, with the aid of short branches,

to send its produce to either of these ports.

   As regards the qualities of the coals, they may be classed in the following order :

bituminous coal, free-burning coal, culm, anthracitic culm, anthracite : for all of
which there is an extensive consu.oiption. The boimdaries of these various qualities
I have endeavoured to sketch out on the annexed sections.

   The bituminous and free-burning coal appear to occupy the largest portion of the
coal-field, and the anthracite and anthracitic culm the least. The anthracite com-

mences slightly at Hirwain, and increases as it advances into Carmarthenshire ; and
in Pembrokeshire the whole of the coal-field partakes of that quality. The other
--78 REPORT 1S48.

qualities take a similar direction, and gradually and imperceptibly pass into each other
till they become bituminous coals on the south side of the coal-field.

Eemarks on the Sources of the White Nile. By Ferdinand Werne, late
   attached to the Expedition sent by Mohammed Ali Pasha to explore the Nile
   (communicated by Sir Robert H. Schomburgk, K.R.E.)*.

   The author distinctly contradicted the discovery, recently announced to have been
made by M. Antoine d'Abbadie, of the source of the Nile in 7° 49' N. lat. and
34° 38' long. E. from Paris. In 1840-41, the Egyptian expedition to which M.
Werne belonged, ascended the main stream of the Nile as far as the country of Bari,
in the fourth degree of north latitude, and they were there told by the natives that

the sources of the Nile lie still further 1o the south.

   From the formation and direction of the mountains whose valleys are watered by
the Nile, an eye-witness would at once infer that the river comes from a distance of
several degrees furtlier south ; and Lakono, the king of Bari, and his people invariably
pointed to the south wherr describing the situation of the soui'ces of the river. The
European officers of the expedition arrived in Bari with the preconceived opinion that
the Nile came from the east, and they were, in consequence, the more precise and
careful in their inquiries respecting its source ; but by no means could they induce the
natives to deviate from their original statement that the river comes from the south.

   Lakono himself, who asserted that he had been to the country of Anydn (Anjan)
in which the head streams of the Nile have their origin, said that the water in the
four rivulets whose confluence forms the main stream, came only to his ankles; and
as, above the extreme point reached by the expedition, the river comes direct from
among the mountains in the south in the form of a turbulent stream, running between
steep banks and over a rocky bed ; and as, further up, the declivity of its bed is ap-

Mparently much greater ; . Werne regarded it as physically impossible that M. d' Ab-

badie's alleged source should be that of the Nile. In his opinion, M. d'Abbadie's river
is a tributary eitlier of the Blue River or of the Sobat ; and he expressed his conviction
that Ptolemy and the natives of Bari will be found to be correct in their statements
respecting the position of the sources of the Nile, and that those sources are in the
regions near the equator, where we shall also find the Mountains of the Moon.

   The Dean of Westminster read a letter from the Rev. Dr. Moberley, describing a
large Plesiosaurus discovered in lias at the alum-works of Lord Mulgrave at Kettleness
near Whitby : length of the head, 3 feet 2 inches; neck, 5 feet 10 inches; back,
7 feet 1 inch; tail, G feet 10 inches; total, 22 feet 11 inches. Width of anterior

paddles nearly 13 feet.

   The Dean of Westminster exhibited a Map of part of North Wales, and sketches of

rocks in the vallej^s around Snowdon, and pointed out the various indications of the
former existence of glaciers in these valleys. One of the best localities for observing
the effect of the moving masses of ice which formerly occupied the seven valleys that
descend from Snowdon, is at Pont Aberglaslyn near Bedd-gelert. Near Capel Cerig
also there is a great extent of naked rock exhibiting the effects of glacial action.
The most obvious exposures of the effects of ice are in the valley of Llanberris and in

the valley of Nant-Francan. Moraines occur on the margin of Llyn Ogwyn and of
Llyn Idwell, having been forced across these lakes when filled with ice. In all these
valleys the surface of the rocks below the superficial soil is rounded, furrowed and
striated in directions parallel to the sides of each valley. At Llyn-y-Gader near Bedd-
gelert there were very remarkable naked, round-topped hillocks, worn and smoothed
by friction of the ice.

   The Dean then gave an account of the principal phaenomeiia of glacial action in
Switzerland, where they are believed to have formerly extended very much further

than at present.

    * Since published, by M. Werne, in an appendix to his work, ' Expedition zur Entdeckung
der Quellen des Weissen Nil,' 8vo. Berlin, 1S4S. An English translation of this work, by
Mr. C. W. O'Reilly, has also been published in 2 vols. Svo ; London, 1849,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  79

               Supplemental Notice on the Geology of Lundy Island.

                       By the Rev. D.Williams, F.G.S.

    In a former notice the author described some remarkable dykes in the slate and
granite of this island, and now exhibited a series of rock specimens showing every
intermediate condition between true granite and trap by the gradual introduction of
hornblende and lime. These specimens were obtained at the junction of the granite
with the slate rock at the south-east and south of the island. The author called
attention to the abundance of carbonate of lime in some of the primary rocks, from
-which he believed it had in many instances been dispelled by heat.

On the Geology of portions of South Wales, Gloucestershire and Somerset-
                 shire. By Sir H. T. De la Beche, F.R.S.

         ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY, including PHYSIOLOGY.

On the recent Species of Odostomia, a Genus of Gasteropodous MoUusks in-
   habiting the Seas of Great Britain and Ireland. By J. G. Jeffreys,

    F.R.S., F.L.S.

The author, after a few preliminary remarks, gave an historical account of the
genus, and proposed the coalition of all the species now composing the separate

gengra of Odostomia, Chemnitzia and Eulimella, in one genus, treating the others
as subgenera ; and he founded this view upon his observations of the animals, as
well as on the shells, of each of those so-called genera. After describing the charac-
ters and habits of these mollusks, he gave a synoptical view of the species, thirty-
two in number ; of these, nine (viz. notata, alba, duhia, acuta, diaphana, dolioliformis,
fenestrata, clathrata emd fo7-mosa) he described for the first time. Tlae author then
proceeded to an elucidation of their synonymy, which was previously in a state of

--confusion, and the following is the result of his researches : Out of the thirty-two

species enumerated and described by him, nine were new and hitherto unpublished
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;

nine had been described and figured by Philippi as Sicilian shells ; one by Recluz as

French ; ten by Loven as inhabiting the Scandinavian coasts ; seven by Searles Wood
as crag fossils ; and one (for which the author proposed to restore the Linnean name

of lacfea for elegantissima) as indigenous to the middle and south of Europe.
    (This paper is published entire in the Annals of Natural History for 1848.)

               On the Os humero-capsulare of the Ornithorhynchus.
                         By Prof. Owen, M.D., F.R.S.

   He referred to the discovery by Prof. Nitzsch of a small accessory bone articu-

lated to the coracoidand humerus in certain birds, called 'os humero-capsulare,' and
stated that he had discovered an ossicle attached to the head of the humerus and to
the capsule of the shoulder-joint of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus. It was equally
distinct from the proximal epiphysis forming the head of the bone, and from that
which caps the great tuberosity in the young animal, and it was present in fyxW-
grovf nOrnithorlLynchi. It appeared to have escaped the notice of Meckel, and although
but a small instance of resemblance to birds, was interesting as an additional illus-
tration of the aflSnities of the paradoxical mammal.

On the Communications between the Tympanum and Palate in the Crocodiles.
                         By Prof. Owen, M.D., F.R.S.

   Prof. Owen referred to the discrepancy in the opinions of anatomists relative to

the small perforation in the basisphenoid behind the posterior aperture of the nostrils
in the crocodiles. It was called ' arterial foramen ' by Cuvier in his ' Ossemens
Fossiles,' and was described in the 'Legons d'Anat. Coraparee, 1836,' as "leading
to a canal which bifurcated as it ascended, one branch traversing the sphenoid, the
other the occipital to terminate in the ear-chamber ;" but what passes through it.
80 REPORT--1848.

or where the sphenoidal branch terminated, was not stated. Prof. Bronn had con-
tended that this so-called 'arterial perforation' was the posterior aperture of the
nostrils in certain fossil crocodiles, and had cited a letter from M. de Blainville ex-

pressing that anatomist's conviction of the accuracy of this view.

   Prof. Owen stated that two short grooves converged, from without inwards and

from above downwards, to terminate in the fossa behind the true posterior nares, in
which fossa the median aperture in question was situated ; both that aperture and
those grooves led upwards to canals which conveyed air from the mouth to the ear-
chambers. The canal from the median aperture divides into an anterior (sphenoidal)
and a posterior (occipital) branch, and each of these divisions bifurcates to the right
and left to communicate with the tympanic cavities; the occipital bifurcations also
communicate with the beginning of two other eustachian canals, extending from the
tympanic cavities to the lower lateral apertures and grooves converging to the com-

mon median perforation. All these canals open by a common median orifice upon the
soft palate behind the true posterior nostril. The carotid canals commence by fora-
mina situated one in each exoccipital bone external to the base of the condyle, and

open also into the tympanic cavities, through which the arteries pass to enter bony
canals leading from those cavities to the sella turcica. Examination of the soft parts
in crocodiles and alligators that had died in the Zoological Gardens, and of the skulls
of these and of the gavial, had confirmed the correctness of the description of the
median foramen in question, as the " common terminal canal of the eustachian
tubes," given in a former ' Report' by the author. (Reports of British Association,
1841, p. 76.)

   With regard to the homologies of the above-described complex palato-tympanic
air-passages in the Crocodilia, Prof. Owen stated that the lateral bony canals termi-
nating in the common median fossa by distinct fissures, answer to the simple eusta-
chian tubes of chelonians and lacertians, and the median canal with its dichotomy
into four tubes, would seem to be a peculiar superaddition to the palato-tympanic

air-passages in the crocodilian order.

 Note on Sounds emitted hy Mollusca. By Lieut.-Col. Portlock, F.R.S.

   I think it right to draw attention to the Helix aperfa, which is very remarkable

for its property of emitting, when irritated, a strong and well-marked sound. When

I first noticed the sound thus emitted on accidentally touching the animal, I was
peculiarly struck by it and immediately referred to Rossraaesler, who I found de-
scribes the quality of the animal in a very graphic manner, stating that the sounds
were such as indicated irritation. The Helix aperta is very abundant at Corfu, ap-
pearing thickly on the squill leaves in the spring, when about the beginning of March
the annual increment of growth of the shell is perfectly soft. If the animal be irri-
tated by a touch with a piece of straw or other light material, it emits a distinctly
audible sound possessing a singular grumbling or querulous tone. This it frequently
repeats if freshly touched, and continues so to do for apparently an unlimited space

of time, as I kept one for a considerable time in my house, and heard this sound

whenever I touched it.
   As Rossmaesler has so fully described this fact, I shall only add that I have, on

more occasions than one, heard what I considered a similar, though very feeble
sound from the Helix aspersa, and I need not say that the explanation seems very
easy from the structure of the animal.

On a new Species of Argotiaut, A. Owenii, with some Observations on the
              A. gondola, Dillwyn. By Loveli> Reeve, F.L.S.

   Among the Argonauts captured by Sir Edward Belcher during the voyage of the

Samarang, are two species, one distinct from any hitherto described, the other iden-
tical with a species, A. gondola, described upwards of thirty years since by the pre^
sident of the Section, Mr. Dillwyn, in his ' Descriptive Catalogue of Shells,' but
which had been disposed of by subsequent writers as a variety or immature state of the
A. Mans or tuberculosa. Specimens of each species were taken alive in the Atlantic
by means of a gauze net at night. Drawings of the animal were exhibited made by
       TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                        81

Mr. Adams from the living animal at the time of its capture ; and the author had
satisfactorily identified Mr. Dillwyn's species by means of these and other specimens
in different stages of growth, collected by Mr. Cuming in the seas adjacent to the
Philippine islands. The A. Owenii is distinguished from any species hitherto de-
scribed by its laterally compressed form and prominent development of the wrinkles.
The A. gondola is chiefly remarkable on account of the wide prolongation of the auri-
cles on either side of the spire, whilst the keel of the shell is unusually wide, with
the tubercles distant and more compressed. The lateral wrinkles are much less
numerous than in A. tuberculosa, to which Mr. Dillwyn's species had been ascribed,
and do not fade into solitary warts.

On the Influence of Tempet-ature upon the Distribution of the Fauna in the
                      ^gean Sea. By Lieut. Spratt, R.N.

   After the publication, by the British Association, of the highly interesting report
of the distribution of the fauna of the ^gean by Professor Forbes, I was led to ima-

gine that temperature might have a great influence on that distribution : with this

view I pursued the inquiry by making observations on the temperature of each

region, as opportunities offered for doing so, whilst employed on the survey of the

^gean seas during the summer seasons.

These results seem to show distinctly that temperature is the principal influence

which governs the distribution of the marine fauna.

Tlie summer temperature of the air in the Mediterranean is about 86°, and the

surface temperature reaches nearly that temperature generally at that season.

 --The zones of depth, as arranged by Professor Forbes, are as follows. The first

region includes all between the surface and the depth of 2 fathoms ; but this he sub-

divides into a superficial or tidal zone of about 2 feet, the inhabitants of which, he

observes, are remarkable as being such as have a wide range in depth, eight out of the

eleven species peculiar to ic being widely distributed in the Atlantic. The temperature

of this zone ranges from 76° to 84° during eight months in the year. Its inhabit-

ants are consequently subject to great vicissitudes of climate during the summer and

winter. Nature having thus adapted them to these conditions, we consequently

find that they are wanderers through great geographic space, corresponding to the

vicissitudes of temperature to which they are subject.

The second region reaches to the depth of 10 fathoms, in which, with the last sub-

division of the first region, we have, says Professor Forbes, the characteristic fauna

Nowof the Mediterranean.  the temperature in this region is seldom lower than 74°

in the long summer season, and it is consequently the region upon which the Medi-

terranean temperature has a more permanent influence ; for which reason we find

in it the peculiar Mediterranean fauna.

The third region descends to 20 fathoms, and has a decreased temperature to 68 ° ; in

the fourth region it is 62° at the depth of 35 fathoms ; in the sixth region the tempera-

ture is 56° at the depth of 75 fathoms ; and in the seventh and eighth regions, to the
depth of 300 fathoms, the temperature decreases only to 55 or 551°, as far as I was

able to ascertain. Thus between the littoral zone and the lowest region there is a differ-

ence during summer of 26° and sometimes of 30° ; and between the second region
(the Mediterranean) and the lowest, the temperature is about 20°, thus standing at

the average temperature of a high northern latitude. After limiting the Mediterra-

nean fauna to the second region. Professor Forbes remarks that the third is a trans-

ition zone ; but in the fourth region the Celtic character of the fauna is remarkable,

there being in that region nearly 50 per cent, of species identical of northern forms.

   In the sixth and lower regions he remarks, that although the identical Celtic spe-
cies were fewer in the lower region, " he found the representations of northern species

so great as to give a much more boreal or sub-boreal character than is present in

those regions where identical forms are more abundant."

Amongst the ^gean fauna are some which have a wide range in depth, there

being nine species common to six regions, seventeen to five regions, and two com-

mon to all, more than one-half of which are known to be wide geographic rangers.

They, like the cosmopolite species of the littoral tidal zones, being thus adapted to

climatal changes, become consequently ramblers over wide geographic space, as they

1848.                                                    G
--82 REPORT 1848.

ramble into representations of climate in regions of depth. Thus we have the climate
of a parallel represented in marine depths as in terrestrial elevation, and thus it ap-
pears that density or depth is not so great an antagonist to the existence of animal

life as is generally supposed.

   The greatest depth at which I have procured animal life is from 390 fathoms ; but
I believe that it exists much lower, although the general character of the ^Egean is to
limit to 300 fathoms ; but as in the deserts we have an oasis, so in the great depths
of 300, 400, and perhaps 500 fathoms, we may have an oasis of animal life amidst the
barren fields of yellow clay, dependent upon favourable and perhaps accidental condi-
tions, such as the growth of nullipore, now found to be a vegetable instead of a coral,
thus presenting prolific spots favourable for the existence and growth of animal life.
These peculiar conditions of density and food develope necessarily a peculiar fauna,
upon which climatal influence nevertheless stamps its characteristic forms through-

out the species.

Notice of an Observation at Bathcaloa, Ceylon, on the Sounds emitted by

                         MoUusca. By T. L. Taylor.

" There is a curious thing here which I don't know whether you ever heard of.

Going at night on the lake in the neighbourhood of the fort, one is struck by a loud

musical noise proceeding from the bottom of the water. It is caused by multitudes

of some  animal  inhabiting  shells,  I  believe                             at  least  the  natives  call  them  the  '  Sing-
                                                                          ;

ing Shells,' and I have been shown what they said were those which made the noise.

Some people doubt, however, whether it is these shells that sing, or some others, or

fish of some kind. Whatever it be, I can answer for having heard the sounds re-
peatedly, so distinctly too that you cannot help hearing them even when the oars

and paddles are splashing, and the boat going fast through the water. The sounds

are like those of an accordion or ^olian harp, guitar or such-like vibrating notes,

and pitched in different keys."

mCases of impaired Vision which Objects appear much smaller than nulural.

                                   5?/ A.Waller, iTf.Z).

   This paper contained some observations of impaired vision in which the principal
symptom consisted of an altered appreciation of the sizes of external objects. They
were presented for the purpose of elucidating the action of the nerves and of the mind
in the judgement of the dimensions of objects. In one case the illusion existed in
one eye only, which perceived objects much smaller than the other. In other ca-ses
the illusion in both eyes was temporary, merely lasting for a few minutes at a time
during the day, and then suddenly disappearing.

On the Luminous Spectra excited by Pressure on the Retina and tJieir appli-

   cation to the Diaynosis of the Affections of the Retina and its appendages.

  By A. Waller, M,D.

   These observations relate to the luminous spectra which appear in the field of
vision when the eyeball is compressed, or when the head has received a sharp blow,
and in various other circumstances. After having described the discoveries of Sir
Isaac Newton and others, the author goes on to relate his own observations, and
finds that these spectra vary according to the part of the eyeball which is compressed.
If compressed at the upper part, they appear to be most bright, and consist of seve-

ral concentric rings alternately bright and dark. He shows that these spectra may

be employed with great advantage as a means of discriminating the diseases of the
retina and optic nerve from those which affect the crystalline lens, the iris, and the
other parts in front of the retina. In amaurosis, glaucoma and other affections of
the nervous parts, the spectra are found to become more faint in proportion as the
nervous powers are injured, and are entirely absent when the visual powers are more

deeply impaired. On the other hand, in those numerous affections of the eye where

the rays of light can no longer form their images on the retina on account of the
opacity of the parts which they have to traverse, the ocular spectra are found to be
                                 --

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.        83

unimpaired in their brightness. The author has cited numerous cases in confirma-

tion of this statement.  _^____

Microscopic Observations on the Movement of the Human Blood in the Capil-

   laries, and on the Structure of the Nerves in the Glands at the Inferior
   Surface of the Tongue. By A. Waller, M.D.

   The author describes some microscopic observations on the minute glands at the
inferior surface of the tongue. These minute glands, of about the size of a pin's head,
are rernoved by him from the living tongue, and immediately subjected to observa-
tion under the microscope, for which, by their transparent nature, they are particu-
larly adapted. He states, that by this means he has been enabled to discover seve-
ral points relating to the structure of glands which cannot be observed in these tis-
sues after death. The movement of the blood through the capillaries is there seen
for the first time, and is found to present all the same phsenomena as in the web of
the frog or other transparent tissues. The nerves distributed to the various cells of
which the gland consists are very numerous, and may be traced to the extremities
of the separate cells, where they terminate, some in free extremities, others in vesi-
cles, whose diameter is several times larger than that of the nerve-tube itself. Near
their union with the glandular duct is a small ganglion which contains the usual
elements, viz. vesicular globules and gelatinous and tubular fibres.

On the Structure and Functions of the Branchial Organs of the Annelida

  and Crustacea ; illustrated hy Preparations and Diagrams. By Thomas

   Williams, M.D.

   The subject was treated under the following heads ;
   Explanation of a series of diagrams illustrating the history of ciliated epithelium

in invertebrate animals.

  New observations proving the presence of ciliated epithelium in the lungs of rep-

tiles. Conclusions on the mechanism of breathing during hybernation.
   Passing allusion by diagrams to the branchial organs of inferior moUusca, conchi-

fera, &c.

   Illustrations of new dissections of the breathing organs of the Annelida found on
the coast of Swansea ; preparations and microscope.

    Preparations illustrating the ultimate structure of the gills in crustacea.

   Specimens showing the reproduction of Arenicolae, and their mode of respiring.

   On the Physical Conditions regidating the vertical Distribution ofAnimals in
           the Atmospliere and the Sea. By Thomas Williams, M.D.

   --The subject was treated under the following heads :

       Pressure in the Atmosphere ; Rarefaction. Experiment I. Illustrating the influence
    of density and rarefaction of the atmosphere on birds, affording striking proofs of the
    penetration and diffusion of air through all parts of the body in birds ; newts, frogs

 --and mice included in the experiment for the purposes of contrast.
       Pressure in Water, and removal of. Experiment II. Of removing atmospheric
    pressure from water containing fishes and Actinia, demonstrating the mechanical

  --functions of the air-bladder, &c. reflections on the distribution of fishes in the sea.

       Experiment III. Of increasing the pressure of the atmosphere over water containing

 --fishes, &c. curious results of sinking to the bottom, &c.
   --Experiment IV. Of increasing pressure hydrostatically effects on fishes. Ac-

    tinia, &c. &c.

   --Distribution of Light through Water. Experiment illustrating the depth to which
  --light will travel through water influence of, on distribution in depth of plants, zoo-
--I phytes, &c.

       Air of Water. Experiment proving its condensation at great depths, and its una-

I

i Tailableness for respiration in the deep regions of the sea.
       Explains the uniform warmth of the water of the deep sea, as discovered by Sir

    J. Ross.

                                                                                                   GS
                                                          --

--84 REPORT 1848.

  --Conclusion. Allusion to the observations of Forbes on the distribution of animals

in zones of depth, &:c. - doubts raised by experiment with respect to the statements of
Sir J. Ross, that the deepest regions of the sea are tenanted by animals and plants, &c.

Additions to the British Flora, and an exhibition of Drawings pre-

  pared for publication in the Supplement to English Botany. By C. C.

   Babington, M.A., F.L.S.

   The author made a few remarks upon the causes of the recent great increase in
the number of recorded British plants, which he supposed had resulted chiefly from
the more careful and minute study of plants ensuing upon the attention of our younger
botanists being turned to the works of foreign, more especially German and Swedish
authors. He then noticed the necessity of attending to minute subdivision of species
before any correct determination of what constitutes a species could be obtained,
after which doubtless many of the so-called species would be combined into real spe-
cies. At present no good distinction of species and varieties is known.

                         Species and varieties noticed :

Lolium linicola.         Orobanche Picridis.                  Filago spatiiulata.
Apera interrupts.        Maiva verticillata.                  F. apiculata.
Anacharis Alsinastrum.   Trifolium Molinerii.                 Crepis setosa,
Simethis bicolor.        T. strictum.
Ranunculus tripartitus.                                          and some others.
                         IVlelilotus arvensis.

Periodical Birds observed in the Years ISi? a7id 1848 near Llanrwst.

                        By John Blackwall, F.L.S.

               On the jKirasitic Character of Rhinanthus crista-galli.

                               By Joshua Clarke.

    Recent researches have discovered an interesting fact, that a whole group of plants
closely allied to the Rhinanthus, is parasitic ; but the reason for thus noticing this
habit in R. crista-gaJll, is its bearing on the practice of agriculture, viz. the in-
jury and sometimes the destruction of the barley crops on clay lands. The extent

--of the evil due to this weed having been mentioned, the author stated the mode of

effecting the injury as follows : The fibres of the root of the Rhinanthus attach
themselves to the fibres of the barley on which they grow. They then form small,
round tubers, or what perhaps might be more properly called spongioles, on the
sides of the fibres, which embrace the fibres so effectually, that they suck the juices
of the plant so as to starve it, and sometimes ultimately destroy it.

       Note on the Development of Pollen. By A. Henfrey, F.L.S.

   The object of this note was to offer evidence from original investigation that the
parent-cells of the pollen-cells are not formed through the agency of cytoblasts.

    The poUiniferous tissue of the anther in Tradescantia at first exhibits a continuous
cellular structure ; in the cells composing this new cells are formed around the en-

tire periphery of the protoplasm, completely filling the original cells, the walls of

which then decay leaving the new cells (the parent-cells of the pollen) free. The
protoplasm of the parent-cells divides into two and then into four portions, so that
two septa, generally crossing at right angles, are found, dividing the original cavity

into four cells (the special parent-cells), each generally having the form of a quarter
of a sphere. The protoplasm of these again forms a layer around its whole periphery,

whereby a new cell (the pollen-cell) originates in each cavity. The walls of the pa-
rent and special parent-cells then decay leaving the pollen-cells fi-ee. The nuclei
never make their appearance before the formation of the septa in the parent-cells.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                              85

On some Vegetable Monstrosities illustrating the Laios of Morphology.
                   Bg E. Lank ESTER, M.D., F.R.S.

The author stated that the only way of arriving at a proper knowledge of the im-

port and relation of the organs of plants, was to study the history of the development
of each organ from its primitive cells ; by this means those laws of morphology had

been evolved which were so successfully applied to systematic botany at the present
day. Although morphology must principally rest on observation, more especially
with the aid of the microscope, as experiment could hardly be made in this depart-
ment of inquiry, yet nature sometimes experimented as it were for us, and by
arresting organs in their process of development, presented to us in a permanent

form, the various transitionary stages of a normal development. Plants, or parts of

plants presenting these forms, were called "monstrous," "monsters," or "mon-

strosities," terms borrowed from the animal kingdom. These permanent forms of
the lower stages of development were found in all parts of the plant, and were worthy
of study as confirming or modifying the general laws of morphology. The follow-

ing instances had recently occurred under the author's observation, and he thought

them worthy of record.
   In the earliest periods of the history of the development of the leaf its position was

alternate, one leaf above the other, subsequently the leaves in many families became
opposite or verticillate. An instance was given of the original alternate type remain-

ing in the Hippuris vulgaris, in which the leaves, instead of being in whorls, were

arranged alternately in a spiral upon the stem.

   In the conversion of the leaf-bud into the flower-bud, bracts were the organs

which indicated the earliest change in the leaf. Two instances were exhibited, one

of Plantago major, found by the author, and the other Plantago media, presented
to him by Dr.Lindley, in whose garden it grew as a permanent variety, in which the

bracts normally situated at the base of the flower, and smaller than that organ,

retained the character of fully-formed leaves.

The sepals, petals and stamens exhibited still further departures from the ordinary

character of the leaf. These however often retained the appearance of the leaf after

the tendency to form the flower had commenced. As an instance of this specimens
were exhibited of the Brassica Napa, in which, in the place of the sepals, petals and
stamens, there were developed three rows of succulent leaf-like organs. This had

arisen from the attack of a fungus. Reference was also made to specimens of Tri-
folium repens, which had been gathered by the author in company with Professor
E. Forbes, Mr. A. Henfrey and Robert Austen, Esq., at Chilworth Manor, in which

the parts of the flower exhibited the characters of the leaves, and the short flower-

stalks were elongated into the character of the stem.
   The highest tendency of the plant was the production of the flower, and where

this tendency was greatest we must seek the typical form of the vegetable kingdom.

This was found in the Composite. In this family the tendency to the production of

Aflowers was so strong, that arrests of development were seldom recorded.  speci-

men of Tragopogon pratetisis was exhibited in which the pappus was converted into

foliate appendages ; the corolla was of a green colour, and the style had assumed

also a foliaceous character.

   The most central organ of the flower, the pistil, was also in its external parts in

the earlier stages of its growth identical with the leaf. In the Ti-ifolium repens and
Tragopogon pratensis insX, mentioned, it retained this form. The origin of the placenta

and ovules, within the carpellary leaves, must still be regarded as an undecided point.

An instance of the capsule of the Papaver somniferum was exhibited, in which, in the

interior of the capsule at its base, the growing point, there was present an abnormal

growth, consisting of four leaf- like organs, opposite each other, separate above and
united at the base, forming a kind of pedicel ; each of the leaves was partly united by

the margins, forming a kind of cavity which was covered by a curve of the leaf at its

apex ; one of the leaves was divided into two parts, each containing a cavity; on
the edges of the leaves above was a changed condition of the tissue resembling the

stigma, thus confirming the theory which regarded the stigma of Papaveraceae as
the result of the union of the two edges of two carpellary leaves. The author re-

garded this monstrosity as affording evidence against the theory of the development

of the placenta and ovules independent of the carpellary leaf.
                                                        -- --;

 --86 REPORT 1848.

      Another morphological question existed, and that was as to whether an inferior
  ovarj' should be regarded as the result of the growth of the carpellary leaf or of the
  portion of the stem on which it was seated. Some gooseberries Were exhibited in
  which bracts were growing from the surface of the berry, and which might be re-
  garded as indicative rather of the axial than the foliar character of the fruit.

     The proximate cause of these abnormal forms seems to be an over-nutrition of the
  part, which is produced either by culture or the attacks of parasitic fungi or insects.
  In these cases the formative energy of the plant seemed not able to resist the tendency
  to produce its tissues in the simplest form, that of the leaf.

  On a Peculiarity in the Protococcus nivalis. By Matthew Moggridge.

     On the 12th of August 1845,nearDelvin Head,Gower, at a place where water oozing
  out of the old red sandstone stagnates upon freshwater mud, I gathered Protococcus

  nivalis, but was prevented from observing it satisfactorily under the microscope.
      Since that period I have found it each year on the same spot and though the same

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;

  conditions apparently obtain in numerous places in the immediate vicinity, the ha-
  bitat appears to be confined to one precise spot.

      In 1846 I found KheProtococcus nivalis in pools in the rocky bed of the river Pyrddyn
  (about 40 miles from the former station), a little above and below the Lady's Fall.

     From 1845 to the present time I have made each year many observations (chiefly
  with the \ inch) on this plant. The peculiarity to which I would draw attention is
  the occasional presence and office of a tube, in length sometimes two-thirds the dia-
  meter of the globule. Tliis I have myself repeatedly seen, and on one occasion showed
 it to my excellent friend Dr. Hooker.

     Agardt has figured the Protococcus GreviUii with a somevvhat similar appendage
 but he regards it as being a jiedicle or means of attachment ; and the difference be-
 tween this species and the nivalis has not been apparent to me, as in observations on
 the same specimens carried on, sometimes for eight weeks, both forms occurred ; and
 1 believe the species to be identical, as indeed would appear by Mr. Hassall's book.

     In the cases above referred to, the passage of the granules from the globule through
 the tube appeared very decided ; the granular mass in the interior being lessened
 the tube containing several granules, and in the instance which I exhibited to Dr.
 Hooker, one granule being seen near the mouth of the tube, having to all appearance
.just escaped and being free in the water.

     I may add, that on no occasion has any attachment of this tube at its extremity

--been perceptible to me ; and would suggest that this is one I do not say the only

 mode in which the granules escape from the parent cell.

            On the Colour Stripes of a Rose (Rosa sempervirens), single.

                       By John Phillips, F.R.S., F.G.S.

    After some observations on the colour in the cells of plants, and the distribution of
 the tints according to structure, the author gave the following statement :

    The large firm petals of this beautiful single rose, when fully expanded and grown
 in an open aspect, are white, with a delicate tint of yellow toward the base, and, in
 very bright hot weather, an almost indiscernible blush of red. But there are on the
 flower two bands of very full clear red, which commonly appear on one petal only,
 and then generally converge and unite at an obtuse angle at or near the middle of the
 free edge of the petal. These bands are visible on the outside of the flower only, for
 the red dye does not penetrate to the interior. This is the usual appearance, but it
sometimes happens that, while two colour stripes appear on one petal, and are con-
vergent upon it, they do not meet at a point. When this happens, some portions of
red appear on one or more of the other petals of the flower, giving a slightly varie-
gated aspect to the whole. There are cases also of one stripe being on one petal,
and the other on parts of two others.

    Since it appears clearly from the above examples of variation in the place of the
colour stripes, that they are independent of any structural peculiarity of the petals of

the flower, it appeared to me that their form and distribution must be dependent on
some other circumstance in the organization of the flower or the arrangement of its

envelopes. Watching, therefore, the unfolding of the flower from its early bud, I
                                                   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  8?

have found that the colour stripe is not visible in the petals while they are entirely
covered by the calyx ; but that when the calyx, 'opening in a slit across the apex of
the bud, presents to the light a portion of the petals folded on one another, this por-
tion, and this only, acquires the deep red dye which makes the colour stripe. When,
as is often the case, one petal is so folded as to cover or nearly cover all the others,
and the opening of the calyx passes over it alone, this petal receives the whole dye;
it alone is .striped, and the stripes converge to a point ; but when the outer petal does
not so fully cover the others, and the opening crosses not the surface of that petal only,
but also the edges and surfaces of one or more of the others, these edges and surfaces
partake of the red stripe, which is really in its origin one continuous band on the bud.

   From these facts it may be concluded that the limited red dye of this rose is due

to light acting during a very short period of time on whatever cells of the petals
may happen to lie in the zone which is uncovered by the calyx and released from its
pressure j that there is no peculiar susceptibility for colour in these cells which di-
stinguishes them from the others, all being in fact susceptible of this colour, but only
in a particular stage of growth, viz. that which precedes the full opening of the calyx
into its five segments.

    In a few cases it has happened that one of these rose-buds opening in a very
shady situation has received no red dye, but remained altogether white ; and by ex-
perimentally covering a bud with a black hood, the development of red dye has been

entirely prevented. A bud entirely covered with a glass case was very much re-

tarded in flowering, and opened colourless.
   I have found, by examining many other roses, single and double, that the same

principle, of the colour depending on partial exposure of the petal to light at a par-
ticular epoch of growth, is capable of extensive application to white roses whose
outer petals are in any degree dyed red ; but it seldom happens that in rose petals the
susceptibility for a red dye is so remarkably limited as in the example chosen ; the
dehiscence of the calyx determines indeed in many cases a band or bands of darker
tint, but this generally spreads so far to the right and left beneath the leaves of the

calyx, as not to catch the attention.

    I do not venture at present to offer this explanation of the tints of these roses as a
general view applicable to other flowers, in which, frequently, there is a specific de-

termination of colour to specific parts of the floral envelopes ; but I think it probable

that many striped and spotted flowers may yield to observation and experiment proof
that the distribution of their hues is in some degree governed by the manner in which
their buds are released from pressure and exposed to light.

On an apparently undescribed state of the Palmellece, toitha few Observations

 on Gemmation in the Lower Tribes of Plants. By G. H:K. Thwaites.

The Palmellece are usually described as consisting of separate cells, imbedded in a

gelatine, each cell being supposed to represent a single plant. Mr. C. E. Broome,

however, has discovered that in an early stage of Pahnella botryoides of Greville, the

plant consists of a number of branched filaments without septa, containing endo-

chrome, and having their ultimate ramifications terminated by the ordinary cells of

the Pahnella; around each of these cells a quantity of gelatine is developed; they

subsequently become detached from the filaments, and develope the mucous pro-

longations, which, as Mr. Hassall has observed, are probably characteristic of most,

if not all the species of this tribe of plants. Mr. Broome's observations have been

confirmed by the author in the species above-mentioned, as well as in Coccochloris

rufescens, Brebisson ?, another species of the PulmeHece. Mr. Thwaites considered

that the separation of the cells from the filaments, and the fact of each of the cells

then assuming an independent vitality, should be viewed as a gemmation taking place,

being rather a division of the individual plant than a reproduction of the species ; and
therefore the subsequent fissiparous division of these separated cells would be a con-

tinuation of the same process of gemmation. The author proceeded to show to what

extent gemmation takes place in the lower tribes of plants, instancing the mosses, in

which it would appear to commence even in the subdivision of the contents of the

sporangium                                         if the mass of sporules is to be considered, as seems probable, the repre-
                                                ;

sentative of one embryo in the higher plant, the phytons produced from the con-
                                                            --

--88 REPORT 1848.

fervoid filaments originating from the sporules are another form of gemmation in the
mosses ; and gemmation also takes place in the perfect state of the plant in Bryum
androgynum and other species. In the Lichens and Hepaticce there is also exhibited a
great tendency to produce gemmae. If the opinion now advanced with reference to
gemmation be the correct one, it follows that in some species of mosses, such as
Encah/pta streptocarpa, and of lichens, as Parmelia physodes, in which true repro-
duction by means of spores seems scarcely ever to take place in some localities, an
individual plant, by means of its gemmae or offsets, may attain the age of our largest
trees, and occupy as large a space in the economy of nature. The tendency to pro-
duce gemmae in the lower tribes of plants seems to warrant our considering that
what has been described by authors as a second form of fructification in some of the

--Algae, should be rather referred to gemmation : for example, the tetraspores of the

FloridecB, the Opseospermata of Draparnaldia and Chcetophora, and what has been
described by Thuret as the spore of Vaucheria. The author took occasion to observe
that he did not consider the cilia with which the last-named organ is furnished, as
affording any proof of a higher character of organization than if no such cilia existed,
and he was inclined to believe that these appendages are merely a modification of
 cell-membrane, which latter is probably, judging from its mechanical properties,
made up of a mass of such delicate filaments as those forming the cilia.

On a supposed conneodon between an iiisiifficient Use of Salt in Food and the

           Progress of Asiatic Cholera. By W. H. Crook, LL.D.

     In this communication the author surveyed the geographical and social position of
 the district in which this kind of cholera originates, and inferred that in that district
 the use of salt, as an article of daily consumption, was (by artificial arrangements)
 limited to an amount far below that which the healthy and vigorous sustentation of

the functions of life requires. He then examined the relation of fatality and preva-

 lence of cholera in different countries of Europe to the price and consumption of salt,
 and infers as not improbable that a deficient quantity of salt in the food of a nation

 may predispose many of its inhabitants to receive and generate the virus of cholera,
 or render them less able to resist its attacks.

 An attempt to give a Physiological Explanation how Persons both Blind,
    Deaf and Dumb from Infancy interpret the Commu7iications of others by
    their Touch only. By Richard Fowler, M.D., F.R.S.

    The facilit)' with which young blind and deaf persons acquire such efficiency in
 their fingers as to enable them to substitute touch for loss of both sight and hearing,
  admits of a physiological explanation from the following considerations :

     That the knowledge of objects and their various relations is not from the specific
  nerve of each organ of sense, but from the muscular sense residing in the muscles
 by w^hich they are adjusted. Mere contact without pressure gives no knowledge
  of the forms or bulk of objects, and soon ceases to excite any sensation if the mus-
  cles which move the fingers are not in action. This fact, that all our distinguishing
  sensations are in the muscular sense of adjusting muscles, seems to afford a satisfac-
  tory proof that it is by this objects appear erect, though in the dead eye they are

 inverted when seen on the retina. When the head is unmoved and the eye alone
  raised to look up at the ceiling, we have a contractile feeling in the elevator muscles
  of the eye and forehead, and when we depress our eyes we have analogous feelings

  in the depressing muscles. Such muscular sensations, like those of the larynx, pass
  unheeded by those who can both hear and see, but the slightest sensations indica-
  tive of the meaning of others are objects of anxious attention to the blind and deaf,
  more particularly when new to them. This excitement by novelty of feeling is well
  marked by Sir H. Davy, who said he felt an extended sense of touch when he had
  for some time breathed the nitrous oxide gas, and this probably from the larger pro-
  portion of oxygen than in atmospheric air. For I think it will be found, that simul-
  taneously with retransmission of motor influence to the adjusting muscles of any
                                      ------

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                        89

part, there is also retransmission to its arteries to ensure a supply of blood (the
source), from which both sensibilitj' and contractibility are sustained.

   Captain Ibbetson read a paper which he had translated from the French, on the
Chemical and Physiological eflfects of feeding Fowls, and on the changes and chemical
composition of Eggs during incubation, by Dr. Sacc.

   The first part of this paper gave an account of the results of feeding a bantam
cock and hen on barley alone. At the end of a week it was found that the cock
had gained 18 grammes (a granjme is 15J grains English) and the hen had lost 21
grammes, but had laid in the mean time an egg weighing 22 grammes ; in addition

to the barley a certain quantity of carbonate of lime had been consumed. The egg on
being examined was found to contain

                      Albumen                        19-49

                      Oil                            27-84

                      Water                          --52-67 100-00

In hens ordinarily fed the egg contained             17
                                     Albumen
                                                Oil  29
                                     Water
                                                     54--100

Thus showing that the barley-fed hen laid eggs with a larger quantity of solid

organic matter than ordinarily fed hens.

AIt was found that hens during incubation lose weight.        hen before incubation

weighed 672-155 grammes, after it 483-202 grammes. During incubation eggs lose

weight in the following proportion :

1st week 5 per cent.  2nd week 9 per cent.                    3rd week 3 per cent.

losing altogether 17 per cent, of their weight. The shell of the egg was found to

weigh 18 per cent, of the egg, and to be composed principally of carbonate of lime.

The shell of the egg is not formed unless the animal has access to carbonate of lime

in some form or other. The carbonate of lime is deposited on the egg from with-

out, and is carried to the egg in a state of solution in carbonic acid. Phosphate of

lime and traces of iron were found in the albumen and the yolk of the egg, and also

soda. The function of the albumen or white of the egg appears to be, first, to

furnish the young bird with phosphate of lime for its bones and other earthy and

alkaline salts ; and, secondly, to supply water, the material for the muscles, and to

hold in solution the carbonic acid breathed by the young bird before it is hatched.

A communication is constantly kept up between the atmosphere and the chick by

the shell, which is the organ of the gaseous pulmonary and cutaneous excretions.

The yolk of the egg is principally composed of oily matter, which appears to be

taken into the system of the young chick, and is used in respiration for the purpose

of maintaining animal heat. Thus it is found that in the contents of the new-laid

egg there are the same principles surrounding the young chick as there is in the

Wevegetable kingdom for the supply of the whole animal kingdom.      have, first,

proteine for nutrition ; second, oil for combustion ; and, third, various salts for com-

bining with the agents of nutrition.

On the erroneous division of the Cervical and Dorsal Vertebra:, and the
   connection of the First Rib with the Seventh Vertebra, and the normal

  position of the Head of the Rib in Mammals. By Dr, Macdonald,

   F.R.S.E., L.S., G.S. &SC.

   Cuvier was most successful in the application of organic characters in systematic
zoology and palseontologj^ and from his data almost all our modern zoologists have
copied their elementary and systematic treatises.

   From a very extended examination of the skeletons of the vertebral classes, Cuvier
early adopted and maintained, as an essential character of the whole class of mam-
mals, that they were distinguished by having seven cervical vertebrae as in man.
Unfortunately this was based on a hasty adoption of the anthropotomist, who had
                                                                                       ;

90 REPORT 1848.

restricted his examination to the dried skeleton and the still drier descriptions of

human osteology. Had a more scientific course been pursued by the investigation

of the neurological distribution, we feel that this error would not have been so ex-

tensively adopted, and in fact would not have been proposed by so excellent an ob-

server as Cuvier. Even in the skeleton of man, as best articulated, nine of the

twelve ribs have their heads articulated opposite the intervertebral space, being

equally connected with each of the adjoining vertebrre. This we assume as the nor-

mal position in the mammals, and even in many of the reptiles, and therefore the

case of the first, eleventh and twelfth ribs in man are the exceptions.

  A vertebra having a rib attached, is considered dorsal in the osteology of mam-

mals. The normal position of the head of the rib in the intervertebral space is

beautifully displayed in the disposition of the ligaments, which in a stellate or

divergent form unite by three tendons the head of the rib to the intervertebral car-

tilage and adjoining vertebrae.

In the turtle this arrangement is also very well marked. As twelve ribs require

twelve spaces and thirteen bodies to form these spaces, we require thirteen instead

of twelve dorsal vertebrae. This will reduce the number of the cervical to six. By

a very large induction and examination of the skeletons of recent as well as extinct

species of mammals, we are fully satisfied, that with few exceptions, it will be found
that there are only six cervical vertebrae in the mammal class, and that this should

be adopted as the normal type.

The elephant was the first instance in which we observed the confirmation of what

we had previously proposed as the true enumeration of the cervical vertebrae in man,

from a consideration of the distribution of the spinal nerves forming the brachial

Weplexus.  subsequently examined the very valuable Museums of the University

and College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, and more recently enjoyed the opportunity of

examining those of the British Museum, College of Surgeons, and Guy's Hospital

and from these and others of a more limited extent, we found that there were only

six cervical vertebrae unconnected with ribs, or rather that the first rib was articu-
lated with the seventh vertebra in the following classes :-- Quadrumana, from a very

great number ; Carnivora, from all but the seals ; Rodentia, Pachydermata, Pe-

cora, Cervi, Cetacea ; the only exceptions met with were the seals and one skeleton

of a kangaroo in Guy's Hospital Museum. In man, the first rib is occasionally in

the normal position opposite the intervertebral space ; and when we find that the
eighth vertebra has an undue share of costal attachment compared with all the rest,

we may easily suppose that this has arisen from the primary branchial arch in the

reptiloid phase of the foetus, causing the lowering of the head of the rib, thus at the

same time producing greater horizontality in closing in the summit of the thorax,

and giving greater freedom for the passage of the subclavian artery and vein over the

broad surface, instead of the sharp border or edge. There is another point of view

in which this has a bearing ; the usually defined exception of the Bradyjms tridactylm

affords grounds for the supposition that the cervical vertebrae are, like those of the

cranium, arranged in pairs, for there we have not an additional vertebra, but an

additional pair of vertebrae. In a former communication (read at the Cambridge

meeting of the Association) we presented a sketch of the arrangement of the cranial

vertebra.' in pairs as the only mode or principle of unravelling the maze in which they

have been so long and even still are involved.

   The next subject for correction is that proposed by Prof. Owen, who considers the

scapulo-clavicular arch and anterior extremities as the divergent lamina of the occi-

pital bone. Without attempting a full analysis and critical examination of this theory,

--we ma)' shortly state the foUov^'ing objections : I. In the mammals this is really

composed of at least two laminae. 11. It is neurologically connected in this class

with the lower cervical and upper thoracic or humeral region. 111. It is also in the

same position in birds and in the chelonian reptiles ; it is attached anterior to the dor- '
sal vertebrae by the triquetron as a separate bone, and which is only typified by the

triquetral or triangular surface of the spine of the scapula over which the trapezius

plays, and to which the minor rhomboid is attached. IV. But the most striking

objection lies in the case of fishes. The author presented to meetings of the Asso-

ciation at Glasgow and Cambridge, proof that what had been misnamed and mis- .
               1- -- -- --

TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                               91

taken for the thoracic or anterior extremity, and called by ichthyologists, judging
from external character only, the pectoral fin, was really the coxal segment and
leg, and not the humeral arch. Tlie author presented a sketch copied from the Lec-
tures on Comparative Anatomy by Prof. Owen, to show how the mistake had arisen.
The object of the diagram was to show that in the human foot, the analogy to the
human arm may be traced by merely elongating the calcls and scaphoid bones, so
as to represent the ulna and radius, while the astragalus may typify the very com-
pressed humerus ; in the fish the foot is turned with the sole or palmar aspect for-
wards, consequently what is the internal malleolus in man and mammals becomes
the external in the fish, and so very much developed, that it forms in the osseous fishes
the larger part of the tibia, meeting almost with its fellow from the opposite arch
under the mesobranchial or hyoid region, and called by Cuvier the scapulo-clavicu-

laire, and by Owen the coracoid, having the fibula more internal and called epico-
racoid by Owen.

    Should the Section agree to this view of the pectoral being the coxal instead of
the scapular or respiratory extremity, they will perceive that it cannot be the diver-
gent lamina of the occipital bone. It would require too long a notice, and also a

demonstration of specimens, to render this subject fully evident ; but the author is
anxious to contribute, by a prompt correction of what he deems error, data to

secure the fundamental basis of this important branch of anatomical study.

On the Homologies and Notation of the Dental System in Mammalia.
                    By Professor Owen, M.D., F.R.S.

   The Professor commenced by observing that one of the results of the deterniina-
tion of the homologies of parts of the animal body was the power of denoting them

by symbols, and gave, in illustration of the advantages of this substitute for verbal
definitions, some descriptions of the order of development and change of dentition in

different mammalia, and especially in the genus Macropus, Shaw. He had shown

that the formula which had been supposed by Cuvier to distinguish the small kan-
garoos {Halmaturus) from thz Macropus of Cuvier, was the same essentially in both
genera, the differences depending only on the length of time during which certain
teeth were retained. The true formula of the Macropodidce was

                           .3--3 0--0
                          1-- l' 0--0^1--1

The canines are never functionally developed, though minute germs occur in the

upper jaw of some of the smaller species, and in the embryo state of all kangaroos.

The author had not described the changes of the teeth or given the deciduous for-

mula of the kangaroos in his 'Odontography,' nor had any additional information
been given in later works. Mr. Waterhouse, in his ' Natural History of Mammalia,'

had confirmed the author's determination of the permanent formula of the dentition

of the Macropodidce, and had abandoned the Cuvierian one.

                                                                        22
c--- m---- =The deciduous dentition of Macropus Major was *t^;^j
                                                3 3 \ j^

                                                                     ,      18.

When the young kangaroo quits the pouch, the dii (milk-incisors) and dec (milk-
               -- --\ \
-- =mcanines) are shed, and the dentition is t
                               22               12. The incisors were i 1

                      ,        -^

(first permanent incisors) ; the molars were d 3 and rf4 (the milk-molars homologous

with those so numbered in the typical dentition of the horse, hog). The next stage

in the kangaroo is the acquisition of i 2 in the upper jaw (second permanent incisor),

and of m 1 (first permanent true molar) in both jaws, formulised by
                      --1 1
--I            ~2--2
               2--2
 --1
.2--2    ,  m

    ,  d

1

                                                                3

-- -- -- =At one vear old the dentition was i -
                              -- --1
               3            2  m2 -^                             ^  24. The next stage
                                                                 -
               -,     dm r     ;,
                                                                 ^
                         2     -i

--is the shedding of d3 and the appearance in place of m 3. Then d 4 is shed and

succeeded by p 4, the single premolar which displaces d 4 vertically. Finally,
               --4 4                                     ----                      --

--92 REPORT 1848.

m -- --4 the last true molar comes into place, and in Macropus gigas the premolar is

simultaneously shed.

   Thus four individuals of the great kangaroo may be found to have the same nume-

rical molar series, viz.  --m 4 44 , and yet not any of them have the same or homologous

teeth.  The four grinders, for example, may be

                               m md 3, d i, 1, 2; or
                               m m md 4, I, 2, 3 ; or
                              m mp I, 1, 2,'m 3; or
                              m m mmI, 2, 3, 4.

Prof. Owen, not having traced out when he published his ' Odontography ' all this

complex interchange and alternating sequence of the dentition of the kangaroo, had

been compelled to postpone any definition of the deciduous formula until all the

stages had been observed. The order described was not that followed in some of the

msmaller kangaroos. In Macropus Bonettii, e. g. the acquisition of 3 is not accom-

m --panied by the shedding of rf 3 : a skull of that species 5 in. in length, had55
                                                                         -       -, being

md3, di, m 1, m 2, and 3 : both milk molars are shed and replaced by the single

premolar p 4, but this tooth is not pushed out by the rising into place of the last

mmolar, 4 : hence the mature dentition shows five grinders on each side, or

        m\ 4   4
            ,
                 . Thus the total number of molar teeth developed in the kangaroos
        14
 -- --]

^p 1

is 28, consisting of 2 deciduous molars, 1 premolar and 4 permanent molars on each

side of both jaws. The deciduous molars were the homologues of those in the

human subject, viz. d m 3 and 4 ; the premolar is the homologue of the second

bicuspid, orp4 ; the three anterior molars answer to the three true or tuberculate
molars in mman, viz. 1, 2 and 3 : the fourth molar in the kangaroo is a supernu-

merary tooth.
   After describing other particulars in which the proposed notation for the indivi-

dual teeth was exemplified. Prof. Owen proceeded to observe, that the substitution
of signs for verbal descriptions was at once the power of the algebraist and the proof
of the exactness of mathematical reasoning. To gain the like power for anatomical

science should be the chief aim of its cultivators ; to this end the determination of
the homologies of parts was the indispensable step which should be followed by de- ·
noting the part by a symbol representing it under all its modifications of form and

in all the species of animals in which such part existed.

As an example of the amount of information which might thereby be conveyed in

a small compass, several illustrations were given, amongst which were the follow-
--ing : The permanent dentition of the Anoplotherium was
                             -- -- =-- --.3--3 1
                                                            3--3
                             t ,c                           -3--3-

                               33 1
                                            1 4--4       m           ..

                                            1, ^p4--4 ,             44.

This was stated to be an example of the typical series of teeth in the placental mam-

malia with true premolars. The deciduous dentition of the Anoplotherium was
                          ~
=i-H^,                           32 : dml was succeeded hy p\, dm2 by »2, dm 3 by
 --3--3
        c-^^,  dm 4--4

           11

p3, dm 4 hy pi : but m 1 was in place before dml was shed ; m 2 was coincident
with p 1 and p 2 ; next came m 3 and p 3 ; and then, coincidently, p 4 and m 3.

The     permanent  dentition       of  the  horse was    i3^^3>       J J 33 33

                                                                    ''tzZi'^^IIa' "^SUs"'*^'

                                       3\

                                       -- =dm, c

                                       -- 4--4a 1
                                 3          I   44               dm32 :
                                            -,  --
its deciduous  dentition     is  i          1                            1 is not succeeded by

                                   3                                                   "^

dmmp 1 ; the other three         are succeeded by teeth which answer to p2, p3 and p 4

of the Anoplotherium.

 -- --In the dog°, on the other hand, there are p-4--4- ; but only dm-o--o- : pi is not
             TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                       93

dmmpreceded by a calcified dm], and the    (deciduous molars) in use answer to

dm 2, dm 3 and dmi ia the horse and Anoplotherium. The permanent molars of

        --2

mlthe dog are -
             2             to m 1 and m 2  in the upper jaw, and to m i,         and
             -, answering

m 3, in the lower jaw of the horse. With regard to the human subject, of which

the deciduous and permanent teeth were formulised in the author's ' Odontography,'

dmthe first  answers to dmi'm the dog, horse, &c., and is succeeded in the eighth

year by a ^9 m, answering to p 3, and rfw 4 is succeeded hyp 4, before the completion

m mof the tenth year : 1 usually makes its appearance in the sixth year ; 2 between
mthe twelfth and fourteenth years ; 3 at or after the eighteenth year, whence it is

called the ' wisdom-tooth.'

  Now the description of the foregoing anatomical facts by the ordinary language

and verbal definitions of the teeth would occupy about five pages of type used in

' Bell's Anatomy,' and one disadvantage attending such tax upon the efl^orts of the

attention and memory was to enfeeble the judgement in forming its conclusions, and

to impair the power of seizing and appreciating the results of the comparisons.

Prof. Owen concluded by stating his conviction that nothing would influence

more the rapid and successful progress of the knowledge of the structure of animal

bodies than the determination of the nature of the parts by tracing their homologies,

and the condensation of the propositions respecting them, by attaching to the parts

so determined of symbols, or at least single substantive names, distinctly defined.

The bones might be denoted by simple numerals, as was proposed in his work on

the ' Archetype of the Skeleton.' And the effect of the few symbols for the teeth,

which, when explained, were so easily remembered, had been shown to be to render

unnecessary the endless repetition of the verbal definitions of the parts, to harmonize

conflicting synonyms, to serve as an universal language, and to convey the writer's

meaning in the fewest and clearest terms. The entomologist had already partially

applied this principle with much success, and the signs <J and $ for male and female
constantly occurred : the astronomer had early availed himself of it in the signs ©

and 2) for the sun and moon, and in the difi^erent symbols of the planets, &c. ; the

chemist was greatly advantaged by his extensive system of symbolical notation ; and

Mr. Babbage had ably advocated the use of this powerful instrument of discovery

in geometrical science, in his paper ' On the Influence of Signs in Mathematical

Reasoning.'                _____

     On the Value of the Origins of Nerves as a Homological Character.

                         By Prof. Owen, M.D., F.R.S.

   He stated that he was led to offer a few remarks on this subject from the circum-
stance that the supply of nerves to the arms of man from the lower cervical pairs,

and not from cranial nerves, had formed a difficulty to some in accepting his deter-
mination of the general homology of the arms as ' diverging appendages of the costal
arch of the occipital vertebra.' Since the determination of a general homology was
dependent on that of the special homology of parts, it was requisite to inquire how
far the preliminary and minor conclusions were affected by that condition of the
nerves which had been supposed to invalidate the major proposition cited.

   The author assumed that it would be granted that the arms of man were homolo-
gous with the fore-limbs of beasts, the wings of birds, and the pectorals of fishes. But

in the wing of the fowl the nerves were derived from the thirteenth and fourteenth
pairs counting backwards from the brain, whilst the homologous limb in man received
nerves from the fifth to the eighth pairs. Taking a closer instance of special homology.

Prof. Owen showed that the wings of the swan derived their nerves from very differ-

ent pairs from those that supplied the wings of the swift ; and he presumed that a
still greater difference in their relations to the neural axis must have characterized

the nerves of the pectoral paddles in the Ichthyosaur and Plesiosaur respectively.
The difference in the origins of the nerves of homologous parts was also manifested
in the ventral fins of fishes, which present such great varieties of relative -position

to the head as to afford the ichthyologist his characters of the orders Ahdominales,

Tkoracici, Jugulares.

   Now, if these differences in the place of origin of nerves do not invalidate the con-
--94 REPORT 1848.

elusions of special liomolog)% the author contended that they were equally inconclu-

sive against the determination of general homologies. He briefly stated the facts

confirmatory of the ideas of Aristotle and Cuvier as to the special homology of the

arms of man with the pectoral fins of fish, and summed up the arguments that had

been given in his work on the 'Homologies of the Skeleton/ in favour of viewing the
attachment of the scapular arch to the occiput in fishes, as the normal one, in rela-
tion to the archetype, and as proving that arch to be the haemal one of the occipital
vertebra, and the pectoral fins to be the radiated appendages of such hiemal arch.

                            ETHNOLOGY.

On the Geographical Distribution of the Languages of Abessinia and the
                   Neighbouring Counti-ies. By Dr. Beke*.

Dr. Beke exhibited a map allowing the geographical limits of the various lan-
guages spoken in Abessinia and the adjoining countries, in conformity with the clas-
sification suggested in the Report on the Languages of Africa, made last year to the
British Association by Dr. R. G. Latham. The map comprised Classes 14 to 23 in-

clusive of that Report.
    In his remarks in explanation of this map, the author agreed with Dr. R, G. La-

tham on all material points, except only as regards the aboriginal languages of Abes-
sinia, which Dr. Beke considers to consist of those not of the Ethiopic but of the Agau

class.

   The author next proceeded to analyse a list of languages mentioned in the ' Athe-
iiteum' of the 12th of April 1845 (No. 911), of which M. d'Abbadie reports that he
has collected vocabularies; and he showed that, apparently, they may all be ranged
in one or other of Dr. R. G. Latliam's classes, which may consequently be regarded
as exhaustive of the languages spoken in Abessinia and the countries immediately

adjacent.

    Dr, Beke also explained the probable origin of the fabulous stories which have
been related respecting the Dokos, an alleged nation of pygmies dwelling in the
south of Kaffa, but who appear to be a race of savage black people, of little less than
the ordinary stature of mankind.

                 On the Ante- Columbian Discovery of America.

                           By Professor Elton, D.D.

   The Sagas of Erik the Red, and Thorfin Karlsefne, published by the Royal Society
of Northern Antiquaries in 1837, contain the history of the first discovery of Ame-

rica, A.D. 986-1013. The manuscripts published in the ' Antiquitates Americanse,'
give an account also of voyages made by the Scandinavians during tlie twelfth,
thirteenth and fourteenth centuries. They explored a great extent of the eastern

coast of North America, fought and traded with the natives, and attempted to esta-

blish colonies.  The  most  northern  region  they  called  Hellialand,  i.  e.  Slateland                                     the
                                                                                                                            ;

country further south, Markland, i. e. Woodland ; and the tract still further to the

south, Vinland, i. e. Vineland. The general features of the country accord with the

description given.

   This discovery is confirmed by an inscription rock on the Taunton River, at

Dighton, Massachussets, found there on the arrival of the first New England colonists,
which contains the word Thoriinus, and 132. One of the Sagas states that Thorfinus,

an Icelandic chief, witli 132 men, made a voyage to Finland in 1000, remained there

three years, and was finally killed in a battle.

In support of the claims of the Welsh to the discovery of America, we have the fol-

lowing information. It is mentioned by three of their bards, Meredyth ap Rhys,

(iutwyn Owen, and Cynfrig ap Gronw, all of whom wrote before the discovery by

Columbus, that Madoc sailed from Wales in 1170, and after pursuing a westward

  * Printed in extenso in the Edinburgh New Philosophical Magazine, vol. xlviL No. 93, for

July 1849.
                               --
                                                                         :

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  95

course for some weeks, arrived on a continent where the inhabitants differed from

Em'opeans. He returned to Wales, and subsequently equipped a fleet of ten vessels,

and sailed for the same continent ; but of that expedition no tidings were ever re-
ceived. All the information we have on this point at present must be deemed only

probable conjecture.

On a quantity of Human Bones discovered in a Field near Billingham, in
      the County of Durham. By John Hogg, M.A., F.R.S., F.L.S.

   The author exhibited several human bones, selected from many which were dug
up this spring in an arable field, situate about half a mile to the west of Billingham,
in the coimty of Durham. These bones consisted of supra-occipital and parietal bones
of the skull, a humerus, portions of the upper and lower jaws with the teeth, &c.
they were in excellent presei-vation, though some were more decayed than others.
The teeth being worn down in a remarkable manner, led to the belief that they were
those of a very early and primitive race, which had chiefly fed on hard substances,
such as parched pulse, nuts, acorns*, and the like. They were dug up at a trifling
depth with a common spade.

   For many years past a vast number of human bones have been ploughed up ; so
much so that women whilst weeding in that field have collected them, and sold them
at the neighbouring water-mill, where machinery is used for crushing bones for ma-
nure. The field is called Nutton, or Newlon Heads, which has probably been so
named from the skulls or heads of men having been at times discovered in it. There
was nothing whatever to show that these remains had been interred in cofiins, or

after any regular plan of sepulture ; nor is there the least likelihood of the spot ha-
ving formerly been a burial-place belonging to any church or convent.

    In the year 1804, a skull and several human bones were turned up when draining
in a grass-field near the same mill; and about the year 1830, in an adjoining grass-
field, three skeletons of men were found while some workmen were excavating a part
of the field for a line of railway ; they however rapidly crumbled to dust on exposure

 to the air.
    Mr. J. Hogg, in endeavouring to account for the appearance of these remains in

 the fields respectively pointed out, attributed their interment in those spots to one of
the following causes, which several local histories have handed down to us :

    First. Hutchinson, in his ' History of Durham,' vol. iii. p. 106, says, " Billingham is
memorable for a great battle fought there by Ardulf, king of Northumberland ; " and
 the same is related by a later author^ more fully thus : " a civil war broke out in the
 kingdom of Northumberland, when the mal-contents assassinated Ethelred the king

at Corbridge, a.d. 795. Wada was chief of the conspirators, and was attacked by
 Ardulf, who afcer a short interval had succeeded Ethelred (about a.d. 800), and a

 pitched battle was fought near Billingham, which is represented to have been attended

 with a very great slaughter."
     Second. In one of the in-uptions of the Danes, about a.d. 910, a king called

 Reingwald landed a great force (according to Symeon Dunelmensis, lib, 2. cap. 16)
 on the coast of Northumberland, and expelled or murdered several of the principal
 inhabitants; and one of his generals, called Scula, laid waste the country from Eden
 Dene to Billingham J.

    Third. In the tenth century, between a.d. 920-25, Edward the Elder reduced the
 Danes throughout Northumbria.

    The great quantity of human bones however that have been brought to light within

 the last few years in the befoi-e-mentioned arable field, renders the first of these
 causes the most probable. Yet some persons might perhaps be induced to assigu
 their appearance in all those places, either to some battle consequent upon a later
 incursion of the Danes or other hostile nation, or to a more recent fight between the
 natives of that district and some marauding party of freebooters, although of any such
 having actually occuri'ed nothing whatever is known.

    · Many suppose that the common acorn could not be eaten on account of its great bitter-
 ness ; but it is probable that there was some method adopted by the earlier inhabitants to
 extract it. For a mode stiU used by the Sardinian peasantry, see Tyndale's Island of Sar-

  dinia, vol. iii. p. 191.

    t Brewster, Hist. Stockton, edit. 2, p. 10.
     X See Brewster, Hist. Stock, p. 11, and Surtees, Hist, of Darham, vol. iii. p. 144.
                                                                                   --

96 REPORT-- 1848.

   The author then, in the absence of all further historical or traditional accounts, is
inclined to refer the interments of the numerous human bones in the fields previously
described to the period immediately after the great battle which was fought near
Billingham between king Ardulf and the conspirator Wada.

   The subsoil of the arable field being very dry, and nearly a pure sand, would pre-
serve those remains for a great many centuries.

   The supra-occipital and parietal bones of the skull did not present any physiological

peculiarity of structure.

   Amongst the collection were an astragalus of a small ox, and a transverse process
of a lumbar vertebra, most likely of a horse.

              Measurements of a Skull considered to be Burgundian.

                               By Professor Retzius.

                     Diameter.                                            Metres.
              Fronto-occipital                                        0-188
              Frontal
              Occipito-vertical                                  0098
              Inter-mastoid                  o, O-HS

                                                                      0-128

              I nter-zy gomatic     ,,                 0- 12.5
              Inter-orbital
                                                       0025

General character Germanic.

              Notes on a Kirgis Skidl. By Professor Retzius.

    Although belonging to the Turkish tribes, the Kirgis skull departs from the type
of the Turk, Cossack and Mongol skulls in being less round, and short, and more de-
veloped in its occipito-frontal diameter.

Remarks to accompany a Comparative Vocabulary of eighteen Languages

  and Dialects of Indian Tribes inhabiting Guiana. By Sir Robert H.

   SCHOMBURGK, Ph.D.

   These vocabularies were collected by the author during the expeditions which he
undertook into the interior of Guiana, namely in the years ISS.'i to 1839, under the
direction of the Geographical Society of London, and in the yeai-s 1840 to 1844 as
Her Majesty's Commissioner for surveying the boundaries of British Guiana. The
territory, which extends from the shores of the Atlantic between the river Corentyn
(lat. 6° N., long. 57° VV.) to the east, and the Orinoco (lat. 8° 40' N., long. 60° 30' W.)
to the west, as far southward as the Rio Negro (lat. 1° 30' S.), and from the banks of
the Upper Corentyn (long. 56° 40' W.) westward to the Cassiquiare (long. 67° 40' W.),
that remarkable natural canal which connects the Orinoco with the Rio Negro, has
been more or less explored during the eight years which were dedicated to these

expeditions.

The number of vocabularies which he collected during his voyages amounts to

eighteen, none of which, as he observes, bear a closer affinity to each other than the

French and Italian. Without binding himself strictly to the following division, which he

--considered merely provisional, he divided these vocabularies into six sections, namely,
    I. Caribi-Tamanakan. 1. Caribisi. 2. Accawai. § Waika. 3. Macusi. § Zapara.
4. Arecuna. § Soerikong. 5. Waiyamara. 6. Guinau. 7. Maiongkong. 8.
Woyawai. 9. Mawakwa, or Maopityan. 10. Pianoghotto. § Zaramata. §§ Drio.

11. Tiverighotto.                          2. Atorai.  § Taurai, or Danri.

  --II. Wapis'ian-Parauana. 1. Wapisiana.

§§ Amaripa. 3. Parauana.

 --III. Taruman. Taruma.

 --IV. Warauan. Warau, or Guarauno.
 --V. Arawakan. Arawaak, or Aruaca.

VI. Lingua Geral (dos Rios Negro e Branco).

The subsequent remarks described the regions which are inhabited by the tribes

above enumerated, accompanied by some incidental observations respecting their

customs and manners, and were followed by a comparative vocabulary of a few words

from each, which are added herewith, as the greater number are new to our know-

ledge of philological ethnography.
       TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  97

i3
--98 REPORT 1848.

 >
 o
             --

      TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                  99

the

to ^  ..  ^
comparative vocabulary, which consists merely of eighteen words, have afforded him

82 cases for comparison with 102 different languages and dialects of the New World.

These comparisons, he says, are not forced by a mere resemblance of a single syllable,

but are obvious; and hence the opinion shared by many ethnographers, that there is

a general afhnity between the races who now inhabit the American continent, has

received a new proof through these Guianian languages and dialects.

However, the Guianians are in language more closely allied to the North American

tribes of the present day than to the Peruvians and Mexicans. " Let us take," he

continues, "for example the word ' dog,' which offers an affinity in five Guianian dia-

lects to Esquimaux, Kliketat (on the north-west coast), Ottawa, Cherokee, Onondago,

Seneca, &c., and tiot one instance of resemblance to a South American dialect beyond

the province of Guiana, as far as 1 have had opportunity to compare these dialects."

The author concludes with the following words :

" The Caribi-Tamanakan section of my Guianian languages is decidedly closer re-

lated to the North-American tongues than the other sections, and this circumstance

greatly confirms me in the opinion, that we have to look to Florida, Texas, and the

eastern foot of the Rocky Mountains, for the origin of the Carihi-Taniaiiakan races.

I consider the Tamanaks, including the Macusis, Arecunas, Pianoghottos, &c. the

continental Caribs of South America, and those races which are now known as Cari-

bisis and Accawais, the former inhabitants of the Lower Antilles."

On a Uniform System to reduce Unwritten Languages to Alphabetical Wri-

  ting in Roman Characters. By Sir Robert H. Schomburgk, Ph.D.

   The author, after remarking that the great evil connected with the confused state
of the orthography which has been hitherto adopted for expressing the sound of un-
written languagv?s has been of great disadvantage to the student of philological eth-
nography, the traveller, and the missionary, observes, that he used for his vocabula-
ries of the Guianian languages and dialects the sound of the Italian vowels and of
the English consonants, and rejected all diaci'itical marks.

   He brought under notice that the Church Missionar}' Society, in connexion with

several other missionary institutions then engaged in vernacular translations of un-

wi'itten languages, have recently adopted a common system of orthography, which
recommends itself for simplicity, and coincides with the method which has already
been employed by the translators of African languages, and has likewise been suffi-
cient for expressing the sounds of many languages of the East as well as of Africa.

   The system of the Church Missionary Society closely agrees with the one which
the author adopted in 1836 fur his vocabularies of the Guianian dialects, and is
likewise applicable for those who write in the German language. It has already
been employed by the great Missionary Institution at Basle, and likewise by others
for translating the Scriptures into Susu, Yoruba, Haussa and Tamneh. It is there-
fore to be hoped that the determination of these institutions to use common rules in
reducing unwritten languages, will materially assist to advance that laudable aim of
seeing a uniform orthography for unwritten languages introduced among scientific
men, travellers and missionaries. " And if the institutions," says the author, " who
have taken the lead are only determined to persevere, tlie circumstance that they
constitute not only a powerful party, but the only one at present who have to make

a practical application of such a system, will greatly contribute towards its general
adoption. Such scientific bodies as the Ethnological Societies of London, Paris, and

New York, might accelerate this desirable aim by giving their powerful assistance

towards its adoption."

            Ethnographical Note on the Vicinity of Charnwood Forest.

                      By John Phillips, F.R.S., F.G.S.

    While traversing on foot during several months in the early part of the year 1848

                                                                 h2
--100 REPORT 1848.

a large area of country in the vicinity of Leicester, Nottingham and Derby, the at-
tention of tlie author was continually arrested by circumstances in the physical cha-
racter of the population which were very unexpected. If in this district (the district
of Danelagh) Danish settlers had re])laced or been mixed with a purely Saxon peo-
ple, the now existing inhabitants should exhibit mainly though not exclusively the

--blue eye, light hair and ruddy complexion, and commanding stature of the Germanic

or Scandinavian races, as in fact really happens among the mountains of Yorkshire,
Cumbria and Northumberland, where these races predominate. But instead of such
prevalent signs of Saxon or Danish origin, the author perceived with surprise very
frequent examples of black eyes and hair, uniform or rather dark complexion, and
contours of countenance which might with more appearance of truth be referred to
that branch of the Celtic stem which is represented by the ancient population of South
Wales, Cornwall and Armorica. Nor was this cii'cumstance confined to particular classes
which might be supposed to have immigrated, but was found to prevail even more posi-
tively in the rural populations and most retired situations. It was equally noticed in
children of various ages (e.xcept infants) and adults ; and by repeated estimates the
author was confirmed in his impression that in fully half of the rural population in a
large area round Charnwood Forest the phj'sical character of the Germanic or Scandi-
navian people is wanting or complicated with another and very different type, and

that only in a smaller part of the population is that character exclusively present.

   May Ave suppose, in explanation of these observations, that a larger proportion of

the oppressed Britons was permitted to remain in their ancient midland sites than
historians generally admit? Were the Coritanian Britons in this respect peculiarly

favoured? Was it a circumstance more observable in the Mercian kingdom than else-
where ? The author, adopting for the present the affirmative on these points, rather

than the supposition of these black-eyed races being derived from a blue-eyed ancestry,
invited the attention of ethnologists to the curious problem of the actual distribution
of aboriginal and immigrated races which the British islands present, a problem very
important in history, but of which the solution, whether by philological or physical
demonstrations, is becoming every day less and less practicable, through the fusion of
dialects and the complication of races.

              Oji the Ttimali Language. By Dr. L. Tutschek.

    The materials for the Tumali language were collected by Dr. Lorenz Tutschek from
Dgalo Dgondan Are, one of the four young Africans with whose education he and
his late brother had been entrusted by the Duke Maximilian of Bavaria. The lo-
cality is one degree south of Obeyhda, in Kordofan. The Tumali area is divided by

--the mountain-stream Tente into two kingdoms of unequal size the Tumali-Tokoken

and the Tuniali-Debili. The first is the smaller, but, at the same time, the scat of
government ; the Eliot of Tumali-Debili being subordinate to the Ofter (or Wofler)
of Tumali-Tokoken, who is again subordinate to the king of Takeli, himself a tribu-

tary to the viceroy of Egypt.

   The Tumali language is a dialect of the Deier language of Riippell, or vice versa.
It also agrees, to the extent of three-fourths of the words common to the two voca-

bularies, with the Takeli* of Riippell.

   The details of this language, as communicated in extensohy Dr. Tutschek, may be

found in the Transactions of the Philological Society for June 23, 1848. Partially,
also, they appear in the Report of the present state of African Ethnographical Phi-
lology, in the last volume of the Transactions of the British Association.

              On the Fazoglo Language. By Dr. L. Tutschek.

    Collected from a boy born at Hobila, in the south of the Fazoglo country, purchased

out of slavery at Alexandria by the Duke Maximilian, and entrusted in the year
1844 to Dr. Tutshek for education.

   By referring to a note in the Report of the Transactions of the Sections for last

year, it will be seen that the Fazoglo of Tutschek is nearly allied to, if not identical

                       * See Report of last year, Transactions of the Sections, p. 124.
             --

             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                           101

with, the Qamamyl of Caillaud. Out of sixty words, compared by Dr. Tutschek,

the following coincide :

                 English.                  Fazoglo.      Qamamyl.
             Heart            ago                      ago
             Wing*            midzeboe                 mezebe
             Needle
             Tree             indiri                   ndilii
             Rainbow          n'ggole
                                                       engoule
             Ostrich          massal
             Breath           midzS amuru              mossol
             Balance          amula                    minsin merou
                              mudull                   amoula
             Hair             buss                     moudulle
             Belly                                     bouss
             Much             io
             Beak of bird...                           io
             White            duni
             Black            m\dz^ andn=bird's mouth  dungue
             Ass              hoti                     missindu
             Ring             mili                     foudy
             Goat
             Coal             shilerr                  =mi\\ blue
             Way              dolo
             Horse                                     chiler
                              mia                      toulou
                              galgashys
                              gagal                    mya
                              mura
                                                       kelgui cho
                                                       kagal
                                                       mourha

Further details are to be found in the Transactions of the Philological Society for

April 1849.

On the Gael, Breton and Cymry. By Archdeacon Williams.

                                        STATISTICS.

  Observations on the means of maintaining the Health of Troops in India.

                             By Edward Balfour.

After some preliminary remarks, the author stated that intemperance, which had
been regarded as a great cause of mortality among the troops in India, would be
found to add but a very small proportion to the deaths from climatorial diseases,
which were known to continue in sjjite of the most regular and temperate habits.
There seemed to be an unjust impression abroad tiiat a soldier was a very intemperate
character; but supposing this to be true, it would be found that other clashes of our
countrymen did not enjoy a greater immunity from disease. What was the propor-
tion of deaths amongst the highly temperate civilians of India, who were the most
intelligent, best clad, best paid, best lodged, and most independent servants of the
Indian government? Although the mortality amongst the same class in England
from 1801 to 1832 averaged only 9-1 per 1000 annually, according to the accounts
of the Equitable Insurance Society, yet .\1r. H. T. Prinsep had stated that in the
twenty years, from 1809 to 1828 inclusive, the Madras civilians lost 23 8 per 1000 of
their strength, the Bengal civilians 2.")1 per 1000, and the Bombay civilians 31'7 per
 1000. Tables were read to show that the human race enjoy better health in their
own than in any foreign country, whatever may be their rank, duties, or comforts.

         Contributions to the Statistics of Darlaston. By Mr. Kenrick.

                                                       * Quere, bird's arm.
                    ;

--102 REPORT 1848.

 Progress and Character of Popular Edtication in England and Wales, as
   indicated bi/ the Criminal Beturns, 1837-47. B>/ Joseph Fletcher.

   The equability between the proportion utterly uninstructed in the commonest arts
of scholarship, in and out of gaol, in the kingdom at large, is equally found in many
of its provinces, but there is a double deviation from it which indicates a general
cause of extensive operation. In the least educated districts, the proportion wholly
uninstructed among the persons committed for trial is less than among the popula-
tion at large ; while in the most educated districts, the proportion of the wholly un-
educated among the persons committed for trial is proportionally above the average.
As this appears, in the southern parts of England, chiefly by comparison between
the metropolitan and the midland counties, it might admit of complete explana-
tion by supposing that many of the most ignorant and dissolute of the rural popula-
tion, finding their way to the metropolis, there entered the latter stages of an un-
happy career. But this will not explain the relative excess of the totally ignorant
appearing in the criminal calendar of Rutlandshire, the only one of the midland
counties remarkably advanced in popular education, nor the coincidence of the like
phsenomenon with the superior instruction of the East and West Riding of York-
shire, of Cumberland, of Northumberland and of Durham. Migration of the poor,
ignorant and depraved into these regions appears to be very improbable ; neither is there
any conceivable emigration of such persons to account for the proportionate defect of
the wholly uninstructed in Monmouthshire, South Wales, or Cornwall, or in the
whole of the most ignorant and densely populated of the manufacturing counties of
Cheshire, Lancashire, the West Riding, Staffordshire, and Worcestershire. In other
words, the proportion of the wholly uneducated in gaol is less than the propor-
tion of the population at large equally in the most purely agricultural districts of the
south and east, and in the most purely mining and manufacturing districts of the
north and west, which are respectively the most jiositively ignorant and criminal
while in the most instructed counties, whether of the north or the south, and
whether metropolitan, agricultural, mining, or manufacturing, the converse is seen.

   The only explanation of this fact which suggests itself to my mind is, that there

is no less difference in the quality than in the amount of instruction given in the
most and least instructed portions of the kingdom respectively ; and that is only a
degree of careful uprearing of the young, far higher than that which can be tested
by the lowest attainments in reading and writing, that is alone blessed to the good
end of righteous living in a Christian hope. It is the abstraction of a greater num-
ber of the instructed from the criminal calendars of the better educated districts
which there throws the proportion of the totally ignorant into excess ; and the in-

ferior character of the instruction given in the worse educated districts, which per-
mits a greater number of the instructed to appear before the criminal tribunals, to

the reduction of the relative proportion of the wholly ignorant conijjrised in the
calendars. Thus regarded, these figures tend greatly to strengthen the impression
which I have derived from other sources, that around the moderate amount of really

efficient instruction, and really Christian training which prevails even in our best
educated districts, there exists a wide margin of spurious schooling, without any
good effect either upon the intellect or the heart; and that in the remotest of the

agricultural, as of the mining and manufacturing districts, it is this doubtful twi-

light that generally prevails, with no compensating superiority of vigorous education
among the middle and upper classes. Hence it results that the difference in the
amount of education, in any rational sense of the term, between one portion of the
kingdom and another, is far greater than that indicated by the var%-ing proportion
which the marriage registers show to be unable to write at all ; while as yet we have
no test that, for the population at large, will check against the gaol returns of those

who can read and write imperfectly, " and read and write well." If we had a test
myof the latter range of scholarship for each county, in the population at large, it is

conviction that it would furnish far stronger evidence in favour of good education.
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                 108

than that which we are now permitted to derive merely from a comparison of the
numbers wholly uneducated that appear in the marriage registers and in the criminal

calendars.

   Let us, however, return to the comparative progress of " education," up to the
mark of bare reading and writing among the population at large, and those brought
up before the criminal tribunals of their country. Here, also, we see a great number

of curious coincidences in the contemporaneous increase of marks in the marriage
registers, and of the proportion of persons able neither to read nor write in the cri-
minal calendars of the country or district. There are likewise some anomalies, but
the general result is a decrease of the proportion wholly uneducated in the criminal

calendars at double the rate that it is found to decline in the marriage registers, after

reckoning for the difference of the intervals between the data yielding the figures

now compared. The decline is scarcely' perceptible in the western Celtic districts,

and next to them, it is least observable in the great northern and central mining and
manufacturing counties, where it has declined only one-thirteenth in five j'ears, while
in all the rest of the kingdom it has declined about one-tenth, except in the northern
and midland agricultural counties {contiguous to the comparatively stationary mining

Weand manufacturing counties), in which it has declined upwards of one-seventh.

thus find the decline of total ignorance to be slowest in the most criminal and the
most ignorant districts, in which, nevertheless, its decline among those in gaol is
greater than in society at large ; everywhere indicating the very doubtful quality of
a great proportion of that which barely helps its recipients out of the category of

the totally ignorant.

   The proportion of criminals " reading and writing ill " is seen now to be precisely
double that of the criminals " unable to read and write," having increased no less

than 5"7 per cent, in the fii'st period of five years, and 0"4 per cent, during a subse-

quent period of three years, making a total of 6" 1 per cent, in the eight years. The class
of " superior instruction" being very limited (in fact, in the centesimal proportions,

always under a whole figure), and likewise unvarying, this increase must necessarily

be derived from only one other of the four classes, besides those who can neither read

nor write. From this we have seen that there is a subtraction of 3'1 per cent, in

five years, and I'l percent, in three more, making a total of 4"2 per cent, out of the

6*1 per cent, of augmentation observed in the column of" reading and writing ill."

The other TQ per cent, is derived from the colump of "reading and writing well,"

in which the decline during the first five years was no less than 2"6 per cent., but a

retrograde movement during the last three years has reduced this proportion to 1"9.

It is, however, to this heading that I would call especial attention, for this alone

Aaffords evidence, both conclusive and satisfactory, of a moral progress.  gradual

change in the standard designated " reading and writing well " could alone account

for this decline of one-fifth in the proportion of those possessed of this amount of

instruction ; but I would fain hope thai it is a correct indication of a real improve-
ment in the moral tone of the middle classes generally, springing from the source of
all truth and all goodness. Even if any portion of it arise from a practical elevation
of the standard designated by the heads of each column, this fact will only render
still stronger the conclusion already drawn from the increased proportion of those
reading and writing ill, which would have been yet greater, but for the retention of
some that might have been included in that column in the number of the totally un-

instructed.
  --104 REPORT 1848.

s.s
o .=

II.

          to 'I'
        bOi-i

^°M

  s-f.'
                                                             ;

           TRANSACTIONS OF THB SECTIONS.                     105

                                         Statistics on Mendicancy.

              By Sir J. P. Boileau, Bart., F.R.S., V.P. Stat. Soc.

   The writer regretted that there were no means at present of attaining a general
view of the statistics of mendicancy for the United Kingdom. It might be useful in
the mean time to examine some tables drawn up from the books of the Mendicity
Society of London, which show the progress which Irish mendicancy has made on that
Society. The number of meals given to Irish in January 1828, was 379, whilst in
January 1848 the number was 21,578; which being divided by 4, allowing each in-
dividual four meals a month, would show that 5396 individuals were relieved, and
indicate the enormous increase of about 5300, or 53 upon 1. From the Society's
books it appears that 50 per cent., or half of the 5396, were grown-up persons, while
in 1828, following the same rule, they amounted to 47^. While Irish mendicancy
appears to have so much increased, Ens;lish mendicancy does not seem to have varied
since 1828; it had in fact decreased in 1832-33 and in 1837-38. The increase in
Irish mendicancy was probably to be attributed to severe winters, the late failures of
the potato crop, the establishment of refuge-houses and soup kitchens in the metro-
polis, and the alteration in the poor law of 1837. Before that period it was the

practice to refuse admittance to Irish vagrants into the unions of the metropolis
since then it was considered that Irish vagrants had as good a legal right to relief as
any other persons. Another cause assigned as contributing to the influx of Irish into

London was, that the low lodging-housekeepers found means of obtaining tickets
from the Mendicity Society, and of offering them as orders for food to those who
would lodge with them. These causes induced old mendicants to flock to London.
This view of the case was supported by statistical proof exhibited in tables. These
were considered the most probable causes of the increase in Irish mendicancy. The
remedies suggested to meet the evils were to discontinue the establishments which
held out food to mendicants without inquiry as to character or the want of labour,
and to place tiie establishment of district relieving-houses under the superintendence
of the police.

   Facts bearing on the Progress of the Railway System of Great Britain.

                                   By W. Harding, C.E.

                    Contributions to Academical Statistics.

By the Rev. B. Powell, F.R.S., Sav. Prof, of Geom., Oxford.

On the desirableness of eodending to the Working Classes the opportunity of
  purcJiasing deferred annuities, as a provision for old age. By Cadogan

Williams.  .

            Moral and Educational Statistics of England and Wales,
                                       i??/ Joseph Fletcher.

   [The abstract of this paper, which was read in 1847, was received too late for the

volume of that year.]

   As it is of the whole kingdom that I purpose to speak, it is of the public enume-
rations that I must now chiefly make use ; and by the nature of the subject I am re-
quired to use principally the last Census of the Population ; the Income Tax Returns
the Reports of the Rea;istrar-General of Births, Deaths, and Marriages ; the Home-
Office Tables of Criminal Offenders; the latest Reports of the Poor-Law Commis-
sioners j and a Summary of Savings Banks, published by the barrister appointed to
certify their rules. It is by the agency of such departments as produce these do-
cuments that the State takes cognizance of all or of certain classes of it» subjects, at
various period.<!, and under the occurrence of very dissimilar events ; and from the
records of this momentary cognizance the following results are derived ; while many
more of equal interest may he obtained by those who have the desire and the oppor-
tunity to elaborate them. I contribute on the present occasion only the results of
some first efforts, which, if they serve to indicate the direction in which another may
profitably proceed, will not have been made in vain.
--106 REPORT 1848.

of
If
   TRANSACTIONS OF THB SECTIONS.  107

+  +I +   ++ +   +I 1               +

   00 N © «
          CO o
   r^ in

+  00 "H  (N to
   +I +   ++ +
                 II

+ + II                    O(M rl
                          oa> <o

          + ++I 1
--108 REPORT 1848.

    saSBSxnstllJo uoiiBindod     o-* <Ji       to
                                 O.^ T)<
Is  sieui JO junouie auiBS aq)              +
    UO 'S31BA\PUE pUB|3ua HB     (M (M i-H
    joj 33BJ3AB pa juinoiBO aqi
    MojaqpuB 3A0qB sjusiujiui    +++

    -mo3jo')u3o jad uoi^jodojj
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  109
    j

--110 REPORT 1848.

=s  s33b31I!I aqijo uoijBinilod                           OCO rt (N <N            ++++ +OCO CO ·* -H
    31«IU JO JUnOUlB 31UBS sqi                                                         I
II  uo 'saiBA\ piiB puKlSua UB                            ++ I ++ +
    jqj aSBJOAE paji'inoiBO aq}                           +I I I I
    MO[aqpuEa4oqBsjuoiuiua                                                                                               2 <=

    -aioojo')ii33jod uonjociojj                                                   + -hI I :                       I

                        ·Itsi ui s3;bv\.

    puE puciSua 11^ lit tlOIJ
    -Eindod 3J{\i 3qj oi sSej
    -34B 3q) Aioisq puB aAoqs

    ·(f-81 jaqiuSAOfi qiOo
    snuBg sSuiAEg ui s^isod
    -apjo '11133 .lad nonjodojj

             ·uoijBindod 3-![\\ aqj                                               * o oo> -71
                                                                                  « M OTt< 00
    UOdn 'S3[BjV\.PllBpUBl8ua                                                     NTl< l-H IM
                                                                                  +1 I I
    UB }0 3BBJ3AB 31H AIOISQ                              I II II                                I
    pUB 3A0qE 'U8I <n P313l[
    -3J siadnEd jo iioij-iodo'd

                                         ·sqjJiq          MCO 00 CO ea         .
                                                          o oao >H             I
     pajajsiSaj }o jaqiunu                                               i>.
     a3(!iaq} uodn 'ssjeav puB
     puB|3ua [(E JO aSBjaAB aqj                           ++++ I                  + + +I I +
     MOisqpuEaAoqE uajpiiqa
|S   aiBiaijiaaiiijo aJSMqoiqAi                           + ++ + + +              + I +-r + +
     'EWI ui pajaisi3aa sqjjiq                            +++++
     aqijo 'juaa aad uonjodojj                            +1 I                    + +I I      I

                                                ·sa^Ei.i                          '^^< OJ rH IM

     am-jBiu JO jsquinu a^i\                                                           IIII

      uodn 'sa|B^\\ puB pueiS
      -U3 llBjo 33Ba3ABaq4 Jboj
      -aqpuBaA0qB'n-8I uioSe
     JO saEai 15 Japun saSeu
      -jBiujo'juaaaadiioiwodoaj

    ;

           ·saSBUiEoijo jaqiunu
     3>1!I sql uodn 'ssiB^vV P"^
     puBi8u3 i[E JO aSsJOAE
     aqi Aioiaq puB aAoqa 't f8t
      UI S5[aEiii qjiAv lajsiSaj
     aSBujEm3i{) SuuiSis U3tti
     3q4 JO "juaa asd uoiiJodojJ

                   Xjunoa qoBa ui
      'Ot'-eeSI qjiiU. p3JEduio3
     SB 'ttSI "! s)(iBm mi*
     jajsiSai sSeuivm aq)

      SuiiiSis U3ni aq) jo 'luaa
      jad Xbuspgap jo ssaoxg

             ·uoi.iBindod a3i!| aqi                       CJ C^ CO -* <N          MCl CO t^ C<I                    O5p
    uodn 'saiE^vV P"^ puBiSua                                                     OF^ CM t^ -^
    HE JO aSBjaAB 3q4 Aio[aq                                 I I II I                                             I "-H
    pUE aAOqB 'itSI UI SUEBUI                                                     CO CO C^ OJ CO
    juapuadapui jo suos                                                                                           1I
    -jadjo -juaa lad uoijiodojjt                                                    +

           ·S31BA\ pUB puElSua                                                           I 1 II
    UI uotiEjndod a5i!i sq}
    oi sSBJaAB aqi Moiaq puB                              ^ OlO -^ o:> CO !>·     o ^00 in r-<
    OAOqE'EfSlui xBxaoioaui                                   t^ CO GO            c oop >7
    aqj o) passassB Xijadoad                                                                     ^^
    IBaJ JO 'luaa jad uot)aodoj                           ^ CO C^ r-l lO          i o 6> 00 iH

                ·II-Sl uiuoijBindo^                       7777 +                   7+7-7

                                                                                  1

                                                          ^ H ^<;j                ot>. CO lO 1-^
                                                                   -rt^
                                                          O O*0 iC                r-l GO nH CO .-<
                                                                         iTO
                                                          o ^(^ ^^ *^             ^(N^CO_t^0D_C^
                                                          OiO l^ -^ ffO                       lO" oT
                                                          OC^ (£;                 c<r i-h"

                                                                   ^H CO

    ·Si CJ

    w·^ '^                                                                                                                          ;·?. ^

                                                                                  aV             · .g                    S to

                                                             ^U'4 -a              o ^ g·                                               >>.2 I
                                                          ·s!§'S S                                      .fc .fci
                                                                                                                         Ia S^
                                                                                  ^£==                            H :5

                                                                                  C           0) ·e-
                                                                                  S' "?^ '?S

       us <                                               >-; 1? c« ?»
    M c l-i
                               ;

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  Ill

   The metropolitan and the southern agricultural and maritime counties, which are
two out of the three of highest instruction, are the only two in which improvident
marriages, or those of men under twenty-one and illegitimacy, are both under the
average. In every other, the deficiency of the one ill feature is just counterbalanced
by the prevalence of the other, except in the case of the great central mining and
manufacturing region, which has an unhappy excess of both. I have given the ille-
gitimacy at two different periods, and from two distinct authorities, because they ma-
terially disagree in one particular : namely, the extent to which this unhappy feature
of society prevails among the Celtic populations of the west ; in which respect I

incline to agree with the older authority, because of its greater claim to accuracy in
regard to this one point. It is, I think, only the omission of a large number from this
district which makes the south midland agricultural and manufacturing counties just
above the average in the more recent statement, though it will not account for all the
relative increase of illegitimacy in the south midland and eastern agricultural counties.

    In the pauperism columns, the balance is just against ignorance, but averages of
this date show merely tl)e usual state of things in a time of manufacturing prosperity,
when every one in the manufacturing regions that can and will work is employed
and all wanting employment in the neighbouring agricultural districts are easily
drafted off; while the more southern, distant, and purely agricultural regions are
still oppressed by nearly their usual excess of people upon the rates, even in the case
of those counties which have some little of manufactures intermingled with their
agriculture ; for they are of such a nature as inevitably to encourage a faster increase

of hands than of trade to employ them.
    With regard to providence, as tested by the accumulations in the savings banks,

it will be seen that the excess is variously coincident with the superiority of instruction,
except in the case of the northern agricultural and mining districts, where the amount
falls just below the average, in proportion to the population, perhaps unusually de-
pressed by the great colliers' strike, which was at its most desperate shifts at the
period of the returns. Notwithstanding the high wages of the mass of the population
in the midland mining and manufacturing regions in all good times, therefore, the
rate of saving is as low as in the wretched districts of Bucks, Herts, and Bedfordshire.

The lowest amount in savings banks is in Wales. The circuit of deposit for each
bank will sometimes overstep a county boundary, but averages of the present mag-
nitude will not be much diverted from accuracy by such a circumstance ; and indeed
the county boundaries do not generally run near to the towns in which the banks are
chiefly situated ; but when we come to consider the subdivisions of these several
 districts, and especially the counties individually, cases of disturbance from these

causes will be obvious.
    The columns of committals for criminal offences agree very nearly with those of the

 early marriages ; and after deducting the dispersed populations of the Celtic and
 the Scandinavian regions, both remarkably deficient in crime, the Welsh districts
 especially; and the southern agricultural and midland and north-midland agricultural
 counties, which are also on the favourable side of the average, the excess of about
 12 per cent, on the remainder of the population, is pretty nearly distributed through-
 out the rest of the kingdom, except where this proportion is more than doubled in the
 wretched south midland agricultural and manufacturing counties ; the general result
 against which is very marked.

    These results as completely extinguish our belief in rural innocence, as those

Aalready recited undeceive us as to the comparative excess of rural ignorance.

 relative excess of ignorance, greater concentration of numbers, a low proportion of
 the leisured classes, and employment in dispersed manufactures, appear therefore to
 be the concomitants of the excess of crime everywhere but in the metropolitan coun-
 ties, where its surprisingly small excess, though it may in some degree be owing to
 the preventive character of its superior police, offers a high testimony in favour of
 the general conduct of its more instructed population.

    If now we descend one step from these large results, and divide each of these great
 districts into two portions, according to the greater or less amount of, at least, rudi-
 mentary instruction which prevails amongst its inhabitants, we shall find the general
 conclusions at which we have arrived corroborated by the results of this analysis
 wherever we apply it. And that the instruction test is the wand to employ for
 effecting this new combination must be obvious, if it be regarded as the best avail-
                                                                   :

112 REPORT 1848.

able indication, under the existing circumstances of society, of the relative degree

of attention which the mass of the population has received from the more educated

classes in each district, or of a superior energy of character and independence of

Acircumstances hereditary in the inhabitants of a whole district.  faltering of the

figures to declare in favoiii: of the counties of most instruction occurs scarcely any-
where but among the northern and midland mining and manufacturing counties.

Here the lowest proportion of crime is found in the counties which are most notorious

for their largest amount of factory population, viz. Lancashire, the West Riding of

Yorkshire, Derbyshire, and Nottinghamshire, while the most criminal are Cheshire,

Staffordshire, Worcestershire, Gloucestershire, Warwickshire, and Leicestershire, on

the whole more noted for dispersed and domestic manufactures. The first-mentioned

counties, however, are low in every other feature brought to account ; and yet a

greater diffusion of instruction is seen to be the concomitant of every promising figure.

 Vital Statistics of a District in Java. By John Crawford, F.G.S.; with
   preliminary remarks upon the Dutch possessions in the East, by Colonel

    Sykes, V.P.R.S.

    In connexion with Mr. Crawford's paper Colonel Sykes gives a general view of the

--progress of population in Java, of the extraordinary development of the commer-

cial and agricultural industry of the Dutch in the East ; and of the vast e.Ktent of the
domains which they claim. The total area of the eastern archipelago, including Java,
Sumatra, Borneo, Celebes, the Moluccas and the other islands, is 31,428 square
geographical leagues, of which the Dutch claim 25,872, or five-sixths of'the whole,
comprising a population of above twenty-five millions of souls, ruled by a few Euro-
peans. The progress of the population in Java is remarkable. By successive cen-
suses it appears that it has risen from 6,368,090 souls in 1824 to 9,542,045 in 1845
commerce and agriculture progress in a greater ratio. In 1826, the coffee exported
was 340,049 picals of 125 lbs. each, in 1843 it was 1,018,102. Sugar, 19,795 to
929,769 picals for the same period. Indigo, from 76 picals to 1 ,890,429 lbs. ! Tin, from
13,800 picals to 45,705 picals: other products are also remarkable in their increase.
From a communication of the Colonial Minister to the second chamber of the States-
General in 1844, the total receipts ofNetherland India were 81,784,671 florins.

    Mr. Crawford's paper contained the vital statistics of a district in Java for one year.
In the city and neighbourhood of Yugyakarta, to which locality the observations were
chiefly confined, the births were fewest and the mortality greatest in the town ; while
the opposite state of things prevailed in the country, and especially in the more ele-
vated part. The author inferred from the data which he had collected, that a native
population under the tropics, in the enjoyment of peace, with a fair share of industry,
a sufiiciency of fertile land and a favourable climate, may increase as an European
one in a temperate climate with similar advantages.

On the Annual Increase ofProperty, and ofExports and Imports in Canada,
           By Joseph Hume, M.P. {communicated by 3. Fletcher.)

    These statements demonstrate tlie great rapidity with which the most valuable and
permanent species of wealth accumulates in Canada, and the extent to which the
province is already able to consume and employ goods of various kinds sent from
this country, and to pay for them by its exports to Great Britain and its dependen-
cies. That power will henceforth increase annually, at a rate greatly exceeding that
of former years, under the influence of a principle long recognised.

   The rateable property in Upper Canada amounted in 1825 to £997,025; in 1840
to £5,691,477; in 1841 to £5,996.609; in 1842 to £6.375,140; in 1843 to
£5,916,162 ; and in 1844 to £7,139,901, according to the assessment returns for the

last three years.

   In the United Province of Upper and Lower Canada, the imports into Canada by
sea, from 1838 to 1847 inclusive, increased.

   On comparing a few of the more important articles of import by sea for the years
1846 and 1847, the following results are obtained :-- Against 313,076 gallons of
                                                       --

       TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                 113

wine imported in 1846, there are 229,595 gallons in 1847- In spirits of all kinds,

exclusive of whiskey and East and West India rum, 159,547 gallons in 1846, against

I85,;}67 gallons in 1847- In molasses 151,675 gallons, against 365,450 gallons. In
refined sugar 895,046 lbs., against 880,305 lbs. In Muscovado and bastard sugars
8,546,982 lbs., against 8,719,099 lbs. In coffee 105,282 lbs., against 261,144 lbs. In
tea 603,038 lbs., against 816,866 lbs. In salt 345,396 bushels (equal to 11,513

tons), against 87,880 bushels (equal to 2929 tons). And in goods paying ad valorem

duties £2,241,154 sterling, against £1,783,682 sterling.

   On comparing the exports of 1846 with those of 1847, it will be seen that the ex-

ports of the agricultural staples .of Canada exhibit a steady increase. For instance,

the export of flour in 1846 was 555,602 barrels, against'65 1,030 barrels in 1847.
The export of wheat was 534,747 bushels in 1846, against 628,001 bushels in 1847-
That of oatmeal, 5930 barrels against 21,999 barrels. That of oats, 46,060 bushels

against 165,805 bushels. And that of butter, 786,701 lbs. against 1,036,555 lbs. Of
ashes, however, and timber, there was a falling off, but it was probably more than

compensated by an increased export inland.

On the Distribution of the Population of Great Britain and Ireland ; illus'

 trated by Maps and Diagrams. By Augustus Petermann, F.B.G.S.

A map of the British Isles was exhibited, showing by shading the various degrees

of density of population in every part of the United Kingdom ; certain districts con-
taining less than 5, others upwards of 2000 inhabitants to 1 English square mile. The

causes of this very unequal distribution of the people were alluded to, and tables ex-

hibited giving tlie density of population in the different parts of the United Kingdom.

It was remarked that of the 122 counties and islands,

3 showed an average density of 1000 souls and upwards to 1 Engl. sq. mile.

  5,,  ,, ,, from 1000 to 500                              ,,    ,,
                                                           ,,    ,,
  8,,  ,,  ,,,,  500 to 400
  9,,
38 ,,  ,,  ,,,,  400 to 300
33 ,,
       ,,  ,,,,  300 to 200

       ,,  ,,,,  200 to 100

26 ,,  ,, ,, below 100

All towns containing 3000 inhabitants and upwards were indicated on the map

according to an arrangement of the number of their inhabitants.

Synoptical Table of the Number and Total Population of all Towns containing
                                   10,000 Inhabitants and upwards.
--114 REPORT 1848.

                          Statistics of 23rittany and the Bretons.

        By Joseph Fletcher, Hon. Sec. Statistical Society of London.

This paper was an abstract of the report of a tour in the five departments of

Brittanj' during the years 1840 and 1841, under instructions from the Academy of

MM.the Moral and Political Sciences, made by  Beniston de Chateauneuf and Vil-

lerme, members of that Academy, and contained in the fourth volume of the Me-

iBoirs of the Academy of the Moral and Political Sciences. It described the surface

of the great peninsula of Brittany, projecting into the ocean between the Bay of

Biscay and the English Channel, to comprise 1715 square leagues (the French league

of length being 2^ English miles), or 3,388,850 hectares of 2§ English acres. Its

central parts are occupied in great measure by a double range of mountains of no

great elevation. Breton cultivation, on the borders of the province, is intelligent,

advanced and productive; in the interior, it is ignorant, prejudiced and unproduc-

tive. In the two entire departments of Finistere and Morbihan, there are more

heaths than cultivable land ; and it is of course in these wilder regions, with those

of the department of the C6tes-du-Nord, that the old manners, habits and customs

of the country are most tenaciously retained. The sources of the reputed poverty

and backwardness of the province being the especial object of the inquiry, the espe-

cial attention of the travellers was given to the poorest and most backward depart-

ments.

Table of the cultivation of Brittany, as compared with that of all France, abstracted
                                 from the Official Statistics of Agriculture.

        Occupation of the surface.

                                              Hectares. Proportion. Hectares. Proportion

Wheat                                  ;....  269,888    5,586,787
                                              491,010    8,313,478
Other grain                                                                       A*
                                              272MI         651,242
Buckwheat                                                   92i,971               ^A
                                                65,069      274,389
Potatoes                                        34,917      766,578               A
                                               56,904
Hemp and flax                                               896,747
                                               38,742
Orchards, nurseries, and osier-beds ..
                                               27,728
--Gardens and lands under various vege        301,861
   tables, colewort, tiu'nips, beet-root:}
   tobacco, &c                                  50,880
                                              100,154
Vines                                         429,053                  1,972,340
                                              976,034                  4,198,198
Natural meadows
                                                         ^ 1,576,567
Artificial meadows
Woods and forests                                                      8,804,551
                                                                       6,763,281
Fallows                             ,
                                                                       9,191,076
Pasturages, Heaths, &c

Total surface, including roads, &c            3,388,843  52,768,600

   The Breton sows for the first year buckwheat, which is his own principal food j
the second, wheat ; the third, barley or oats, or often wheat again, of which he thua
takes two crops in succession, and then he leaves it bare, except of self-sown weeds,
for three, four, and five years, and often much longer : replying to eveiy argument ii

favour of green crops, with all the firmness of conviction, that the land requireal
fest as well as the arms that cultivate it. Under such a system, the peculiar Bretqn
custom of tenant-right to compensation for improvements has not proved a panaceal

--for a distress frequently as great as that of Ireland.
   The cattle are very poor and inferior, an ox weighing from 50 to 260 kilogrammes
of 1\ English pounds ; a cow from 40 to 100 kil. ; sheep from 10 to 18 kil. Thcj
quantity of cattle on the land has greatly declined since 1812. From 10,000 tc

15,000 horses are sent annually out of the country for the service of the artilleryJ
cavalry, and diligences. The commercial industry of Brittany is almost wholly \S
agricultural produce (of which it exports all the best), in grain, hemp.flax, cattle and
horses, and less important articles, such as honey, bees'-wax and butter. Salt froi

the neighbourhood of Nantes, oysters from the Bay of Cancale, and pilchards froB
                                                                                            --

                                                                  TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                            115

Athe bays of Douarnenez and Concarneau, are exported in considerable quantities.

certain number of ships are annually equipped to the shores and banks of Newfound-

land; and there is a considerable manufacture of the flax and hemp grown within

the province                                                 but  an   obstinate  adherence  to  old  instruments  and       methods, and a
                                                          ;

positive rejection of better, has gradually reduced both spinners and weavers to the

most abject misery, in competition with the improved processes and growing com-

binations of capital in the world around them. Exclusive of the weeding of the flax,

the culture and manufacture of one hectare (2§ acres) of either flax or hemp, costs

4483 days' labour, distributed as follows :

                                                                                                 Agency.           Francs
                                                                                                                   per day.

Agriculture                                                                     296  Men and horses at ...            0-75      221-00
Dressing                                                                       700                                    0-40      280-00
Spinning                                                                      2666   Men and women                    0-22      599-85
                                                                                164  Women                            0-50
Winding, warping, &c                                                                 Women                            0-29        82-00
                                                                                                                                  41-47
Quill-winding                                                     -.v             143 Children                        100       287-00
Weaving                                                                                                               075         67-50
                                                                                  287 Men                             075       102-75

Bleaching                                                    .^                    90 Men             ^            100-00       326-00
                                                                                  137 Men
Getting-up and despatching                                                                                           57--000 f    35-00

Rent of a hectare of land fit for the cultivation of flax \                                                        169 ·00J
   or hemp

Half the price of the seed (that which is gathered being "1

worth the other half)                                                                                           /

Profit of the cultivator or farmer

Fuel and ashes for the bleaching

                                                                       Total.                                                   2042-00

Thus the   mere                                                  cultivation  costs 27 per   cent, of the  whole   value ;      dressing,  14
                                                                                                                                                      ;

spinning, 29 ; weaving, 20 ; bleaching, 5 ; getting up and despatching, 5. Under flax

--there are 20,357 hectares ; under hemp, 14,560 making a total of 34,917 ; and the

average produce of each hectare of flax, after the removal of the rind, is from 2000

to 2500 kil. of dry stalks.                                                   With the largest   and  coarsest  hemp is made    cordage
                                                                                                                                                                ;

with the finer, sailcloth ; and with the hemp and flax united, coarse linens. There

is likewise a dwindling woollen manufacture at Vitre, &c.

   The population of Brittany in 1800, was 2,202,700 ; in 1831, 2,574,000; in 1836,
2,620,300 ; in 1841, 2,666,200. The increase from 1830 to 1835 inclusive was 30
per cent, in Loire- Inferieure, 25 in Finistere, 22 in lUe-et-Vilaine, 20 in C6tes-du-

Nord, and only 12 in Morbihan ; the average in all Brittany being 19 per cent.
In France generally it has been 22, while the increase in England and Wales is more

than double even the latter rate.

Notwithstanding this slow increase of population in Brittany, its actual amount,

in even the most w-aste and uncultivated departments, is greater in proportion to the

total surface than in France generall}% including its most fertile provinces ; the

average in all France being 1256 inhabitants per square league, while in Morbihan

it is 1270, Loire-Inferieure 1364, Ille-et-Vilaine 1618, Finistere 1623, C6tes-du-

Nord 1781, and all Brittany 1528. Two-thirds of this population is dispersed over

the surface of the country on small properties, small tenancies, and cottage holdings ;
the proportion of town population being small as compared with France generally.

Out of 540,000 houses in the whole department, 400,000 have only two or three

openings, i. e. one or two besides the door.

Movement of the population in Brittany and in all France, 1831 to 1836.

           Mean population                                                            Brittany.                      France.
           One birth to
           One death to                                                              2,597,230                  33,055,060
           One marriage to                                                               30-68                      33-90
                                                                                         33-68                      38-60
           Births to each marriage...
                                                                                       130-00                     127-00
           One illegitimate birth to...                                                                               3-57
                                                                                         419
                                                                                                                    13-81
                                                                                         30*12

                                                                                                                                l2
                                           --

116 REPORT-- 1848.

   The maximum of births, deaths and marriages to the population falls in Finistere,
and the maximum of children to each marriage in Moibihan (4'5l). The average
age of the first marriages of the men is 28 years and 4 months, and of the women 25

years and 1 1 months. In England and Wales, the average age of marriage in both
sexes, even including second with first marriages in the same average, is decidedly
less, being 27 years and 3 months for the men, and 25 years and 3 months for the
women.

   The exceeding misery of the Breton peasant was noticed by Neckar in 1784, again
by Arthur Young ten years later, and relatively to that of the population of the rest
of France or of Great Britain, it is as conspicuous as ever. The interior of a Breton
cabin in the most Breton departments, is described as a parallel to that of an Irish
one ; buckwheat bread being the chief sustenance instead of potatoes. The peculi-
arity of his language appears to be the greatest obstacle to the social advancement of
the Breton, and the isolation in which it keeps him perpetuates his ignorance. The
sacristans, beadles, and good sisters are still to a great extent, as they were formerly,
the sole instructors of the people. Under the republic there were scarcely fifteen
elementary schools in all the department, and little advancement was made until
within this few years, under the competition of the government schools with those of
the " Freres de la Doctrine" and the disciples of M. Lamennais, called the " Petits
Freres." M. Guerry reckons only 1 in 96 of the inhabitants to be under instruction ;
 and in the five years 1836-40, 78 per cent, of those arraigned before the criminal
 tribunals could neither read nor write.

The Statistics of Civil Justice in Bengal in which the Government is a party.

                           By Colonel Sykes, V.P.R.S.

The author shows that although the government of India is based upon its military

authority, yet it provides that the meanest of its subjects in Bengal shall be able to
sue the government, \n forma pauperis or otherwise, in its own Courts ; and though
every judge or officer of every Civil Court is appointed by the government, and re-

movable at pleasure, yet the decision both by the native judges, as well as by the

European judges, in a multitude of cases are against the government, and bear testi-
mony to the independence and impartiality of the judicial authorities. The author

gives numerous cases, illustrative of this fact ; showing also that the government is

frequently compelled to appeal against the decisions of its lower court to its highest

appellate court, and often ineffectually.

The outstanding balances due to government under decrees of Court in 1845-46,

were--

        Privy Council decrees                  233,404 Rs.

        Revenue decrees                        151,904 ,,

        Salt and opium decrees                 471,727    ,,
        Military department                       7>196
                                                     184  .,,
        Post-office
                                                          ,,

        Pauper suits                           864,415    ,,
                                               344,626    ,,

In 1846-47, the outstanding balances were

        Revenue decrees                        191,631 ,,

        Salt and opium decrees                 511,331 ,,

        Privy Council decrees                  155,123 ,,

        Pauper suits' decrees                  304,564 ,,

A considerable proportion of these sums would be irrecoverable.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTION^.  117

                                   MECHANICS.

Mr. J. Ashman exhibited an artificial leg, of an improved construction.

On Improvements in the Reflecting Circle, more particularly in reference to
   an instrument for the purpose of measuring angular distances of the Sun

  and Moon. By J. C. Dennis.

    So great is the accuracy required in instruments of this kind that it is necessary
to distinguish to the 5940th part of an inch. The smallest error of construction
therefrom produces a serious error in the observation ; and to render the construc-

--tion more perfect, the following suggestion is made : Instead of attaching the circle

(technically called an arc) to the parts which support it, let the whole be cast in one
piece, and then planed, polished or divided, to suit the purposes of modern astro-
nomy.

On the application of Steam Power to the Drainage of Marshes and Fen
                  Lands. JBy Joseph Glynn, F.R.S., M.Inst.CE.

   The steam-engine is used to raise the water above the level of these lands which
lie too low to be drained by natural outfall, and also in situations where the fall is not
sufficient to carry off the superfluous water in time to prevent damage to the crops.

   Mr. Glynn has applied steam power to the drainage of land in fifteen districts, all
in England, chiefly in Cambridgeshire, Lincolnshire, and Norfolk. The quantity of
land so drained amounts to more than 123,000 acres, the engines employed being se-
venteen in number, and their aggregate power 870 horses ; the form of the engines
varies from 20 to 80 horses. Mr. Glynn was also engaged in draining by steam power
the Hammerbrook district, close by the city of Hamburg ; and in another level near to
Rotterdam, an engine and machinery with the requisite buildings have been erected
from his plans, by the Chevalier Conrad, and the works successfully carried into effect.

   In British Guiana the steam-engine has been made to answer the double purpose
of drainage and irrigation. Some of the sugar-plantations of Demerara are drained
of the superfluous water during the rainy season and watered during the dry season.

   In many of the swampy levels of Lincolnshire and Cambridgeshire much had been
done to carry off the water by natural means, and many large cuts had been made and
embankments formed, especially in the Bedford Level, which alone contains about

300,000 acres of fen-land ; the Great Level of the fens contains about 680,000, for-

merly of little value, but now rich in corn and cattle.
   The Dutch engineers, who were at an early period engaged in these works of

drainage, had erected a great number of windmills to raise and throw oiF the water
when the sluices could not carry it away. By the aid of these machines the land was
so far reclaimed as to be brought into summer pasture and a precarious state of cul-
tivation producing occasionally crops of wheat. The waters from the uplands and
higher levels were intercepted by catch-vvater drains, which carried away the high-
land waters, as far as might be practicable, and prevented them from running down
upon the fen, from which the excess of rain-water was lifted by the mills. But, as it
often happened, when there was most rain there was least wind, so that the wind-
engines were often useless when their help was most needed, and the crops were
consequently lost.

   In this state was the fen-country when the steam-engine was introduced, and by its
aidthe farmer may now venture to sow wheat with as much confidence, and even more,
than upon higher ground ; for not only can he throw off the superfluous water at
pleasure, but in dry weather a supply can be admitted from the rivers, so that farm-
ing in such situations is rendei-ed less precarious than in situations originally more

favoured by nature.
    It is however to be remarked, that the quantity of rain which falls on those levels

on the eastern side of England being much below the general average of the kingdom,
the power required to throw off the superfluous water is small when compared with
--1X8 REPORT 1848.

·the breadth of land to be drained, the proportion seldom being greater than 10 horses'
 power to 1000 acres, and in some cases considerably less.

    The general plan is to carry away the water coming off the higher grounds, and
 prevent it, as much as possible, from running down into the marsh by means of the

 catch-waterdrains before mentioned, leaving only the rain which falls upon the district

to be dealt with by mechanical power.
   As the quantity of rain falling on the Great Level of the fens seldom exceeds 26

inches in the year, and about two-thirds of this quantity is carried off by evaporation

and absorption or the growth of plants, it is only in extreme cases that 2 inches in
depth require to be thrown off by the engines in any one month, which amounts to

1^ cubic feet of water upon every square yard of land, or 7260 feet to the acre.
   The standard and accepted measure of a horse's power is 33,000 lbs. raised one

foot high in a minute, or 3300 lbs. raised 10 feet high in the same time ; and as a
cubic foot of water weighs 62^ lbs. and a gallon of water 10 lbs., so one horse's power

will raise and discharge, at a height of 10 feet, 330 gallons, or 52 1% cubic feet of
water in a minute. Consequently this assumed excess of 7260 cubic feet of water

fallen upon an acre of land will be raised and discharged at au elevation of 10 feet in

about two hours and twenty minutes. If the quantity of land be 1000 acres of fen or

marsh, with the upland waters all banked out, the excess of rain, according to the
Aforegoing estimate, will amount to 726,000 cubic feet.
                                                         steam-engine of 10-horse

power will throw off this water in 232 hours, or in less than 20 days, working 12 hours

a day. This calculation has been found fully supported in practice.

   Although the rain due to any given month may fall in a few days, yet in such case

much of it will be absorbed by the ground ; and the drains must be made of sufficient

capacity to receive and contain the rain as it falls ; besides, in case of necessity, the
engine may be made to work 20 hours a day instead of 12, until the danger be past.

   The main drains have generally been cut 71 feet deep and of width sufficient to
give them the required capacity to contain the excess of rain, and to bring the water
freely down to the engine. In some instances, where the districts are extensive and
their length great, it has been found necessary to make them somewhat deeper.

    In all cases where it has been .requisite to use steam power, Mr. Glynn has.applied
scoop-wheels to raise the water. These scoop-wheels somewhat resemble the under-

shot wheel of a water-raill, but instead of being turned by the impulse of the water,

they are used to lift it and are kept in motion by the steam-engine.
   The floats or ladle-boards of the wheels are made of wood and fitted to work in a

trough or track of masonry ; they are generally made 5 feet in length, that is to say,
they are immersed 5 feet deep in the water, and their width or horizontal dimension
varies from 20 inches to 5 feet, according to the power of the engines employed and
the head of water to be overcome. The wheel-track at the lower end communicates

with the main drain, and at the higher end with the river ; the water in the river being
kept out by a pair of pointing doors, like the lock-gates of a canal, which close when
the engine ceases to work. The wheels themselves are made of cast-iron, formed in
parts for convenience of transport. The float-boards are connected with the cast

iron part of the wheel by means of oak starts, which are stepped into sockets cast in the

circumference of the wheel to receive them.
   There are cast-iron toothed segments fitted to the wheel into which works a pinion

fixed upon the crank-shaft of the steam-engine. When the head of water in the

river or delivering drain does not vary much, it is sufficient to have one speed for the
wheel ; but where the tide rises in the river, it is desirable to have two speeds or
powers of wheel-work, the one to he used at low water, the other more powerful

combination to act against the rising tide. But in most cases it is not requisite to

raise the water more than 3 or 4 feet higher than the surface of the land intended to
be drained, and even this is only necessary when the rivers are full between their

banks, from a continuance of wet weather or from upland floods.

In some instances the height of the water in the rivers being affected by the tide,

the drainage by natural outfall can take place only during the ebb, and here, in case

of long-continuing rains, the natural drainage requires the assistance of mechanical

power.
   It has been stated that the main drains have generally been made 7i feet deep, or

more in larger districts, so that the water may never rise higher than within 1 8 inches
                   TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                                                         119

or 2 feet of the surface of the ground, and the ladles or float-boards dip 5 feet below
the water, leaving a foot in depth below the dip of the wheel, that the water may

run freely to it, and to allow for the casual obstruction of weeds in the main drain,
which, if it be sufficiently capacious and well-formed, will bring down the water to

the engine with a descent of 3 inches in a mile.

Suppose then the wheel to dip 5 feet below the surface of the water in the

main drain, and that the water in the river into which this water must be raised and

discharged has its level 5 feet above that in the drain, the wheel in such case will be

said to have 10 feet head and dip, and ought to be made 28 or 30 feet in diameter.

Mr. Glynn has found it practicable to throw out the water against a head of 10 feet

with a dip of 5 feet, that is to say, 15 feet of head and dip, with a wheel of 35 feet
in diameter, but in another engine more recently erected, he has made the wheel

40 feet in diameter. The engine that drives this wheel is of SO-horse power, and is
situated on the Ten-mile Bank near Littlepool, in the Isle of Ely. The largest quan-

tity of water delivered  by one engine  is  from Deeping  Fen,  near  Spalding                                     this  fen
                                                                                                                ;

contains 25,000 acres, and is drained by two engines, one of 80 and one of 60-horse

power.

The 80-horse engine has a wheel of 2& feet in diameter, with float-boards or ladles

measuring 5.^ by 5 feet, and moving with a mean velocity of 6 feet per second; so
that the section of the stream is 2/5 feet, and the quantity discharged per second 165

cubic feet ; equal to more than 4| tons of water in a second, or about 16,200 tons of

water in an hour.

It was in 1825 that these two engines were erected, and at that time the district

was kept in a half-cultivated state by the help of 44 windmills, the land at times being
wholly under water. It now grows excellent wheat, producing from four to six quar-

ters to the acre. In many districts land has been purchased at from 10/. to 20/. an

acre, by persons who foresaw the consequences of these improvements; they could

now sell at from 50/, to 70Z. an acre.
   This increase in value has arisen, not only from the land being cleared from the

injurious eifects of the water upon it, but from the improved system of cultivation

the farmers have been enabled to adopt.

The fen-lands in Cambridgeshire and great part of the neighbouring counties are

formed of a rich black earth, consisting of decomposed vegetable matter, generally
from 6 to 10 feet thick, although in some places much thicker, resting upon a bed

of blue gault containing clay, lime, and sand.

   When steam-drainage was first introduced, it was the practice to pare the land and

burn it, then to sow rape-seed, and to feedsheep upon the green crop, after which
wheat was sown. The wheat grown upon this land had a long weak straw, easily
bent and broken, carrying ears of corn of small aize, and having but a weak and un-

certain hold by its root in the black soil.
   Latterly however, chemistry having thrown greater light upon the operations of

agriculture, it has been the practice to sink pits at regular distances through the
black earth and to bring up the blue gault, which is spread upon the surface us ma-
nure. The straw by this means, taking up an additional quantity of silex, becomes
firm, strong, and not so tall as formerly, carrying larger and heavier corn, and the

iiiixture of clay gives a better hold to the root, rendering the crops less liable to be

laid by the wind and rain, whilst the produce is most luxuriant and abundant.

On Investigations undertaken for the purpose of furnishing data for the

   Construction of Mr. Stephenson's Tubular Bridges at Conway and Menai

  Straits. By Professor E. Hodgkinson.

         On a new Element of Mechanism. By Richard Robekts.

   By this contrivance, a model of which was exhibited by Mr. Roberts, differential
movements, for which more complicated mechanism is frequently employed, may be

effected in a very simple manner.
   The model consisted of a steel shaft, on which were fitted loosely two brass discs,

each having a boss to keep it steads*. One of the discs had on its circumference
--I'.'O REPORT 1848.

eleven teeth, rounded at top and bottom, and was placed on the shaft : the other disc,
which was plain, and rather the larger of the two, was on the excentric portion of
the shaft, with its face to that of tbe toothed disc, and had four studs riveted into it
at equal distances from each other, and at such a distance from its centre as to admit
of their being brought successively, by the revolutions of the excentric, to the bot-
toms of the hollows in the toothed disc.

   The following^ movements may be effected by this model :^
   If the shaft be held stationary, and the discs be made to revolve upon it, the
toothed disc will make twelve revolutions, whilst the other will make only eleven.
    If the toothed disc be held whilst the shaft be made to revolve twelve times, the

plain disc will revolve in the same direction one revolution only ; and if the plain
disc be held, the toothed disc will perform one revolution in the contrary direction

for eleven revolutions of the shaft.

   It will be evident that almost any other relative number of revolutions may be
produced by employing one disc with a suitable number of teeth, and another with
the smallest number of pins (not fewer than three), which will not divide the number

of teeth in the other disc.

    The idea of this novel element of mechanism was suggested to Mr. Roberts by a
" dial movement " in an American clock.

               On Anastatic Printing and its various conibitiations.
                          By H. E. Strickland, M.A.

On the Ventilation of Collieries, with a description of a new Mine- Ventilator.
                      By William Price Struve, C.E.

The ventilation of collieries is effected by means of large furnaces placed at the

bottom of the upcast pits, the rarefaction produced by which causes the air to ascend

the upcast pit, while a similar quantity descends the downcast pit. The great ob-

jection to this method is the variation produced by the neglect of furnace-men, and

by the barometrical and thermometrical changes of the atmosphere, which, if

accompanied by a sudden discharge of carburetted hydrogen gas from the goaf of

Aa mine, is suflScient to produce extensive explosions.  large annual expenditure is

also caused by the great destruction which arises from the gases and heat of the

furnace to the flat chains, flat ropes, and cast-iron tubbing of an upcast-pit. It is

proposed to remedy these evils by a new patented mine-ventilator of the following

construction, which is calculated to take out of a mine an unlimited quantity of air.

The whole upcast-pit is converted into an air-channel, connected with the ventilator

by a culvert of the same size. The ventilator, which is worked by an engine of five

horses' power, consists of two large air-chambers, resembling gasometers, moving up

and down in water contained in a tank constructed of masonry ; the chambers ba-

lance each other, and are surrounded with outside cases, so as to form double pumps ;

the inlet and outlet valves, when open, present for the ingress and egress of air the

same amount of area as the upcast-pit ; thus the only resistance to be overcome is that

which arises from the slight friction of the parts of the apparatus and of the air in

Athe passages of the mine.  ventilator on this principle is now (August 1848) being

erected at the Eagles' Bush Colliery, calculated to pass through the mine forty thou-

sand cubic feet of air per minute. The cost will be about £400.

                   On a netv Low-pressure Atmospheric Railway.
                       By William Price Struve, C.E.

   The grand obstacles in the way of the working of existing atmospheric railways,
are the difficulty of communicating the motion of the piston within the tube to the
train without it, and the great leakage along the valve and around the piston. In

--the proposed plan these evils are to be thus remedied : The railway is carried through

a covered viaduct hghted through glass, the walls being constructed of masonry, and
the roof of timber, or some other convenient material. The piston is a shield fixed on
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  121

wheels in front of the train, and is made to fit the interior surface of the passage as
closely as is possible without actually touching it. The passage is exhausted by
means of two large chambers, like gasometers, moved up and down in water by the
action of a steam-engine. By the opening of valves in the shield, or of doors at the
stations, the pressure may be diminished or entirely removed, and the train thus
slackened or stopped without the necessity of stopping the engine. Each station
being provided with a loop-line, in order that the continuity of the covered way may
not be destreyed, the trains may be run into open sheds similar to those now in use
for the purpose of receiving and taking out passengers.

   As the rarefaction necessary to move the train is very small, a pressure of 0'6 lb.
per square foot on a piston of nine feet square, amounting to nearly three tons, or
nearly four times that obtained on the Croydon railway, little importance is to be

attached to the leakage.

  --The advantages of the plan appear to be increase of speed, safety and economy,

absence of any resistance of the air in front of the train, and freedom from all risk of
stoppage by snow-drift or frost.

   The cost of the covered way and apparatus will not in ordinary cases exceed
£7000 per mile, which is not more than the usual cost of locomotive engines, and of

the extra weight of rails necessary for their support, nor than the cost of the present

atmospheric railways.

  A working model, twenty feet in length, with a covered way of six inches square,

was exhibited to the Section.

O71 a neiv mechanical arrangementfor communicating Signals and Working

                   Breaks on Railways. By Wm. S. Ward.

   Much attention has lately been paid to the contrivance of methods of communi-

cation between the engine-drivers of railway trains and the guards in charge of the
carriages of the train, and of affording a means of communication between the
passengers and the guards or engine-drivers ; but no method has yet been suggested
which has not met with objection.

   It appears to the author that a simple mechanical contrivance for effecting a com-
munication between the last carriage of the train and the engine, so as to ring a bell
or communicate with a steam-whistle, affords the best means of attracting the atten-
tion of the driver and is the most likely to be generally useful.

   It has occurred to Mr. Ward that the most perfect method of making communi-

cations on railway-trains is by the circular motion of rods extending under the car-
riages, so as to form a sj'stem of shafting which he calls torsion-rods. This he
proposes to effect by means of rods moving in slides, and having springs attached, so
as to extend the rods in like manner as the buffers of the carriages, each system of
rods having a portion in the centre capable of revolving on bearings attached to the
framework of the carriage or carriage-wheels, and connected by universal joints with
the sliding portion of the rods, which revolves in and is supported by ' bushes ' placed
on springs, so as to give a little play both laterally and vertically. At each end of
such system of rods is placed either a universal joint, capable of being attached to a
similar joint, or a portion of a hollow cone, with a spike in the centre and teeth or
claws on its outer edge, so that two carriages on which the rods are applied being
coupled together, the cones on the adjacent system of rods are pushed together, and
will be held in contact by the springs, and form a coupling-joint capable of commu-
nicating circular motion from one system of rods to another, so that such systems of
rods will, when the carriages to which they are attached are coupled, form a con-
tinuous line of shafting. The torsion-rods will be extensible or compressible in
length, and also yield laterally, according to the motion of the carriages, but will,
when turned on their axes, communicate circular motion.

    It is proposed to apply torsion-rods for communicating signals between guards
and engine-drivers of railway-trains, affixing the rods under the carriages, so that

systems of such rods forming a continuous shafting may give simultaneous motion

to discs of wheels placed in the carriages, occupied by railway guards, and also to
similar wheels placed upon the tender under the inspection of the driver pulleys

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;
--122 REPOUT 1848.

being fixed upon the central portion of the shafting of the guard's carriages, and
geared by elastic bands with corresponding pulleys in the carriages, suitably placed
for being turned by the guard or engine-driver, and also observed by him if motion
be communicated from any other part of the train, thus affording a means of com-
municating a limited number of useful signals.

   Whatever may be the methods adopted of communicating signals on railway-
trains, but little will be done towards the prevention of accidents, unless some more
efficient mode of quickly stopping the train be also adopted.

   When railway-trains seldom exceeded five or six carriages, and the maximum speed

was about twenty-five miles per hour, it was found that the shutting off the steam

and applying breaks on the tender were suflacient. Now when trains consist of ten

to fifteen carriages travelling at the rate of fifty miles per hour, the breaks on the
tender and those on the one carriage occupied by the guard are evidently insufficient.

   The author, after stating objections to the system now in use, proposes his own

--views as follows : It appears to me that the only means of ensuring the safety of

railway-trains, and efficiently stopping them when required, is by increasing the
number of breaks to be brought into operation at the same time. But to eft'ect this
with the appliances now used would require so considerable an addition of railway-
guards, that companies prefer to run some risk rather than have an increased expen-
diture. I have therefore proposed the application of torsion-rods for communicating
motion from one railway carriage to the adjoining carriages of the same train, so
that the guard or breaksraau may, in addition to working the breaks of the caniage
on which he is riding, work the breaks on the adjoining carriages.

   I believe the ordinary breaks may be efficiently put in action by the communicated
circular motion ; but in case the arrangement should be further extended beyond the
power of the rods, I have devised other methods by which the breaks might be put
in action by the application of a very slight force, but which I cannot very conve-
niently explain without better diagrams or models than it has been convenient to me
to prepare here. By such arrangement the stoker or driver of a railway-train might
work the break upon the tender as at present, and also the break on the first and
second carriage of the train ; or these might be supplied with self-acting breaks
similar to those proposed by INIr. Stephenson, but so arranged that by a further ap-
plication of my method of communicating motion by torsion-rods, they may be easily
thrown out of gear ; and the guard being, according to the most approved arrange-
ment, placed at the last carriage of the train, in addition to working the break on
his own carriage, will work the break on two adjoining carriages ; thus an ordinary
train will be supplied with six breaks instead of two, and without requiring any

additional guard.

      On the application of Gutta Percha to the Arts and Manufactures.

                 By Francis Whishaw, C.E., 31. Inst. C.E.

   This communication, after detailing the general history of gutta percha, and its
introduction into this country by Dr. Montgomerie, who received the gold medal of
the Society of Arts, entered into full particulars with regard to the manufacture of
this valuable substance in the shape of pipes, driving-bands, shoe-soles and heels,
&c., and also gave the result of experiments as to its strength when mixed with
various substances, and likewise of the effect of mixing gutta percha with various
pigments.

   The articles made of gutta percha which were laid before the Section to illustrate
the communication, consisted of round and flat bands for driving machinery, pipes
of various sizes, window-lines, thread, shoe-soles and heels, bovi'ls, pump-buckets,

fire-buckets, jugs, bottles, life-preservers, constables' staves, paper-weights, pen-
trays, powder-fiasks, bookbinding, curtain-rings, walking-sticks, whips, outside
letters, surgical instruments, stereotype-plates, felt-edging, patent cloth, cricket and
other balls, brackets, shields, medallions, coating for telegraphic wires, &c.
                                         --

               TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                        123

            On the Patent Multitubular Pipes and Panergous Joints,
                 By FuANcis WnftHAw, C.E., M. Inst. C.E.

   Multitubular pipes for insulating the wires of electric telegraphs are made of
various kinds of clays and pounded potteiy, and also of glass ; they consist of any
number of separate ducts formed out of the solid mass of clay ; or if of glass, then
several small tubes are placed within a larger tube, either of glass or pottery, and
cemented together at the ends by means of plugs, of clay, glass, gutta percha, or other
substance ; the clay is pressed from a cylinder by mechanical means, through as many
dies as there are ducts in the required pipe, a metal core being fixed in the centre of
each die.

   The panergous joint consists in forming a sinking or chase on the outside of one
end of the pipe, and on the inside of the other end of the pipe, with two openings,
one through the top and the other through the bottom of the faucet-pipe, through
which either marine glue, asphaltum or other cement is placed, so as to form a per-
fect bond in the shape of a ring between one pipe and another : this renders the joint
both air- and water-tight.

         On the Subaqueous Pope for Telegraphic and other purposes.
                 By Francis Whishaw, C.E., M. Inst. C. E.

  A section of rope was exhibited, consisting of several small tubes of gutta percha

enclosed within a larger tube of the same material, which latter is braided or served
with white line of a thickness depending on the required length of the wires to be

enclosed in the small tubes.
    For hydraulic or pneumatic telegraphs the smaller tubes are dispensed with.

               On the " Uniformity of Time " and other Telegraphs.

                  By Francis Whishaw, C.E., M. Inst. C.E.

   After describing the various modes of communicating signals by means of the se-
maphore and by electric telegraphs, Mr. Whishaw described the following of his

inventions connected with the subject :

               1st. The Improved Hydraulic Telegraph.

               2nd. The Hydro-Mechanical Telegraph.

               3rd. The Telekoiograph, or Mechanical Telegraph.
               4th. The " Uniformity of Time " Telegraph.

               5th. The Telegraphic Code Box.

               6th. The Telegraphic Despatch Box ; and

               7th. His new system of Two Letter-Codes.

--The improvements in the hydraulic telegraph (1848) consist 1st, in the substi-

tution of vertical copper wires attached to floats instead of columns of water, as in

the original hydraulic telegraph (1838) ; 2nd, in using three-way-cocks instead of

two separate cocks for the elevation and depression of the water at the different sta-

tions ;  3rd,  in the adoption of slides, whereby  an  infinite variety of codes can be used
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;

and 4thly, in the addition of a time-piece.

The Hydro-mechanical Telegraph has the addition of rack, pinion and wheel-work,

whereby the rectilinear motion is converted into a circular motion, the signals being
placed on a dial, which dial is furnished with a hand or hands, which rotate in either
direction, according to the elevation or depression of the water : moveable slides

complete this arrangement.
   The Telekoiograph, or Mechanical Telegraph, consists of a dial with one, two or more

hands, moved by wheelwork, which hands point to signals arranged in circles on the
dial. The action of working the machine is simply that of pulling a bell ; the com-
munication from one instrument to another is by means of wires and cranks ; or it
may be effected by different sounds communicated by electricity ; moveable cards, or
thin sheets of metal, forming complete colloquies on different subjects, are introduced

in front of the dials, so that questions and answers and notices or orders are readily

transmitted.
--124 REPORT 1848.

    The " Uniformity of Time " Telegraph is on the principle of the centimetral hands
 of well-made clocks or chronometers, indicating to the hundredth part of a minute
the same time.

    In order to ensure this desideratum, the ordinary dial is surrounded by an annular
compensating plate, either moved by hand or by a tangent screw arrangement, so
that if two clocks differ as to time to the extent of any part of a minute, the centi-
metral hand will, by the movement of the annular plate, indicate precisely the same
time at the two stations.

    The subsequent arrangement, as to giving signals, is similar to that used in the
telekoiograph as above described.

    This telegraph is doubly useful, as it furnishes an accurate timepiece on one side
and a colloquial telegraph on the other.

    The Telegraphic Code Box, for public or private use, consists of a series of rollers
placed within a mahogany box, the front of which is hung on hinges, and is inclined
at an angle of 45°. In this front there are as many slits or openings as there are
rollers within. At the top of each set of slits a letter is attached, and also another
letter opposite the sets of slits laterally, so that by the intersection of two imaginary
lines at any one of these openings the desired signal is found, as Ac, &c. The word
or information intended to be communicated by the two-letter signal is written or
printed on a slip of paper, and repeated many times ; this slip of paper is wound
round its corresponding roller, with its end projecting sufficiently beyond the slit or
opening to afford hold for the thumb and finger to draw it out when the required
word, &c. is cut off, and the same operation is repeated for the next signal.

   The Telegraphic Despatch Box is intended as an accompaniment to every office
where telegraphic despatch is required in the transaction of business. It contains
not only everything that is required in the shape of stationery, postage-stamps, light-
box, letter-balance, memorandum-slate, &c., but also the day of the week and month
and the time of day. The whole is shut up (when not in use) by folding-doors, and
forms a neat appendage to the library or office- table.

   Two Letter-Codes. By the use of four distinct alphabets upwards of 100,000

changes are effected, either as words or sentences, and by varying the colour of these
alphabets an infinity of changes may be produced. These codes extend to all words
in the EngUsh language, including christian and surnames, names of places, ships,
&c., and by their use the power of the telegraph is increased in a manifold ratio.

                            On the Improved Velocentimeter.

                 By Francis Whishaw, C.E., M. Insi. C.E.

--The novelty and use of the first velocentimeter proposed by the author consisted,
    1 st, in the substitution of a central decimals' hand for that of the ordinary seconds'
hand, whether placed centrally or excentrally, so that the time could be taken to the
hundredth part of a minute ; and 2nd, by surrounding the dial by an annular space
containing velocities tabulated from 12-60 miles per hour up to seventy-five miles
per hour, taking for a basis the fixed distance of a quarter of a mile.

   In making a single observation on this plan, it was necessary to note down the
decimal division at the time of passing the first standard, and also the decimal divi-
sion at the time of passing the next standard, and having subtracted the one from

the other, to look to the table for the result.

   By the improved velocentimeter, which has the addition of a moveable annular

plate, on which the table of velocities is engraved, instead of on the fixed dial, as by

the first plan, a single experiment may be made by one observation : thus in passing
the first quarter of a mile standard the central hand is made to coincide therewith,
and also with zero (100) on the table ; and when the next quarter of a mile standard is
passed, the tabulated figures opposite to the central hand give the velocities required.

  A Kilometral or any other British or foreign table may be substituted for the table

of velocities when required, either for railway, steam-boats, or other experiments
where time and distance are the principal elements.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  125

                   On the Telekouphonon, or Speaking Telegraph.

                 By Francis Whishaw, C.E., M. Inst. C.E.

   The Telekouphonon is used in private establishments, warehouses, dock-yards, &c.,
for the purpose of holding a conversation between two persons at a distance from
each other. It consists of gutta percha, caoutchouc, zinc, glass or earthenware

piping, varying in diameter according to the required length of the pipe ; terminal
mouth-pieces of ivory, bone, hard wood, or metal, are securely attached to the pipes,
having whistles, reeds, or other similar means of calling attention, in place of bells.

When attention has been called, by blowing at the contrary end of the pipe, the

whistle or reed is removed, and a conversation is readily carried on.

  A compound terminal arrangement has also been introduced, having a mouthpiece,

and also an acoustic duct connected therewith, so that a conversation may be carried
on without moving the mouth until the communication is completed.

    If the communication has to be transferred to a third party, an additional pipe is
attached to the mouthpiece, and the sound being shut off from the receiving -^\^e, is
transmitted through the sending-yi^e to the third party as above.

                                     ADDENDA.
    On the Baring of Mollusca into Rocks. By Albany Hancock.

            On some Marine Animals from the Bristol Channel.
             By Prof. E. Forbks and Robert Mac Andrew.

     On Polystomella crispa and the Classification of Foraminifera.
                       By W. C. Williamson, F.G.S.

Mr. Lennard exhibited Microscopical Drawings illustrating the Structure of Bone.

          On the Boring of Sahellm. By the Rev. J. Bradley.

On Additions to the Fauna of Ireland. By William Thompson, F.L.S.

                  (See Annals of Natural History for this paper complete.)

 Mr. J. Clark noticed the occurrence of Colymbus arcticiis shot near Swansea.
               INDEX I.

REPORTS ON THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

Objects and mles of the Association, v.         Acid, carbonic, on the influence of, on the
                                                    growth of ferns, 97.
Places and times of meeting, with officers,
   from commencement, viii.                              , pyro-alizaric, 66.
                                                          , rubiacic, ib.
Members who have served on Council in           Air of towns, on the, 16.
                                                Alizaric acid, 64 ; elementary analysis of, 64.
   former years, x.                             Alizarin, 61 ; elementary analysis of, ib.
Treasurer's account, xi.                        Alten, table of barometric readings at, Nov.
Officers and Council, xiv.                          1 to 26, 1842, 37.
Officers of Sectional Committees, xv.           Alpha-resin, 67.
Corresponding members, xvi.
Report of Council to the General Committee      Anemometrical researches, notice of further
                                                    progress in, 97.
    at Swansea, xvi.
                                                Anthracite furnaces at Ystalyfera, analysis
Report of the Kew Observatory Committee,           of gas from the, 81.

     xvii.                                      Atmospheric waves, on, 35.

Reasons for thinking that the Annual Meet-      Barometric altitudes and differences arising
   ings ought not to be restricted to places       from the transit of the Scandinavian wave
   v,hich present formal invitations and gua-      across Lapland and Russia in 1842, table
    rantees of expenses, xxi.                       of, 40.
                                                         readings, table of, at Alten, Lougan,
Recommendations adopted by the General             and Geneva, Nov. 1 to 26, 1842, 37.
   Committee at the Swansea meeting in
   August 1848, xxii.                           Beta-resin, 68.

Recommendation for application to govern-       Birt (W. R.), fifth report on atmospheric
   ment for the continuation of the meteoro-        waves, 35.
   logical and magnetical observatory at
   Toronto, up to Dec. 1850, xxii.              Blast furnaces at the Ystalyfera iron-works,

Recommendations for reports and researches         on the advantageous use made of the
   invohing grants of money, xxii.                 gaseous escape from the, 75.
                                                Budd (James Palmer) on the advantageous
Recommendations for reports and researches         use of the gaseous escape from the blast
   not involving grants of money, or appli-
    cation to government, xxiii.                   furnaces at the Ystalyfera iron works, 75.

Synopsis of money grants appropriated to        Coal formations, on the action of carbonic
                                                   acid on the growth of plants allied to those
    scientific objects, xxiv.                       of the, 84.

General statement of sums which have been       Colouring matters, on, 57.
   paid on account of grants for scientific
    purposes, xxv.                              --Daubeny (Prof.), eighth report on the growth
                                                   and vitality of seeds, 31.
Extracts of resolutions of the General Com-             on the progress of the investigation on
                                                   the influence of carbonic acid on the growth
    mittee, xxix.                                   of ferns, 97.
Arrangement of general evening meetings,        Dove (Prof. II. W.), supplement to the tern-

    xxix.                                          perature tables printed in the Report of the
                                                    British Association for 1847, 84.
Address by The Most Noble the Marquis of
   Northampton, xxxi.

Acid, alizaric, 64.
       , carbonic, action of, on the growth of

    plants allied to those of the coal forma-
    tions, 84.
                                                   .

128 INDEX I.

Dove (Prof. H. W), remarks by, on his re-          Meteors, details referred to in the catalogue
   cently constructed maps of the monthly              of, from the original records of observations
   isothermal lines of tlie globe, and on some         of luminous, communicated to Professor
                                                       Powell by the authors, 5.
    of the principal conclusions in regard to               seen by Mr. E. J. Lowe, copied from
   climatology deducihle from them : with an           treatise on atmospheric phaenomena, 6.
   introductorv notice by Lieut. -Col. Sabine,              not hitherto recorded in meteorologi-
    85.                                                 cal reports, 8.

Earthquakes, postponement of the report on         Pliillips (John), notice of further progress in
    tlie facts of, 98.                                 anemometrical researches, 97.

Ely (the Dean of) on the expediency of con-        Plants allied to those of the coal formations,
   tiuuing the Toronto magnetical and me-              on the action of carbonic acid on the
    teorological observatory until Dec. 1850,          growth of, 84.

    99.                                            Potash, rubiacate of, 66.
Engines, on water-pressure, 11.                    Powell (Rev. Prof.), catalogue of obser-

Erman (Adolphe), second report on the                  vations of luminous meteors, 1.
                                                   Pyro-alizaric acid, 66 ; analysis of, ib.
    Gaussian constants, 98.
                                                   Resin, alpha, 67.
Ferns, on the influence of carbonic acid on                 , beta, 68.
   the growth of, 97.
                                                   Rubiacate of potash, 66 ; analysis of, ib.
Gaseous escape from the blast furnaces at the      Rubiacic acid, 66 ; analysis of, ib.
    Ystalyfera iron-works, on the advantageous     Rubian, 68.
   use made of the, 75.
                                                   Sabine (Lieut.-Col.), introductory notice to
Gaussian constants, second report on the, 98.          Prof. Dove's remarks on the monthly iso-
Geneva, barometric readings at, table of,              thermal lines of the globe, 85.
                                                            on the expediency of continuing the To-
    Nov. 1 to 26, 1842, 37.                            ronto magnetical and meteorological ob-
Globe, on the monthly isothermal lines of              servatory until Dec. 1850,99.

    the, 85.                                       Schafhaeutl (Dr.), analysis of gas escaping
                                                      from the Ystalyfera anthracite furnaces, 8 1
Glynn (Joseph) on water-pressure engines, 11.
                                                   Schunck (Edward) on colouring matters, 57.
Henslow (Prof.), eighth report on the growth       Seeds, eighth report on the growth and vi-
   and vitality of seeds, 31.
                                                       tality of, 31.
Hunt (Robert), report of progress in the in-               , list of the natural families and genera

    vestigation of the action of carbonic acid        possessed by the Committee and expe-
   on the growth of plants allied to those of          rimented with, 31.
   the coal formations, 84,                        Seismometer, on the construction of a self-

Iron works, on the advantageous use made of            registering, 98.
   the gaseous escape from the blast furnaces
                                                   Smith (Robert Angus) on the air and water
    at the Ystalyfera, 75.                             of towns, 16.
Isothermal lines of the globe, on the month-
                                                   Strickland (H. E.), eighth report on the
    ly, 85.                                           growth and vitality of seeds, 31.

Lindley (Prof.), eighth report on the growth       Temperature tables, supplement to the,
   and vitaUty of seeds, 31.                          printed in the Report for 1847, 84.

Lloyd (Rev. Dr.) on the expediency of con-         Toronto magnetical and meteorological ob-
   tinuing the Toronto magnetical and me-             servatorv, on the expediency of continuing
   teorological observatory until Dec. 1850,           the, until Dec. 1850, 99.
    99.
                                                   Towns, on the air and water of, 16.
Lougan, barometric readings at, table of,
    Nov. 1 to 26, 1842, 37.                        Water of towns, on the, 16.
                                                   Water-pressure engines, on, 11.
Lowe (Edward Joseph), meteors seen by, 6.          Waves, on atmospheric, 35.
Luminous meteors, catalogue of observations
                                                          , table of distribution of crests and
     of, 3.                                           troughs on Nov. 7, 1842, 45.

Magnetical and meteorological observatory                  , area of greatest pressure, Nov. 8, 1842,
    at Toronto, on the expediency of conti-            45.
    nuing the, until Dec. 1850, 99.
                                                           , epochs of the transit of wave-crest.
Mallet's (Robert) letter to the Assistant-            No. 4, Nov. 1842, 47.
    General Secretary, postponement of the
   report on the facts of earthquakes, 98.                 , epochs of transit of the crest of the
        on the construction of a self-registering     gi-eat symmetrical wave of November, from
    seismometer, 98.                                  1841 to 1845 inclusive, at the Royal Ob-
                                                      servatory, Greenwich, 50.
Meteors, catalogue of observations of lu-
   minous, 1,3.
INDEX II.                                          129

Waves, mean ordinates of the " great symme-           tinuing the Toronto magnetical and me-
   trical wave of November," deduced from              teorologicalobservatory until Dec. 1850,99.
    obsefvations at the Royal Observatory,
    Greenwich, dm'ing 1841 to 1845 inclusive,      Ystalyfera iron works, on the advantageous
                                                      use made of the gaseous escape from the
    50.                                                blast furnaces at the, 75.
                                                              anthracite furnaces, antilysis of gas
       , values of the deviation from symmetry        escaping from the, 81.
   of the great symmetrical curves of No-
   vember 1846, in Great Britain and Ire-          Xanthin, 69.

    land, 54.
Wrottesley (Lord) on the expediency of con-

                  INDEX II.

MISCELLANEOUS COMMUNICATIONS TO THE

                            SECTIONS.

AbESSINIA, on the geographical distribu-           Arts, on the application of gutta percha to
                                                       the, 122.
   tion of the languages of, and the neigh-
    bouring countries, 94.                         Ashman (J.), improved construction of an
Academical statistics, contributions to, 105.
Acid, on the absorption of carbonic, by sul-           artificial leg, 117.
    phuric, 61.
./ligean Sea, on the influence of temperature      Atlantic, on wind and current charts of the
   upon the distribution of the fauna in the, 81.
Air, on the j-esistance of, to pendulums, 7.           north, 34.
Alten, in Finmark, meteorological observa-         Atmosphere, on the physical conditions re-
   tions continued at, with observations on
    them, 3 a.                                         gulating the vertical distribution of ani-
Alumina, on some properties of, 58.                    mals in the, 83.
America, on the ante-Columbian discovery
                                                   Atmospheric disturbances at Bombay on Apr.
    of, 94.
Anastatic printing and its various combina-            0, 1848, on, 4).

    tions, 120.                                    Atmospheric railway, on a new low-pressure,

Animals in the atmosphere and the sea, on               120.
    the physical conditions regulating the ver-    Aurorse observed at Swansea, notices of, 22.
                                                   Aurora borealis, on those variations of the
    tical distribution of, 83.
.Annelida, on the structure and functions of          force and the direction of the terrestrial
                                                      magnetism which seem to depend on the, 4.
    the branchial organs of the, 83.
Ante-Columbian discovery of America, 94.           Babington (C. C), additions to the British
Anticlinal line of the mineral basin of South         Flora, and an exhibition of drawings pre-
                                                      pared for publication in the supplement to
   Wales, on the great, 75.                            English Botany, 84.

Antoninus Pius, on a map of Ancient Egypt          Balfour (Edward) on the means of maintain-
                                                      ing the health of troops in India, 101.
    of the time of, 66.
                                                   Ball (John) on rendering the electric tele-
Argonaut, on a new species of, 80.                    graph subservient to meteorological re-
Argonauta gondola, Dillwyn, on, 80.                    search, 12.

              - Owenii, on, 80.                    Bate (Spence) on fossil remains recently dis-
Armagh, on shooting stars seen at, 37.                covered in Bacon Hole, Gower; also other
                                                      remains from beneath the bed of the river
    1848.                                             Tawey, 62.
130 INDEX II.

 " Beads," in annular eclipses, on an explana-      Bridges, tubular, atConwayandMenai Straits,
      tion of the, 2.
                                                        investigations for furnishing data for the
 Beke (Dr.) on the sources of the Nile in the           construction of the, 119.
     mountains of the moon, 63.                     Bristol Channel, on some marine animals
          on the geographical distribution of the      from the, 125.
     languages of Abessinia and the neigh-          British Channel, on a remarkable tide in the,
      bouring countries, 94.                           on July 7, 1848, 37.

  Belemnites, on the occurrence in the Taren-                 flora, additions to the, 84.
      taise of fossil plants of the carboniferous           isles, hydrography of the, 73.
     period, associated in the same bed with, 64.   Brittany, table of the cultivation of, as com-
                                                        pared with that of all France, 114.
  Bengal, the statistics of civil justice in, in
     which the government is a party, 116.          Buckman (Prof.) on the plants of the "insect

  Benson (Starling) on a boulder of cannel              limestone" of the lower lias, 66.
    coal found in a vein of common bituminous               on the discovery of some remains of the

       coal, 64.                                        fossil sepia in the lias of Gloucestershire, 66.
           on the relative position of the various
                                                    ----- on some experimental borings in search
     qualities of coal in the South Wales coal
      measures, 65.                                     of coal, 67.
 Beniston de Chateauneuf (M.) on cultivation        Builth and Pen-y-bont, on some points con-

      in Biittany, 114.                                 nected with the physical geology of the Si-
                                                        lurian district between, 73.
 Berkeley's (Bishop) " New Theory of Vi-            Bunbury (Charles) on the occurrence in the
                                                        Tarentaise of certain species of fossil plants
     sion," an examination of, 49.                      of the carboniferous period, associated in
                                                       the same bed with belemnites, 64.
 Billingham, on a quantity of human bones
                                                    Canada, on the annual increase of property,
      discovered in a field near, 95.                  and of exports and imports in, 112.

 Birds, periodical, observed in the years 1847      Carpenter (Dr.) on Marginopora and allied
     and 1848 near Llanrwst, 84.
                                                        structures, 67.
  Blackwall (John), periodical birds observed in
     the years 1847 and 1848 near Llanrwst, 84.     Ceylon, on the sounds emitted by mollusca at
                                                        Bathcoloa, in, 82.
 Blind, deaf and dumb, attempt to give a phy-
    siological explanation how persons from in-     Chalk, Choanites Konigi, Mantell, on a pecu-
     fancy interpret thecommunications of others        liarity in the structure of one of the fossil
     by touch only, 88.                                 sponges of the, 67.

 Blood, microscopic obervations on the move-        Challis (Rev. Prof.), description of a new in-
     ment of the human, in the capillaries, 83.         strument for observing the apparent posi-

. Boguslawski (M.), letter read from him to             tions of meteors, 13.
     the Marquis of Northampton, on the fall of     Charnwood Forest, ethnographical note on
     a meteorite in two pieces, at Braunau in
     Bohemia, 71.                                       the vicinity of, 99.
                                                    Chat Moss, on the drainage of a portion of, 72.
 Boileau (Sir J. P., Bart.), statistics on men-     Chemical action, on the influence of light in

      dicancy, 105.                                     preventing, 54.
                                                    Chemical combinations, on the laws of, and
 Bombay, on atmospheric disturbances, and on
    a remarkable storm at Bombay on April 6,            the volumes of gaseous bodies, 50.
      1848, 41.                                     " Chemical theory of volcanos," reply to an

 Bones found in the bed of the Tawey, on                objection of Mr. Hopkins to the, by Dr.
      some, 71.                                         Daubeny, 67.
         , human, on a quantity of, discovered in   Chemistry, 50.
      a field near Billingham, 95.                  Childers (J, W.), comparative temperature
                                                        table, showing the daily average height of
  Bone, microscopical drawings, illustrating the        the thermometer, at Jersey, Torquay, Has-
      structure of bones, 125.                          tings, and London, in July 1848, 16.
                                                    Cholera, on a supposed connexion between
 Bonomi (Joseph) on a map of Ancient Egypt              an insufficient use of salt in food and the
                                                        progress of Asiatic, 88.
      of the time of Antoninus Pius, 06.            Clark (J.) on the recurrence of Cqlymbus
  Botany, 79.                                           arcticus, shot near Swansea, 125.
  Bradley (Rev. P.) on the boring of Sabellae,      Clarke (Joshua) on the parasitic character of
                                                        Rhinanthus crista-galli, 84.
       125.                                         Claudet (A.) on the action of the red, orange,
                                                        and yellow rays upon iodized and chromo-
 Breaks on railways, on a new mechanical                iodized silver plates after they have been
      arrangement for working, 121.                     affected by daylight, and other phsenomena
                                                        of photography, 50.
  Breton, Gael and Cymri, on the, 101.              Coal, on a boulder of cannel, found in a vein
  Brewster (Sir David) on the compensation              of common bituminous, 64.

     of impressions moving over the retina, as
      seen in railway travelling, 47.
  ' on the vision of distance as given by

       colour, 48.

  « on the visual impressions upon the
      foramen centrale of tlie retina, 48.
          , an examination of Bishop Berkeley's

    " New Theory of Vision," 49.
INDEX II.                                                                                   131

Coal, on the relative position of the various      Education, progress and character of popular,
                                                       in England and Wales, 102.
--qualities of, in the South Wales coal mea-
     sures, 65.                                    Eggs, on the changes and chemical compo-
       -, on some experimental borings in search       sition of, during incubation, 89.
     of, 67.
Coke, on a peculiar property of, 56.               Egypt, on a map of ancient, of the time of
                                                       Antoninus Pius, 66.
Cole (J. P.), observations upon the meteorolo-
    gical observations for 1846 and 1847, from     Electrical discharge, on a general law of, 19.
     Alten, in a letter to Dr. Lee, 32.            Electric fluid, on the motion of the, along

Collieries, on the ventilation of, 120.                 conductors, 52.
Colour, on the vision of distance as given by,     Electric telegraph, on rendering the, subser-

     48.                                               vient to meteorological research, 12.
                                                   Electricity, on the identity of the existences
Colymbus arcticus shot near Swansea, on the
    recurrence of, 125.                                or forces of, 53.
                                                   Electro-magnetic induction, on the theory
Conductors, on the motion of the electric
     fluid along, 52.                                   of, 9.

Crawford (John), vital statistics of a district    Electromotive force, dynamic effect and re-
    in Java, 112.                                      sistance of various voltaic combinations, 62.

Crocodiles, on the communications between          Elton (Prof.) on the ante-Columbian disco-
    the tympanum and palate in the, 79.                very of America, 94.

Crook (W, H.) on a supposed connexion be-          England, moral and educational statistics of,
    tween an insufficient use of salt in food and
    the progress of Asiatic cholera, 88.           ----105.
                                                            progress and character of popular edu-
Crustacea, on the structure and functions of                               ,
    the branchial organs of the, 83.                   cation in, 102.

Crystals, on pseudomorphous, from volcanic         Ethnographical note on the vicinity of Cham-
    districts of India, 61.                           wood Forest, 99.

Cullen (General) on the fall of rain on the        Ethnology, 94.
    table-land of Uttree MuUay, Travancore,        Exley (Rev. Thomas) on the laws of che-
    during 1846, 39.
                                                      mical combinations and the volumes of
Cultivation of Brittany, as compared with              gaseous bodies, 50.
    that of all France, table of the, 114.
                                                            on the motion of the electric fluid along
Cunnington (William) on a peculiarity in the           conductors, 52.
    structure of one of the fossil sponges of the
    chalk, Choanites Konigi, Mantel!, 67.          Fauna in the JEgean Sea, on the influeHce of

Cymry, Breton and Gael, on the, 101.               temperature upon the distribution of the, 81,
Cystideae, on discoveries among the British, 68.
                                                   Fauna of Ireland, on additions to the, 125.
Darlaston, on the statistics of, 101.
Daubeny (Dr.), reply to an objection of Mr.        Fazoglolanguage, on the, 100.

    Hopkins to the " Chemical Theory of Vol-       Fen lands, on the application of steam power
    canos," in the last volume of the Trans-
                                                   to the drainage of, 117.
    actions, 67.
                                                   Fletcher (Joseph), progress and character of
De la Beche (Sir H. T.) on the geology of
    portions of South Wales, Gloucestershire,      popular education in England and Wales
   and Somersetshire, 79.
                                                   as indicated by the criminal returns,
Dennis (J. C.) on improvements in the re-
   flecting circle, more particularly in refer-    1837-1847, 102.
    ence to an instrument for the purpose of          , moral and educational statistics of Eng-
   measuring angular distances of the sun and
   moon, 117.                                      land and Wales, 105.

Dental system in mammalia, on the homo-            Flora, additions to the British, 84.
   logies and notation of the, 91.
                                                   Fluids, on the mechanical equivalent of heat,
Diamond, on the oxidation of the, in the
   liquid way, 60.                                 and on the constitution of elastic, 21.

"Dirt-bands" on glaciers, on the origin of, 71,    Foraminifera, on the classification of, 125.
Drainage of marshes and fen-lands, on the
                                                   Foramen centrale of the retina, on the visual
   application of steam power to the, 117.
Dutch possessions in the East, remarks on             impressions upon the, 48.
                                                   Forbes (Prof. E.), notice of discoveries among
    the, 112.
                                                   --the British Cystideae, 68.
Dynamic effect, and resistance of various
    voltaic combinations, on the, 62.              -- on some marine animals from the

Eclipse of Oct. 9, 1847, on the annular, 3.            Bristol Channel, 125.
Eclipses, explanation of the " beads " and         Fossil remains recently discovered in Bacon

    " threads" in annular, 2.                          Hole, Gower, on, 62.
                                                   Fossil sepia in the lias of Gloucestershire, on

                                                      some remains of, 66,
                                                   Fossil sponges of the chalk, Choanites Konigi,

                                                   Mantell, on a peculiarity in the structure

                                                      of one of the, 67.
                                                   Fowler (Richard), an attempt to give a phy-

                                                      siological explanation how persons both
                                                      blind, deaf and dumb from infancy inter-

                                                   pret the communications of others by their

                                                   touch only, 88.

                                                                                  k2
132 INDEX II.

Fowls, on tlie chemical and physiological         Henfrey (Arthur) on the development of
    effects of feeding, 8!),                          pollen, 84.

France, table of the cultivation of Brittany as   Higgin (James) on the colouring matters of
    compared with that of all, 114.                   madder, 54.

Gael, Breton and Cymri, on the, 101.              Hodgkinson (Prof. E.) on investigations un-
Galvanometer, on a, 62.                               dertaken for the purpose of furnishing data
                                                     for the construction of Mr. Stephenson's
Gaseous bodies, on the laws of chemical com-         tubular bridges at Conway and Menai
                                                      Straits, 119.
   binations and the volumes of, 50.
Gemmation in the lower tribes of plants, 87.      Hogg (John) on a quantity of human bones
Geography, physical, 62.
                                                     discovered in a field near Billingham, in
Geology, 62.                                         the county of Durham, 95.
                                                  Hooker (Dr.), meteorological and other phae-
         of the county of Wicklow, on the, 71.       nomena observed at various places in India
                                                     and Egypt, extracted from a letter to Prof.
---- of Lundy island, on the, 79.                    Wheatstone, 17.
                                                  Hopkins (Evan) on the polarity of cleavage
---- of Pennsylvania, on the, 74.                    planes, their conducting power, and their
                                                     influence on metalliferous deposits, 69.
     of portions of South Wales, Gloucester-      Hopkins (William), Dr. Daubeny's reply to
                                                     an objection of, to the " Chemical Theory
shire and Somersetshire, on the, 79.                  of Volcanos," 67.
                                                  Huggate, meteorological observations at, for
, physical, of the Silurian district between          1847, 36.

Builth and Pen-y-bont, on some points             Hume (Joseph) on the annual increase of

connected with the, 73.                              property, and of exports and imports in
                                                      Canada, 112.
Glaciers, on the origin of "dirt-bands" on, 71.   Hunt (Robert) on the influence of light in
                                                      preventing chemical action, 54.
    , on the former existence of, in the valleys  Hydrogen and its compounds, on the peculiar
around Snowdon, 78.                                   cooling effects of, in cases of voltaic ig-

Gloucestershire, on some remains of the               nition, 54.

    fossil sepia in the lias of, 66.              Hydrography of the British Isles, 73.

Glynn (Joseph) on the application of steam        Ibbetson (Capt. L. L. B.) on the position of
   power to the drainage of marshes and fen          the chloritic marl or phosphate of lime bed
                                                      in the Isle of Wight, 69.
    lands, 117.                                           , translation of Dr. Sacc's paper on the
                                                     chemical and physiological effects of feed-
Goodman (John) on the identity of the ex-            ing fowls, and on the changes and chemical
                                                      composition of eggs during incubation, 89.
istences or forces of light, heat, electricity,
                                                  Incubation, on the changes and chemical
magnetism and gravitation, 53.                        composition of eggs during, 89.

Graphite, natural and artificial, on a new        India, on pseudomorphous crystals from vol-
                                                      canic districts of, 61.
process for analysing, 59.                               , on the means of maintaining the health
                                                      of troops in, 101.
Gravitation, on the identity of the existences
                                                  Induction, on the theory of electro-magnetic, 9.
or forces of, 53.                                 " Insect limestone" of the lower lias, on the

Great Britain, on the progress of the railway         plants of the, 66.
                                                  Ireland, on the distribution of the population
system of, 105.
                                                      of Great Britain and, 1)3.
     and Ireland, on the distribution of the              , on additions to the fauna of, 125.

    population of, 113.                           Iron, analysis of wrought, produced by cemen-
                                                      tation from cast, 54.
Grewe (J. H.), meteorological observations
   made by, at Alten, in Finmark, 32.             Isle of Wight, on the position of the chloritic
                                                      marl or phosphate of lime bed in the, 69.
Grove (W. R.) on the peculiar cooling effects
                                                  Java, vital statistics of a district in, 112.
of hydrogen and its compounds in cases of         Jeffreys (J. G.) on rare and recent British

voltaic ignition, 54.                                 shells, 71.
                                                           on the recent species of Odostomia, a
Guiana, remarks to accompany a comparative
                                                     genus of Gasteropodous moUusks inhabit-
vocabulary of eighteen languages and dia-            ing the seas of Great Britain and Ireland,79.
                                                  Jenkins (John) on aurorae observed at Swan-
lects of Indian tribes inhabiting, 96.
                                                      sea, 22.
Guianian languages and dialects, comparative

vocabulary of, 97.

Gutta percha, on the chemical composition of,

62.

  on  the     application  of, to  the  arts and

,

manufactures, 122.

Hancock (Albany) on the boring of moUusca

    into rocks, 125.
Harding (W.) on the progress of the railway

    system of Great Britain, 105.

Harris (Sir W. SnOw) on a general law of

    electrical discharge, 19.
Harrison (Mansfield) on a self- registering

    thermometer, 14.
Heat, on the mechanical equivalent of, and

   on the constitution of elastic fluids, 21.
       , on the identity of the existences or

    forces of, 53.
                                                     133

Jenkins (John), tables of meteorological phae-        Magnetism, on the identity of the existences or
    noraena observed at Swansea, 23.
                                                           forces of, 53.
Joints, on panergous, 123.                            Malta, on an extensive mud-slide in the
Joule (J. P.) on the mechanical equivalent of
                                                          island of, 70.
    heat and on the constitution of elastic fluids,
                                                      Mammals, on the normal position of the
     21.                                                 head of the rib in, 89.

Kenrick (Mr.), contributions to the statistics       Mammalia, on the homologies and notation
    ofDarlaston, 101.                                    of the dental system in, 91.

Kirgis skull, on a, 96.                              Manufactures, on the application of gutta
                                                         percha to, 122.
Lankester (Dr. E.) on some vegetable mon-
    strosities illustrating the laws of morpho-      Marginopora and allied structures, on, 67.
                                                     Marine animals from the Bristol channel, on
     logy, 85.
Languages, on a uniform system to reduce                 some, 125.
                                                     Marl or phosphate of lime bed in the Isle of
   unwritten, to alphabetical writing in Roman
                                                         Wight, on the position of the chloritic, 69.
     characters, 99.                                 Marshes, on the application of steam power

Lee (Dr. John) on meteorological observa-                to the drainage of, 117,
   tions continued at Alten in Finmark in            Mathematics, 1.
    1846 and 1S47, 32.
                                                     Maury (Lieut.) on wind and current charts
Leg, improved construction of an artificial,             of the North Atlantic, 34.
     117.
                                                     Mechanism, on a new element of, 119.
Lennard's microscopical drawings illustrating        Mechanics, 117.
    the structure of bone, exhibited, 125.           Mendicancy, statistics on, 105.
                                                     Metalliferous deposits, on the polarity of clea-
Llanrwst, periodical birds observed in the
    years 1847 and 1848, near, 84.                       vage planes, their conducting power, and

Lias, on the plants of the "insect limestone"             their influence on, 69.
    of the lower, 66.
                                                     Meteorological and other observations made
Lias of Gloucestershire, on some remains of              in India and Egypt, 17.
    the fossil sepia in the, 66.
                                                     Meteorological observations continued at Alten
Light, on a new case of interference of, 3.             in Finmark in 1846, 1847, with observations
       , on the refraction of, beyond the critical       on them, 32.
                                                             at Huggate for 1847, 36.
    angle, 5.
        , on a diflSculty in the theory of, 5.       Meteorological phsenomena observed at Swan-
       , on the identity of the existences or
                                                         sea, tables of, 23.
    forces of, 53.                                   Meteorological research, on rendering the
       , on the influence of, in preventing che-
                                                         electric telegraph subservient to, 1 2.
    mical action, 54.
                                                     Meteors, on a new instrument for observing
Lime bed in the Isle of Wight, on the posi-              the apparent positions of, 13.
    tion of the phosphate of, 69.
                                                     Meteorite, on the fall of a, in two pieces, at
Lloyd (Rev. H.) on the mean results of ob-               Braunau in Bohemia, 71.

    servations, 1.                                   Miller (Prof. W. A.), analysis of wrought iron
                                                        produced by cementation from cast iron,
Lundy island, on the geology of, 79.
Lyme Regis, on a remarkable tide at, 37.                  55.

MacAndrew (Robert) on some marine ani-               Milward (A.) on an extensive mud -slide in
   mals from the Bristol Channel, 125.
                                                         the island of Malta, 70.
Macdonald (Dr.) on the erroneous division of                  on the origin of " dirt-bands " on gla-
   the cervical and dorsal vertebrae, and the
   connexion of the first rib with the seventh           ciers, 71.
   vertebra, and the normal position of the          Mineral basin of South Wales, on the subsi-
   head of the rib in mammals, 89.
                                                        dences which have taken place in the, 71.
Macropodidae, on the development and change                 , on the great anticlinal line of the, 75.
    of dentition in the, 91.
                                                     Mine-ventilator, description of a new, 120.
Madder, on the colouring matters of, 54.             Moberley (Rev. Dr.) on a large plesiosaurus
Magnetic action, on experiments belonging to
                                                        discovered in lias at the alum-works at
   a new, 2.
Magnetic force, terrestrial, on the equilibrium          Kettleness, 78.
                                                     Moffatt (Dr.) on the existence of ozone in the
   of magnetic or diamagnetic bodies of any
   form, under the influence of the, 8.                  atmosphere, 56.
Magnetic or diamagnetic bodies of any form,          Moggeridge (Matthew) on two cases of un-
   on the equilibrium of, under the influence
   of the terrestrial magnetic force, 8.                common atmospheric refraction, 33.
Magnetism, on those variations of the force                  on a peculiarity in the Protococcus niva-
   and the direction of the terrestrial, which
   seem to depend on the aurora borealis, 4.             lis, 86.
                                                     MoUusca, on sounds emitted by, 80.

                                                             , on the sounds emitted by, at Bathcoloa,
                                                         Ceylon, 82.

                                                             , on the boring of, into rocks, 125.
                                                     Mollusks, genus of Gasteropodous, inhabiting

                                                       the seas of Great Britain and Ireland, 79.
134 INDEX II.

Moon, on the sources of the Nile in the moun-        Percy (Dr.) on some of the alloys of tung-

----tains of the, 63.                                    sten, 57.
        , on improvements in the reflecting circle,
   in reference to an instrument for measuring       Petcrmann (Augustus), hydrography of the
    angular distances of the, 117.
Moses (F.) on the subsidences which have             -- --British Isles, 73.
                                                             on the distribution of the population of
    taken place in the mineral basin of South            Great Britain and Ireland ; illustrated by
    Wales, betwreen the Llynvi valley on the            maps and diagrams, 113.
   east, and Penllergare on the west, 71.            Phillips (John), letter to, from Mansfield Har-
Morgan (W.) on some bones found in the bed
    of the Tawey, 71.                                    rison, on a self-registering thermometer,
Morphology, on some vegetable monstrosities
    illustrating the laws of, 85.                    ----14.
Mud-slide in the island of Malta, on an ex-                   on the colour stripes of a rose (Rosa
     tensive, 70.
                                                     ----sempervirens), single, 86.
Nasmyth (James) on a peculiar property of                     ethnographical note on the vicinity of
                                                         Charnwood Forest, 99.
----coke, 56.                                        Phillips (R.) on some properties of alumina,
         on the chemical character of steel, 57.
Nerves, on the structure of the, in the glands            58.
                                                     Photography, on the action of the red, orange,
    at the inferior surface of the tongue, 83.
                                                         and yellow rays upon iodized and bromo-
       , on the value of the origins of, as a homo-      iodized silver plates after they have been
                                                         affected by daylight, and other phaenomena
     logical character, 93.
                                                          of, 50.
Newton's rings, on the perfect blackness of          Physics, 1.
     the centre of, 7.
                                                     Physiology, 79.
Nile, on the sources of the, in the mountains        Pipes, on the patent multitubular, 123.
    of the moon, 63.                                 Planes, on the polarity of, their conducting
        , on the sources of the White, 78.
                                                         power, and their influence on metalliferous
Northampton (the Marquis of), letter read
    from M. Boguslawski to, on the fall of a              deposits, 69.
    meteorite, in two pieces, at Braunau in Bo-
    hemia, 71.                                       ----Plants, on common salt as a poison to, 58.
                                                              of the carboniferous period, on the oc-
Observations, on the mean results of, 1.                  currence in the Tarentaise of certain species
 Odostomia, on the recent species of, a genus            of fossil, associated in the same bed with
                                                          belemnites, 64.
     of Gasteropodous mollusks inhabiting the                  of the " insect limestone " of the lower
    seas of Great Britain and Ireland, 79.               lias, on the, 66.
Oldham (Prof.) on the geology of the county                  , on gemmation in the lower tribes of, 87.
     of Wicklow, 71.                                  Plesiosaurus discovered in lias at the alum-
 Ormerod (G. W.) on the drainage of a portion
    of Chat Moss, 72.                                    works at Kettleness, described, 78.
 Ornithorhynchus, on theos humero-capsulare           Plucker (Herr) on experiments belonging to
     of the, 79.
                                                         a new magnetic action, 2.
 Owen (Prof.) on the communications between          Polarization at the north pole of the sky, on
    the tympanum and palate in the crocodiles,
                                                         a means of determining the apparent solar
--79.                                                     time by the diurnal changes of the plane
       - on the OS humero-capsulare of the Orni-
 --thorhynchus, 79.                                        of, 10.
                                                      Pollen, on the development of, 84.
 -- on the homologies and notation of the
                                                      Polystomella crispa and the classification of
----dental system in mammalia, 91.                        foraminifera, 125.
          on the value of the origins of nerves as
     a homological character, 93.                     Population of Great Britain and Ireland, on
 Ozone, on the existence of, in the atmosphere,           the distribution of the, 113.
                                                                of all towns containing 10,000 inhabit-
      5C.                                                 ants and upwards, synopical table of the,

 Palate in the crocodiles, on the communica-               113.
    tions between the tympanum and, 79.               Portlock(Lt.-Col.) on apparent changes in the

 Palmelleae, on an apparently undescribed state           level of the coast near Portsmouth, 72.
    of the, with a few observations on gemma-                  on sounds emitted by moUusca, 80.
     tion in the lower tribes of plants, 87.
                                                      Portsmouth, on apparent changes in the level
 Pendulums, on the resistance of the air                   of the coast near, 72.

       to, 7.                                         Powell (Rev. Prof) on an explanation of the
                                                          " Beads " and " Threads " in annular
 Pennsylvania, on the geology of, 74.
 Pen-y-bont and Builth, on some points con-                eclipses, 2.

      nected with the physical geology of the                 on a new case of interference of light, 3.
      Silurian districts between, 73.                           observations of the annular eclipse of

                                                          Oct. 9, 1847, 3.
                                                              , contributions to academical statistics,

                                                           105.

                                                      Printing, anastatic, and its various combina-

                                                           tions, 120.
INDEX II.                                          135

Property in Canada, on the annual increase          Rose, single (Rosa sempervirens), on the
     of, 112.                                           colour stripes of a, 86.

Protococcus nivalis, on a peculiarity in the, 86.   Russell (J. Scott) on certain effects produced
                                                        on sound by the rapid motion of the ob-
Railway, on a new low-pressure atmospheric,              server, 37.

     120.                                          Sabellse, on the boring of, 125.
                                                   Sacc (Dr.) on the chemical and physiological
Railways, on a new mechanical arrangement
    for communicating signals and working              effects of feeding fowls, and on the changes
                                                       and chemical composition of eggs during
    breaks on, 121.                                     incubation, 89.
Railway system of Great Britain, on the pro-       Salt as a poison to plants, on common, 58.
                                                   Salt in food and the progress of Asiatic cho-
    gress of the, 105.                                 lera, on a supposed connexion between an
Rain, on the fall of, on the table-land of             insufficient use of, 88.
                                                   Schomburgk (Sir R. H.), remarks to accom-
    Uttree Mullay, Travancore, during 1846,            pany a comparative vocabulary of eighteen
     39.                                               languages and dialects of Indian tribes in-
                                                       habiting Guiana, 96.
Randall (W. B.) on common salt as a poison
                                                            on a uniform system to reduce unwritten
     to plants, 5S.
                                                      languages to alphabetical writing in Roman
Rankin (Thomas), meteorological observa-
    tions at Huggate for 1847, 36.                      characters, 99.
                                                   Sea, on the physical conditions regulating
Ramsay (Prof.) on some points connected
                                                       the vertical distribution of animals in the,
    with the physical geology of the Silurian
    district between Builth and Pen-y-bont,             83.
    Radnorshire, 73.
Rays, on the action of the red, orange and         Sepia in the lias of Gloucestershire, on some
    yellow upon iodized and bromo-iodized              remains of the fossil, 66.
· silver plates after they have been affected
   by daylight, and other phaenomena of pho-       Shells, on rare and recent British, 71.
    tography, 50. ,                                Signals on railways, on a new mechanical
Reeve (Lovell) on a new species of Argonaut,
    A. Owenii, with observations on the A. gon-        arrangement for communicating, 121.
    dola, Dillwyn, 80.                             Siljestrom (Dr.) on those variations of the
Reflecting circle, on improvements in the, 117.
                                                      force and the direction of the terrestrial
Refraction, on two cases of uncommon atmo-             magnetism which seem to depend on the
                                                       aurora borealis, 4.
    spheric, 33.                                   Silurian district between Builth and Pen.y-
Retina, on the compensation of impressions            bont, on some points connected with the
                                                       physical geology of the, 73.
   moving over the, as seen in railway travel-     Sky, on a means of determining the apparent
                                                      solar time by the diurnal changes of the
     ling, 47.                                         plane of polarization at the north pole of

       , on the visual impressions upon the Fo-        the, 10.

----ramen centrale of the, 48.                     Skull, measurements of a, considered to be
       , on the luminous spectra excited by            Burgundian, 96.
   pressure on the, and their application to              , notes on a Kirgis, 96.
    the diagnosis of the affections of the retina
   and its appendages, 82.                         Solar time, on a means of determining the
                                                      apparent, by the diurnal changes of the
----Retzius (Prof.), notes on a Kirgis skull, 96.      plane of polarization at the north pole of
       , measurements of a skull considered to
    be Burgundian, 96.                                 the sky, 10.
Rhinanthus crista-galli, on the parasitic cha-     Sound, on certain effects produced on, by the

    racter of, 84.                                     rapid motion of the observer, 37.
Roberts (George) on a remarkable tide in the       Spectra, on the luminous, excited by pressure

    British Channel, July 7, 1848, as it ap-          on the retina and their application to the
                                                      diagnosis of the affections of the retina and
   peared at Lyme Regis, Dorset, 37.                  its appendages, 82.
Roberts (Richard) on a new element of me-          Sponges of the chalk, Choanites Konigi, Man-
                                                      tell, on a peculiarity in the structure of one
    chanism, 119.                                      of the fossil, 67.
Robinson (Rev. Prof ) on "shooting stars"          Spratt (Lieut.) on the influence of tempera-
                                                      ture upon the distribution of the fauna in
   seen August 10, at Armagh, 37.                      the iEgean Sea, 81.
Rocks, on the boring of moUusca into, 125.         Stanley (Capt.) on the lengths and velocities
Rogers (Prof. H. D.) on the geology of Penn-           of waves, 38.
                                                   Stars, shooting, seen at Armagh, 37.
    sylvania, 74.                                  Statistics, 101.
                                                   Statistics of civil justice in Bengal in which
Rogers (Professors R. E. and W. B.) on a new           the government is a party, 116.

   process for analysing graphite, natural and

    artificial, 59.

        on the oxidation of the diamond in the
    liquid way, 60.

        on the absorption of carbonic acid by
    sulphuric acid, 61.
Rope, subaqueous, for telegraphic and other
    purposes, 123.
136 INDEX 11.

Steam power, on the application of, to the            Thompson (William) on additions to the fauna
    drainage of marshes and fen lands, 117.
                                                          of Ireland, 125.
Steel, on the chemical character of, 57.
Stephenson's tubular bridges at Conway and            Thomson (Prof. W.) on the equilibrium of
                                                     · magnetic or diamagnetic bodies of any form,
    Menai Straits, investigations undertaken
    for the purpose of furnishing data for the           under the influence of the terrestrial mag-

     construction of, 119.                           -- --netic force, 9.
Stokes (G. G.) on the refraction of light be-                  on the theory of electro-magnetic induc-
                                                           tion, 9.
    yond the critical angle, 5.                      " Threads " in annular eclipses, on an ex-

---- on a difficulty in the theory of light, 5.           planation of the, 2.
         on the resistance of the air to pendu-      Thwaites (G. H. K.) on an apparently unde-
    lums, 7.
         on the perfect blackness of the centre of       scribed state of the Palmelleae, with a few
    Newton's rings, 7.                                   observations on gemmation in the lower
Storm, on a remarkable, at Bombay, on April 6,            tribes of plants, 87.

     1848, 41.                                       Tide, on a remarkable, at Lyme Regis, on
Strickland (H. E.) on anastatic printing and
                                                         July 7, 1848, 37.
    fts various combinations, 120.                   Tongue, on the structure of the nerves in the
Struv^ (William Price) on the great anticlinal
                                                         glands at the inferior surface of the, 83.
----line of the mineral basin of South Wales, 75.    Troops in India, on the means of maintaining
         on the ventilation of collieries, with de-
   scription of a new mine-ventilator, 120.               the health of, 101.
        on a new low-pressure atmospheric            Tumali language, on the, 100.
    railway, 120.                                    Tungsten, on some of the alloys of, 57.
Sun, on improvements in the reflecting circle,       Tutschek (Dr. L.) on the Tumali language,

   in reference to an instrument for measuring            100.
    angular distances of the, 117.                            on the Fazoglo language, 100.
Sykes (Lt.Col.)on the fall of rain on the table-
    land of Uttree Mullay, Travancore, during        Tympanum and palate in the crocodiles, on
    1846, 39.
                                                         the communications betw£en the, 79.
        on atmospheric disturbances, and on a
   remarkable storm at Bombay on the 6th of          " Uniformity of time " and other telegraphs,
    April 1841, 41.                                      on the, 123.

       , remarks on the Dutch possessions in the     Uttree Mullay, Travancore, on the fall of rain
                                                         on the table-land of, in 1846, 39.
----East, 112.
        , statistics of civil justice in Bengal in   Vegetable monstrosities illustrating the laws
   which the government is a party, 116.                 of morphology, 85.
Swansea, meteorological phaenomena observed
                                                     Velocentimeter, on the improved, 124.
    at, 23.                                          Ventilation of collieries, on the, 120.
        , notices of aurorae observed at, 22.        Vertebrae, on the erroneous division of the
                                                     . cervical and dorsal, and the connexion of
Tarentaise, on the occurrence in the, of certain
    species of fossil plants of the carboniferotis       the first rib with the seventh vertebra, 89.
   period, associated in the same bed with           Villerme (M.) on cultivation in Brittany, 114.
    belemnites, 64.                                  Vision of distance as given by colour, on the,

Tawey, on remains discovered beneath the                 48.
   bed of the river, 62.                             Vision, on impaired, in which objects appear
       , on some bones found in the bed of the,
                                                        much smaller than natural, 8.
    71.                                              Volcanic districts of India, on pseudomor-

Taylo" (T. L.) on the sounds emitted by mol-             phous crystals from, 61.
    lusca, at Bathcoloa, Ceylon, 82.                 Volcanos, chemical theory of, reply to an ob-

Telegraph, on rendering the electric, subser-           jection of Mr. Hopkins to the, by Dr. Dau-
    vient to meteorological research, 12.                beny, 67.
       , speaking, on the, 125.                      Voltaic combinations, on the electromotive
                                                        force, dynamic effect and resistance of va-
Telegraphs, on the " uniformity of time" and
    other, 123.                                           rious, 62.
                                                     Voltaic ignition, on the peculiar cooling effects
Telegraphic and other purposes, on the sub-
    aqueous rope for, 123.                              of hydrogen and its compounds in cases of,

Telekouphonon, on the, 125.                               54.
Tennant (J.) on pseudomorphous crystals
                                                     Waller (Dr.) on impaired vision in which ob-
   from volcanic districts of India, 61.                jects appear much smaller than natural, 82.
Thermometer, on a self-registering, 14.                       on the luminous spectra excited by
                                                         pressure on the retina and their application
        , comparative temperature table, showing         to the diagnosis of the affections of the re-
    the daily average height of the, at Jersey,         tina and its appendages, 82.
    Torquay, Hastings and London, in July                    microscopic observations on the move-
                                                        ment of the human blood in the capillaries,
     1848, 16.                                          and on the structure of the nerves in the
                                      INDEX II.   137

glands at the inferior surface of the tongue,         pbsenomena observed at various places in
                                                      India and Egypt, 17.
83.                                               Whewell (Rev. Dr.), letter to, on the length
                                                      and velocities of waves, 38.
Wales, moral and educational statistics of, 105.  Whishaw (Francis) on the chemical compo-
                                                      sition of gutta percha, 62.
  progress and     character of popular edu-
                                                            on the application of gutta percha to
,                                                     the arts and manufactures, 122.

cation in, 102.                                           on the " Uniformity of Time " and other

, on the relative position of the various         ^--telegraphs, 123.
                                                           on the subaqueous rope for telegraphic
qualities of coal in the coal measures of             and other purposes, 123.
                                                           on the patent multitubular pipes and
South, 65.                                            panergous joints, 123.
                                                           on the improved velocentimeter, 124.
, on the subsidences which have taken                      on the telekouphonon, or speaking tele-
                                                      graph, 125.
place in the mineral basin of South, 71.          Wicklow, on the geology of the county of, 71.
                                                  Williams (Rev. D.) on the geology of Lundy
,on the great anticlinal line of the mineral
                                                      island, 79.
    basin of South, 75.                           Williams (Dr. T.) on the physical conditions

Ward (\V. S.) on a galvanometer, 62.                  regulating the vertical distribution of ani-
                                                      mals in the atmosphere and the sea, 83.
     on the electromotive force, dj'namic
                                                           on the structure and functions of the
effect, and resistance of various voltaic com-        branchial organs of the Annelida and Crus-
                                                      tacea, S3.
binations, 62.                                    Williams (Archdeacon) on the Gael, Breton,
                                                     and Cymry, 101.
     on a nevir mechanical arrangement for        Williams (Cadogan) on the desirableness of
                                                     extending to the working classes the op-
communicating signals and working breaks              portunity of purchasing deferred annuities,
                                                      as a provision for old age, 105.
on railways, 121.                                 Williamson (W. C.) on Polystomella crispa
                                                     and the classification of foraminifera, 125.
Waves, on the lengths and velocities of, 38.
Westminster (The Dean of), map of part of         Zoology, 79.

North Wales, with sketches of rocks in the

valleys around Snowdon, and indicating

the former existence of glaciers in these

valleys, 78.

, letter from the Rev. Dr. Moberley to, on

a large plesiosaurus discovered in the lias at

the alum-works at Kettleness, 78.

Werne (Ferdinand) on the sources of the

White Nile, 78.

Wheatstone (Prof.) on a means of determining

the apparent solar time by the diurnal

changes of the plane of polarization at the

north pole of the sky, 10.

    , extracts from a letter to, from Dr.
Hooker, being meteorological and other
                                                                                                                             :

                LONDON

PRINTED BY RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR,

               RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
;

List of those Members of the British Association for the Advancement
   of Science to whom Copies of this Volume [for 1848] aref supplied

    gratuitously, in conformity with the Regulations adopted by the

   &General Committee. [See pp. v. vi.]

                       HONORARV MEMBER.

  HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS, PRINCE ALBERT OF SAXE-COBURG AND GOTHA.

LIFE MEMBERS.

Ablett, Joseph, Llanbedr Hall, Ruthin, Den-       Ball, John, M.R.I.A., 85 Stephen's Green,
                                                      Dublin.
    bighshire.
Adair, Alexander Shafto, M.P., 7 Audley           Ball, WiUiam, Rydall, Ambleside, Westmore-

    Square, London.                                   land.
Adam, Walter, M.D., 39 George Square,
                                                  Bai-bour, Robert, Portland St., Manchester.
    Edinburgh.                                    Barker, Richard, M.D., M.R.D.S., 6 Gardi-
Adams, John Couch, M.A., F.R.S., St. John's
                                                     ner's Row, Dublin.
    College, Cambridge.                           Barnes, Thomas, M.D., F.R.S.E., Carlisle.
Adare, Edwin, Viscount, M.P., F.R.S., 94          Barnett, Richard, Stourport, Worcestershire.
                                                  Barton, John, 48 Mary Street, Dublin.
   Eaton Square, London.                          Bashforth, Francis, M.A., St. John's College,
Ainsworth, Thomas, The Flosh, Egremont,
                                                      Cambridge.
   Cumberland.                                    Bateman, Joseph, LL.D., F.R.A.S., Excise
Aldam, William, jun., Warmsworth near
                                                      Office, Broad Street, London.
    Doncaster.                                    Bayldon, John, Lendal, Y'ork.
Alexander, William Maxwell, Southbarr,            Bayley, William, Stockton-upon-Tees.
                                                  Beamish, Richard, F.R.S.
     Paisley.                                     Beatson, William, Rotherham.
                                                  Beaufoy, Henry, F.R.S., South Lambeth,
Allecock, Samuel, Arlington Place, Man-
                                                      London.
    chester.                                      Belcher, Captain Sir Edward, R.N., F.R.A.S.,

AUis, Thomas, Osbaldwick, York.                      22 Thurloe Square, Brompton, London.
Ambler, Henry, Watkinson Hall, Ovenden            Belcombe, Henry Stephens, M.D., Minster

    near Halifax.                                     Yard, York.
Amery, John, F.S.A., Park House, Stourbridge.     Bergin, Thomas Francis, M.R.I.A., 49 West-
Anderson, David, Driffield, Yorkshire.
Andrews, Thomas, M.D., F.R.S., M.R.I.A.,             land Row, Dublin.
                                                  Berryman, William Richard, 6 Tamar Ter-
   Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Belfast
    Academical Institution, Belfast.                 race, Stoke, Devonport.
Ansted, David Thomas, M.A., F.R.S., Profes-       Bickerdike, Rev. John, M.A., Bradford, York-
   sor of Geology in King's College, London
   36 Gloucester Road, Hyde Park, London.              shire.
Armistead, John, Springfield Mount near
    Leeds.                                        Binyon, Alfred, Mayfield, Manchester.
Ashton, Thomas, M.D., 71 Mosley Street,           Binyon, Thomas, St. Ann's Square, Manches-
    Manchester.
Ashworth, Edmund, Turton near Bolton.                  ter.
Atkinson, Joseph B., Gotham, Bristol.
Auldjo, John,F.R.S., Noel House, Kensington.      Bird, William, 5 Old Church Yard, Liverpool.
                                                  Birks, Thomas Rawson, Watton near Ware,
                 Charles, M.A., F.R.S., 1 Dorset
    Street, Manchester Square, London.                Herts.
Babington, Charles Cardale, M.A., F.L.S.,
    {Local Treasurer), St. John's College,        Birley, Richard, Upper Brook Street, Man-
    Cambridge.
Backhouse, John Church, Blackwell, Dar-               chester.
    lington.
Baddeley, Capt. Fred. H., R.E., Ceylon.           Birt, W. R., Cambridge Road, Bethnal Green,

Bain, Richard, Gwennap near Truro.                    London.
Bainbridge, Robert Walton, Middleton House        Blackwall, John, F.L.S. , Oakland, Llanrwst,

   near Barnard Castle, Durham.                       Denbighshire.
Balfour, John Hutton, M.D., Professor of          Blackwell, Thomas Evans, F.G.S., Foxhangers

    Botany in the University of Edinburgh,            near Chippenham, Wilts.
    F.R.S.E., F.L.S. ; Edinburgh.                 Blake, WiUiam, Bishop's Hull, Taunton.
                                                  Blakiston,Peyton,M.D.,F.R.S., St. Leonard's-

                                                      on-Sea.
                                                  Bland, Rev. Miles, D.D., F.R.S., Lilley Rec-

                                                      tory near Luton, Bedfordshire.
                                                  Blood, Bindon, M.R.I.A., Cranaher, Ennis,

                                                      Co. Clare, Ireland.

[It 13 requested that any inaccuracy in the names and residences of the Members may be communicated to
               Messrs, Richard and John E. Taylor, Printers, Bed Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.]
;

MEMBERS TO WHOM

Boddingtoii, Benjamin, Burcher, Kington,          Carr, WilUam, Blackheath.
                                                  Cartraell, Rev. James, B.D., F.G.S., Christ's
     Herefordsliire.
                                                     College, Cambridge.
Bodley, Thomas, F.G.S., Anlaby House, Pitt-       Cassels, Rev. Andrew, M.A., Batley Vicarage
    ville, Cheltenham.
                                                      near Leeds.
Boileau, Sir John P., Bart., F.R.S., 20 Upper     Cathcart, Lieut-General Charles Murray,
    Brook Street, London.
                                                     Earl, K.C.B., F.R.S.B., Inversleith House,
Bond, Walter M., The Argory, Moy, Ireland.           Edinburgh.
Boughton, Sir William Edward Rouse, Bart.,        Cayley, Sir George, Bart., 20 Hertford Street,

   F.R.S., Downton Hall near Ludlow, Shrop-          May Fair, London.
                                                  Chadwick, Hugo Mavesyn, F.R.G.S., Mem.
     shire.
                                                     Egypt. Lit. Soc, Mavesyn-Ridware,
Bowerbank, James Scott, F.R.S., 3 Highbury
    Grove, London.                                    Rugeley.
                                                  Challis, Rev. James, M.A., F.R.S., Plumian
Brady, Antonio, Maryland Point, Stratford,
                                                     Professor of Astronomy in the University
    Essex.                                           of Cambridge ; Observatory, Cambridge.
Brakenridge, John, Bretton Lodge, Wakefield.      Chambers, Robert, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
Brammall, Jonathan, Sheffield.                    Champney, Henry Nelson, The Mount, York.
Briggs, Major-General John,E.LC.S., F.R.S.,       Chanter, John, 52 King William Street, City,
                                                     London.
   24 Conduit Street, Bond Street, London.        Chatterton, Sir WilUam, Bart., F.R.G.S.,
Brisbane, General Sir Thomas Makdougall,              Castlemahon, Cork.
                                                  Cheetham, David, Staleybridge, Manchester.
    Bart., G.C.B., G.C.H., D.C.L., President      ChevaUier, Rev. Temple, B.D., F.R.A.S.,
    of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, F.R.S.        Professor of Mathematics and Astronomy
    Makerstoun, Kelso.                               in the University of Durham ; Durham.
Brockedon, Philip N., 29 Devonshire Street,       Chichester, Ashhurst Turner Gilbert, D.D.,
   Queen Square, London.                             Lord Bishop of, 43 Queen Ann Street,
                                                      Cavendish Square, London.
Brogden, John, jun., Ardwick Place, Man-          Chiswell, Thomas, 150 Waterloo Place, Man-

     clisstcr*                                        chester.

Brooke, Charles, M.B., F.R.S., 29 Keppel          Christie, Samuel Hunter, M.A., Professor of
    Street, Russell Square, London.                  Mathematics in the Royal MiUtary Academy,
                                                     Woolwich, Sec.R.S. ; The Common, Wool-
Brooks, Samuel, Market Street, Manchester.
Brooks, Thomas, (Messrs. Butterworth and              wich.
                                                  Clark, Rev. Charles, M.A.
    Brooks,) Manchester.                          Clark, Francis, Hazelwood near Birmingham.
Broun, John A., Makerstoun, Kelso.                Clark, Henry, M.D., 74 Marland Place,
Brown, William, Douglas, Isle of Man.
Bruce, Alexander John, Kilmarnock.                    Southampton.
                                                  Clay, J. Travis, F.G.S., Rastrick near Hud-
Bruce, Hahday, M.R.I. A., 37 Dame Street,
                                                       dersfield.
    Dublin.
                                                  Clear, WilUam, {Local Treasurer), 92 South
Brunei, Isambart Kingdom, F.R.S., 18 Duke            MaU, Cork.

    Street, Westminster.                          Coathupe, Charles Thornton, WraxaU near
Buck, George Watson, Manchester.
Buckland, Very Rev. WilUam, D.D., Dean of              Bristol.

   Westminster, Reader in Geology and Mi-         Cocker, Jonathan, Higher Broughton Street,
    neralogy in the University of Oxford, Trust.
   Brit. Mus., F.R.S,; The Deanery, West-             Manchester.
                                                  Compton, Lord Alwyne, Castle Ashby, Nor-
    minster.
                                                      thamptonshire.
Buckman, James, F.G.S., Professor of Bo-          Compton, Lord WilUam, 145 Piccadilly, Lon-
   tany, Royal Agricultural College, Ciren-
                                                      don.
     cester.
                                                  Consterdine, James, New Cannon Street,
Budd, James Palmer, Ystalyfera Iron Works,
    Swansea.                                          Manchester.

BuUer, Sir Antony, Pound near Tavistock,          Conway, Charles, Pontnwydd Works, New-
    Devon.                                            port, Monmouthshire.

Bulman, John, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.                Conybeare, Very Rev. William Daniel, Dean
Burd, John, jun.. Mount Sion, RadcUffe,               of Llandaff, M.A., F.R.S. ; The Deanery,

    Manchester.                                        Llandaff.
Burlington, William, Earl of, M.A., LL.D.,
                                                  Cooke, WiUiam Fothergill, Kidbrook near
    Chancellor of the University of London,
    F.R.S. ; 10 Belgrave Square, London.              Blackheath.
                                                  Corbet, Richard, Adderley, Market Dray-
Campbell, Sir James, Glasgow.
Campbell, William, 34 Candlerigg Street,              ton, Shropshire.
                                                  Cork, Cloyne and Ross, James Wilson, D.D.,
    Glasgow.
Carew, WiUiam H. Pole, M.P., Antony House             Lord Bishop of, M.R.I.A.
                                                  Cottam, Samuel E., F.R.A.S., 28 Brazennose
    near Devonport.
Came, Joseph, F.R.S., Penzance.                       Street, Manchester.
Carpenter, Rev. Philip Pearsall, B.A., Acade-

   my Place, Warrington.

                                                                                                  I
BOOKS ARE SUPPLIED GRATIS.

Cotton, Alexander, Landwade, Cambridge-        Ellis, Thomas Flower, M.A., F.R.A.S., 15
                                                  Bedford Place, London.
     shire.
                                               Enys, John Samuel, F.G.S., Enys, Cornwall.
Cotton, Rev. William Charles, M.A., New        Erie, Rev. Christopher, M.A., F.G.S., Hard-

    Zealand.                                       wick Rectory near Aylesbury, Bucking-
Courtney, Henry, M.R.I.A., 24 Fitzwilliam          hamshire.
                                               Exley, Rev. Thomas, M.A., Cotham, Bristol.
    Place, Dublin.                             Eyre, George Edward, F.G.S., Warrens near
Cox, Joseph, F.G.S., "Wisbeach, Cambridge-         Lyndhurst, Hants.

     shire.                                    Fairbairn, William, C.E., Manchester.
                                               Faraday, Michael, D.C.L., F.R.S., Fullerian
Crampton, The Honourable Justice, LL.D.,
    M.R.I.A., 3 Kildare Place, Dublin.             Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Insti-
                                                   tution of Great Britain, 21 Albemarle St.,
Crewdson, Thomas D., Dacca MiUs, Man-              London.
                                               Fellows, Sir Charles, F.R.G.S., 4 Montagu
     chester.                                      Place, Russell Square, London.
Creyke, Captain Richard, E.N., 7 Albemarle     Fisher, Rev. J. M., M.A., Lower Grove,
                                                   Brompton, London.
    Villas, Stoke, Devon.                      Fisher, Rev. Thomas, M.A., Luccombe near
Crichton, WUliam, Glasgow.                         Minehead, Somerset.
Crompton, Rev. Joseph, Norwich.                Fitzwilliam, Charles William, Earl, F.R.S.,
Crooke, G. W., Liverpool.                          President of the Yorkshire Philosophical
Currer, Rev. Danson Richardson, Clifton            Society ; Mortimer House, Halkin Street,
                                                   Grosvenor Place, London.
    House, York.                               Fleming, Colonel James, Kinlochlaich, Appin,
Curtis, John Wright, Alton, Hants.                 Argyleshire.
                                               Fleming, WiUiam M., Barochan, Renfrew-
Dalby, Rev. William, M.A., Rector of Comp-
                                                    shire.
    ton Basset, near Calne, Wilts.
Dalton, Rev. James Edward, B.D., Queen's       Fleming, WiUiam, M.D., Manchester.
                                               Fletcher, Samuel, Ai-dwick Place, Manches-
    College, Cambridge.
Darbishire, Samuel D., Manchester.                  ter.
Daubeny, Charles GUes Bridle, M.D., F.R.S.,
                                               Forbes, James David, Professor of Natural
    Aldrich's Professor of Chemistry, Regius       Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh,
    Professor of Botany, and Sibthorpian Pro-      Sec.R.S.E., F.R.S. ; Edinburgh.

   fessor of Rural Economy in the University   Forbes, John, M.D., F.R.S., 12 Old Burling-
    of Oxford; Oxford.                             ton Street, London.
Dawes, Rev. William Rutter, F.R.A.S., Cam-
    den Lodge, Cranbrook, Kent.                Forrest, William Hutton, Stirling.
Dawson, Christopher H., JjOw Moor, Brad-       Forster, Robert, B.A., Springfield, Dungan-

    ford, Yorkshire.                               non, Ireland.
Dawson, Henry, 14 St. James's Road, Liver-     Forster, William, Ballynure, Clones, Ireland.
                                               Foster, Charles Finch, Mill Lane, Cambridge.
     pool.                                     Foster, H. S., Brooklands, Cambridge.
                                               Foster, John, M.A., Clapham, London.
Deane, Sir Thomas, Dundanion Castle, Cork.     Fowler, Robert, Rathmolion, Co. Meath.
Dent, Joseph, Ribston Hall, Wetherby, York.    Fox, Charles, Perran Arworthalnear Truro.
Dickinson, John, 66 Stephen's Green, Dublin.   Fox, Robert Barclay, Falmouth.
Dikes, William Hey, F.G.S., Wakefield.
Dilke, C. Wentworth, 76 Sloane Street,         Frankland, Rev. Marmaduke Charles, Malton,

    London.                                         Yorkshire.
Dobbin, Leonard, jun., M.R.LA., 27 Gardi-
                                               Freeland, Humphry William, B 3 Albany,
     ner's Place, Dublin.
Dodsworth, Benjamin, Great Blake St., York.        London.
Dodsworth, George, FuKord near York.           FuUarton, Allan, Greenock.
Donkin, Thomas, F.R.A.S., Westow, Whit-
                                               Gadesden, Augustus William, F.S.A., Leigh
    well near York.                                House, Lower Tootmg, Surrey.
Dowden, Richard, Sunday's Well, Cork.
Downie, Alexander, Crossbasket near Glasgow.   Gaskell, Samuel, 19 New Street, Spring Gar-

Drury, WilUam, M.D., Gam Gad Hill,Glasgow.         dens, London.
                                               George, John Thomas, M.A., Clifton, Bristol.
Duncan, James, M.D., Farnham House, Fin-        Gibbins, William, Falmouth.
     glass, Co. Dublin.                        Gibson, George Stacey, Saffron Walden.
                                               Gilbart, James William, F.R.S., London and
 Dury, Rev. Theodore, M.A., Westmill near
     Buntingford, Herts.                           Westminster Bank, Lothbury, London.
                                               Gilbert, John Davies, M.A., F.R.S., East-
 Earnshaw, Rev. Samuel, M.A., Sheffield.
 Ebrington, Hugh, Viscount, M.P., 17 Gros-          bounie, Sussex.
                                               Goff, William.
    venor Square, London.                      Goodman, John, Salford, Lancashire.
 Edmonston,Rev.James,25Charrington Street,

    Somers Town, London.
 Egerton, Sir Philip de Malpas Grey, Bart.,

     M.P., F.R.S., Oulton Park, Cheshire.
 Ellis, Rev. Robert, A.M., Grimstone House

     near Malton, Yorkshire.
;

MEMBERS TO WHOM

Gordon, James, 46 Park Street, Bristol.          Harris, Alfred, Manningham Lodge near
Gordon, Rev. James Crawford, M.A., Dela-
                                                     Bradford, Yorkshire.
   mout, Downpatrick, Downshire.                 Harris, George William, 17 Park Street, West-
Gotcli, Rev. Frederick William, B.A., 1 Cave
                                                     minster.
     Street, Bristol.
                                                 Harris, Heury, Heaton HaU near Bradford.
Gotch, Thomas Henry, Kettering.
Graeme, James, Garvoch, Perth.                   Harter, William, Broughton, Manchester.
Graham, Thomas, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of       Hartley, Jesse, Trentham Street, Liveq)ool.
                                                 Harvey, Joseph Charles, Youghal, Co. Cork.
   Chemistry in University College, London       Hatton, James, Richmond House, Higher
   4 Gordon Square, London.
Grahame, Captain Duncan, Irvine, Scotland.           Broughton, Manchester.
Grattan, Jose))li, 94 Shoreditch, London.        Haughton, WilUam, 28 City Quay, Dublin.
Graves, Rev. Charies, M.A., Professor of         Hawkins, John Isaac, C.E., SOChai-les Square,
    Mathematics in the University of Dublin,
    M.R.I.A., 2 Trinity College, Dublin.             Hoxton, London.
Graves, Rev. Richard Hastings, D.D., Bri-        Hawkins, Thomas, F.G.S., 15 Great Ormond
    gown Glebe, Mitchelstown, Co. Cork.
Gray, Rev. David, M.A., F.R.S.E., Professor of       Street, London.
    Natural Philosophy in the Marischal Col-     Havvkshaw, John, F.G.S., Islington House,
    lege and University, Aberdeen.
Gray, John, Greenock.                                Salford, Manchester.
 Gray, John, 22 Montpelier Crescent, Brigh-      Haworth, George, Rochdale, Lancashire.
                                                 Hawthorn, Robert, C.E., i^ewcastle-on-Tyne.
     ton.                                        Henrv, Alexander, Portland St., Manchester.
                                                 Henry-, William Charles, M.D., F.R.S., Haf-
Gray, John Edward, F.R.S., British Mu-
                                                     field near Ledbury, Herefordshire.
     seum.                                       Henslow, Rev. John Stevens, M.A., F.L.S.,
 Gray, William, F.G.S., {Local Treasurer),
                                                     Professor of Botany in the University of
     Minster Yard, York.                             Cambridge, and Examiner in Botany in
Greenaway, Edward, 9 River Terrace, City             the University of London ; Hitcham, Bil-

    Road, Loudon.                                     deston, Suffolk.
 Greswell, Rev. Richard, B.D., F.R.S., Beau-      Herbert, Thomas, Nottingham.

    mont Street, Oxford.                          Heywood, Sir Benjamin, Bart., F.R.S., 9
 Griffin, John Joseph, Glasgow.                      Hyde Park Gardens, London.
 Griffith, Richard, M.R.LA., F.G.S., Fitzwil-
                                                  Heywood, James, M.P., F.R.S., Weaste House
     liam Place, Dublin.                              near Manchester.
 Griffiths, S. Y., Cheltenham.
 Grooby, Rev. James, M.A., F.R.A.S., Swin-        Heywood, Robert, Bolton.
                                                  Higson, Peter, Clifton near Bolton.
     don, W^lts.                                  Hill, Rev. Edwaid, M.A., F.G.S., {Local
 Guinness, Rev. William Smyth, M.A., Rath-
                                                      Treasurer), Christ Church, Oxford.
     drum, Co. Wicklow.                           Hill, Henry, 13 Orchard Street, Portman
 Gutch, John James, 88 Micklegate, York.
                                                      Square, London.
 Habershon, Joseph, jun. The Holmes, Ro-          HiU, Rowland, F.R.A.S., General Post Office,
     therham, Yorkshire.
                                                     London.
 Hailstone, Samuel, F.L.S., Horton Hall near      Hill, Thomas, Rose Cottage, Oughtrington,
      Bradford, Yorkshire.
                                                    Lymm near Warrington.
 HaU, T. B., Coggeshall, Essex.
 Hallam, Henry, M.A., D.C.L., Trust. Brit.        Hill, Thomas Wright, F.R.A.S., Bruce Castle,
                                                      Tottenham.
     Mus., F.R.S., 24 Wilton Crescent, Knights-
     bridge, Loudon.                              Hindmarsh, Luke, Alnwick, Northumberland.
 Hamilton, Mathie, M.D., Peru.                    Hoare, Rev. George Tooker, Selworthy,
 Hamilton, Sir William Rowan, LL.D., Astro-
     nomer Royal of Ireland, and Andrews' Pro-        Miuehead, Somerset.
     fessor of Astronomy in the University of     Hoblyn, Thomas. F.R.S., AVliite Barnes,
     DubUn, M.R.LA., F.R.A.S. ; Observatory,
      Dublin.                                          Buntingford, Herts.
  Hamilton, Wilhara John, Pres. Geogr. Soc.,
     Sec. G.S., 14 Chesham Place, Belgrave        Hodgkin, Thomas, M.D., F.R.G.S., 9 Lower
      Square, London.                                 Brook Street, London.
  Hamlin, Captain Thomas, Greenock.
  Harcourt, Rev. Wilhara V. Vernon, M.A.,         Hodgkinson, Eaton, F.R.S., Professor of Me-
      F.R.S., Weldrake neat York.                     chanical Principles of Engineering in Uni-
  Harding, M'yndham, 10 College, Doctors'             versity College, London ; 14 Crescent, Sal-
     Commons, London.                                 ford, Manchester.
  Hare, Charles John, M.D., 9 Langham Place,
      London.                                     Hodgson, Adam, Everton, Liverpool.
  Harley, John, Wain Worn, Pontypool               Holdeu, Moses, 13 Jordan Street, Preston.
                                                  Holditch, Rev. Uamuet, M.A., Caius College,

                                                       Cambridge.
                                                  Holland", P. H., 86 Grosvenor Street, Man-

                                                        chester.
                                                   HoUingsworth, John, University College,

                                                       London.
                                                   Hone, Nathaniel, M.R.D.S., 1 Fitzwilliam

                                                       Square East, Dublin.
                                                   Hopkins, WilUam, M.A., F.R.S., Cambridge.

                                                                                                   I
                                                ,

BOOKS ARE SUPPLIED GRATIS.

Horner, Leonard, F.R.S., Rivermede, Hamp-       Kay, Rev. William, M.A., Lincoln College,
                                                    Oxford.
    ton-wick.
                                                Keleher, William, 3 High Street, Cork.
Horsfield, George, Stanley Street, Red Bank,    Kelsall, Henry, Rochdale, Lancashire.
    Manchester.                                 Kenrick, Samuel, Handsworth Hall near Bir-

Houldsworth, Henry, NewtonSt., Manchester.         mingham.
Hoyle, John, 10 Brown Street, Manchester.       Kerr, Archibald, Glasgow.
Hudson, Henry, M.D., M.R.I.A., 23 Stephen's     Kerr, Robert, jun., Glasgow.
                                                Knowles, Edward R. J., 23 George Street,
    Green, Dublin.
                                                    Ryde, Isle of Wight.
Hull, WilUam Darley, F.G.S., 15 Hatch Street,   Knowles, William, 15 Park Place, Clifton,

    Dublin.                                          Bristol.
Hulse, Edward, D.C.L., All Souls' College,
                                                Knox, G. James, at C. G. Knox's, Esq., 7
    Oxford.                                         Stone Buildings, Lincoln's Inn, London.
Hutchison, Graham, 16 Blythswood Square,
                                                Lacy, Henry C, jun.
    Glasgow.                                    Laming, Richard, Paris.
Hutton, Robert, M.R.I.A., F.G.S., Putney
                                                Langton, William, Manchester.
    Park, Surrey.                               Lansdowne, Henry, Marquis of, K.G., D.C.L.,
Hutton, William, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
                                                    Tnist. Brit. Mus., F.R.S., 54 Berkeley
Ibbetson, Captain Levett Landen Boscawen,           Square, London.
   K.R.E., F.G.S., Clifton House, Old Bromp-    Larcom, Captain Thomas A., R.E., F.R.S.
   ton, London.                                    Board of Works, Custom House, Dublin.
                                                La Touche, David Charles, M.R.I.A., Castle
IngUs, James, M.D., Halifax, Yorkshire.             Street, Dublin.
                                                Lawson, Andrew, Boroughbridge, Yorkshire.
Jackson, James Eyre, Tullydoiy, Blackwater      Leatham, Charles Albert, Wakefield.
   Town, Armagh.                                Leatham, Edward Aldam, Wakefield.
                                                Leather, John Towlerton, Leventhorpe Hall
Jacob, John, M.D., Marj'borough.                    near Leeds.
Jardine, Sir William, Bart., F.R.S.E., Jardine  Lee, John,LL.D., F.R.S., 5 College, Doctors'
                                                   Commons, London.
   Hall, Applegartli, by Lockerby, Dumfries-    Leeson, H. B., M.A., M.D., St. Thomas's
                                                    Hospital, and Greenwich.
     shire.                                     Lefroy, Captain John Henry, R.A., F.R.S.,
                                                    Toronto.
Jee, Alfred S., 6 JohnStreet.Adelphi, London.   Legh, George Cornwall, M.P., F.G.S., High
Jenkyns, Rev. Henry, D.D., Professor of Di-         Legh, Cheshire.
                                                Leinster, Augustus Frederick, Duke of,
   vinity and Ecclesiastical History in the         M.R.I.A., 6 Carlton House Terrace, London.
   University of Durham ; Durham.               Le Mesurier, R. Arthur, M.A., Corpus Christi
Jenyus, Rev. Leonard, M.A., F.L.S., Swaflf-         College, Oxford.
    ham-Bulbeck, Cambridgeshire.                Lemon, Sir Charles, Bart., M.P., F.R.S., 46
Jerram, Rev. S. John, M.A., Witney, Oxford-         Charles Street, Berkeley Square, London.
                                                Lewis, Captain Thomas Locke, R.E., F.R.S.,
     shire.                                         Ibsley Cottage near Exeter.
                                                Liddell, Andrew, Glasgow.
Jerrard, George Birch, B.A., Examiner in        Lindsay, Henry L., C.E., 122 Lower Glo'ster
    Mathematics and Natural Philosophy in           Street, Dublin.
   the University of London; 1 Hereford         Lingard, John R., Stockport, Cheshire.
    Road, Bayswater, London.                    Lister, Joseph Jackson, F.R.S., Upton,

Johnson, Thomas, Mosley Street, Manchester.     Lloyd, George, M.D., F.G.S., Stank Hill near
Johnston, James F. W., M.A., F.R.S., Lec-           Warwick.

    turer in Chemistry in the University of     Lloyd, Rev. Humphry, D.D., F.R.S., Presi-
                                                    dent of the Royal Irish Academy; 17
   Durham ; Durham.                                  Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin.

Johnstone, James, Alva near Alloa, Stirling-    Lloyd, George Whitelocke, 1 Park Square
                                                    West, Regent's Park, London.
     shire.
                                                 Lockey, Rev. Francis, Swanswick near Bath.
Johnstone, Su: John Variden Bempde, Bart.,       Loftus, William Kennett, F.G.S., Stand
    M.P., M.A., F.G.S. , 27 Grosvenor Square,
    London.                                          House, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
                                                 Logan,WimamEdinond,F.G.S., C.K.Dyer's,
Jones, Christopher Hird, 2 Castle Street,
     Liverpool.                                    Esq., 4 New Broad Street, London.

Jones, Major Edward, Plympton near Ply-          Lubbock, Sir John WilUam, Bart., M.A.,
    mouth.                                           F.R.S., 23 St. James's Place, Loudon.

Jones, Josiah, 2 Castle Street, Liverpool.
 Jones, Robert, 2 Castle Street, Liverpool.

Joule, Benjamin, jun.. New Bailey Street,

     Salford, Manchester.
 Joule, James Prescott, Secretary to the Lite-

    rary and Philosophical Society of Man-
   chester ; New Bailey Street, Salford.
 Joy, Charles Ashfield, 45 Gloucester Road,
    Regent's Park, London.
 Jubb, Abraham, Halifax.

 Kay, John Robinson, Boss Lane House, Bury,

     Lancashire.
MEMBERS TO WHOM

 Lxicas, William, St. Helen's, Lancashire.       Newman, William, Darley Hall near Barns-
 Lutwidge, Charles, M.A.
                                                      ley, Yorkshire.
 Lyell, Sir Charles, M.A., F.R.S., 11 Harley
     Street, Cavendish Square, London.           Newman, William Lewin, F.R.A.S., St. He-

 M'^All, Rev. Edward, Rector of Brighstone,          len's Square, York.
     Newport, Isle of Wight.
                                                 Nicholls, John Ashton, Ardwick Place, Man-
 M'^Andrew, Robert, 84 Upper Parliament
                                                      chester.
      Street, Liverpool.
 MacBrayne, Robert, Barony Glebe, Glasgow.       Nicholson, C, Stand Lodge near Manchester.
 M'^Connel, James, Manchester.                   Nicholson, John A., M.D., M.R.I.A., Balrath,
 M'^CuUoch, George.
 MacDonnell, Rev. Richard, D.D., Professor           Kells, Co. Meath.
                                                 Northampton, Spencer Joshua Alwyne, Mar-
     of Oratory in the University of Dublin,
    M.R.I.A., DubUn.                                 quis of, V.P.R.S., 145 Piccadilly, London.
 M<^Ewan, John, Glasgow.                         Norwich, Edward Stanley, D.D., Lord Bishop
 Mackenzie, Sir Francis A., Bart., Kinellan by
     Dingwall, Scotland.                             of, President of the Linnean Society,F.R.S.,
 Malcolm, Frederick, 8 Leadenhall St., London.      38 Lower Brook Street, Grosvenor Square,
Mallet, Robert, M.R.LA., 98 Capel Street,           London.
     Dublin.
                                                 OTleardon, John, M.D., 35 York Street,
Manchester, James Prince Lee, D.D., Lord             Dublin.
     Bishop of, F.G.S., Manchester.
                                                 Orlebar, A, B., M.A., 53 Holywell Street,
 Marshall, James Garth, M.A., F.G.B., Head-          Oxford.
     ingley near Leeds.
                                                Orpen, Charles Edward H., M.D., Cape of
Martineau, Rev. James, 12 Mason Street,             Good Hope.
    Edge Hill, Liverpool.
                                                Osier, A. FoUett, Birmingham.
Mason, Thomas, York.                             Ossalinski, Count.
Mather, Daniel, 58 Mount Pleasant, Liverpool.   Outram, Benjamin Fonseca, M.D., F.R.S.,
Mather, John, 58 Mount Pleasant, Liverpool.
Maxwell, Robert Percival, Finnebrogue,              1 Hanover Square, London.
                                                Owen, Jeremiah, H. M. Dockyard, Ports-
    Downpatrick, Ireland.
Mayne, Rev. Charles, M.R.I.A., 22 Upper             mouth.
                                                Oxford, Samuel Wilberforce, D.D., Lord
    Meriion Street, Dublin.
Meadows, James, York Place, Rusholme wear           Bishop of, F.R.S., 61 Eaton Place, London.

    Manchester.                                 Palmer, William, St. Giles's, Oxford.
                                                Parker, Charles Stewart, Liverpool.
Meyiiell,Thomas,jun.,F.L.S.,C?illygate,York.    Pasley, Major-General Sir Charles William,
Michell, Rev. Richard, B.D., Pra:lector of
                                                    C.B., Royal Engineers, D.C.L., F.R.S., 12
    Logic, Lincoln College, Oxford.                Norfolk Crescent, Hyde Park, London.
Miller, Patrick, M.D., Exeter.                  Patterson, Robert, 3 College Square North,
Miller, William Allen, M.D., F.R.S., Professor
                                                     Belfast.
    of Chemistry in King's College, London.
Mills, John Robert, Bootham, York.              Pattinson,Hugh Lee, F.G.S.,Gateshead-upon-
Milne, David, M.A., F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.            Tyne.
Moore, John Carrick, M.A., Sec.G.S,, 4 Hyde
                                                Pearsall, Thomas John, Assistant Secretary
    Park Gate, Kensington Gore, London.             and Curator to the Literary and Philoso-

More, John Shank, Professor of the Law of           phical Society, Hull.

    Scotland in the University of Edinburgh,    Peckover, Algernon, F.L.S., Wisbeach, Cam-
    F.R.S.E.,19 Great King Street, Edinburgh.
Morris, Rev. Francis Orpen, B.A., Hafferton         bridgeshire.
    Vicarage near Driffield, Yorksliire.
Murchison, Sir Roderick Impey, G.C.St.S.,       Peckover, Daniel, WoodhaU near Bradford,
    M.A., F.R.S., 16 Belgrave Square, London.
Murray, John, C.E., 26 Parliament Street,           Yorkshire.
    Westminster.
Murray, William, Polmaise, Stirlingshire.       Peckover, WilUam, F.S.A., Wisbeach, Cam-
Muspratt, James Sheridan, Ph.D., Seaforth
    Hall near Liverpool.                            bridgeshire.

Napier, Lieut. Johnstone (74th Highlanders),    Pedler, Lieut. -Colonel Philip Warren, Mut-
   80 Pall Mall, London.                           ley House near Plymouth.

Newall, Robert Stirling, Gateshead-upon-        Peel, George, Soho Iron Works, Manchester.
   Tyne.
                                                Perigal, Frederick.
Newman, Francis William, Professor of Latin
   in University College, London ; 7 Park Vil-  Peters, Edward, Temple Row, Birmingham.
   lage East, Regent's Park, London.            PhUips, Mark, the Park near Manchester.
                                                Phillips, John, F.R.S. (Assistant General

                                                   Secretary), St. Mary's Lodge, York.
                                                Philpott, Rev. Henry, D.D., Master of St.

                                                   Catherine's Hall, Cambridge.
                                                Pike, Ebenezer, Besborough, Cork.
                                                Pitt, George, 4 Great Portland Street, London.
                                                PoUexfen, Rev. John Hutton, M.D., 4 Bed-

                                                   ford Place, Clapham Rise, London.
                                                Pontey, Alexander, Plymouth.
                                                Poppelwell, Matthew, Rosella Place, Tyne-

                                                   mouth.
BOOKS ARE SUPPLIED GRATIS.

Porter, George Richardson, F.R.S., Commit-         Russell, James, {Local Treamrer), Birming-
   tee for Trade, Whitehall, London.                  ham.

Porter, Henry John, Tandragee Castle, Co.          Ryland, Arthur, Birmingham.
   Armagh.
                                                   Sabine, Lieut.-Colonel Edward, Royal Ar-
Portlock, Lieut.-Colonel Joseph Ellison,              tillery, Foreign Secretary R.S., (Gbnerai.
    Royal Engineers, F.R.S., Cork.                    Secretary), Woolwich.

Powell, Rev. Baden, M.A., F.R.S., Savilian         Salter, Thomas Bell, M.D., F.L.S., Ryde, Isle
   Professor of Geometry in the University of         of Wight.
    Oxford ; Oxford.
                                                   Sanders, WUUara, F.G.S., {Local Treasurer),
Pratt, Samuel Peace, F.R.S., 55 Lincoln's             Park Street, Bristol.
   Inn Fields, London.
                                                   Satterthwaite, Michael, M.D., Grosvenor
Prestwich, Joseph, jun., F.G.S., 20 Mark               Street, Manchester.
    Lane, London.
                                                   Schemman, J. C, Hamburgh, at L. Thorn-
Pretious, Thomas, Royal Dockyard, Pem-                ton's, Esq., Camp Hill, Birmingham.

    broke.                                         Schlick, Le Chevalier, Rev. Charles Hassell's,
                                                       Fox Earth's near Newcastle-under-Lyne,
Prince, Rev. John Charles, 63 St. Anne
                                                        Staffordshire.
     Street, Liverpool.                            Schofield, Robert, Rochdale, Lancashire.
Pritchard, Andrev\r, 162 Fleet Street, London.
Prower, Rev. J. M., M.A., Swindon, Wilt-           Scholes, T. Seddon, Bank, Cannon Street,
                                                       Manchester.
     shire.
                                                   Scholey, William Stephenson, M.A., Larkhall
Pumphrey, Charles, New Town Row, Bir-                  Lane, Clapham, London.

    mingham.                                       Scholfield, Edward, M.D., Doncaster.
                                                   Scoresby, Rev. William, D.D., F.R.S., Whitby,
Radford, William, M.D., Sidmouth.
Ramsay, Sir James, Bart., F.G.S., Bamff                Yorkshire.

    House, Perthshire.                             Sedgwick, Rev. Adam, M.A., F.R.S., Wood-
Ramsay, William, M.A., F.S.S., Professor of
                                                       wardian Professor of Geology in the Uni-
    Humanity in the University of Glasgow,            versity of Cambridge, and Canon of Nor-
    {Local Treasurer) ; The College, Glasgow.          wich ; Trinity College, Cambridge.
Ranee, Henry, Cambridge.                           Shaen, William, Crix, Witham, Essex.
Rawlins, John, Birmingham.                         Shanks, James, C.E., 23 Garscube Place,
Rawson, Thomas William, Saville Lodge,                 Glasgow.
                                                   Sharp, William, F.R.S., Rugby.
     Halifax.                                      Sherrard, David Henry, 88 Upper Dorset
                                                        Street, Dublin.
Read, WiUiam Henry Rudston, M.A., F.L.S.,          Shortrede, Capt. Robert, F.R.A.S., H.E.I.C's
    Hayton near Pocklington, Yorkshire.                Service, Bombay.
                                                   Sillar, Zechariah, M.D., Rainford near Liver-
Reade, Rev. Joseph Bancroft, M.A., F.R.S.,              pool.
     Stone "Vicarage, Aylesbury.                   Simpson, Samuel, The Greaves, Lancaster.
                                                   Simpson, Thomas, M.D., Minster Yard, York.
Renny, H. L., C.E., United Service Club,           Sirr, Rev. Joseph D'Arcy, D.D., iM.R.I.A.,
     Stephen's Green, Dublin.                          Yoxford, Suffolk.
                                                   Slater, William, Princess Street, Manches-
Richardson, Sir John, M.D., F.R.S., Haslar
     Hospital, Gosport.                                  ter.

Riddell, Captain Charles J. B., R.A., F.R.S.,      Sleeman, Philip, Windsor Terrace, Plymouth.
     Edinburgh.                                     Smales, R. H., Kingston-bottom.
                                                    Smith, Rev. George Sidney, D.D., Professor
Roberts, Richard, Globe Works, Manchester.
Robinson, John, Shamrock Lodge, Athlone,               of Biblical Greek iu the University of
                                                        Dublin, M.R.I.A., Aughalurcher, Five-mile-
     Ireland.                                          Town, Co. Tyrone.
Robson, Rev. John, D.D., Glasgow.                  Smith, John, Welton Garth near Hull.
 Rogers, Rev. Canon, M.A., Redruth, Cornwall.       Smith, Rev. John Pye, D.D., LL.D., F.R.S.,
                                                       Professor of Divinity, and President of the
Roget, Peter Mark, M.D., F.R.S., 18 Upper              Protestant Dissenting College, Homerton ;
     Bedford Place, London.                            Homerton, Middlesex.
                                                    Smith, Rev. Philip, B.A., Cheshunt College,
 Ross, Captain Sir James Clark, R.N., D.C.L.,           Herts.
    F.R.S., Aston House, Aston Abbots, Ayles-       Smith, Robert Mackay , Windsor Street, Edin-
     bury.                                              burgh.
                                                    Solly, Edward, F.R.S., Professor of Chemistiy
 Rothwell, Peter, Bolton.                              to the Horticultural Society of London ;
 Roughton, William, jun., Kettering, North-            33 Bedford Place, Russell Square, London.
                                                    Solly, Samuel Reynolds, M.A., F.R.S., Surge
     amptonshire.                                       Hill, King's Langley, Herts.
 Rowland, John, 30 Terminus Road, Brighton.
 Rowntree, Joseph, Pavement, York.
 Rowntree, Joseph, Scarborough.
 Royle, John Forbes, M.D., F.R.S., Professor

     of Materia Medica and Therapeutics in
    King's College, London; 4 Bulstrode
     Street, Manchester Square, London.
 Rushout, Captain George (1st Life Guards),
     M.P., F.G.S., 11 Charles Street, St.James's,
     London.

 18*8.
                                                ;

8 MEMBERS TO WHOM BOOKS ARE SUPPLIED GRATIS.

Sopwith, Thomas, F.R.S., Allenheads, Hay-       Tweedy, William Mansell, Truro, Cornwall.
    dou Bridge, Northumberland.                 Tyrconnel, John Delaval, Earl of, G.C.H.,

 Spence, Joseph, Pavement, York.                    F.G.S., Kiplin Park, near Catterick, York-
 Spiers, Richard James, 14 St. Giles's Street,
                                                     shire.
     Oxford.
 Spineto, the Marquis, Cambridge.               Vallack, Rev. Benj. W. S., St. Budeaux near

Spottiswoode, William, B.A., New Street,            Plymouth.
                                                Vance, Robert, 5 Gardiner's Row, Dublin.
    London.                                     Vivian, H. Hussey, Swansea.
 Squire, Lovell, Falmouth.                      Vivian, John Henry, M.P., F.R.S., Singleton
Stauger, William, M.D., Cape of Good Hope.
 Stratford, William Samuel, Lieut. R.N.,            near Swansea.

    F.R.S., Superintendent of the Nautical      Walker, John, Weaste House, Pendleton,
    Almanac ; 6 Notting Hill Square, Kensing-       Manchester.
     ton.
Strickland, Arthur, Bridlington Quay, York-     Walker, Joseph N., F.L.S., Calderston near
                                                     Liverpool.
      shire.
                                                Walker, Rev. Robert, M.A., F.R.S., Reader
Strickland, Charles, Loughglyn, Ballaghade-         in Experimental Philosophy in the Univer-
     reen, Ireland.                                 sity of Oxford ; Oxford.

Sutcliffe, WiUiam, 4 Belmont, Bath.             Walker, Thomas, 10 York Street, Man-

Sykes, Lieut.-Colonel WUUam Henry, F.R.S.,           chester.

   47 Albion Street, Hyde Park, London.         Wallace, Rev. Robert, F.G.S., 20 Camden

Tayler, Rev. John James, B.A., Manchester.          Place, Bath.
Taylor, James, Todmorden Hall, Lancashire.      Warburton, Henry, M.A., F.R.S., 45 Cadogan
Taylor, John, F.R.S., (General Treasurer),
                                                    Place, Sloane Street, London.
   2 Duke Street, Adelphi, London.              Ward, WilUam Svkes, Leath Lodge, Leeds.
Taylor, John, jun. F.G.S., 2 Duke Street,       Waterhouse, John, F.R.S., Halifax, York-

    Adelphi, London.                                 shire.
Taylor, Richard, F.G.S., Penmear near Fal-
                                                Watson, Henry Hough, Bolton-le-Moors.
    mouth.                                      Way, J. Thomas, Royal Agricultural Society
Taylor, Captain Joseph Needham, R.N.
Taylor, Richard, F.L.S., 6 Charterhouse             of England, Hanover Square, London.
                                                Weaver, Thomas, F.R.S., 16 Stafford Row,
    Square, London.
Tennant, James, F.G.S., Lecturer in Mine-           Pimhco, London.
                                                Webb, Rev. Thomas William, M.A., Cloisters,
   ralogy in King's College, London; 149
    Strand, London.                                  Gloucester.
Thicknesse, Ralph, jun., Beech Hill, near
    Wigan.                                      West, William, F.R.S., Highfield House near
Thodey, Winvrfeod, 4 Poultry, London.               Leeds.
Thompson, Corden, M.D., Sheffield.
Thompson, John, Little Stonegate, York.         Westhead, Joshua Procter, York House, Man-
Thomson, James, F.R.S., Primrose, Clitheroe,
    Lancashire.                                      clisstcr.
Thomson, James Gibson, Edinburgh.
Thomson, William, B.A., The CoUege, Glas-       Whewell, Rev. WiUiam, D.D., F.R.S., Master
    gow.                                            of Trinity College, and Professor of Moral
Thornton, Samuel, Camp Hill, Birmingham.            Philosophy in the University of Cambridge
Thorp, The Venerable Thomas, B.D., Arch-            Cambridge.
   deacon of Bristol, F.G.S., Kemerton Rec-
    tory, .Tewkesbury.                          Whiteside, James, M.A., Q.C., 2 Mountjoy
Tidswell, Benjamin K., 65 King Street, Man-        Square, CubUn.

     Chester.                                   Whitworth, Joseph, Manchester.
                                                Wickenden, Joseph, F.G.S., Birmingham.
Tinne, John A., F.R.G.S., Briarly Aigburth,     Wilberforce, The Venerable Archdeacon
    Liverpool.
                                                   Robert J., Burton Agnes, Driffield, York-
Tobin, Sir John, Knt., Liscard Hall, Che-
                                                     shire.
     shire.                                     Willert, Paul Ferdinand, Manchester.

Townsend, Richard E., Springfield, Norwood.     Williams, Rev. David, F.G.S., Bleadon near
Townsend, R. W., M.A., M.R.I.A., Derry              Wells, Somersetshire.

    Ross, Carbery, Co. Cork.                    Williams, William, 6 Rood Lane, London.
Trevelyan, Arthur, Wallington, Northumber-
                                                Williams, Rev. D., D.C.L., Warden of New
     land.
Tuckett, Francis Fox, Frenchay near Bristol.        College, Oxford.
                                                Williamson, Rev. William, B.D., Clare HaU,
Tulloch, James, F.R.S., 16 Montague Place,
    Russell Square, London.                         Cambridge.
                                                WUls, William, Edgbaston near Birmingham.
Turnbull, Rev. Thomas Smith, M.A., F.R.S.,      Wilson, Alexander, F.R.S., 34 Bryanstone

    B^ofield, Norfolk.                              Square, London.
                                                Wilson, John, Dundyvan, Glasgow.
                                                Wilson, John, Bootham, York.
                                                Wilson, Sumner, Southampton.
                                                Wilson, Thomas, Crimbles House, Leeds.
                                                Wilson, William, Troon near Glasgow.
;

ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Winsor, F. A., 57 Lincoln's Inn Fields,           Wormald, Richard, jun., 6 Broad Street
    London.                                           Buildings, City, London.

Winterbottom, James Edward, M.A., F.L.S.,         Wright, Robert Francis, Hinton Blewett, So-
    East Woodhay, Hants.                               mersetshire.

Wollaston, Thomas Vernon, B.A., F.L.S.,           Yarborough, George Cooke, Camp's Mount,
    Jesus College, Cambridge.                         Doncaster.

Wood, Rt. Hon. Sir Charles, Bart., M.P.,          Yates, Joseph Brooks, F.R.G.S., West Dingle
    Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whitehall,           near Liverpool.
    London.
                                                  Yates, R. Vaughan, Toxteth Park, Liverpool.
Wood, John, St. Saviourgate, York.                Yorke, Colonel PhUip, F.R.S., 89 Eaton Place,
Wood, Rev. William Spicer, M.A., Oakham,
                                                     Belgrave Square, London.
    Rutlandshire.                                 Younge, Robert, M.D., Greystones near

Woodhead, G., Mottram near Manchester.                 Sheffield.
Woods, Edward, 7 Chm-ch Street, Edgehill,

    Liverpool.

ANNUAIi SX7BSCRXBSRS.

 Allman, George J., M.D.,M.R.I.A., Professor      Dickson, Peter, 24 Chester Terrace, Regent's
     of Botany in the University of Dublin            Park, London.
      Trinity College, Dublin.
                                                  Dillwyn, Lewis Llewelyn, F.L.S., Parkwern
 Atkinson, John, Daisy Bank, Victoria Park,           near Swansea.
      Manchester.
                                                  Dillwyn, Lewis Weston, F.R.S., Swansea.
 Bate, C. Spence, 3 Dynever Place, Swansea.       Duncan, P. B., M.A., Keeper of the Ashmo-
 Beke, C. T., Ph.D., F.B.G.S., 6 St. Mildred's
                                                     lean Museum, Oxford; NewCollege, Oxford.
     Court, Poultry, London.                      Dundas, Colonel, R.A.
 Belcher, William, Abingdon.
 Benham, E., 18 Essex Street, Strand, London,     Evans, G. F. D., M.D., 21 A, Hill Street,
 Benson, Starling, Gloucester Place, Swansea.        Berkeley Square, London.
 Bentham, George, Pontrilos House, Hereford.
 Bentley, J. Flowers, Stamford, Lincolnshire.     Evans, Richard, 7Portland Street, Manchester.
 Berrington, Arthur, Woodlands Castle near        Everest, Lt.-Colonel George, Bengal Artillery,

      Swansea.                                       F.R.S., 37 Connaught Square, Hyde Park,
 Boisragon, Theodore, M.D., Sussex House,             London.

     Hammersmith.                                 Falconer, R. Wilbraham, M.D., Pant-y-Gwydr
  Brewster, Sir David, K.H., D.C.L., F.R.S.,          near Swansea.

     Principal of the United College of St. Sal-  Foster, John N., St. Andrew's, Biggleswade.
     vator and St. Leonard, St. Andrews.          Fowler, Richard, M.D., F.R.S., Salisbury.
 Brock, Rev. G. B., Mount Pleasant, Swansea.      Francis, George Grant, F.S.A., Burrows
. Brodie, Benjamin Collins, B.A., F.R.S., 13
     Albert Road, Regent's Park, London.              Lodge, Swansea.
  Broome, C. E., Clifton, Bristol.
  Budd, Edward, Hafod Works, Swansea.             Gibson, Thomas F., Walthamstow, Essex.
 Button, Charles, 146 Holborn Bars, London.       Graham, John B., South Australia.
                                                  Greene, Richard, M.D., Dunkitte House, Co.
 Carpenter, W. B., M.D., F.R.S, 6 Regent's
     Park Terrace, London.                            Kilkenny.
                                                  Greenough, G. B., F.R.S., Grove House,
  Carter, G. B., Lord Street, Liverpool.
  Cookson, Rev. H. W., M.A., St. Peter's Col-         Regent's Park, London.

     lege, Cambridge.                             Hadland, William Jenkins, Banbury, Oxford-
  Cotton, Edward, Kenilworth.
 Cumming, Rev. J. G., M.A., King William               shire.

     College, Isle of Man.                        Hancock, William !Neilson, LL.B., Professor
                                                     of Political Economy in the University
  Dale, John A., M.A., Balliol College, Oxford.       of Dublin.
  Danson, John I., 127 Strand, London.
 Da Silva, John, Canonbury Park, London.          Harcourt, Rev. L. V., West Dean House,
  Dennis, J.C, 122 Bishopsgate Street, London.
 Denny, Henry, A.L.S., Philosophical Society,         Chichester.

      Leeds.                                      Hawkes, William, New Street, Birmingham.

                                                  Henfrey, Arthur, F.L.S,, 17 Manchester
                                                      Street, Gray's-Inn Road, London.

                                                  Hill, William, Worcester.

                                                  Hodgkinson, Rev. G. C, M.A., Training In-
                                                      stitution, York.
                                                                                         1,2
                                                ;

10 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Hopkins, Rice, C.E., 8 Parliament Street,       Randall, William B., 146 High Street, South-
    Westminster.                                   ampton.

Hopkins, Thomas, 5 Broughton Lane, Man-         Rankin, Rev. Thomas, Huggate, Yorkshire.
                                                Ravenshaw, E. C, 39 Conduit St., Hanover
    chester.
                                                    Square, London.
Hudson, Robert, F.R.S., Clapham Common,         Ray, James, Glossop Road, ShefiSeld.
    near London.                                Reeve, Lovell, F.L.S., King William Street,

Hunt, Robert, Keeper of Mining Records,             Strand, London.
   Museum, Craig's Court, Charing Cross,        Ricardo, M., Brighton.
   London.                                      Ronalds, Edmund, Ph.D., Middlesex Hospital,

Huxtable, Rev. Anthony, Sutton Waldron              London.
    near Blaiidford.                            Ronalds, Francis, F.R.S., Chiswick.
                                                Rouse, William, 16 Canterbury Villas, Maida
Irwin, Thomas, Somerset House, London.
                                                    Vale, London.
Jeffreys, John Gwyn, F.R.S., Norton near
    Swansea.                                    SauU, W. D., F.G.S., 15 Aldersgate Street,

Jerdan, William, 300 Strand, London.                London.
Jessop, William, Butterley Hall, Derbyshire.    Saunders, Trelawney William, F.R.G.S., 6

Kay, Alexander, Manchester.                         Charing Cross, London.
Kemp, George, M.D., Bibaloe, Isle of Man.       Sclater, Philip Lutley, Hoddington House,
Kentish, Rev. John, Park Vale, EJgbaston
                                                    Odiham, Hampshire.
   near Birmingham.                             Sharp, James, 22 Oxford Street, Southampton.
                                                Shaw, John, M.D., F.G.S., Boston, Lincoln-
Lankester, Edwin, M.D., F.R.S., 22 Old
    Burlington Street, London.                       shire.

Latham, R. G., M.D., F.R.S., Upper Southwick    Smith, Robert Angus, Cavendish Street, Man-
   Street, Edgware Road, London.
                                                     chester.
Lawson, Henry, F.R.S.j 7 Lansdown Crescent,
    Bath.                                       Spence, William, F.R.S., 18 Lower Seymour
                                                    Street, Portman Square, London.
Lloyd, Rev. David, Carmarthen.
                                                Spence, W. B., 18 Lower Seymour Street,
MacLaren, Charles, Edinburgh.                       Portman Square, London.
Martin, Henry D., 4 Imperial Circus, Chel-
                                                Spence, R. H., 18 Lower Seymour Street,
    tenham.                                         Portman Square, London.
Meyer, Charles, D.C.L., Buckingham Palace,
                                                Statham, Henry J., 1 St. Peter's Square, Ham-
    London.
Moggridge, Matthew, Willows near Swansea.            mersmith.
                                                St. David's, Connop Thirlwall, D.D., Lord
Neale, Edward V., 66 South Audley Street,
    London.                                         Bishop of, The Palace, Aberguili, Carmar-

Neild, William, Mayfield, Manchester.                then.
Newport, George, F.R.S., 49 Cambridge St.,       Stevelly, John, LL.D., Professor of Natural

   Hyde Park Square, London.                        Philosophy in the Royal Academical Insti-
Nicholl, Frederick V., Adamsdown House
                                                      tution, Belfast.
    near Cardiff.
                                                 Strickland, Henry Eustatius, The Lodge,
Nicholl, W. H., Uske, Monmouthshire.                Tewkesbury.

Oldham, Thomas, F.R.S.,M.R.I.A., Professor       Struve, William Price, C.E., Picton Place,
                                                     Swansea.
of Geology in the University of Dublin, and
                                                 Talbot, William Hawkshead, Wrightington
Director of the Geological Survey of Ire-           near Wigan.

land                           Dublin.          Thwaites, G. H. K., 2 Kingsdown Parade,
                            ;
                                                      Bristol.
Peach, C. W., Fowey, Cornwall.
Percy, John, M.D., F.R.S., Birmingham.          Tooke, Thomas, F.R.S., 31 Spring Gardens,
Petrie, Williani, 2 King Street, Portman            London.

    Square, London.                             Tudor, Edward Scripps, Bromley, Middlesex.
Poyser, Thomas, Wirksworth.
Prevost, A. P., 3 Suffolk Place, Pall Mall,     Wallich, Nathaniel, M.D., F.R.S., 5 Upper
                                                    Gower Street, London.
    London.
Price, Rev. Bartholomew, M.A., Pembroke         Wai ington, Robert, Sec. to Chemical Society
                                                    Apothecaries' Hall, London.
    College, Oxford.
                                                Watts, John King, St. Ives, Huntingdonshire.
Ramsay, Andrew C, F.R.S., Director of the       Wheeler, Edmund, Basingstoke.
   Geological Survey of Great Britain, and      Williams, Thomas, M.D., Wind Street, Swan-
   Professor of Geology in University College,
   London ; Craig's Court, Charing Cross,             sea.
    London.
                                                Wilson, The Hon. and Rev. Robert, Ashwel-
                                                    thorpe, Wymondham, Norfolk.

                                                 Wise, Robert Stanton, M.D., Banbury.
                                                 Wornell, George, 3 North Parade, St. Giles's,

                                                     Oxford.
                                                                                       --;

BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
                         OF SCIENCE.

   The Published Reports of Proceedings at the Meetings of the Association
may be obtained by Members on application to the under-mentioned Local
Treasurers, or Agents appointed by them, at the following prices :

LOKDON                     TKEASURER.                        DEPOT FOR THE REPORTS.

                               John Taylor, Esq.           Messrs. R. and J. E. Taylor's Printing
                              2 Duke Street, Adelphi.        Office, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

           LOCAL TREASURERS.                                        DEPOTS.

York                       William Gray, Esq               Yorkshire Museum.
Oxford                     Rev. Edward Hill                Ashmolean Museum, Mr. Kirkland.
                                                           House of the Philosophical Society.
Cambridge                  C. C. Babington, Esq            Union Bank of Scotland.
Edinburgh                  William Brand, Esq              13 South Frederick Street.
                                                           Philosophical Instituiion, Park Street.
Dublin                     Dr. Orpen

Bristol                    William Sanders, Esq

Liverpool

Newcastle-on-Tyne.

Birmingham                 James Russell, Esq              Philosophical Institutiou.
Glasgow                    Professor Ramsay
Plymouth                                                   The College.

M.xATN^.C,HcoE.S.T.rE.R,,  ifGr-. Wii;. nOrmerod, Esq      f Mr. James Orme, Lit. and Phil. Society,
                                                       '^  v<

                                                            I
                                                           ,,,      Yardj,  A9  nChueapsidie,  iK^i- ng  e/
                                                           Chapeli
                                                                                                         St.

Cork                       William Clear, Esq              92 South Mall.
Southampton
Swansea                    John Sadleir Moody, Esq.

                           John Gwyn Jeffreys, Esq.

Associates for the Meeting in 1847 may obtain the Volume for the Year at the same price
                                                          as Members.

  PROCEEDINGS of the FIRST and SECOND MEETINGS, at York

and Oxford, 1831 and 1832, 10*.

 -- --Contents : Prof. Airy, on the Progress of Astronomy ; J. W. Lubbock, Esq., on the
-- --Tides ; Prof. Forbes, on the Present State of Meteorology ; Prof. Powell, on the Present
-- --State of the Science of Radiant Heat ; Prof. Cumming, on Thermo-Electricity ; Sir David
--Brewster, on the Progress of Optics ; Rev. W. Whewell, on the Present State of Mineralogy
-- --Rev. W. D. Conybeare, on the Recent Progress and Present State of Geology ; Dr. Pri-

chard's Review of Philological and Physical Researches.
    Together with Papers on Mathematics, Optics, Acoustics, Magnetism, Electricity, Chemistry,

Meteorology, Geography, Geology, Zoology, Anatomy, Physiology, Botany, and the Arts;
and an Exposition of the Objects and Plan of the Association, &c.

 PROCEEDINGS of the THIRD MEETING at Cambridge, 1833, 8*.

 -- -- --Contents: Proceedings of the Meeting; Mr. John Taylor, on Mineral Veins; Dr.
--Lindley, on the Philosophy of Botany; Dr. Henry, on the Physiology of the Nervous Sy-
-- --stem ; Mr. Peter Barlow, on the Strength of Materials ; Mr. S. H. Christie, on the Magnet-
--ism of the Earth; Rev. J. Challis, on the Analytical Theory of Hydrostatics and Hydrody-
-- --namics; Mr. George Rennie, on Hydraulics as a Branch of Engineering, Part L ; Rev. G.

Peacock, on certain Branches of Analysis.
   Together with papers on Mathematics and Physics, Philosophical Instruments and Mecha-

nical Arts, Natural History, Anatomy, Physiology, and History of Science.

PROCEEDINGS of the FOURTH MEETING, at Edinburgh, 1834., 10*.

 -- --Contents: Mr. H. D. Rogers, on the Geology of North America; Dr. C. Henry, on
-- --the Laws ofContagion ; Prof. Clark, on .Animal Physiology ; Rev. L. Jenyns, on Zoology ;--
--Rev. J. Challis, on Capillary Attraction ; Prof. Lloyd, on Physical Optics ;-- Mr. G. Rennie,

on Hydraulics, Part IL
   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, and Recommendations of the Association

and its Committees.
                                                                     --

   PROCEEDINGS of the FIFTH MEETING, at Dublin, 1835, 95.

 --Contents : Rev. W. Whewell, on the Recent Progress and present Condition of the
--Mathematical Theories of Electricity, Magnetism, and Heat ; M. A. Quetelet, Aperfu de
--I'Etat actuel des Sciences Matheraatiques chez les Beiges ; Captain Edward Sabine, on the

Phaenomena of Terrestrial Magnetism.

   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Prof. Sir W. Hamilton's Address, and Re-

commendations of the Association and its Committees.

    PROCEEDINGS of the SIXTH MEETING, at Bristol, 1836, 8s.

 --Contents : Prof. Daubeny, on the Present State of our Knowledge with respect to Mine-
--ral and Thermal Waters ; Major E. Sabine, on the Direction and Intensity of the Terrestrial
-- --Magnetic Force in Scotland ; Mr. J. Richardson, on North American Zoology ; Rev. J. Challis,
--on the Mathematical Theory of Fluids ; Mr. J. T. Mackay, a Comparative View of the more

remarkable Plants which characterize the neighbourhood of Dublin and Edinburgh, and the

--South-west of Scotland, &c. ; Mr. J. T. Mackay, Comparative Geographical Notices of the
--more remarkable Plants which characterize Scotland and Ireland ; Report of the London Sub-
--Committee of the Medical Section on the Motions and Sounds of the Heart; Second Report
--of the Dublin Sub-Committee on the Motions and Sounds of the Heart ; Report of the Dublin
--Committee on the Pathology of the Brain and Nervous System ; J. W. Lubbock, Esq., Account
--of the Recent Discussions of Observationsof the Tides ; Rev. B. Powell, on determining the
--Refractive Indices for the Standard Raysofthe Solar Spectrum in various media; Dr. Hodgkin,
--on the Communication between the Arteries and Absorbents; Prof. Phillips, Report of Experi-
--ments on Subterranean Temperature; Prof. Hamilton, on the Validity of a Method recently pro-

posed by George B. Jerrard, Esq., for Transforming and Resolving Equations of Elevated Degrees.
    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Prof. Daubeny's Address, and Recommen-

dations of the Association and its Committees.

PROCEEDINGS of the SEVENTH MEETING, at Liverpool, 1837, 11*.

  --Contents : Major E. Sabine, on the Variations of the Magnetic Intensity observed at dif-
--ferent points of the Earth's Surface ; Rev. W. Taylor, on the various modes of Printing for
--the use of the blind ; J. W. Lubbock, Esq., on the Discussions of Observations of the Tides;

--Prof. T. Thomson, on the Difference between the Composition of Cast Iron produced by the

--Cold and Hot Blast ; Rev. T. R. Robinson, on the Determination of the Constant of Nutation
--by the Greenwich Observations ; R. W. Fox, Esq., Experiments on the Electricity of Metallic
--Veins, and the Temperature of Mines ; Pro\nsional Report of the Committee of the Medical

Section of the British Association, appointed to investigate the Composition of Secretions, and

--the organs producing them ; Dr. G. O. Rees, Report from the Committee for inquiring into
--the Analysis of the Glands, &c. of the Human Body ; Second Report of the London Sub-Com-

mittee of the British Association Medical Section, on the Motions and Sounds of the Heart;

--Prof. Johnston, on the Present State of our knowledge in regard to Dimorphous Bodies ; Col.

Sykes, on the Statistics of the Four Collectorates of Dukhun, under the British Government;
.^E. Hodgkinson, Esq., on the relative Strength and other Mechanical Properties of Iron ob-

--tained from the Hot and Cold Blast ; W. Fairbairn, Esq., on the Strength and other Proper-
--ties of Iron obtained from the Hot and Cold Blast ; Sir J. Robison, and J. S. Russell, Esq.,
--Report of the Committee on Waves ; Note by Major Sabine, being an Appendix to his Report

 on the Variations of the Magnetic Intensity observed at different Points of the Earth's Surface ;

-- J. Yates, Esq., on the Growth of Plants under glass, and without any free communication

 with the outwartl Air, on the Plan of Mr. N. J. Ward, of London.
    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Prof. Traill's Address, and Recommenda-

 tions of the Association and its Committees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the EIGHTH MEETING, at Newcastle, 1838, 10s.

  --Contents : Rev. W. Whewell, Account of a Level Line, measured from the Bristol Chan-^
--nel to the English Channel, by Mr. Bunt ; Report on the Discussions of Tides, prepared
--under the direction of the Rev. W. Whewell ; W. Snow Harris, Esq., Account of the Progress
--and State of the Meteorological Observations at Plymouth ; Major Edward Sabine, on the
--Magneticlsoclinal and Isodynamic Lines in the British Islands; D. Lardner, LL.D., on the
--Determination of the Mean Numerical Values of Railway Constants ; R. Mallet, Esq., First
--Report upon Experiments upon the Action of Sea and River Water upon Cast and Wrought

 Iron ; R. Mallet, Esq., on the Action of a Heat of 212° Fahr., when long continued, on In-
 organic and Organic Substances.

    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Mr. Murchison's Address, and Recommen
 dations of the Association and its Committees.

PROCEEDINGS of. the NINTH MEETING, at Birmingham, 1839, 9s.

  --Contents : Rev. B. Powell, Report on the Present State of our Knowledge of Refractive
--Indices, for the Standard Rays of the Solar Spectrum in different media ; Report on the Ap-

 plication of the Sum assigned for Tide Circulations to Mr. Whewell, in a Letter fromT.G. Bunt,
                                                                 --;

Esq. ;--H. L. Pattinson, Esq., on some galvanic Experiments to determine the Existence or

Non-Existence of Electrical Currents among Stratified Rocks, particularly those of the Moun-

--tain Limestone formation, constituting the Lead Measures of Alston Moor ; Sir D. Brewster,

Reports respecting the two series of Hourly Meteorological Observations kept in Scotland ;
Report on the subject of a series of Resolutions adopted by the British Association at their

--Meeting in August 1838, at Newcastle ; R. Owen, Esq., Report on British Fossil Reptiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;

--E. Forbes, Esq., Report on the Distribution of pulmoniferous Mollusca in the British Isles ;

-- W. S. Harris, Esq., Third Report on the Progress of the Hourly Meteorological Register at

the Plymouth Dockyard.
   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Rev. W. Vernon Harcourt's Address, and

Recommendations of the Association and its Committees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the TENTH MEETING, at Glasgow, 1840, 10s.

  --Contents : Rev. B. Powell, Report on the recent Progress of discovery relative to Radiant

Heat, supplementary to a former Report on the same subject inserted in the first volume of the

--Reports of the British Association for the Advancement of Science ; J. D. Forbes, Esq., Sup-
--plementary Report on Meteorology ; W. S. Harris, Esq., Report on Prof. Whewell's Anemo-
--meter, now in operation at Plymouth ; Report on " The Motions and Sounds of the Heart,"
--by the London Committee of the British Association, for 1839-40 ; Prof. Schonbein, an Ac-
--count of Researches in Electro-Chemistry ; R. Mallet, Esq., Second Report upon the Action

of Air and Water, whether fresh or salt, clear or foul, and at various temperatures, upon Cast

--Iron, Wrought Iron, and Steel ; R. W. Fox, Esq., Report on some Observations on Subter-

--ranean Temperature ; A. F. Osier, Esq., Report on the Observations recorded during the years
--1837, 1838, 1839 and 1840, by the Self-registering Anemometer erected at the Philosophical

Institution, Birmingham ; Sir D. Brewster, Report respecting the two Series of Hourly Mete-
orological Observations kept at Inverness and Kingussie, from Nov. 1st, 1838 to Nov. 1st, 1839

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;

-- --W.Thompson, Esq., Report on the Fauna of Ireland : Div, Vertebrata ; C. J. B. Williams,

--M.D., Report of Experiments on the Physiology of the Lungs and Air-Tubes ; Rev. J. S.

Henslow, Report of the Committee on the Preservation of Animal and Vegetable Substances.
   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Mr. Murchison and Major Edward Sabine's

Address, and Recommendations of the Association and its Committees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the ELEVENTH MEETING, at Plymouth,

1841, 9s.

 --Contents : Rev. P. Kelland, on the Presenl State of our Theoretical and Experimental
--Knowledge of the Laws of Conduction of Heat ; G. L. Roupell, M.D., Report on Poisons ;

Mr. Bunt, Report on Discussions of Bristol Tides, under the direction of the Rev. W. Whe well

--·^D. Ross, Report on the Discussions of Leith Tide Observations, under the direction of the

Rev. W. Whewell; W. S. Harris, Esq., upon the working of Whewell's Anemometer at Ply-

--mouth during the past year ; Report of a Committee appointed for the purpose of superintend-

ing the scientific co-operation of the British Association in the system of Simultaneous Obser-

--vations in Terrestrial Magnetism and Meteorology ; Reports of Committees appointed to pro-
--vide Meteorological Instruments for the use of M. Agassiz and Mr. M'Cord ; Report of a
--Committee to superintend the reduction of Meteorological Observations; Report of a Com-
--mittee for revising the Nomenclature of the Stars; Report of a Committee for obtaining In-
--struments and Registers to record Shocks of Earthquakes in Scotland and Ireland ; Report of

--a Committee on the Preservation of Vegetative Powers in Seeds; Dr. Hodgkin, on Inquiries

--into the Races of Man ; Report of the Committee appointed to report how far the Desiderata

in our knowledge of the Condition of the Upper Strata of the Atmosphere may be supplied by
means of Ascents in Balloons or otherwise, to ascertain the probable e-xpense of such Experi-

--ments, and to draw up Directions for Observers in such circumstances ; R. Owen, Esq., Re-
--port on British Fossil Reptiles ; Reports on the Determination of the Mean Value of Railway
--Constants; D. Lardner, LL.D., Second and concluding Report on the Determination of the
-- --Mean Value of Railway Constants; E. Woods, Report on Railway Constants; Report of a

Committee on the Construction of a Constant Indicator for Steam-Engines.
   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Prof. Whewell's Address, and Recommen>

dations of the Association and its Committees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the TWELFTH MEETING, at Manchester,

1842, 75.

  --Contents : Report of the Committee appointed to conduct tlie co-operation of the British

Association in the System of Simultaneous Magnetical and Meteorological Observations ;

John Richardson, M.D., Report on the present State of the Ichthyology of New Zealand ;

--W. S. Harris, Report on the Progress of Meteorological Observations at Plymouth ; Second

Report of a Committee appointed to make Experiments on the Growth and Vitality of Seeds

-- --C. VignoUes, Esq., Report of the Committee on Railway Sections ; Report of the Commit-

tee for the Preservation of Animal and Vegetable Substances ;-- Lyon Piayfair, M.D., Abstract

of Prof. Liebig's Report on "Organic Chemistry applied to Physiology and Pathology;"
--H. Owen, Esq., Report on the British Foisil Mammalia, Part I. ; R. Hunt, Researches on the
--Influenceof Lighten the Germination of Seeds and the Growth of Plants ; Louis Agassiz, Report
--on the Fossil Fishes of the Devonian System or Old Red Sandstone ; W. Fairbairn, Esq., Ap-

pendix to a Report on the Strength and other Properties of Cast Iron obtained from the Hot and

--Cold Blast ; D. Milne, Esq., Report of the Committee for registering Shocks of Earthquakes
--in Great Britain ; Report ofaCommittee on the Construction of a Constant Indicator for Steam-

Engines, and for the determination of the Velocity of the Piston of the Self-acting Engine at

--different periods of the Stroke; J. S. Russell, Report of a Committee on the form of Ships;
-- Report of a Committee appointed '· to consider of the rules by which the Nomenclature of
--Zoology may be established on a uniform and permanent basis j " Report of a Committee on
--the Vital Statistics of large Towns in Scotland ; Provisional Reports, and Notices of Progress

in Special Researches entrusted to Committees and Individuals.

   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Lord Francis Egerton's Address, and Re-
commendations of the Association and its Committees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the THIRTEENTH MEETING, at Cork,

1843, 8*.

  --Contents : Robert Mallet, Esq., Third Report upon the Action of Air and Water,
--whether fresh or salt, clear or foul, and of Various Temperatures, upon Cast Iron, Wrought

Iron and Steel; Report of the Committee appointed to conduct the co-operation of the
British Association in the System of Simultaneous Magnetical and Meteorological Observa-

--tions ; Sir J. F. W. Herschel, Bart., Report of the Committee appointed for the Reduction
--of Meteorological Observations ; Report of the Committee appointed for Experiments on
--Steam-Engines; Report of the Committee appointed to continue their Experiments on the
--Vitality of Seeds ; J. S. Russell, Esq., Report of a Series of Observations on the Tides of the
--Frith of Forth and the East Coast of Scotland ; J. S. Russell, Esq., Notice of a Report of the
--Committee on the Form of Ships ; J. Blake, Esq., Report on the Physiological Action of Me-
-- --dicines ; Report of the Committee on Zoological Nomenclature ; Report of the Committee

for Registering the Shocks of Earthquakes, and making such Meteorological Observations as

--may appear to them desirable ; Report of the Committee for conducting Experiments with
-- --Captive Balloons ; Prof. Wheatstone, Appendix to the Report ; Report of the Committee for
--the Translation and Publication of Foreign Scientific Memoirs ; C. W. Peach, on the Habits
--of the Marine Testacea ; E. Forbes, Esq., Report on the Mollusca and Radiata of the i^gean
--Sea, and on their distribution, considered as bearing on Geology ; M. Agassiz, Synoptical
--Table of British Fossil Fishes, arranged in the order of the Geological Formations ; R. Owen,
--Esq., Report on the British Fossil Mammalia, Part II. ; E. W. Binney, Report on the excava-

tion made at the junction of the Lower New Red Sandstone with the Coal Measures at Colly-

-- --hurst ; W. Thompson, Esq., Report on the Fauna of Ireland : Div. Invertebraia ; Provisional

Reports, and Notices of Progress in Special Researches entrusted toCommitteesand Individuals.
   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Earl of Rosse's Address, and Recommen-

dations of the Association and its Committees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the FOURTEENTH MEETING, at York, 1844,

13s. 4rf.

 -- --Contents: W. B. Carpenter, M.D.,F.R.S., on the Microscopic Structure of Shells; J. Alder
--and A. Hancock, Report on the British Nudibranchiate Mollusca; R. Hunt, Researches on
--the Influence of Light on the Germination of Seeds and the Growth of Plants ; Report of a

Committee appointed by the British Association in 1840, for revising the Nomenclature of the

-- --Stars ; Lt.-Col. Sabine, R.A., F.R.S., on the Meteorology of Toronto in Canada ; J. Black-

wall, F.L.S., Report into some recent researches into the Structure, Functions and (Economy

--of the Araneidea made in Great Britain ; the Earl of Rosse, on the Construction of large
--Reflecting Telescopes ; the Rev. W. V. Harcourt, F.R.S., Report on a Gas Furnace for Expe-
--riments on Vitrifaction and other Applications of High Heat in the Laboratory; Report of
--the Committee for Registering Earthquake Shocks in Scotland; Report of a Committee for
--Experiments on Steam-Engines; Report of the Committee to investigate the Varieties of the
--Human Race; Fourth Report of a Committee appointed to continue their Experiments on
--the Vitality of Seeds ; W. Fairbairn, Esq., on the Consumption of Fuel and the prevention of
--Smoke; F. Ronalds, Esq., F.R.S., Report concerning the Observatory of the British Asso-
--ciation at Kew ; Sixth Report of the Committee appointed to conduct the Co-operation of the
--British Association in the System of Simultaneous Magnetical and Meteorological Observa-

tions; Prof. Forchhammer on the influence of Fucoidal Plants upon the Formations of the
Earth, on Metamorphism in general, and particularly the Metamorphosis of the Scandinavian

--Alum Slate; H. E. Strickland, F.G.S., Report on the recent Progress and present State of
--Ornithology; T.Oldham, Esq., M.R.I. A., Report of Committee appointed to conduct Obser-

vations on Subterranean Temperature in Ireland ;-- Prof. Owen, F.R.S., Report on the Extinct
Mammals of Australia, with descriptions of certain Fossils indicative of the former existence

--in that Continent of large Marsupial Representatives of the Order Pachydermata; W. Snow

Harris, Esq., F.R.S., Report on the working of Whevvell and Osier's Anemometers at Plymouth,
                                                                   --;;

 for the years 1841, 1842, 1843;--W. R. Birt, Report on Atmospheric Waves;-- L. Agassiz,

--Report sur les Poissons Fossiles de I'Argile de Londres, with translation ;-- J. Scott Russell,

 Esq., F.R.S.E., Report on Waves; Provisional Reports, and Notices of Progress in Special
 Researches entrusted to Committees and Individuals.

    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Dean of Ely's Address, and Recommenda-
 tions of the Association and its Committees.

   PROCEEDINGS of the FIFTEENTH MEETING, at Cambridge,

 1845,85.
    Contents :-- Seventh Report of a Committee appointed to conduct the Co-operation of the

 British Association in the System of Simultaneous Magnetical and Meteorological Observa-

--tions; Lieut. -Col. Sabine, on some points in the Meteorology of Bombay ;--J. Blake, M.B.,
--Report on the Physiological Action of Medicines ; Dr. Von Boguslawski, on the Comet of 1843

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;

-- -- --R. Hunt, Esq., Report on the Actinograph ; Prof Schbnbein, on Ozone ; Prof. Erman, on
--the Influence of Friction upon Thermo-Electricity ; Baron Senftenberg, on the Self-Register-
--ing Meteorological Instruments employed in the Observatory at Senftenberg; W. R. Birt,
--Esq., Second Report on Atmospheric Waves ; G. R. Porter, Esq., on the Progress and Pre-
--sent E.xtent of Savings' Banks in the United Kingdom; Prof Bunsen, and Dr. Playfair,
--Report on the Gases evolved from Iron Furnaces, with reference to the Theory of Smelting

 of Iron; Dr. Richardson, Report on the Ichthyology of the Seas of China and Japan ;
 Report of the Committee on the Registration of Periodical Phsenomena of Animals and Vege-

-- --tables ; Fifth Report of the Committee on the Vitality of Seeds ; Appendix, &c.

    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Sir J. F. W. Herschel's Address, and Re-
 commendations of the Association and its Committees.

   PROCEEDINGS of the SIXTEENTH MEETING, at Southampton,

 1846, 15s.

  --Contents: G.G.Stokes, M.A., Report on Recent Researches in Hydrodynamics;
--Sixth Report of the Committee on the Vitality of Seeds ; Dr. Schunck, on the Colouring Mat-
-- --ters of Madder ; J. Blake, M.B., on the Physiological Action of Medicines ; R. Hunt, Esq.,
--Report on the Actinograph ; R. Hunt, Esq., Notices on the Influence of Light on the Growth
-- --of Plants; R. L. Ellis, M.A., on the Recent Progress of Analysis; Prof, Forchhammer, on

--Comparative Analytical Researches on Sea Water ; A. Erman, on the Calculation of the

--Gaussian Constants for 1829; G. R. Porter, F.R.S., on the Progress, present Amount, and
--probable future Condition of the Iron Manufacture in Great Britain; W. R. Birt, Esq., Third
--Report on Atmospheric Waves; Prof. Owen, F.R.S., Report on the Archetype and Homolo-
-- --gies of the Vertebrate Skeleton; J. Phillips, F.R.S., on Anemometry ; J. Percy, M.D.,
--Report on the Crystalline Slags ; Addenda to Mr. Birt's Report on Atmospheric Waves.

    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Sir R. I. Murchison's Address, and Re-
commendations of the Association and its Committees.

   PROCEEDINGS of the SEVENTEENTH MEETING, at Swansea,

1847, 18*.

   Contents :^Prof. Langberg, on the Specific Gravity of Sulphuric Acid at different de-
grees of dilution, and on the relation which exists between the Development of Heat and the

--coincident contraction of Volume in Sulphuric Acid when mixed with Water ; Mr. R. Hunt,
--Researches on the Influence of the Solar Rays on the Growth of Plants ; Mr. R. Mallet, on
--the Facts of Earthquake Phasnomena ; Prof. Nilsson, on the Primitive Inhabitants of Scan-
--dinavia ; Mr. W. Hopkins, Report on the Geological Theories of Elevation and Earthquakes

-- --Mr. W. Carpenter, Report on the Microscopic Structure of Shells; Rev. W. Whewell and

Sir James C. Ross, Report upon the Recommendation of an Expedition for the purpose of

-- --completing our knowledge of the Tides ; Dr. Schunck, on Colouring Matters ; Seventh Re-
--port of the Committee on the Vitality of Seeds ; Mr. J. Glynn, on the Turbine or Horizontal
--Water- Wheel of France and Germany; Dr. R. G. Latham, on the present state and recent
--progress of Ethnographical Philology ; Dr. J. C. Prichard, on the various methods of Research
--which contribute to the Advancement of Ethnology, and of the relations of that Science to

other branches of Knowledge; Dr. C. C. J. Bunsen, on the results of the recent Egyptian
researches in reference to Asiatic and African Ethnology, and the Classification of Languages

-- Dr. C. Meyer, on the Importance of the Study of the Celtic Language as exhibited by the
--Modern Celtic Dialects still extant; Dr. Max Miiller, on the Relation of the Bengali to the
--Arian and Aboriginal Languages of India ; Mr. W. R. Birt, Fourth Report on Atmospheric
--Waves ; Prof. W. H. Dove, Temperature Tables ; with Introductory Remarks by Lieut.-Col.
--Edward Sabine ; A. Erman and H. Petersen, Third Report on the Calculation of the Gaussian

Constants for 1829.
   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Sir Robert Harry Inglis's Address, and

Recommendations of the Association and its Committees.

  LITHOGRAPHED SIGNATURES of the MEMBERS who met at Cambridge in 1838,

with the Proceedings of the Public Meetings, 4to. Price 4s. (To Members, 3s.)
   1  -

1 '-
\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .

                                                      ISrKepon Bt-itish ^fsodaa'tm 1848
                                                                                            rUte- 4

y 'ZMpveniher Wave {SJ^jH.
                Mavima 5'!'&/2^
V* C
oVj * r
J

