                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,

             ;)';'..

        K|r:'::;-ivP:.T V

               '''d'i?;;;''''':
                   :':-:v::;;:i:

·;,(·:·::; 'i''
:h
REPORT

TWENTIETH MEETING

OF THE                          !
                   _^

BRITISH ASSOCIATION

ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE;

      HELD AT EDINBURGH IN JULY AND AUGUST 1850.

               LONDON:

    JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.

                                              1851.
PRINTED BY R[CHARD TAYLOR,

   RED LION COUKT, FLEET STREET.
CONTENTS.

Obj'ects and Rules of the Association                                   Page
Places of Meeting and Officers from commencement                           v
Table of Council from commencement
Treasurer's Account                                                      viii
Officers and Council
Officers of Sectional Committees                                          x
Corresponding Members
Report of Council to the General Committee                                xii
Recommendations for Additional Reports and Researches in Science
                                                                        xiv
Synopsis of Money Grants
Arrangement of the General Meetings                                     xv

Address of the President                                                xvi
                                                                        xvi
                                                                        xxi
                                                                      xxiv

                                                                      xxx
                                                                      xxxi

REPORTS OF RESEARCHES IN SCIENCE.

First Report on the Facts of Earthquake Phaenomena. By Robert         1
   Mallet, C.E., M.R.l.A

On Observations of Luminous Meteors ; continued from the Reports      ^^
   of the British Association for 1849. By the Rev. Baden Powell,

   M.A., F.R.S., F.R.A.S., F.G.S., Savilian Professor of Geometry in

   the University of Oxford

On the Structure and History of the British Annelida. By Thomas

Williams, M.D., Swansea                                               133
IV CONTENTS.

                                                                        Page

Results of Meteorological Observations taken at St. Michael's from the

1st of January 1840 to the 31st of December, IS^Q. By Thomas

Carew Hunt                                                              133

On the present State of our Knowledge of the Chemical Action of the

Solar Radiations. By Robert Hunt                                        137

Tenth Report of a Committee, consisting of H. E. Strickland, Prof.

Daubeny, Prof. HenslOw and Prof. Lindley, appointed to con-

tinue their Experiments on the Growth and Vitality of Seeds             160

Report on the Aboriginal Tribes of India.  By Major-General John
   Briggs, F.R.S., Vice-President of the
   London                                  Ethnological Society of
                                                                                     169

Report concerning the Observatory of the British Association at Kew,

from September 12, 1849 to July 31, 1850. By Francis Ronalds,

Esq., F.R.S., Honorary Superintendent                                   176

Report on the Investigation of British Marine Zoology by means of the

Dredge. Part I. The Infra-littoral Distribution of Marine Inver-

tebrata on the Southern, Western and Northern Coasts of Great

Britain. By Edward Forbes, F.R.S., Professor of Botany in King's

College, London, and Palaeontologist of the Geological Survey of the

United Kingdom                                                          193

Notes on the Distribution and Range in depth of Mollusca and other

Marine Animals observed on the coasts of Spain, Portugal, Barbary,

Malta, and Southern Italy in 1849. By Robert MacAndrew, Esq.,

F.L.S           '                                                       264

On the Present State of our Knowledge of the Freshwater Polyzoa.

By Professor Allman, M.D., F.R.C.S.I., M.R.I.A                          305

Registration of the Periodical Phaenomena of Plants and Animals         338

Suggestions to Astronomers for the Observation of the Total Eclipse of

the Sun on July 28, 1851                                                359
        OBJECTS AND RULES

                                                                     OF

                  THE ASSOCIATION.

                               OBJECTS.

The Association contemplates no interference with the ground occupied by

--other Institutions. Its objects are, To give a stronger impulse and a more
--systematic direction to scientific inquiry, to promote the intercourse of those

who cultivate Science in different parts of the British Empire, with one an-

--other, and with foreign philosophers, to obtain a more general attention to

the objects of Science, and a removal of any disadvantages of a public kind
which impede its progress.

                               RULES.

                         ADMISSION OF MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.

   All Persons who have attended the first Meeting shall be entitled to be-
come Members of the Association, upon subscribing an obligation to con-
form to its Rules.

   The Fellows and Members of Chartered Literary and Philosophical So-

cieties publishing Transactions, in the British Empire, shall be entitled, in

like manner, to become Members of the Association.
   The Officers and Members of the Councils, or Managing Committees, of

Philosophical Institutions, shall be entitled, in like manner, to become Mem-

bers of the Association.

    All Members of a Philosophical Institution recommended by its Council

or Managing Committee, shall be entitled, in like manner, to become Mem-

bers of the Association.
    Persons not belonging to such Institutions shall be elected by the General

Committee or Council, to become Life Members of the Association, Annual

Subscribers, or Associates for the year, subject to the approval of a General
Meeting.

                     COMPOSITIONS, SUBSCRIPTIONS, AND PRIVILEGES.

   Life Members shall pay, on admission, the sum of Ten Pounds. They
shall receive gratuitously the Reports of the Association which may be pub-
lished after the date of such payment. They are eligible to all the offices

 of the Association.

   Annual Subscribers shall pay, on admission, the sum of Two Pounds,
and in each following year the sum of One Pound. They shall receive

gratuitously the Reports of the Association for the year of their admission
 and for the years in which they continue to pay without intermission their

 Annual Subscription. By omitting to pay this Subscription in any particu-
 lar year. Members of this class (Annual Subscribers) lose for that and all

 future years the.privilege of receiving the volumes of the Association gratis :
 but they may resume their Membership and other privileges at any sub-
 sequent Meeting of the Association, paying on each such occasion the sum of

One Pound. Tliey are eligible to all the Offices of the Association.
    Associates for the year shall pay on admission the sum of One Pound.

 They shall not receive gratuitously tiie Reports of the Association, nor be
 eligible to serve on Committees, or to hold any office.
-- ----

VI RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION.

    Tlie Association consists of the following classes :

   1. Life Members admitted from 1831 to 1845 inclusive, who have paid
on admission Five Pounds as a composition.

   2. Life Members who in 1846, or in subsequent years, have paid on ad-
mission Ten Pounds as a composition.

   3. Annual Members admitted from 1831 to 1839 inclusive, subject to the
payment of One Pound annually. [May resume their Membership after in-
termission of Annual Payment.]

   4. Annual Members admitted in any year since 1839, subject to the pay-
ment of Two Pounds for the first year, and One Pound in each following
year. [May resume their Membership after intermission of Annual Pay-
ment.]

   5. Associates for the year, subject to the payment of One Pound.
   6. Corresponding Members nominated by the Council.

   And the Members and Associates will be entitled to receive the annual

volume of Reports, gratis, or to purchase it at reduced (or Members') price,

according to the following specification, viz. :

    --1. Gratis, Old Life Members who have paid Five Pounds as a compo-

                       sition for Annual Payments, and previous to 1845 a further

                  sum of Two Pounds as a Book Subscripiion, or, since 1845 a
                     further sum of Five Pounds.
               New Life Members who have paid Ten Pounds as a com-

                             position.

                 Annual Members who have not intermitted their Annual Sub-

                             scription.

        2. /4t reduced or Members' Prices, viz. two-thirds of the Publication

           --Price. Old Life Members who have paid Five Pounds as a

                     composition for Annual Payments, but no further sum as a
                      Book Subscription.
                 Annual Members, who have intermitted their Annual Subscrip-

                                tion.

                   Associates for the year. [Privilege confined to the volume for

                          that year only.]

       3. Members may purchase (for the purpose of completing their sets) any

                        of the first seventeen volumes of Transactions of the Associa-
                        tion, ant/ o/ 7y/ijc/i more than 100 copies remain, at one-third of
                     the Publication Price. Application to be made (by letter) to
                      Mr. R. Taylor, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

    Subscriptions shall be received by the Treasurer or Secretaries.

                          MEETINGS.

   The Association shall meet annually, for one week, or longer. The place
of each Meeting shall be appointed by the General Committee at the pre-
vious Meeting; and the Arrangements for it shall be entrusted to the Offi-

cers of the Association.

                          GENERAL COMMITTEE.

   The General Committee shall sit during the week of the Meeting, or

longer, to transact the business of the Association. It shall consist of the

following persons :
    1. Presidents and Officers for the present and preceding years, with au-

thors of Reports in tlie Transactions of the Association.

   2. Members who have commimicated any Paper to a Philosophical Society,

which has been printed in its Transactions, and which relates to such subjects
as are taken into consideration at the Sectional Meetings of the Association.
             RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION.             VU

      3. Office-bearers for the time being, or Delegates, altogether not exceed-
 ing three in number, from any Philosophical Society publishing Transactions.

      4. Office-bearers for the time being, or Delegates, not exceeding three,
 from Philosophical Institutions established in the place of Meeting, or in any
 place where the Association has formerly met.

    5. Foreigners and other individuals whose assistance is desired, and who

· are specially nominated in writing for the meeting of the year by the Presi-

 dent and General Secretaries.
     6. The Presidents, Vice-Presidents, and Secretaries of the Sections are ex

 officio members of the General Committee for the time being.

                                           SECTIONAL COMMITTEES.

   The General Committee shall appoint, at each Meeting, Committees, con-
sisting severally of the Members most conversant with the several branches
of Science, to advise together for the advancement thereof.

   The Commiitees shall report what subjects of investigation they would
particularly recommend to be prosecuted during the ensuing year, and

brought under consideration at the next Meeting.
   Tlie Committees shall recommend Reports on the state and progress of

particular Sciences, to be drawn up from time to time by competent persons,
for the information of the Annual Meetings.

             COMMITTEE OF RECOMMENDATIONS.

   The General Committee shall appoint at each Meeting a Committee, which
shall receive and consider the Recommendations of the Sectional Committees,
and report to the General Committee the measures which they would advise

to be adopted for the advancement of Science.
   All Recommendations of Grants of Money, Requests for Special Re-

searches, and Reports on Scientific Subjects, shall be submitted to the Com-
mittee of Recommendations, and not taken into consideration by the General
Committee, unless previously recommended by the Committee of Recom-

mendations.

                                LOCAL COMMITTEES.

   Local Committees shall be formed by the Officers of the Association to

assist in making arrangements for the Meetings.
   Local Committees shall have the power of adding to their numbers those

Members of the Association whose assistance they may desire.

                                                           OFFICERS.

  A President, two or more Vice-Presidents, one or more Secretaries, and a

Treasurer, shall be annually appointed by the General Committee.

                                COUNCIL.

   In the intervals of the Meetings, the affairs of the Association shall be
managed by a Council appointed by the General Committee. The Council

may also assemble for the despatch of business during the week of the

Meeting.

             PAPERS AND COMMUNICATIONS.

The Author of any paper or communication shall be at liberty to reserve

his right of property therein.

                                ACCOUNTS.

The Accounts of the Association shall be audited annually, by Auditors

aj)pointed by the Meeting.
to
                       <!BJ

Pis

I 1^1
           ^s

     CO :
     PS :

5 .03
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.

II. Table showing the Names of Members of the British Association who

                        have served on the Council in former years.

Acland, Sir Thomas D., Bart., M.P., F.R.S.             General of the Geological Survey of the
Acland, Professor H. W., B.M., F.R.S.                  United Kingdom.
                                                Dillwyn, Lewis W., Esq., F.R.S.
Adamson, John, Esq., F.L.S.                     Drinkwater, J. E., Esq.
Adare, Edwin, Viscount, M.P., F.R.S.            Durham, Edward Maltby, D.D., Lord Bishop
Ainslie, Rev. Gilbert, D.D., Master of Pem-             of, F.R.S.
                                                Egerton, Sir Philip de M. Grey, Bart., F.R.S.
       broke Hall, Cambridge.                   Eliot, Lord, M.P.
Airy, G. B.,D.C.L., F.R.S. ,AstronomerRoyal.    EUesmere, Francis, Earl of, F.G.S.
                                                Estcourt, T. G. B., D.C.L.
Alison, Professor W. P., M.D., F.R.S. E.        Faraday, Professor, D.C.L., F.R.S.
                                                Fitzwilliara, Charles William, Earl, D.C.L.,
Ansted, Professor D. T., M.A., F.R.S.
Arnott, Neil, M.D., F.R.S.                              F.R.S.
Ashburton, William Bingham, Lord, D.C.L.        Fleming, W., M.D.
Babbage, Charles, Esq., F.R.S.                  Fletcher, Bell, M.D.
Babington, C. C, Esq., F.L.S.                   Forbes, Charles, Esq.
Baily, Francis, Esq., F.R.S.                    Forbes, Professor Edward, F.R.S.
Balfour, Professor John H., M.D.                Forbes, Professor J. D., F.R.S., Sec. R.S.E.
Barker, George, Esq., F.R.S.                    Fox, Robert Were, Esq., F.R.S.
                                                Gassiot, J. P., Esq., F.R.S.
Bengough, George, Esq.                          Gilbert, Davies, D.C.L., F.R.S.
Bentham, George, Esq., F.L.S.                   Graham, Professor Thomas, M.A., F.R.S.
                                                Gray, John E., Esq., F.R.S.
Bigge, Charles, Esq.                            Gray, Jonathan, Esq.
Blakiston, Peyton, M.D., F.R.S.                 Gray, William, jun., Esq., F.G.S.
Boyle, Right Hon. David, Lord Justice-Ge-       Green, Professor Joseph Henry, F.R.S.
                                                Greenough, G. B., Esq., F.R.S.
        neral, F.R.S.E.
                                                Grove, W. R., Esq., F.R.S.
Brand, William, Esq.
Brewster.Sir David, K.H.,D.C.L.,LL.D.,F.R.S.    Hallam, Henry, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.
Breadalbane, John, Marquis of, K.T., F.R.S.
Brisbane, General Sir Thomas M., Bart.,         Hamilton, W. J., Esq., Sec.G.S.

        K.C.B., G.C.H., D.C.L., F.R.S.          Hamilton, Sir William R., Astronomer Royal
Brown, Robert, D.C.L., F.R.S., President of             of Ireland, M.R.I.A.

       the Linnean Society.                     Harcourt, Rev. William Vernon, M.A., F.R.S.
Brunei, Sir M. L, F.R.S.                        Hardwicke, Charles Philip, Earl of, F.R.S.
Buckland, Very Rev. William, D.D., Dean of      Harford, J. S., D.C.L., F.R.S.

        Westminster, F.R.S.                     Harris, Sir W. Snow, F.R.S.
Burlington, William, Earl of, M.A., F.R.S.,     Hstrrowby, The Earl of.

       Chancellor of the University of London.  Hatfeild, William, Esq., F.G.S.
Bute, John, Marquis of, K.T.                    Henslow, Rev. Professor, M.A., F.L.S.
Carlisle, George William Frederick, Earl of,
                                                Henry, W. C, M.D., F.R.S.
        F.G.S.                                  Herbert, Hon. and Very Rev. William, late

Carson, Rev. Joseph.                                   Dean of Manchester, LL.D., F.L.S.
Cathcart, Lieut.-General, Earl of, K.C.B.,      Herschel, Sir John F. W., Bart.,D.C.L., F.R.S.
                                                Heywood, Sir Benjamin, Bart., F.R.S.
        F.R.S.E.                                Heywood, James, Esq., M.P., F.R.S.
Chalmers, Rev. T., D.D., late Professor of      Hill, Rev. Edward, M.A., F.G.S.
                                                Hodgkin, Thomas, M.D.
        Divinity, Edinburgh.                    Hodgkin'ion, Professor Eaton, F.R.S.
                                                Hodgson, Joseph, Esq., F.R.S.
Chance, James, Esq.                             Hooker, Sir William J., LL.D., F.R.S.
Chester, John Graham, D.D., Lord Bishop of.     Hope, Rev. F. W., M.A., F.R.S.
Christie, Profes.sor S. H., M.A., Sec. R.S.     Hopkin.s William, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.
Clare, Peter, Esq., F.R.A.S.                    Horner, Leonard, Esq., F.R.S., F.G.S.
Clark, Rev. Professor, M.D., F.R.S. (Cam-       Hovenden, V. F., Esq., M.A.
                                                Button, Robert, Esq., F.G.S.
         bridge).                               Hutton, William, Esq , F.G.S.
                                                Ibbetson, Capt. L. L. Boscawen, K.R.E.,
Clark, Henry, M.D.
Clark, G. T., Esq.                                      F.G.S.
Clear, William, Esq.                            Inglis, Sir Robert H.,Bart.,D.C.L.,M.P.,F.R.S.
Clerke, Major Shadwell, K.H., R.E., F.R.S.      Jameson, Professor R., F.R.S.
CUft, William, Esq., F.R.S.
Colquhoun, J. C, Esq., M.P.                     Jeffreys, John Gwyn Jeffreys, Esq.
Conybeare, Very Rev. W.D., Dean of LlandafF,
                                                Jenyns, Rev. Leonard, F.L.S.
    M.A., F.R.S.
Corrie, John, Esq., F.R.S.                      Jerrard, H. B., Esq.
Currie, William Wallace, Esq.                   Johnston, Right Hon. William, Lord Provost
Dalton, John, D.C.L., F.R.S.
Daniell, Professor J. F., F.R.S.                        of Edinburgh.
Dartmouth, William, Earl of, D.C.L., F.R.S.
Darwin, (Charles, Esq., F.R.S.
Daubeny, Professor Charles G. B., M.D.,

         F.K.S.

De la Beche, Sir Henry T., F.R.S., Director-
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.                           XI

Johnston, Professor J. F. W., M.A., F.R.S.    Rennie, George, Esq., V.P.R.S.
Keleher, William, Esq.                        Rennie, Sir John, F.R.S.
Kelland, Rev. Professor P., M.A.              Richardson, Sir John, M.D., F.R.S.
Lansdowne, Henry, Marquis of, D.C.L., F.R.S.  Ritchie, Rev. Prafessor, LL.D., F.R.S.
Lardner, Rev. Dr.                             Robinson, Rev. J., D.D.
Latham, R. G., M.D., F.R.S.                   Robinson, Rev. T. R., D.D., M.R.I.A.
Lee, Very Rev. John, D.D., F.R.S.E., Prin-    Robison, Sir John, late Sec.R.S.Edin.
                                              Roche, James, Esq.
       cipal of the University of Edinburgh.  Roget, Peter Mark, M.D., F.R.S.
Lee, Robert, M.D., F.R.S.                     Ronalds, Francis, F.R.S.
Lefevre, Right Hon. Charles Shaw, Speaker     Roseberv, The Earl of, K.T., D.C.L., F.R.S.

       of the House of Commons.               Ross, Capt. Sir James C, R.N., F.R.S.
Lemon, Sir Charles, Bart., M.P., F.R.S.
Liddell, Andrew, Esq.                         Rosse, William, Earl of, M.R.I.A., President
Lindley, Professor John, Ph.D., F.R.S.               of the Royal Society.
Listowel, The Earl of.
Lloyd, Rev. Bartholomew, D.D., late Provost   Royle, Professor John F., M.D., F.R.S.
                                              Russell, James, Esq.
        of Trinity College, Dublin.           Russell, J. Scott, Esq.
Lloyd, Rev. Professor, D.D., Provost of       Sabine, Lieut.-Colonel Edward, R.A., Treas.

        Trinity College, Dublin, F.R.S.               R.S.
Lubbock, Sir John W., Bart., M.A., F.R.S.     Saunders, William, Esq., F.G.S.
Luby, Rev. Thomas.                            Sandon, Lord.
                                              Scoresby, Rev. W., D.D., F.R.S.
Lyell, Sir Charles, M.A , F.R.S.
                                              Sedgwick, Rev. Professor Adam, M.A.,F.R.S.
MacCullagh, Professor, D.C.L., M.R.I. A.      Selby, Prideaux John, Esq., F.R.S.E.
Macfarlane, The Very Rev. Principal.          Smith, Lieut.-Colonel C. Hamilton, F.R.S.
MacLeay, William Sharp, Esq., F.L.S.          Spence, Wrlliam, Esq., F.R.S.
MacNeill, Professor Sir John, F.R.S.          Staunton, Sir George T., Bart., M.P., D.C.L.,
Malcolm, Vice Admiral Sir Charles, K.C.B.
Manchester, James Prince Lee, D.D., Lord              F.R.S.
                                              St. David's. Connop Thirlwall, D.D., Lord
        Bishop of.
Meynell, Thomas, Jun., Esq., F.L.S.                   Bishop of.
                                              Stevelly, Professor John, LL.D.
Miller, Professor W. H., M.A., F.R.S.         Strang, John, Esq.
                                              Strickland, H. E., Esq., F.G.S.
Moillet, J. L., Esq.
Moggridge, Matthew, Esq.                      Sykes, Lieut.-Colonel W. H., F.R.S.
Moody, J. Sadleir, Esq.
                                              Symonds, B. P., D.D., late Vice-Chancellor of
Moody, T. H. C, Esq.                                  the University of Oxford.
Moody, T. F., Esq.
Morley, The Earl of.                          Talbot, W. H. Fox, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.
Moseley, Rev. Henry, M.A., F.R.S.
M-junt-Edgecumbe, Ernest Augustus, Earl of.   Tayler, Rev. J. J.
                                              Taylor, John, Esq., F.R.S.
Murchison, Sir Roderick I., G.C.S., F.R.S.    Taylor, Richard, Jun., Esq., F.G.S.
Neill, Patrick, M.D., F.R.S.E.                Thompson, William, Esq., F.L.S.
Nicol, D., M.D.                               Tindal, Captain, R.N.
Nicol, Rev. J. P., LL.D.                      Tod, James, Esq., F.R.S.E.
Northumberland, Hugh, Duke of, K.G., M.A.,    Traill, J. S., M.D.
                                              Turner, Edward, M.D., F.R.S.
        F.R.S.                                Turner, Samuel, Esq., F.R.S., F.G.S,
Northampton, Spencer Joshua Alwyne, Mar-
                                              Turner, Rev. W.
        quis of, V.P.R.S.
Norwich, Edward Stanley, D.D., F.R.S., late   Vigors, N. A., D.C.L., F.L.S.
                                              Vivian, J. H., M.P., F.R.S.
        Lord Bishop of.                       Walker, James, Esq., F.R.S.
Ormerod, G. W., Esq., F.G.S.                  Walker, Joseph N., Esq., F.G.S.
Orpen, Thomas Herbert, M.D,                   Walker, Rev. Robert, M.A., F.R.S.
Orpen, J. H., LL.D.                           Warlurton, Henry, Esq., M.A., M.P., F.R.S.
Owen, Professor Richard, M.D., F.R.S.         Washington, Captain, R.N.
Oxford, Samuel Wilberforce, D.D., Lord        West, William, Esq., F.R.S.
                                              Wharncliffe, John Stuart, Lord, F.R.S.
        Bishop of, F.R.S., F.G.S.             Wheatstone, Professor Charles, F.R.S.
Osier, Follett, Esq.                          Whewell, Rev. William, D.D., F.R.S., Master
Palmerston, Viscount, G.C.B., M.P.
Peacock, Very Rev. George, D.D., Dean of              of Trinity College, Cambridge.
                                              Williams, Professor Charles J. B.,M.D.,F.R.S.
         Ely, F.R.S.                          Willis, Rev. Professor Robert, M.A., F.R.S.
Peel, Rt. Hon. Sir Robert, Bart., M.P.,       Wills, William.
                                              Winchester, John, Marquis of.
         D.C.L., F.R.S.                       Woollcombe, Henry, Esq., F.S.A.
Pendarves, E., Esq., F.R.S.                   Wrottesley, John, Lord, M.A., F.R.S.
Phillips, Professor John, F.R.S.              Yarrell, William, Esq., F.L.S.
Porter, G. R., Esq.                           Yarbovough, The Earl of, D.C.L.
Powell, Rev. Professor, M.A., F.R.S.          Yates, James, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.

Prichard, J. C, M.D., F.R.S.
Ramsay, Professor W., M.A.

Reid, Lieut.-Col. William, F.R.S.
                 --
                       BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE

THE GENERAL TREASURER'S ACCOUNT from 13th of September

                                                         receipts'.    £ s. d.         £ s. d.

To balance brought on from last account                                               360 7
Life Compositions at Birmingham and since                                             130
Annual Subscriptions at Birmingham and since                                          206 1
Associates' at Birmingham                                                             447
Ladies' Tickets at Birmingham                                                         237
Book Compositions
Dividends on Stock (.£3500 three per cent. Consols)                                     25
From Sale of Publications :                                                           101 18 10

                         Of volume 1                                   81
                                              2
                                                                       15 3
                                                 3
                                              4                        1 17
                                                    5                         81
                                                 6
                                                        7              1 97
                                                     8                 3 12 7
                                                 9
                                              10                       17
                                                     11 .,             1 13 3
                                               12                      2 16
                                              13
                                              14                           19 7
                                                15                     1 14 10
                                             16
                                             17                        Ill 2
                                              18
                             British Association's Catalogue of Stars  1 17
                             Lalande's Catalogue of Stars
                             Lacaille's Catalogue of Stars             7 10 8
                             Dove's Isothermal Lines
                             Lithograph Signatures                       5 12      9
                                                                       12 1        3

                                                                       47 II

                                                                        4 16 6
                                                                       84 17 5

                                                                       7 13 11

                                                                                8  1
                                                                       22 19

                                                                               6      214 6

                                                                       --

                                                                                      £1721 12 10

JAMES HEYWOOD,

J. W. GILBAllT,  [Auditors.

C. MALCOLM.
                                      ----
ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE.

184!9 (at Birmingham) to 31st of July 1850 (at Edinburgh).

                                                PAYMENTS.      £ s. d.   £ s. d.

For Sundry Printing, Advertising, Expenses of Meeting at Bir-

mingham, and Sundry Disbursements made by the Treasurer

and Local Treasurers                                                     308 12 4

Printing, &c. the 17th vol                                               290 11 10

Engraving for 18th vol                                                   22 1 11

Salaries, Assistant General Secretary and Accountant                               350
                                                               44 13 2 ^
Maintaining the Establishment at Kew Observatory :

       Balance of Grant of 1848

Part of Grant of 1849                                          211 4 10

                                                                         255 18

Transit of Earthquake Waves                                              . 50

Periodical Phsenomena of Animals and Vegetables :

Balance of Grant of 1848                                       5

Grantofl849                                                    10
                                                                                        15

Meteorological Instruments for the Azore Islands                         25

Balance in the Banker's hands                                  383 14

Ditto in General Treasurer's and Local Treasurers' hands,..    20 14 9

                                                                         404

                                                                         £1721 12 lO
                         OFFICERS AND COUNCIL.

                OFFICERS AND COUNCIL, 1850-51.

  --Trustees (permanent). Sir Roderick Impey Murcliison, G.C.S*.S., F.R.S.

John Taylor, Esq., F.R.S. The Very Rev, George Peacock, D.D., Dean

of Ely, F.R.S.

   President.-- Sn David Brewster, K.H..D.C.L.,LL.D., F.R.S., V.P.R.S.E,

  --rice-Presidents. Tlie Rt. Hon. The Lord Provost of Edinburgh. The

Earl of Cathcart, K.C.B., F.R.S.E. The Earl of Rosebery, K.T., D.C.L.

F.R.S. Right Hon. David Boyle, Lord Justice-General, F.R.S.E.

General Sir Thomas M. Brisbane, Bart., K.C.B., G.C.H., D.C.L., F.R.S.,
Pres. R.S.E. The Very Rev. John Lee, D.D., V.P.R.S.E., Principal of the
University of Edinburgh. W. P. Alison, M.D., V.P.R.S.E,, Prof, of the
Practice of Physic in theUniversity of Edinburgh. James D. Forbes, F.R.S.,

Sec.R.S.E., Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh,

   President Elect.--George Biddell Airy, Esq., M,A,, D.C.L., F.R.S.,

Astronomer Royal.

  --Vice-Presidents Elect. Right Hon. Lord Rendlesham, M.P. The Bishop

of Norwich. Rev. Adam Sedgwick, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of Geology in

the University of Cambridge. Rev. John Stevens Henslow, M.A., F.L.S.,

Professor of Botany in the University of Cambridge. Sir John P. Boileau,

Bart., F.R.S. Sir William F. F. Middleton, Bart. J. C. Cobbold, Esq.,

M.P. T. B. Western, Esq.

-- &General Secretaries. Lieut. -Col. Sabine, R.A., V.P.     Treas. R.S.,

Woolwich. J. Forbes Royle, M.D., F.R.S., Prof, of Botany in King's Col-

lege, London.

 --Assistant General Secretary. John Phillips, Esq., F.R.S., York.
  --General Treasurer. John Taylor, Esq., F,R.S., 6 Queen Street Place,

Upper Thames Street, London.                                 George A.

 --Local Treasurer. John Biddle Alexander, Esq,
  --Local Secretaries. Charles May, Esq. Dillwyn Sims, Esq.

Biddell, Esq. George Ransome, Esq.

  --Council. The Duke of Argyll. Sir H. T, De la Beche. Dr. Daubeny.

Sir P. De Grey Egerton, Bart. Prof. E. Forbes. Dr. Faraday. Prof.

Graham. W. R. Grove, Esq, John P. Gassiot, Esq. Rev. W. V. Har-

court. William Hopkins, Esq. Robert Hutton, Esq. Sir W. Jardine,

Bart. Sir C. Lemon, Bart. Sir Charles Lyell. Rev. Dr. Lloyd. Sir C.
Malcolm. Professor Owen. G. R. Porter, Esq. Sir John Richardson.
Rev. Dr. Robinson. Lord Rosse. Col. Sykes. Prof. Wheatstone. Rev. Dr.

Whewell. Lord Wrottesley.

 --Local Treasurers. W. Gray, Esq., York, C, C, Babington, Esq., Cam-

bridge. William Brand, Esq., Edinburgh. J, H. Orpen, LL.D., Dublin,

Professor Ramsay, Glasgow, William Sanders, Esq., Bristol. G, W. Orme-
rod, Esq., Manchester. James Russell, Esq., Birmingham, J. Sadleir Moody,
Esq., Southampton. John Gwyn Jeffreys, Esq., Swansea, J. B, Alexander,

Esq., Ipswich.

Auditors James Hey wood, Esq. J. W, Gilbart, Eyq, Sir C. Malcolm.
OFFICERS OF SECTIONAL COMMITTEES.                                            XV

OFFICERS OF SECTIONAL COMMITTEES PRESENT AT THE
                       EDINBURGH MEETING.

SECTION A.-- MATHEMATICAL AND PHYSICAL SCIENCE.

President.-?rokssov James D. Forbes, F.R.S.,     Sec. R.S.E.    Thomson,
Vice.Presidents.-The Rigl.t Rev. Bishop Terrot.  Professor W.

F.R.S.E. Lord VVroitesIey, F.R.S.         PProfessor,,G.    S«,tok, es.      yW^.JJ.
   Secretaries.-Prokssor Stevelly, LL.D.          G.

Macquorn Rankine, Esq. Professor Smyth, Sec. R.b.b.

SECTION B.--CHEMICAL SCIENCE, INCLUDING ITS APPLICATION TO
                       AGRICULTURE AND THE ARTS.

President.-- Dr. Christison, V.P.R.S.E. &c.  Dr.  Trailii^  FF-JR-Sq-EF-'    Pro°-
Fice-Presidents.-Dr. Gregory, Sec. R.S.E.
                                                                             ^
                                             Dr. Fyfe,
fessor of Medical Jurisprudence, Edinburgh
of Chemistry, King's College. Aberdeen. Dr.   Daubeny.\h^^.Rf.-S\.,l'Rfeg'.p\Fr'o^t^.

^tc,^eratl-R. Hunt, Esq. Dr. George Wilson. F.R.S.E. Dr. Thomas

Anderson, F.R.S.E.

C--SECTION      GEOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY.

President.-S\r Roderick I.  Murchison, g-C.St.S    F.R.S.   Phil.p       de ^rey
Vice.Presidents.-Vro?es.or                        E. Sn
                            Jameson, F.R.S L. &

Egerton, Bart.. M.P., F.R.S. Charles Maclaren, Esq., F.R.S.E.

Professor Sedgwick, F.R.S.                Hugh Miller, E^sq.              .  Keith
   ^-^cretoHe^.-Professor Nicol, F.G.S.
                                                                         A.

Johnston, Esq.

SECTION D.--ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY, INCLUDING PHYSIOLOGY.

-- ^President. Professor Goodsir, F.R.S. L. &

ncePresidents.-Sir John G. Dalyell. Bart.
                                             E. ,,_,.,                       M^^.D.,

                                               Sir John Richard,son,

F.R.S. R.K.Greville, LL.D., F.R.S.E. G. Bentham       Esq., F.L.S.           M.D..
   l;.;e*anes._E.Lankester. M.D.. F.R.S. Professor  J. H.Bennett.

F.R.S.E. Douglas Maclagan, M.D., F.R.S.E.

                ETHNOLOGICAL SUBSECTION.

Pre5irfe«<.-Vice.Admiral Sir Charles Malcolm, K.C^.         R.  0.       Latham.
Vice-Presidents.-Pro{essoT J. Y. Simpson, M.D. Dr.
--F.R.S. Rev. Dr. Edward Hincks. Major Rawhnson, f.K.&.
    Secretary. Daniel Wilson, Esq.

                PHYSIOLOGICAL SUBSECTION.

President.-- Prokssor Bennett, M.D., F-^S.E.                Allen        Thoommssoonn.
Vice.Presidents.-Vrokssov Owen, F.R.S. Professor
M.D.. F.R.S. L. & E. Professor Carpenter, M.D., f.K.S.

                     --SECTION F. STATISTICS.

   President.-The Very Rev. John Lee. D.D., V.P.R.S.E., Principal of the

University of Edinburgh.
                                                               --

--REPORT 1850.

  --Vice-Presidents. Rev. Dr. Gordon. Dr. Henry Marshall, F.R.S.E. Pro-

fessor William P. Alison, M.D., F.R.S.E. G. R. Porter, Esq., F.R.S.

 --Secretaries. Professor Hancock, LL,D., M.R.I. A. James Stark, M.D.,

F.R.S.E. Joseph Fletcher, Esq.

                               SECTION O. MECHANICAL SCIENCE.  Thomas

 --President. Rev. Dr. Robinson, M.R.I. A.
  --Vice-Presidents. George Buchanan, Esq. Professor Gordon.
--Grainger, Esq. John Scott Russell, Esq., F.R.S.

   Secretaries. Dr. Lees and David Stevenson, Esq.

CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.

Professor Agassiz, Cambridge, Mas-     M.'Kupffer, St. Petersburg.
                                       Dr. Langberg, Christiania.
    sachusetts.
                                       M. Leverrier, Paris.
M. Arago, Paris.
                                       Baron de Selys-Longchamps, Liege.
Dr. A. D. Bache, Philadelphia.         Dr. Lamont, Munich.
Professor H. von Boguslawski, Bres-    Baron von Liebig, Giessen.
                                       Professor Link, Berlin.
     lau.                              Professor Gustav Magnus, Berlin.
                                       Professor Matteucci, Pisa.
Monsieur Boutigny (d'Evreux), Paris.   Professor von Middendorff, St. Pe-
Professor Braschmann, Moscow.
Chevalier Bunsen.                          tersburg.
Charles Buonaparte, Prince of Canino.
                                       Professor Nilsson, Sweden.
M. De la Rive, Geneva.                 Dr. ffirsted, Copenhagen. ·
                                       Chevalier Plana, Turin.
Professor Dove, Berlin.                M. Quetelet, Brussels.
Professor Dumas, Paris.                Professor Pliicker, Bonn.
Dr. J. Milne-Edwards, Paris.           Professor C. Ritter, Berlin.
Professor Ehrenberg, Berlin.           Professor H. D.Rogers, Philadelphia.
Dr. Eisenlohr, Carlsruhe.
Professor Encke, Berlin.               Professor W. B. Rogers, Virginia.
Dr. A. Erman, Berlin.                  Professor H. Rose, Berlin.
Professor Esmark, Christiania.
Professor G. Forchhammer, Copen-       Professor Schumacher, Altona.
                                       Baron Senftenberg, Bohemia.
    hagen.                             Dr. Siljestrom, Stockholm.

M. Frisian!, Milan.                    M. Struve of St. Petersburg.

Professor Henry, Washington, United    Dr. Svanberg, Stockholm.
                                       Dr. Van der Hoven, Leyden.
     States.                           Baron Sartorius von Waltershausen,

Baron Alexander von Humboldt,              Goiha.
                                       Professor Wartmann, Lausanne.
     Berlin.

M. Jacobi, St. Petersburg.

Professor Jacobi, Konigsberg.
Professor Kreil, Prague.

Report of the Proceedings of the Council in 1849-50, as presented
   TO THE General Committee at Edinburgh, Wednesday, July 31,

    1850.

   With reference to the subjects referred to the Council by the General
Committee assembled in Birmingham, theCouncil have to report as follows :

       1. In respect to the proposed Recommendation to Her Majesty's Go-
   vernment, to establish a Reflecting Telescope of large optical power at a

    suitable station for the systematic observation of the Nebulae of the South-
    ern Hemisphere, the Council having communicated with the President and
       REPORT OF THE COUNCIL.                              XVll

Council of the Royal Society, had the satisfaction of being informed of the
entire agreement of that body in the importance attached by the British
Association to the active use of a large Reflector in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, and of their readiness to concur in a recommendation to that effect
to Her Majesty's Government. The Council have further to report, that
the following Memorial has been drawn up by the Rev. Dr. Robinson,
President of the British Association, with the concurrence of the Earl of
Rosse, President of the Royal Society, and has been presented to Lord

John Russell.

       Copy of the Memorial to Lord John Russell.

  My --" Lord, At the last Meeting of the British Association for the Ad-

vancement of Science, that Assembly came to a resolution which has been

adopted by the Royal Society, and which therefore I am directed, conjointly

with the President of that illustrious body, to lay before your Lordship.
   " The purpose is, that the Government be requested to establish, in some

fitting part of Her Majesty's dominions, a powerful reflecting telescope (not
less than 3 feet aperture), and to appoint an Observer charged with the duty
of employing it in a review of the Nebulae of the Southern Hemisphere.

    " In evidence of the high importance of such an investigation, it is suffi-

cient to refer to the way in which its proposal was welcomed by the British
Association. That assembly, comprising upwards of 1500 persons, among
whom were found almost every British name of scientific renown, and of

whom all are more or less devoted to the pursuit of phj-sical knowledge, may

not unfairly be considered an exponent of the national mind on such an occa-
sion ; and I have never seen it admit any similar resolution with a more en-

thusiastic approval.

   " For the department of Nebular Astronomy is that which at present has

the most powerful hold on public attention, and stands most in need of public
assistance. Others are worked out by the pen and in the closet, or by instru-

ments of easy attainment, and in establishments already fully organized : the
only results which they can now yield are uninteresting except to a few, and
are valued by the mass only from an instinctive perception of the glory which
they confer on human intellect. But it is far otherwise with this ; the myste-

rious forms on which it is employed are at present objectsof universal curiosity,

from their position (outworks as it were of the universe), their evident analogy

to the system of which we are a part, and which we may hope to study in

them, and the Dynamic questions which the marvellous arrangements of

many of them suggest. I may add, that in its origin it is almost exclusively

ours ; the fame which will reward its completion should be ours also. The

history may be very briefly given. About sixty-eight Nebulae had been ill

seen and worse described, when the elder Herschel was led to explore them

ULby the encouragement and aid of his sovereign George  To those pre-

viously known, he not only added 2500 more, but by classing them, by clear
and methodical description, and directing attention to the relations which

connect them with other portions of the universe, he gave this branch of

astronomy its powerful vitality. His no less distinguished son, following his
example with even greater success, has not merely extended the list of northern

nebulae to an amount which would have ennobled any other name, but has

given the whole work complete precision by an accurate determination of the
position of all contained in his own and his father's lists, thus placing them
fully within the reach of subsequent observers. Not content with this, he

transported to the other hemisphere those instruments which had rendered

1850.                                                   c
Xviii  --REPORT 1850.

Buch good service in our own, and has thus enriched astronomy with 1600
more equally well observed, but beyond the reach of European astronomers.

   " Yet powerful as those instruments were, a much nearer approach to the
extreme limit of useful optical power has been made by Lord Rosse : it was ·
therefore to be expected that his telescope would add considerably to our

knowledge of the Nebulae, and this has been fully realized. It was in fact a
communication of some results obtained by him which directed the attention
of the British Association to this subject, and excited a desire of having the
same work performed for the southern sky which he is accomplishing in our
own. That work implies a minute re-examination of at least all the brighter
Nebulae of Sir John Herschel's catalogues ; embodied in drawings, based on

micrometer measures, and so correct that each of them may be referred to
without doubt by future astronomers as an authentic record of the original's
appearance at a given epoch. Of such drawings we at present possess very

few : most of the sketches given by the Herschels are stated by them to be
made merely by eye ; and even those that were more accurately taken by
them are found to require amendment when compared with the appearances

in more powerful telescopes.

   A" task of this kind can only be wrought out by severe and long-con-

tinued labour ; and the instrumental means required are such as very few in-
dividuals can obtain by their private resources. Even in Europe there are
but three telescopes known to exist which are capable of making any great
additions to the discoveries of the Herschels ; and those three are in the
British Islands. This field of research is therefore still exclusively our own ;

and I trust your Lordship will share my feeling, that the nation's honour will

be sullied if we let it be preoccupied in its most interesting portion by the
energy and liberality of any other people.

    " In submitting to your Lordship this request of the British Association, I

feel it my duty to give with it some approximative estimate of the sum which

might be required for its accomplishment.
    " First, as to the instrument : it has been proved by the experience of Lord

Rosse, Mr. Lassels and others, that one of sufficient power can be constructed
with certainty and at no overwhelming cost. I have made inquiries of an

artist (with whose abilities in this line I am practically acquainted), and have
come to the conclusion that a telescope similar to the smaller of Lord Rosse's

3 feet aperture and 27 feet focal length might be constructed for £2000.
This would include an equatorial mounting ; clock-work to make the telescope
travel with a star ; apparatus for supporting the observer ; and a machine for

polishing the speculum, when that operation may be required. If a second

speculum were supplied (which seems almost essential in case of accident), it

would add about £500 more. Of course some latitude must be allowed in
this, but it need not be wide ; the work could not be completed in less than
a year, possibly would employ two. As telescopes so gigantic are erected in

the open air, no outlay would be necessary for any building except the

 Observer's dwelling.
     " Secondly, the Observer need not possess very high mathematical attain*

 ments ; acute sight, and skill as a draughtsman, being his most important re-
 quisites ; and his staff need not consist of more than two or three labourers,

one of whom should be a practical mechanic.
    " I am quite aware that there are some persons who will consider the sum

 that I have named above, and the moderate annual expenditure which would
 be required for a few years, a very unprofitable waste of public money, I
 feel also assured that your Lordship is not of their number; no man can be
who has ever drunk of the fountain of knowledge, or added to the domain of
             REPORT OP THE COUNCIL.                                 XIX

intellect. I feel confident that the public itself is not with them, and that it
would resent as an insult the imputation of valuing at a mere market price the

only true elements of personal dignity or national glory. If the spirit of the
age be such that the most despotic sovereigns of Europe feel that they cannot

avoid the necessity of encouraging physical science, much more does it belong

to the rulers of the freest and most enlightened nation of the world ; and it

is due to your Lordship and your colleagues to say that we have always found
you to carry out in the fullest extent the requirements of science.

   "In hopes that in this instance also our appeal may not be in vain,

             " I have the honour to be

                           " Your Lordship's obedient Servant,

                                          " T. R. Robinson,

                           " President of the British Association for the

                                          Advancement of Science."

" The Right Hon. The Lord John Russell."

2. In consequence of the Resolution passed by the General Committee

relative to the correction of the levels of the Ordnance Survey of Ireland,

the President communicated with the Rev. Dr. Lloyd, President of the

Royal Irish Academy. The President and Council of the Royal Irish

Academy have addressed the Master- General of the Ordnance, recom-

mending that the correction should be made, and have received a favour-

able reply.

y. In respect to the proposed application to the Master- General of the

Ordnance to have the British Arc of the Meridian published in its full

extent, the Council have had the satisfaction of learning that the President

and Council of the Royal Society entirely agreed with the British Asso-

ciation in their estimate of the importance of the proposed publication, and

that with the concurrence of the Marquis of Anglesey, Master-General of
the Ordnance, an application has been made by the President of the Royal

Society to Lord John Russell, to place the necessary funds at the disposal

of the Ordnance Department, and that the application has been favourably

received by Lord John Russell on the part of Her Majesty's Government.

   4. The Sub-Committee who were appointed to organise a Committee of
Members of the Association, who are also Members of the Legislature, for

the purpose of watching over the interests of Science, request permission

to submit their plan of proceeding to the Committee of Recommendations,
in order that it may come before the General Committee.

   5. In pursuance of the authority granted by the General Committee to
the Council to make arrangements for the proper distribution of the un-

sold Copies of the Volumes of Reports of the British Association, the

Council appointed a Select Committee to consider and report on the sub-

Aject.  first report of the Committee has been received and will be taken

into early consideration.

   6. For the more effectual discharge of the trust reposed in them of
general superintendence of the Observatory at Kew, the Council named a
Committee, consisting of Members of their own body, who at their request

undertook the duty of frequent visitation, and of special superintendence

over the experiments and observations to be made there. The Council
have great satisfaction in stating that the gentlemen who undertook the

duties of this Committee have discharged them with remarkable assiduity,

and that they have been assisted at their Meetings by the attendance of
other Members of the Council who participate in the desire of rendering

Kew an effective and important establishment. The Council have received
--XX REPORT 1850.

   from the Committee the subjoined Report on the present state and pro-

  --spects of the Observatory.

   Report of the Keio Committee. " The grant made by the General Com-
mittee for maintaining the establishment at Kew Observatory during the

present year being in a considerable degree founded on the results actually
secured, and others likely to be obtained by the electrical observations which
have been instituted there, the Committee for superintending the Observatory
have kept the prosecution and extension of these experiments steadily in view.

    " Ever since 1843 a series of measures of the intensity of atmospheric elec-
tricity has been accumulated at Kew. By direction of the General Com-
mittee in 184-8, Mr. Birt was engaged on the discussion of these, and his
Report is published in the Transactions of the Association for IS^Q. By
this investigation the seeming irregularity of these phaenomena has been in
some degree elucidated, and results having a general and systematic value
 obtained. For example, during the twenty-four hours the electrical tension
 of the atmosphere acquires two maxima, viz, about 10 a.m. and 10 p.m., and
 suffers two minima, viz, about 4 a.m. and 4 p.m., these being also nearly the
 hours of harometrical maxima and minima. Moreover, in the course of the
 twelve months, there is distinctly a periodicity of electrical tension ; the maxi-

mum for the year being in the depth of winter, and the minimum in the

 height of summer. Mr. Birt has shown the relation of the curve which re-
presents the annual movement of the electrical tension to that which describes

 the humidity of the air.

    " To the experiments from which these and other interesting relations have
arisen, the Committee has been enabled to add a new series of observations

 on electricalfrecpumcij, by which not the intensity of the atmospheric charge,
 but the rate at which the instrument receives it will become known. These
observations were begun under Mr. Ronalds's direction in March 1850, and
were continued for three weeks ; but unfortunately the state of Mr. Birt's
 health has not only stopped the observations, but deprived the Observatory

 of the further services of that gentleman.

    " The Committee will be able to supply the deficiency thus occasioned,
 and conduct these and other researches in a satisfactory manner, if the General
 Committee shall think fit to empower them, by the appointment of Mr. Welsh,
 late Assistant in the Observatory oflSir Thomas Brisbane, a gentleman of
whose qualifications for the duties of Observer at Kew, the Committee have

 ample testimony.
    "In originally accepting the charge of this Observatory (1842), the Asso-

 ciation was influenced by the facilities which it would afibrd for the prosecu-
 tion of experimental inquiries in the physical sciences, for which its locality
 is peculiarly suitable, and at the close of the first year the Council had esta-

--blished the following registers in addition to the electrical observations al-

 ready noticed :

    " An ordinary meteorological record with standard instruments ; and had
 made arrangements with Professor Wheatstone for the completion of a self-

 registering meteorological instrument on a new construction.
    " The advantage to be derived from self-recording instruments by meteo-

 rology and magnetism has been often expressed by votes of the Association

 from an early period of its career. The establishment of Kew Observatory

 brought these ideas into practical operation. That Observatory has given to
 science self-recording instruments for electrical, magnetical, and meteorolo-

 gical phaenomena, already of great value, and certainly capable of great further
 improvement. Mr. Ronalds, whose valuable services have been given gra-
 tuitously to the Observatory from nearly its foundation, is still intent on im-
RESEARCHES IN SCIENCE.  XXI

proving these instruments ; and lately, by employing the new invention of gela-
tine paper, he has not only been able to copy exactly the line which is traced
on the plate by light, but further to print other copies for distribution. Mr.

Ronalds's Report of the Proceedings at Kew during the past year, which is

prepared for reading in the Physical Section, will make known other facts
illustrative of the state of the Observatory. Kreil's Barometrograph, which
was received in 1845, has been put in working order. Electrical, magnetical,
and meteorological phsenomena are those for which the apparatus now collected

at Kew is specially adapted, and it is in a condition to admit of their being

--regularl}"^ and constantly registered in a great degree by self-recording in-

struments. But to provide for the constant and regular registration of all
these phsenomena would be quite incompatible with the limited funds at the

disposal of the Association, and inconsistent with the general intention of the

--establishment which is an Experimental Observatory, devoted to open out

new physical inquiries, and to make trial of new modes of inquiry, but only

in a few selected cases to preserve continuous records of passing phsenomena.
    "It is on this view of the character of the Observatory that the Committee

found their opinion, that it may be maintained in a state of efficiency, and
kept always ready to take its proper share in the Advancement of Science, by
means of a moderate annual grant from the Association. They have further

the satisfaction to report, that the progress of the Observatory in its peculiar
field of research is likely to be materially aided by funds provided from

another source, the Royal Society having allotted £100 for the purchase of
new instruments to be tried at Kew, out of the sum placed at their disposal
by Her Majesty's Government."

       7. The Council have been informed by Sir John Burgoyne, Inspector-
    General of Fortifications, that the publication of the Mountjoy Meteorolo-

    gical Observations will be at once proceeded with in compliance with the
    directions of the Marquis of Anglesey, Master-General of the Ordnance.

       8. The Council have added the following names to the list of the Cor-
   responding Members of the British Association, viz.

                           Professor Gustav Magnus of Berlin.
                         Professor W. B. Rogers of Virginia.

             Recommendations adopted by the General Committee at the
                                Edinburgh Meeting in August 1850.

                      Involving Application to Government or Public Institutions.

          That a Committee, consisting of the President, the Duke of Argyll, Sir
       R. I. Murchison, Professor Forbes, and the Marquis of Breadalbane, be
       appointed for the purpose of urging on Her Majesty's Government the
       completion of the Geographical Survey of Scotland, as recommended by the

       British Association, at their former meeting in Edinburgh in 1834.
          That application be made to the Admiralty for the Publication of the

       Reports of their Committee on Metals.
           That a Committee be appointed by the Council, for the purpose of waiting

       upon Her Majesty's Government to request that some means be taken to en-
        sure to the Science of Natural History an effective representation in the
       Trusteeship of the British Museum.

           That the Council of the Association be requested to communicate with
       the Council of the Royal Society, and also with the Government, if neces-

I
--xxii Heport 1850.

sary, respecting the possibility of relieving the Association from the expense
of maintaining the establishment at Kew.

   That Her Majesty's Government be requested to institute a Statistical
Survey relative to the Extent and Prevalence of Infantile Idiocy as a mea-

sure greatly conducive to the public welfare.

                                      Involving Grants of Money.

   That the Establishment at Kew Observatory be continued (at the disposal

of the Council for that purpose), with £300.
    That Professor J. D. Forbes be requested to institute a Series of Experi-

ments, for the purpose of testing the results of the Mathematical Theory of
Heat ; that Professor Kelland be requested to co-operate with him ; and that
£50 be placed at the disposal of Prof. Forbes for the purpose.

    That the Committee for superintending the Publication of the Tabular
Forms in reference to Periodical Phsenomenaof Animals and Plants, be con-
tinued, with £5 at their disposal.

    That Professor E. Forbes and Mr. Bell be requested to continue their as-
sistance to Dr. Thomas Williams in his researches on the Annelida, with £10

at their disposal.

    That the Committee on the Vitality of Seeds be requested to continue
their attention to that subject, with £1 1 at their disposal.

    That a Committee, consisting of Mr. R. Hunt, Dr. G. Wilson, and Dr.
Gladstone, be requested to investigate the influence of the solar radiations
or chemical combinations, electrical phEenomena, and the vital powers of
plants groM'ing under different atmospheric conditions, with £50 at their

disposal.

    That Dr. Smith be requested to continue his investigation on the Air and
Water of Towns, with £10 at his disposal.

    That, as the printed Queries formerly circulated for the purpose of ob-

taining Ethnological data are now out of print, a new and revised Edition of
them be issued by Sir Charles Malcolm and Dr. Hodgkin, with £12 at their

disposal for the purpose.

                                                                Rules.

    That the subject of Geography be separated from Geology, and combined
with Ethnology, to constitute a separate Section, under the title of the Geo-
graphical and Ethnological Section.

    That in future no Section shall omit to meet on account of Excursions,
unless it be specially so determined in each case by the Sectional Committee.

    That for the future the names of officers and members of Committees not
attending the Meetings of the Association be not published.

    Notice was given of an intention to propose at the next Meeting, that the
sum now paid for lAfe Composition and Book Subscription (viz. aClO) be

divided into two sums of £5 and £5, the former sum being a necessary
payment by all who compound for Annual Subscription ; the latter an op-

tional payment as a special Book Subscription.

                                                 Reports requested.

  --Professor Stokes. On the General Theory of Vibratory Motions in Elastic

Media.

  --Professor Willis. On Acoustics.

  --Mr. G. Buchanan. On the Strength of Materials .
--:

RESEARCHES IN SCIENCE.  XXUl

  --Mr. Thomas Stevenson. On the various modes of constructing Sea Walls,

and the actual state of knowledge as to their power of resisting the forces to

--which they are exposed.
   Mr. J. Whitworth. On his Experiments for the purpose of constructing

Accurate Standards of Measure.

   Dr. Hugh Cleghorn, Professor Royle, Messrs. R. Baird Smith, and R.

--Strachey, H.E.I.C.S. On the probable effects, in an oeconomical and physic-

cal point of view, of the Destruction of Tropical Forests.

                                                    Researches, ^c.

   That the Committee on the influence of Carbonic Acid on the growth of
Ferns be requested to continue their investigations.

   That Dr. Percy and Professor Miller be requested to continue their re-
searches on Crystalline Slags.

   That the Committee on Shooting Stars and Auroral Phsenomena be reap-

pointed.

   That the Committee on the Instrumental Measurement of Earthquake
Waves be reappointed.

   That the Committee of superintendence of the Kew Observatory be con-

tinued.

                                                       Miscellaneous.

   That the Committee of Members of Legislature, who are also Members
of the British Association, who were requested to watch over the interests of
Science, and to inspect the various measures which might from time to time

be introduced into Parliament, likely to affect such interests, be reappointed,
and that the further steps to be taken in this matter be referred to the
Council.

   That the Presidents of the several Sections be requested, with such assist-
ance from the Members as they may find desirable, to revise the recommen-
dations which have from time to time been adopted in reference to the
branches of Science which are taken into consideration by those Sections
respectively, and to communicate thereon with the Assistant General Secre-
tary previous to the next Meeting.

   That a Committee, consisting of Sir John Herschel, The Astronomer
Royal, Prof. Forbes and Prof. Powell, with power to add to their number,
be empowered to communicate with the Astronomers of Pulkowa on the
observations to be made at the next approaching total Eclipse of the Sun,
July 28, 1851, and to draw up suggestions for the guidance of observers

generally.

   That the Memorial of M. Kupffer be printed for circulation among the

officers.

   It appearing that two recommendations for Reports, viz. On the Anatomy

and Physiology of the Nervous System, and on the History and Advances
of Vegetable Physiology, which had been adopted by the Committee of Sec-
tion D, had not been presented to the Committee of Recommendations, it
was directed that these be communicated to the Council at its next Meeting
the following are the terms of these Resolutions :

   " That Professors Sharpey, Goodsir and Allen Thompson, and Dr. Laycock,
with power to add to their number, be requested to prepare for the next
Meeting of the Association a Report on the History of, and Advances in our
knowledge of the Anatomy and Physiology of the Nervous System, from the
date of the last Report on this subject.

   "That Dr. Lindley, Arthur Henfrey, F.L.S., and Dr. Lankester, with
Xxiv  --REPORT 1850.

power to add to their number, be requested to prepare for the next Meeting
of the Association a Report on the Advances in our knowledge of Vegetable
Phy<ioIogy» from the date of the last Report on this subject."

    That two Botanical Works, presented by Professor Parlatore, be deposited
in the Library of the University of Edinburgh.

    That the Tables of the distribution (in depth) of Marine Animals, by
Mr. M'Andrew, be printed in extenso in the Volume of Reports of this
Meeting of the Association.

   That Major General Briggs's paper On the Aboriginal Tribes of India be
printed entire in the next Volume of Transactions.

Synopsis of Grants of Money appropriated to Scientific Objects by the

    General, Committee at the Edinburgh Meeting in August 1850, with

   the Name of the Member, who alone, or as the First of a Committee,

   is entitled to draw for the Money.

                                     Kew Observatory,               £ s. d.
At the disposal of the Council for defraying Expenses
                                                                   300

                               Mathematical and Physical Science.  50

--Forbes, Prof. J. D. Experiments for the purpose of testing the

       results of the Mathematical Theory of Heat

                                                Chemical Science.  50
                                                                   10
Hunt, Mr. R.-- Influence of the Solar Radiations or Chemical

       Combinations, Electrical Phasnomena, and the Vital Powers

   --of Plants growing under different atmospheric conditions. .

Smith, Dr. Investigations on the Air and Water of Towns.. .

                                               Natural History.    11

Strickland, H. E.-- Vitality of Seeds                                5
                                                                   10
--Lankesteu, Dr. Periodical Phaenomena of Animals and Vege-

         tables

--Forbes, Prof. E. Report on British Annelida

                                                      Ethnology,   12

--Malcolm, Sir Charles. Printed Queries for obtaining Eth-

       nological Data

                      Grants                           £448
                         GENERAL STATEMENT.      XXV

General Statement of Sums which have been paid on Account of Grants for

                                                  Scientific Purposes.

                1834.

Tide Discussions         JO

              1835.                          75

Tide Discussions         62

BritishFossil Ichthyology 105

                         £167

                1836.

Tide Discussions .... 163

BritishFossillchthyology 105

Thermometric Observa-

tions, &c                50

Experiments on long-

continued Heat .... 17            1

Rain Gauges              9     13

Refraction Experiments 15        6

Lunar Nutation           60

Thermometers             15

                         £434 14

                1837.

Tide Discussions         284 1

Chemical Constants .. 24 13          6

Lunar Nutation           70          6
                                     6
Observations on Waves. 100 12

Tides at Bristol         150

Meteorology and Subter-

ranean Temperature . 89 5

VitrificationExperiments 150

Heart Experiments .... 8 4

Barometric Observations 30

Barometers               11 18

                         £918 14 6

                  1838.

Tide Discussions         29

British Fossil Fishes . . 100

MeteorologicalObserva-

tions and Anemometer

(construction)           100

Cast Iron (strength of) . 60

Animal and Vegetable

Substances (preserva-

tion of)                 19    1 10
                               1 10
Carried forward £308
XXVI                             REPORT

                          £

                  184.0.

Bristol Tides             100

Subterranean Tempera-

ture <                    13

Heart Experiments. ... IS

Lungs Experiments . . 8

Tide Discussions          50

Land and Sea Level . . 6

Stars (Histoire Celeste) 24:2

Stars (Lacaille)          4

Stars (Catalogue) .... 264

Atmospheric Air           15

Water on Iron             10

Heat on Organic Bodies 7

MeteorologicalObserva-

tions                     52

Foreign Scientific Me-

moirs                     112

Working Population . . 100

School Statistics         50

Forms of Vessels .... 184

Chemical and Electrical

Phaenomena                40

Meteorological Observa-

tions at Plymouth . . 80

Magnetical Observations 185

                          £1546
                          GENERAL STATEMENT.  xxvii

                          £     s.

         Brought forward 14'42   8

Questions on Human                9

Race                         7

                    £1449 17         8

             1843.

Revision of the Nomen-

clature of Stars ....        2

Reduction of Stars, Bri-

tish Association Cata-

logue                     25

Anomalous Tides, Frith

of Forth                  120

Hourly Meteorological

Observations at Kin-

gussie and Inverness 77 12 8

Meteorological Observa-

   tions at Plymouth . . 55

Whe well's Meteorolo-

gical Anemometer at

Plymouth                  10

Meteorological Observa-

tions, Osier's Anemo-

meter at Plymouth . . 20

Reduction of Meteorolo-

gical Observations . . 30

Meteorological Instru-

ments and Gratuities 39 6

Construction of Anemo-

meter at Inverness .. 56 12 2

Magnetic Co-operation . 10 8 10

Meteorological Recorder

   for Kew Observatory 50

Action of Gases on Light 18 16 1

Establishment at Kew

Observatory, Wages,

Repairs, Furniture and

Sundries                  133 4 7

Experiments by Captive

Balloons                  81 8

Oxidation of the Rails

of Railways               20

Publication of Report on

Fossil Reptiles .... 40

Coloured Drawings of

Railway Sections. .. . 147 18 3

Registration of Earth-

quake Shocks              30

Report on Zoological

Nomenclature              10

Carried forward £977 6 7
XXVIU  REPORT 1850.

        s.

         2
                     .

                            GENERAL STATEMENT.  XXlX

                            £

Brought forward

Marine Zoology of Bri-

tain

Exotic Anoplura. .1844'

Expenses attending Ane-

mometers

Anemometers' Repairs .
Researches on Atmo-

spheric Waves ....

Captive Balloons . . 1 844

Varieties of the Human

Race      1844

Statisticsof Sickness and

Mortality at York .
--XXX REPORT 1850.

   In grants of money to Committees, the Association does not contemplate
the payment of personal expenses to the Members.

   In all cases where additional grants of money are made for the continua-
tion of Researches at the cost of the Association, the sum named shall be
deemed to include, as a part of the amount, the specified balance which may
remain unpaid on the former grant for the same object.

                             General Meetings {in the Music Hall).

   On Wednesday, July 31st, at 8 p.m., the late President, The Rev. T. R.

Robinson, D.D., M.R.I. A., resigned his Office to Sir David Brewster, K.H.,
D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S., V.P.R.S.E., who took the Chair at the General
Meeting, and delivered an Address, for which see p. xxxi.

   On Thursday, August 1st, Professor Bennett, M.D., F.R.S.E., delivered a

Discourse on the Passage of the Blood through the minute Vessels of Ani-
mals, in connection with Nutrition.

   On Monday, August 5th, Dr. Mantell, F.R.S. &c., delivered a Discourse
on the Extinct Birds of New Zealand.

   On Wednesday, August 7th, at 3 p.m., the concluding General Meeting of

the Association was held, when the Proceedings of the General Committee,
and the grants of money for scientific purposes were explained to the
Members.

   The Meeting was then adjourned to Ipswich in 1851*.

             * The Meeting is appointed to take place on Wednesday, the 2nd of July.
                 ADDRESS

                                                                  BY

   SIR DAVID BREWSTER, K.H. D.C.L.

                           F.R.S.L. & V.P.R.S. Edinb.

                  ASSOCIATE OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FRANCE.

--Gentlemen, The kind and flattering expressions with which Dr. Robinson

has been pleased to introduce me to this Chair, and to characterise my sci-

enti6c labours, however coloured they are by the warmth of friendship, cannot
but be gratifying even at an age when praise ceases to administer to vanity
or to stimulate to ambition. The appreciation of intellectual labour by
those who have laboured intellectually, if not its highest, is at least one of

its high rewards. When 1 consider the mental power of my distinguished

friend, the value of his original researches, the vast extent of his acquire-
ments, and the eloquence which has so often instructed and delighted us at

our annual reunions, I feel how unfit I am to occupy his place, and how
little I am qualified to discharge many of those duties which are incident to

the Chair of this Association. It is some satisfaction, however, that you are

all aware of the extent of my incapacity, and that you have been pleased

--to accept of that which I can both promise and perform to occupy any post

of labour, either at the impelling or the working arm of this gigantic lever
of science.

   On the return of the British Association to the metropolis of Scotland, I
am naturally reminded of the small band of pilgrims who, in 1831, carried

--the seeds of this Institution into the more genial soil of our sister land of

the zeal and talent with which it was fostered and organized by the Philo-

sophical Society of York--of the hospitality which it enjoyed from the

Primate of England--of the invaluable aid which it received from the uni-

--versities and scientific societies of the south and of the ardent support

with which it was honoured by some of the most accomplished of our
nobility. From its cradle at York, the infant Association was ushered into

--the gorgeous halls of Oxford and Cambridge the seats of ancient wisdom

and the foci of modern science. University honours were liberally extended
to its more active members ; and, thus decorated, our Institution was eagerly
                                    ;

XXxii  --REPORT 1850.

 welcomed into the lich marts of our commerce, and into the active localities
 of our manufacturing industry. Europe and America speedily recognized

 the importance of our rising Association, and deputies from every civilized

 nation hastened to our annual congress, assisted at our sectional meetings,
and have even contributed to our Transactions valuable reports on different

 branches of science.

    It may be interesting to those who are here for the first time to learn the
 names of some of those distinguished individuals by whose exertions and
talents this Association has attained its present magnitude and position ; and
1 feel as if it were peculiarly my duty to do honour to their zeal and their

labours. Sir John Robison, Professor Johnston, and Professor J. D. Forbes,
 were the earliest friends and promoters of the British Association. They
went to York to assist in its establishment, and they found there the very

men who were qualified to foster and organise it. The Rev. Mr. Vernon
Harcourt, whose name cannot be mentioned here without the expression of

our admiration and gratitude, had provided laws for its government, and,
along with Mr. Phillips, the oldest and most valuable of our office-bearers,
had made all those arrangements by which its success was ensured- Headed
by Sir Roderick Murcliison, one of the very earliest and most active ad-
vocates of the Association, there assembled at York about 200 of the friends
of science. Dalton, Pritchard, Greenough, Scoresby, William Smith, Sir
Thomas Brisbane, Dr. Daubeny, Dr. B. Lloyd Provost of Trinity College
Dublin, Professor Potter, Lord Fitzwilliam, and Lord Morpeth, took an
active part in its proceedings ; and so great was the interest which they ex-
cited, that Dr. Daubeny ventured to invite the Association to hold its second
meeting at Oxford. Here it received the valuable co-operation of Dr.
Buckland, Professor Powell, and the other distinguished men who adorn
that seat of literature and science. Cambridge sent us her constellation of

-- --philosophers bright with stars of the first magnitude Whewell, Peacock,

Sedgwick, Airy, Herschel, Babbage, Lubbock, Challis, Kelland, and Hopkins;

while the metropolitan institutions were represented by Colonel Sabine,
one of our General Secretaries, Mr. Taylor, our Treasurer, Sir Charles

Lyell, Colonel Sykes, Mr. Brown, Mr. Faraday, Professors Owen and

Wheatstone, Dr. Mantell, Lord Northampton, Lord Wrottesley, Sir Philip
Egerton, and Sir Charles Lemon. From Leiand we received the distin-
guished aid of Lord Rosse, Lord Enniskillen, Lord Adare*, Dr. Robinson,
Dr. Lloyd, Sir William Hamilton, and Professor Maccullagh ; and men of

--immortal names were attracted from the continents of Europe and America
    Arago, Bessel, Struve, Liebig, Jacobi, Le Verrier, Encke, Erman, Kupffer,
Ehrenberg, Matteucci, Rogers, Bache, and Agassiz. The young members

of the Association, to whom we owe much, and from whom we expect more,
will excuse me for not making an individual reference to their labours. Their
day of honour will come when our brief pilgrimage has closed. To them
we bequeath a matured institution, and we trust that they will leave it to a
succeeding race with all the life which it now breathes, and with all the
glory which now surrounds it.

   It has been the custom of some of my predecessors in this Chair, to give a

brief account of the progress of the sciences during the preceding year
but, however interesting might be such a narrative, it would be beyond the
power of any individual to do justice to so extensive a theme, even if your
time would permit, and your patience endure it.^ I shall miike no apology,

       * Now the Earl of Dunraven.
                                   --

                      ADDRESS.     XXXUl

however, for calling your attention to a few of those topics, within my own

narrow sphere of study, which, from their prominence and general interest,

may be entitled to your attention.

I begin with Astronomy, a study which has made great progress under the

patronage of this Association ; a subje'jt, too, possessing a charm above all
other subjects, and more connected than any with the deepest interests

--past, present, and to come of every rational being. It is upon a planet

that we live and breathe. lis surface is the arena of our contentions, our

pleasures, and our sorrows. Ii is to obtain a portion of its alluvial crust
that man wastes the flower of his days, and prostrates the energies of his

mind, and risks the happiness of his soul ; and it is over, or beneath, its
verdant turf that his ashes are to be scattered, or his bones to be laid. It

--is from the interior, too from the inner life of the earth, that man derives
--the materials of civilization his coal, his iron, and his gold. And deeper
--still, as geologists have proved and none with more power than the geolo-
--gists around me we hnd in the bosom of the earth, written on blocks of

marble, the history of primaeval times, of worlds of life created, and worlds

Weof life destroyed.  find there, in hieroglyphics as intelligible as those

which Major Rawlinson has deciphered on the slabs of Nineveh, the remains

--of forests which waved in luxuriance over its plains the very bones of huge

--reptiles that took shelter under their foliage, and of gigantic quadrupeds

that trod uncontrolled its plains the lawgivers and the executioners of that
mysterious community with which it pleased the Almighty to people his

infant world. But though man is but a recent occupant of the earth an

--upstart in the vast chronology of animal life his interest in the paradise

so carefully prepared for him is not the less exciting and profound. For
him it was made : he was to be the lord of the new creation, and to him
it especially belongs to investigate the wonders it displays, and to learn the
lesson which it reads.

    But, while our interests are thus closely connected with the surface and
the interior of the earth, interests of a higher kind are associated with it as
a body of the system to which we belong. The object of geology is to
unfold the history and explain the structure of a planet ; and that history
and that structure may, within certain limits, be the history and the structure

--of all the other planets of the system perhaps of all the other planets of

the universe. The laws of matter must be the same wherever matter is
found. The heat which warms our globe radiates upon the most distant of
the planets ; and the light which twinkles in the remotest star, is, in its phy-
sical, and doubtless in its chemical properties, the same that cheers and
enlivens our own system ; and if men of ordinary capacity possessed that
knowledge which is within their reach, and had that faith in science which

its truths inspire, they would see in every planet around them, and in every

--star above them, the home of immortal natures of beings that suffer and
--of beings that rejoice of souls that are saved, and of souls that are lost.

    Geology is therefore the first chapter of astronomy. It describes that

--portion of the solar system which is nearest and dearest to us the cosmo-

politan observatory, so to speak, from which the astronomer is to survey the

sidereal universe, where revolving worlds, and systems of worlds, summon

him to investigate and adore. There, too, he obtains the great base line of

the earth's radius to measure the distances and magnitudes of the starry

host, and thus to penetrate by the force of reason into those infinitely di-

stant regions where the imagination dare not venture to follow him. But

astronomy, though thus sprung from the earth, seeks and finds, like Astraea,

1850.                           d
XXxiv                         --REPORT 1850.

a more congenial sphere above. Wliatever cheers and enlivens our terrestrial
paradise is derived from the orbs around us. Without the light and the heat of
our sun. and without the uniform movements of our system, we should have
neither climates nor seasons. Darkness would blind, and famine destroy

everything that lives. Without influences from above, our ships would drift

upon the ocean, the sport of wind and wave, and would have less certainty

of reaching their destination than balloons floating in the air, and subject to

the caprice of the elements.

But, while a knowledge of astronomy is essential to the very existence of

social life, it is instinct with moral influences of the highest order. In the

study of our own globe, we learn that it has been rent and upheaved by

--tremendous forces here sinking into ocean depths, and there rising into gi-

gantic elevations. Even now, geologists are measuring the rise and fall of its
elastic crust ; and men who have no faith in science often learn her great
truths to their cost, when they see the liquid fire rushing upon them from the

volcano, or stand above the yawning crevice in which the earthquake threatens

Whoto overwhelm them.  can say that there is a limit to agencies like these ?

Who could dare to assert that they may not concentrate their yet divided

energies, and rend in pieces the planet which imprisons them ? Within the
bounds of our own system, and in the vicinity of our own earth, between

the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, there is a wide space, which, according to the

law of planetary distances, ought to contain a planet. Kepler predicted that

a planet would be found there ; and, strange to say, the astronomers of our

-- --own times discovered at the beginning of the present century four small

planets Ceres, Pallas, Juno, and Vesta occupying the very place in our

system where the anticipated planet ought to have been found. Ceres, the

first of these, was discovered by Piazzi, at Palermo, in 1801 ; Pallas, the
second of them, by Dr. Olbers of Bremen, in 1802; Juno, the third, by

Mr. Harding, in 1804; and Vesta, the fourth, by Dr. Olbers, in 1807,

After the discovery of the third, Dr. Olbers suggested the idea that they

were the fragments of a planet that had been burst in pieces ; and, con-

sidering that they must all have diverged from one point in the original orbit,
and ought to return to the opposite point, he examined those parts of the

heavens, and thus discovered the planet Vesta.

But though this principle had been long in the possession of astronomers,

nearly forty years elapsed before any other planetary fragment was dis-

covered. At last, in 1845, Mr. Hencke, of Driessen, in Prussia, discovered
the fragment called Astra;a, and in 1847 another called Hebe. In the same

year our countryman, Mr. Hind, discovered other two. Iris and Flora. In

1848, Mr. Graham, an Irish astronomer, discovered a ninth fragment called

Metis. In 1849, Mr. Gasparis of Naples discovered another which he calls

Hygeia ; and, within the last two months, the same astronomer has discovered
the eleventh fragment, to which he has given the name of Parthenope*. If

these eleven small planets are really, as they doubtless are, the remains of a
larger one, the size of the original planet must have been considerable.

Ceres,                        Iris,             1847, August 13,  Hind.
                              Flora,            1847, Oct. 18,    Hind.
                              Metis,            1848, April 25,   Graham.
                                                1849, April 12,   Gasparis.
                              Hygeia,                             Gasparis.
                              Parthenope,       1850, May 11,     Hind.
                              Victoria,
                                                1850, Sept. 13,

   It is remarkable that eight of these twelve planets were discovered by astronomers, each of

whom discovered two, Mr. Hind has now discovered three.
                                                                                                                         a

                                                            ADDRESS.

What its size was would seem to be a problem beyond the grasp of reason.

But human i^enius has been permitted to triumph over greater ditficulties.
The planet Neptune was discovered by Adams and Le Verrier, before a ray

of its light had entered the human eye; and, by a law of the solar system

recently announced to the world, we can determine the original magnitude
of the broken planet long after it has been shivered into fragments ; and we

might have determined it even after a single fragment had proved its exist-

ence. This law we owe to Mr. Daniel Kirkwood of Pottsville, a humble
American, who, like the illustrious Kepler, struggled to find something new

among the arithmetical relations of the planetary elements. Between every

two adjacent planets there is a point where their attractions are equal. If

we call the distance of this point from the sun the radius of a planet's sphere

of attraction, then Mr. Kirkwood's law is, that in every planet the square

of the leniTth of its year, reckoned in days, varies as the cube of the radius

of its sphere of attraction. This law has been verified by more than one

American astronomer ; and there can be no doubt, as one of them expresses

it, that it is at least a physical fact in the mechanism of our system. This

law requires, like that of Bode, the existence of a planet between Mars and

Jupiter; and it follows from the law tliat the broken planet must have been

a little larger than Mars, or about 5000 miles in diameter, and that the length

of its day must iiave been about 57-^ hours. The American astronomers

regard this law as amounting lo a demonstration of the nebular hypothesis

of Laplace                                                  but we venture to say that this opinion will not be adopted  by
                                                         ;

the astronomers of England.

   Among the more recent discoveries within the bounds of our own system,

I cannot omit to mention those of our distinguislied countryman, Mr. Lassell

of Liverpool. By means of a fine twenty feet reflector, constructed by

himself, he detected the only satellite of Neptune which has yet been dis-

--covered, and more recently an eighth satellite circulating round Saturn

discovery which was made on the very same day, by Mr. Bond, Director of

the Observatory of Cambridge in the United Stales. Mr. Lassell has still

more recently, and under a singularly favourable state of the atmosphere,

examined the very minute, but extremely black shadow of the ring of Saturn,

upon the body of the planet. He observed the line of shadow to be notched,

as it were, and almost broken up into a line of dots, thus indicating mountains

--upon the plane of the ring mountains, doubtless, raised by the same in-

ternal forces, and answering the same ends, as those of our own globe.

In passing from our solar system to the frontier of the sidereal universe

around us, we traverse a gulf of inconceivable extent. If we represent the

radius of the solar system, or of Neptune's orbit (which is 2900 millions of

miles), by a line two miles long, the interval between our system, or the orbit

of Neptune, and the nearest fixed star, will be greater tlian the whole cir-

--cumference of our globe or equal to a length of 27,600 miles. The pa-

rallax of the nearest fixed star being supposed to be one second, its distance

from the sun will be nearly 412,370 times the radius of the earth's orbit, or

13,740 times that of Neptune, whicii is 30 times as far from the sun as the

--earth. And yet to that distant zone has the genius of man traced the

Creator's arm, working the wonders of his power, and diffusing the gifts of

-- --his love the heat and the light of suns the necessary elements of physical

and intellectual life.

It is by means of the gigantic telescope of Lord Kosse that we have be-

come acquainted with the form and character of those great assemblages of

stars which compose the sidereal universe. Drawings and descriptions of

                                                                         d2
                     ;

XXXvi  REPORT 1850.

the more remarkable of these nebulae, as resolved by this noble instrument,
were communicated by Dr. Robinson to the last Meeting of the Association,

and it is with peculiar satisfaction that 1 am able to state that many import-
ant discoveries have been made by Lord Rosse and his assistant, Mr.
Stoney, during the last year. In many of the nebulae, the peculiarities of

structure are very remarkable, and, as Lord Rosse observes, " seem even to
indicate the presence of dynamical laws almost within our grasp." The
spiral arrangement so strongly developed in some of the nebulae, is trace-
able more or less distinctly in many; but, "more frequently," to use Lord
Rosse's own words, " there is a nearer approach to a kind of irregular, in-
terrupted, annular disposition of the luminous material, than to the regularity
observed in others;" but his Lordship is of opinion that these nebulae are
systems of a very similar nature, seen more or less perfectly, and variously
placed with reference to the line of sight. In re-examining the more re-
markable of these objects. Lord Rosse intends to view them with the full

light of his six-feet speculum, undiminished by the second reflexion of the

small mirror. By thus adopting what is called the/roK< view, he will doubt-
less, as he himself expects, discover many new features in these interesting

objects.

    It is to the influence of Lord Rosse's example that we are indebted for
the fine reflecting telescope ot Mr. Lassell, of which I have already spoken;
and it is to it, also, that we owe another telescope, which, though yet un-
known to science, I am bound in this place especially to notice. I allude to
the reflector recently constructed by Mr. James Nasmyth, a native of Edin-
burgh, already distinguished by his mechanical inventions and his observations
on the moon's surface, and one of a family well known to us all, and occu-
pying a high place among the artists of Scotland. This instrument has its
great speculum twenty feet in focal length, and twenty inches in diameter
but it differs from all other telescopes in the remarkable facility with which
it can be used. Its tube moves vertically upon hollow trunnions, through

which the astronomer, seated in a little observatory, with only a horizontal
motion, can view at his ease every part of the heavens. Hitherto, the astro-
nomer has been obliged to seat himself at the upper end of his Newtonian
telescope ; and if no other observer will acknowledge the awkwardness and
insecurity of his position, I can myself vouch for its danger, having fallen

from the very top of Mr Ramage's twenty-feet telescope, when it was directed

to a point not very far from the zenith.
   Though but slightly connected with astronomy, I cannot omit calling your

-- --attention to the great improvements 1 may call them discoveries which

have been recently made in Photography. I need not inform this meeting
that the art of taking photographic negative pictures upon paper was the
invention of Mr. Fox Talbot, a distinguished member of this Association.
The superiority of the Talbotype to the Daguerreotype is well known.
In the latter, the pictures are reverted and incapable of being multiplied,

while in the Taibotype there is no reversion, and a single negative will
supply a thousand copies, so that books may now be illustrated with pictures
drawn by the sun. The difficulty of procuring good paper for the negative

is so great, that a, better material has been eagerly sought for; and M.

Niepce, an accomplished officer in the French service, has successfully sub-
stituted for paper a film of albumen, or the white of an egg, spread upon
glass. This new process has been brought to such perfection in this city by
Messrs. Ross and Thomson, that Talbotypes taken by them, and lately

exhibited by myself to the National Institute of France, and to M. Niepce,
were universally regarded as the finest that had yet been executed. Another

process, in which gelatine is substituted for albumen, has been invented and

successfully practised by M. Poitevin, a E'rench officer of engineers; and by

an ingenious method which has been minutely described in the weekly pro-

ceedings of the Institute of France, M. Edmund Becquerel has succeeded

in transferring to a Daguerreotype plate the prismatic spectrum, with all

its brilliant colours, and also, though in an inferior degree, the colours of the

landscape. These colours, however, are very fugacious ; and, though no

method of fixing them has yet been discovered, we cannot doubt that the

diflSculty will be surmounted, and that we shall yet see all the colours of the

natural world transferred by their own rays to surfaces both of silver and

paper.

But the most important fact in photography which I have now to mention

is the singular acceleration of the process discovered by M. Niepce, which

enables him to take the picture of a landscape illuminated by diffused light,

in a single second, or at most in two seconds. This acceleration is produced

by adding from iO to 45 grains of honey to the white of each egg according

to its size. By this process, he obtained a picture of the sun on albumen so

instantaneously, as to confirm the remarkable discovery, previously made by
M. Arago, by means of a silver plate, that the rays which proceed from the

central parts of the sun's disc have a higher photogenic action than those

which issue from its margin. This interesting discovery of M. Arago is

one of a series on photometry which that distinguished philosopher is now

--occupied in publishing. Threatened with a calamity which the civilized

world will deplore the loss of that sight which has detected so many brilliant

--phsenomena, and penetrated so deeply the mysteries of the material world
   he is now completing, with the aid of other eyes than his own, those

splendid researches which will immortalise his own name and add to the

scientific glory of his country.

From these brief notices of the progress of science, I must now call your

attention to two important objects with which the British Association has

been occupied since its last meeting. It has been long known, both from

theory and in practice, tiiat the imperfect transparency of the earth's atmo-

sphere, and the inequal refraction which arises from differences of temperature,

combine to set a limit to the use of high magnifying powers in our telescopes.

Hitherto, however, the application of such high powers was checked by the

imperfections of the instruments themselves ; and it is only since the con-

struction of Lord Rosse's telescope that astronomers have found that, in
our damp and variable climate, it is but during a few days of the year that

telescopes of such magnitude can give sufficiently distinct vision with the

high magnifying powers which they are capable of bearing. Even in a
cloudless sky, when the stars are sparkling in the firmament, the astronomer

is baffled by influences which are invisible ; and while new planets and new

satellites are being discovered by instruments comparatively small, the gi<.

gantic Polyphemus lies slumbering in his cave, blinded by thermal currents,

more irresistible than the firebrand of Ulysses.

As the astronomer, however, cannot command a tempest to clear his at-

mosphere, nor a thunder-storrn to purify it, his only alternative is to remove

his telescope to some southern climate, where no clouds disturb the serenity

of the firmament, and no changes of temperature distract the emanations of

Athe stars.  fact has been recently mentioned, which entitles us to antici-

pate great results from such a measure. The Marquis of Ormonde is said

to have seen from Mount Etna, with his naked eye, the satellites of Jupiter.
xxxviii  --REi'ORT 1850.

 If this be true, wliat discoveries may we not expect, even in Europe, from
a fine telescope working above the grosser strata of our atmosphere ? This
 noble experiment of carrying a large reflector to a southern climate has been
but once made in tiie history of science. Sir John Herscliel transported
his telescopes and his family to the south of Africa, and during a voluntary
exile of four years' duration, he enriched astronomy with many splendid
discoveries. Such a sacrifice, however, is not likely to be made again ; and
we must therefore look to the aid of Government for the realization of a
])roject which every civilized people will applaud, and which, by adding to
the conquests of science, will add to the glory of our country. At the
Birmingham meeting of the Association, its attention was called to this sub-
ject ; and, being convinced that great advantages would a.crue to science
from the active use of a large reflecting telescope in the southern hemisphere,
it was resolved to petition Government for a grant of nsoney for that pur-
pose. The Royal Society readily agreed to second this application ; and, as
no request from the British Association has ever been refused, whatever
Government was in power, we have every reason to expect a favourable
answer to an able memorial from the pen of Dr. Robinson, which has just

been submitted to the minister.

   A recent and noble act of liberality to science on the part of the Govern-

ment justifies this expectation. It is, I believe, not yet generally known that
Lord John Russell has granted £1000 a-year to the Royal .Society for pro-
moting scientific objects. The Council of that distinguished body has been
very solicitous to make this grant effective in promoting scientific objects

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;

and I am persuaded that the measures they have adopted are well-fitted to
justify the liberality of the Government. One of the most important of
these has been to place £100 at the disposal of the Committee of the Kew

Observatory. This establishment, which has for several years been sup-
ported by the British Association, was given to us by the Government as a
depository for our books and instruments, and as a locality well-iitted for
carrying on electrical, majinetical, and meteorological observations. During
the last six years, the Observatory has been under the honorary superin-
tendence of Mr. Ronalds, who is well known to the scientific world by his
ingenious photographic methods of constructing self-registering magnetical

and meteorological apparatus. On the joint application of the Marquis of

Northampton and Sir John Herschel, as members of the Association, her
Majesty's Government have granted to Mr. Ronalds a pecuniary recompense
of £250 for these inventions ; and I am glad to be able to state, that Mr.
Brooke has also received from them a suitable reward for inventions of a

similar kind.

   Under the fostering care of the British Association, the most valuable
electrical observations have been made at Kew, and Mr. Ronalds has con-
tinued, from year to year, to make those improvements upon his apparatus
which experience never fails to suggest ; but I regret to say, that in conse-
quence of our diminished resources, the Association, at its meeting in 1848,

--came to the resolutionofdiscontinuingthe observations at Kew appropriating,

at the same time, an adequate sum for completing those which were in pro-
gress, and for reducing and discussing the five years' electrical observations
which had been published in our annual reports. I trust, however, that
means will yet be found to maintain the Observatory in full activity, and to
carry out the original objects contemplated by the Committee. Having had
an opportunity of visiting this establishment a few weeks ago, after having
inspected two of the best conducted observatories on the Continent, where

                          i
                                            --

the same class of observations is made, I have no hesitation in speaking in
the highest terms of the value of Mr. Ronalds' labours, and in recom-

mending the institution which he so liberally superintends to the continued
protection of the Association, and to the continued liberality of the Royal

Society,

   From the facts which I have already mentioned, and from many others to

which I might have referred, the members of the Association will observe

with no common pleasure, that the Government of this country has, during

the last twenty years, been extending its patronage of science and the

arts. That this change was effected by the interference of the British Asso-

ciation, and by the writings and personal exertions of its members, could,
were it necessary, be easily proved. But though men of all shades of

political feeling have applauded the growing wisdom and liberality of the

state, and though various individuals are entitled to share in the applause,

yet there is one statesman, alas ! too early and too painfully torn from

the affections of his country, whom the science of England must ever regard
as its warmest friend and its greatest benefactor. To him we owe new

institutions for -advancing science, and new colleges for extending edu-

cation ; and had Providence permitted him to follow out, in the serene
evening of life, and in the maturity of his powerful intellect, the views

which he had cherished amid the distractions of political strife, he would

have rivalled the Colbert of another age, and would have completed that

systematic organization of science, and literature, and art, which has been

the pride and the glory of another land. These are not the words of idle

eulogy, or the expressions of a groundless expectation. Sir Robert Peel

had entertained the idea of attaching to the Royal Society a number of ac-

tive members, who should devote themselves wholly to scientific pursuits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;

and I had the satisfaction of communicating to him, through a mutual friend,

the remarkable fact, that I had found among the MSS. of Sir Isaac Newton

a written scheme of improving the Royal Society, precisely similar to that

which he contemplated. Had this idea been realized, it would have been

but the first instalment of a debt long due to science and the nation ; and it
would have fallen to the lot of some more fortunate statesman to achieve

a glorious name by its complete dischaige.

It has always been one of the leading objects of the British Association,

and it is now the only one of them which has not been wholly accompHshed,

"to obtain a more general attention to the objects of science, and a removal

of any disadvantages of a public kind which impedes its progress." Al-

though this object is not very definitely expressed, yet Mr. Harcourt, in

moving its adoption, included under it the revision of the law of patents, and

the direct national encouragement of science, two subjects to which I shall

briefly direct your attention.

   In 1831, when the Association commenced its labours, the patent laws
were a blot on the legislation of Great Britain ; and though some of their
more obnoxious provisions have since that time been modified or removed,

they are a blot still, less deep in its dye, but equally a stain upon the cha-
racter of the nation. The protection which is given by statute to every

other property in literature and the fine arts, is not accorded to property in

Ascientific inventions and discoveries.  man of genius completes an inven-

tion, and, after incurring great expense, and spending years of anxiety and

labour, he is ready to give the benefit of it to the public. Perhaps it is an

--invention to save life the life boat ; to shorten space and lengthen time

the railway ; to guide the commerce of the world through the trackless ocean
--Xl REPORT 1850.

-- the manner's compass; to extend the industry, increase the power, and fill
--the coffers of the state the steam-engine ; to civilise our species, to raise
--it from the depths of ignorance and crime to knowledge and to virtue the

printing-press. But, whatever it may be, a grateful country has granted
to the inventor the sole benefit of its use for fourteen years. That which
the statute freely gives, however, law and custom as freely take away, or
render void. Fees, varying from £200 to £500, are demanded from the

inventor ; and the gift, thus so highly estimated by the giver, bears the great
seal of England. The inventor must now describe his invention with legal

--precision. If he errs in the slightest point if his description is not sufficiently
-- --intelligible if the smallest portion of his invention has been used before or

if he has incautiously allowed his secret to be made known to two, or even

--to one individual his patent will be invaded by remorseless pirates, who

are ever on the watch for insecure inventions, and he will be driven into a
court of law, where an adverse decision will be the ruin of his family and
his fortunes. Impoverished by oflacial exactions, or ruined by legal costs,
the hapless inventor, if he escapes the asylum or the workhouse, is obliged
to seek, in some foreign land, the just reward of his industry and genius.
Should a patent escape unscathed from the fiery ordeal through which it has
to pass, it often happens that the patentee has not been remunerated during
the fourteen years of his term. In this case, the state is willing to extend
his right for five or seven years more; but he can obtain this extension only

--by the expensive and uncertain process of an act of Parliament a boon

which is seldom asked, and which, through rival influence, has often been

withheld.
    Such was the patent law twenty years ago ; but since that time it has re-

ceived some important ameliorations; and though the British Association
did not interfere as a body, yet some of its members applied energetically
on the subject to some of the more influential individuals in Lord Grey's
Government, and the result of this was, two acts of Parliament, passed in
1835 and 1839, entitled "Acts for Amending the Lavj touching Letters
Patent for Inventions." Without referring to another important act for re-
gistering designs, which had the effect of withdrawing from the grasp of
the patent laws a great number of useful inventions, dependmg principally
on form, I shall notice only the valuable provisions of the two acts above

--mentioned acts which we owe solely to the wisdom of Lord Brougham.

By the first of these acts, the patentee is permitted to disclaim any part
either of the title of his invention or of the specification of it, or to make
anv alteration on the title or specification. The same act gives the Privy
Council the power of confirming any patent, or of granting a new one, when

a patent had been taken out for an invention which the patentee believed to
be new, but which was found to have been known before, though not pub-

licly and generally used. By the same act, too, the power of extending

letters patent was taken from Parliament and given to the Privy Council,
who have, on different occasions, exercised it with judgement and discrimi-

nation. By the second act, of 1839, this last privilege was made more

attainable by the patentee. These are doubtless valuable improvements
which inventors will gratefully remember ; but till the enormous fees, which
are still exacted, are either partly or wholly abolished, and a real privilege
given under the great seal, the genius of this country will never be able to
compete with that of foreign lands, where patents are cheaply obtained and
better protected. In proof of the justness of these views, it is gratifying
to notice, that, within these few days, it has been announced in Parliament
                -- ----

                                   ADDRKSS.                                       xU

that the new Attorney-General has accepted his office on the express con-
dition that the large fees which he derives from patents shall be subject to

revision.

   The other object contcnnplated by the British Association --the organi-

--zation of science as a national institution is one of a higher order, and not

limited to individual or even to EngHsh interests. It concerns the civilised

--world : not confined to time, it concerns eternity. While the tongue of

the Almighty, as Kepler expresses it, is speakincr to us in his Word, his

finger is writing to  us  in  his  works                              and  to  acquire a knowledge of these
                                                                   ;

works is an essential portion of the great duty of man. Truth secular

cannot be separated from truth divine ; and if a priesthood has in all ages

been ordained to teach and exemplify the one, and to maintain, in ages of

darkness and corruption, the vestal fire upon the sacred altar, shall not an

intellectual priesthood be organized to develope the glorious truths which

--time and space embosom to cast the glance of reason into the dark interior
--of our globe, teeming with what was once life to make the dull eye of man

sensitive to the planet which twinkles I'rom afar, as well as to the luminary

--which shines from above and to incorporate with our inner life those won-

ders of the external world which appeal with e(]ual power to the affections

and to the reason of immortal natures? If the God of Love is most appro-

priately worshiped in the Christian Temple, the God of Nature may be

equally honoured in the Temple of science. Even from its lofty minarets the

philosopher may summon the fiiitlifu! to prayer ; and the priest and the sage

may exchange altars without the compromise of faith or of knowledge.

Influenced, no doubt, by views like these, Mr. Harcourt has cited, in

support of this object of the Association, the opinion of a philosojiher,

whose memory is dear to Scotland, and whose judgement on any great ques-

--tion will be everywhere received with respect and attention: I refer to

Professor Piayfair, the distinguished successor, in our Metropolitan Univer-

sity, of the Gregorys, the Maclaurins, and the Stewarts of former days,

who, in his able dissertation " On the Progress of the Mathematical and

Physical Sciences," thus speaks of the National Institute of France :

   " This institution has been of considerable advantage to science. To de-

tach a number of ingenious men from everything but scientific pursuits

to deliver them alike from the embarrassments of poverty or the temptations

--of wealth to give them a place and station in society the most respectable

and independent is to remove every imjiediment, and to add every stimulus to
exertion. To this institution, accordingly, operating upon a people of great

genius and indefatigable activity of mind, we are to ascribe that superiority

in the mathematical sciences which, in the last seventy years, has been so

conspicuous*."

This just eulogy on the National Institute of France, in reference to

abstract mathematics, may be safely extended to every branch of theoretical

and practical science ; and I have no hesitation in saying, after having' re-
cently seen the Academy of Sciences at its weekly labours, that it is the

noblest and most effective institution that ever was organized for the pro-
motion of science. Owing to the prevalence of scientific knowledge among

all classes of the French population, and to their admirable system of ele-

mentary instruction, the advancement of science, the dilTusion of knowledge,

and the extension of education, are objects dear to every class of the people.

--The soldier as well as the citizen the Socialist, the Republican, the Royalist

                · Encyclopaedia Britannica, Diss, 3d, sec. 5, p. 500.

1850.                                                                          e
--Xlii REPORT 1850.

--all look up to the National Institute as a mighty obelisk erected to science,

Weto be respected, and loved, and defended by all.        have seen it standing,

unshaken and active, amid all the revolutions and convulsions which have

--so long agitated that noble hut distracted country a common centre of

afiection, to which antagonist opinions, and rival interests, and dissevered

hearts, have peacefully converged. It thus becomes an institution of order,

calculated to send back to its contending friends a message of union and

peace, and to replace in stable equilibrium the tottering institutions of the

state.

    It was, doubtless, with views like these that the great Colbert established

the Academy of Sciences in Paris, and that the powerful and sagacious

monarchs on the Continent of Europe have imitated his example. They

--have established in their respective capitals similar institutions they have
--sustained them with liberal endowments they have conferred rank and

honours on their more eminent members ; and there are now in this assem-
bly distinguished foreigners who have well earned the rewards and distinc-

tions they have received. It is, therefore, Gentlemen, no extravagant opinion,

that institutions which have thus thriven in other countries should thrive in

ours-- that insulated societies, which elsewhere flourish in combination,

--should, when cc;nfined, flourish among us and that men, ordained by the

state to the undivided functions of science, should do more and better work
than those who snatch an hour or two from their daily toil, or from their

nightly rest.

In a great nation like ours, where the higher interests and objects of the

state are necessarily organized, it is a singular anomaly that the intellectual

interests of the country should, in a great measure, be left to voluntary sup-

--port and individual zeal an anomaly, that could have arisen only from

the ignorance or supineness of ever-changing administrations, and from the

intelligence and liberality of a commercial people-- an anomaly, too, that

could have been continued only by the excellence of the institutions they

had founded. In the history of no civilized people can we find private

establishments so generously tbstered, so energetically conducted, and so suc-

cessful in their objects, as the Royal Societies of London, Edinburgh, and

Dublin, and the Astronomical, Geological, Zoological, and Linnaean Societies

of the metropolis. They are institutions that do honour to the nation, and

they will ever be gratefully remembered in the history of science. But they

are nevertheless defective in their constitution, limited in their operation, and

incapable, from their very nature, of developing, and directing, and rewarding

the indigenous talent of the country. They are simply subscription socie-

ties, which pay for the publication of their own Transactions, and adjudicate

medals entrusted to them by the beneficence of others. They are not bound

to the exercise of any other function, and they are under no obligation to

do the scientific work of the state, or to promote any of those national ob-

jects which are entrusted to the organized institutions of other lands.

Their   President and Council  are  necessarily resident  in  London                                      and  the
                                                                                                       ;

talent and genius of the provinces are excluded from their administration.

From tliis remark we must except the distinguished philosophers of Cam-

bridge and Oxford, who, from their proximity to the capital, have been the

brightest ornaments of our metropolitan institutions, and without whose aid

they never could have attained their present pre-eminence.

It is, therefore, in the more remote parts of the empire that the influence

of a national institution would be more immediately felt, and nowhere more

powerfully than in this its northern portion. Our English friends are, we
ADDRESS.  xliii

believe, little aware of the obstructions which oppose the progress of science

in Scotland. In our five universities, there is not a single fellowship to stimu-

late the genius and rouse the ambition of the student. The church, the law,

and the medical profession liold out no rewards to the cultivators of mathe-

matical and physical science ; and were a youthful Newton or Laplace to

issue from any of our universities, his best friends would advise him to

renounce the divine giit, and to seek in professional toil the well-earned

competency which can alone secure him a just position in the social scale,

and an enviable felicity in the domestic circle. Did this truth require any
evidence in its support, we find it in the notorious fact, that our colleges
cannot furnish professors to fill their own important offices ; and the time is

not distant when all our chairs in mathematics, natural philosophy, and even

natural history, will be occupied by professors educated in the Enghsh uni-
versities. But were a Royal Academy or Institute, like that of France,

established on the basis of our existing institutions, and a class of resident

members enabled to devote themselves wholly to science, the youth of
Scotland would instantly start for the prize, and would speedily achieve
their full share in the liberality of the state. Our universities would then
breathe a more vital air. Our science would put forth new energies, and

our literature might rise to the high level at which it stands in our sister

land.

   But it is to the nation that the greatest advantages would accrue. With
gigantic manufacturing establishments, depending for their perfection and

--success on mechanics and chemistry with a royal and commercial marine
-- --almost covering the ocean with steam-ships on every sea with a system
--of agriculture leaning upon science as its mainstay with a net-work of

railways, demanding for their improvement, and for the safety of the tra-

--veller, and for the remuneration of their public-spirited projectors, the highest

efforts of mechanical skill the time has now arrived for summonin.of to the

--service of the state all the theoretical and practical wisdom of the country
    for rousing what is dormant, combining what is insulated, and uniting in
one great institution the living talent which is in active but undirected and
unbefriended exercise around us.

    In thus pleading for the most important of the objects of the British As-

sociation, I feel that I am not pleading for a cause that is hopeless. The
change has not only commenced, but has made considerable progress. Our

scientific institutions have already, to a certain extent, become national ones.
Apartments belonging to the nation have been liberally granted to them.
Royal medals have been founded, and large sums from the public purse de-

voted to the objects which they contemplate. The Museum of (Economic

Geology, indeed, is itself a complete section of a Royal Institute, oivinCT a

scientific position to six eminent philosophers, all of whom are distinouished

--members of the British Association: and in every branch of science and

literature, the liberality of the Crown has been extended to numerous indi-
viduals, whose names would have been enrolled among the members of a
National Institution. The cause, therefore, is so far advanced ; and every
act of liberality to eminent men, and every grant of money for scientific
and literary pinposes, is a distinct step towards its triumph. Our private
institutions have in reality assumed the transition phase, and it requires only
an electric spark from some sagacious and patriotic statesman to combine in
one noble phalanx the scattered elements of our intellectual greatness, and
guide to lofty achievements and glorious triumphs, the talent and genius of

the nation.
xliv REPOET-- 1850.

But when such an institution has heen completed, the duties of the state

to science are not exhausted. It has appreciated knowledge but in its

abstract and utilitarian phase. For the peace and happine.ss of society, it

would be of little avail were the great truths of the material world confined

to the educated and the wise. The organization of science, thus limited,

would cease to be a blessing. Knowledge, secular and divine, the double

current of the intellectual life-blood of man, must not merely descend

through the great arteries of the social frame : it must be taken up by the

minutest capillaries before it can nourisli and purify society. Knowledge
is at once the manna and the medicine of our moral being. When crime is
the bane, knowledge is the antidote. Society may escape from the pesti-
lence, and survive the famine ; but the demon of ignorance, with his grim

adjutants of vice and riot, will pursue her into her most peaceful haunts,

destroying her institutions, and converting into a wilderness the paradise of

social and domestic liie. The state has, therefore, a solemn duly to per-

form. As it punishes crime, it is bomid to devise means for its prevention.

As it subjects us to laws, it must teaci) us to                                     read  them                       and while it thus
                                                                                                                  ;

teaches, it must teach also the ennobling truths which display the power

--and the wisdom of the great Lawgiver thus diffusing knowledge while it

is extending education, and thus making liien contented, and happy, and

humble, while it makes them quiet and obedient subjects.

It is a great problem yet to be solved, to determine what will be the state

of society when man's physical powers are highly exalted, and his physical

condition highly ameliorated, without any corresponding change in his

moral liabits and position. There is much reason to fear that every great

advance in material civilization requires some moral and compensatory an-

tagonism                                    but  however  this may  be,  the  very  indeterminate                    character  of the
                                         ;

problem is a warning to the rulers of nations to prepare for the contingency

by a system of national instruction, wliicii shall either reconcile or disregard

those hostile influences under which the people are now perishing for lack

of knowledge.
              REPORTS

        THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

        Mrst Report on the Facts of Em'thquake Phenomena.

                 By Robert Mallet, C.E., M.R.I.A.

.Those striking phsenomena of nature which are of comparatively rare and

uncertain occurrence, have ever been the longest held bound in the darkness

of superstition, the last to receive the light of truthful investigation.

In following down the long'^age of man's discovery of nature, we shall see

that it is only in its latest lines that storms and tempests, hail and lightning,

comets, meteors, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, have been emancipated

from the superstition (not confined alone to the vulgar) which viewed them

not as occasional manifestations of the laws of one Creator, always acting

and always fit and worthy of our highest efforts to discover and elucidate,

but as the peculiar weapons given into the hands, and subject alone to the

depraved and capricious wills of the powers of evil, by whose malignant aid

the witch or the sorcerer should ride the tempest or blast the crop, the

nations be stirred up to war, the fall of the great ones of the earth be por-

tended, or monarchs perplexed with fear of change.

"WeThus, says Butler, in his 'Analogy of Religion,' cap. iv.,  know, in-

deed, several of the general laws of matter, and a great part of the behaviour
of living agents is reducible to general laws, but we know nothing, in a man-

ner, by what laws storms and tempests, earthquakes, famine and pestilence
become the instruments of destruction to mankind. - - - These laws are so
wholly unknown to us, that we call the events which come to pass by them
accidental - - though all reasonable men - - conclude that the things which

have this appearance are the result of general laws, and may be reduced to

them."

   Long since the comet has ceased to be a portent, and its recurrent period
may be predicted. The lightning flash has been identified with and con-

trolled into the electric carrier of our mandates, and we have begun to com-

prehend the chain of causation concerned in tempests, tornadoes and hail-

storms. Last of all, the earthquake is but just emerging from the gloom of

vulgar superstition and learned neglect into the light of physical truth, and

is about to take its place as one of the phaenomena of acknowledged cosmical

laws, whose conditions shall be capable of complete interpretation, although

perhaps from the number of these (as is the case throughout geology) we may

be for ever incompetent to predict the occurrence of the phaenomenon.

Such having been the past state of human knowledge as to earthquakes,

an extensive research into the narratives and histories of these events soon

convinces one, that in the absence on the part of past authors of any true

1850.                                                          B
--2 REPORT 1850.

guiding hypothesis, of any distinct idea of what an earthquake really is, of
any notion of what facts might have been of scientific importance to observe,
and what were merely highly striking or alarming, but only secondary ac-
cidental circumstances due to changes of surface, or the complication (never
attempted to be disentangled) of all these with the facts of closely adjacent

--volcanic eruption, in the want of all these, as well as of any calmness or

unexaggerative observation during such alarming visitations, few facts of the
character and precision requisite to render them of value to science can be col-
lected with certainty. The true observation of earthquake phaenomena is
yet to be commenced and the required facts are to be collected, the most im-
portant of them by methods not dreamed of until very recently.

    In collating the multitudinous and vague accounts of earthquakes, there-
fore, I have been compelled to reject vast numbers of statements, either for
want of the necessary conditions to scientific value, or of suflicient authen-

ticity (as when given, not as an eye-witness, but upon common hearsay by
the narrator), or of the facts given having any real bearing upon the scien-

tific question.

    The staple of earthquake stories, in fact, consists of gossip made up of the
most unusual, violent or odd accidents that befel men, animals or structures,
rather than of the phaenomenon itself. Very few of these narratives state
even the precise direction or duration of the shock, and the chief value of a
 complete discussed catalogue of earthquakes, from such accounts as we have,
 would be to present some indications as to the nature of their diffusion over the
 earth's surface, and of their distribution in time ; such catalogues have been
prepared for limited districts by M. Perrey, by Von Hoff", and by some few
 others, and a much more extensive one will form a future part of this Report.

     In the succeeding Report, I have not thought it necessary to refer to author-
 ities except in cases of rarely noticed and important facts ; in other instances
 the references might be innumerable.

    As it is impossible to observe facts to any good purpose, so is it equally
 impracticable to select them from the records of others for any useful scien-
 tific end vvitliout some guiding hypothesis ; in this respect I have been guided
 by that theory of earthquake dynamics, which I have enunciated*, and which
 defines an earthquake to be " the transit of a wave of elastic compression in
 any direction from vertically upwards to horizontally in any azimuth, through
 the surface and crust of the earth from any centre of impulse, or from more
 than one, and which may be attended vi ith tidal and sound waves dependent
 upon the impulse, and upon circumstances of position as to sea and land."

    It is unnecessary, I would hope, for me to add, that I have not selected the

 following facts to suit any theory, but have impartially taken note of all that
 I could find that appeared of importance to science, whether at first sight

 making for or against my own views. Let me add, that in this course of ex-

 tensive research through earthquake narrations, I have not met with a

single fact recorded that was not resoluble upon my theory, or equally irre-

 soluble upon any, and of doubtful credence.
    Before proceeding it may be desirable to take a very brief survey of the

 several other theories (if such they may be called) which have been at dif-

 ferent times promulgated, in a word, of the literature generally of earth-

 quakes, omitting those views now palpably absurd, such as the ancient Mon-
 golian and Hindoo notion, that the earth rests upon a huge frog, which, when

 he scratches his head, produces an earthquake, &c.

    As the best and most rapid mode of doing this, I shall give in the order of
 time, and as nearly as possible in each author's own words, the peculiar

                                          * Trans. Roy. Irish Acad. vol. xxi. part 1.
--

ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHiENOMENA.                                             3

views and statements made by the successive writers upon our subject,
making few remarks bj' the way. I have deemed it worth while to transcribe
Aristotle and Pliny's statements of the facts of earthquakes as observed in
and before their days, more fully than perhaps some may think their views
deserve; this however I have done, because it is not unimportant to compare
now, the observations as to fact of those confessedly accurate observers, in
very ancient periods, with our own latest ones, upon phoenomena presumedly,
and as proved to be by the comparison, the same.

   I omit the earliest Greek notices of earthquakes, and take the matter up
with Aristotle, through whose works, and even those portions usually sup-

posed spurious, as the book " De Plantis," many passages occur touching

upon our subject. His main views, however, are contained in the following

extracts :

" Tiepl Be aeia-fiov koX Ktvriaeui<i jrj'i fiera ravra XeKTeov r) yap alria

rod Trddov; i^o/Mevr) tovtov tov yevov; icrTLV. "Eari Se rd ye Trapei-

\7)f/,fieva fJ'e')(pt tov vvv ')(p6vov rpia koI irapd Tpicov. Ava^ay6pa<; re
yap 6 KXa^o/xevio^ koI irporepo'i ^Ava^i/J.evr)<; 6 MtA.?;<ri09 dire^rjvavTO,

KoX TOVToav varepo^ Ar]fi6Kpi,T0<i 6 ^A^Sr}pLTr]<;. ^Ava^ay6pa<i fiev ovv

(f>r)al TOV aldepa Tre^VKOTa ^epeaOau dvco, e/jUTTLTTTOVTa B eh to, /caTco
TTJ'i 7^9 Kal TO, KoTka Kivelv avTrjV to, [juev yap dvco avvaXrjXicjidat Sid
TOv<; ofji^povi, iirel ipvaei ye irdaav 6fMoi(o<; elvai a-ojx^rjv, co? ovto? tov

fiev dv(o TOV Be /caT&) Trj<; oX.??? a(f>aipa^, koI dvco p^ev tovtov ovto? tov

fiopiov icf)' ov Tvy')(dvop,ev oi/covvTe'i, KdTCo Be OaTcpov. ITpo? p,ev ovv

TavT7]v Trjv ahiav ovdev taco<; Bet \eyeiv ws \iav aTrXw? elprjp^evrjv to

T6 yap dvco Ka\ KaTco vop^i^euv ovtco<; e^eiv wcrre /xrj ttjOO? ttjv yrjv irdvrrj

<f>epe(Tdai tu ^dpo^ e^ovra tSw acop^aTcov, dvco Be ra Kov^a Kat, to Trvp,

vr}0e<i, Kal ravd' 6pcavTa<i tov opi^ovTa ttjv olKOvp^evrjv, octtjv rip,ei<;

icrp,ev, erepov del yi,yv6fievov p,eOiaTap,evcov, &)? ovar]<; KvpTr]<; Kal acf)ai-

poetBotx;' Kal to Xeyetv fiev &>? Bid to p,eyedo<; eirl tov depo<i p,evec,

aia$ai Be cpdaKeiv TVVTop,ev'r}V KaTcodev dvco Bl oX,?^?. IIpo? Be rov-

roif ovdev diroBiBcocn tcov avfi^acvovTcov irepl tov? creiapovi' ome ydp

')(5spab ovre wpai ai Tvyovcrai, fieTe')(^ovai tovtov tov irddovi. A7)p,6-

KpiTO<} Be (f)r)at ifkripr) rrjv yrjv vBaTO<; ovaav, Kal ttoXv Be-^o/xevrjv erepov

ofi/3piov vBcop, viro TOVTOV Ktvelcrdai,' TrAe/ovo? re ydp yevofievov Bid to

fiT] Bvvacrdat Be^ea-Qai Ta? Koi\La<; d7ro^ta^6/j,evov iroielv tov aeicrpboVi

Kal ^paivofjbevrjv Kal eXKovcrav el<} tou? Kevov<; tottou? e'/c tcov TrXrjpe-

trrepcov to pbera^dWov epjiriiTTOv Kivelv. 'Ava^t/ji,ev7]<; Be c^rjat, /Spe^^o-

fjbivtjv Tr)v yqv Kal ^rjpatvofjievTjv prjyvvcrOaL, Kal inro tovtcov tcov d-rrop-

prjyvvfxevcov koXcovcov ip^TniTTOVTCov crelecrOaL' Bio Kal yiyvecjQat toj)?

aeicTp,ov<i ev re TOt? av'yjjiol<; Kal rrrdXiv eV Tat? vtrepop.^piai'i' ev re ydp

Tot? au^/iot9, wcnrep eiprjrai, ^7)paivop,iv'r)V prjyvvcrdai, Kal vtto twv

vBdrcov virepvypaivofjievTjv BiaTTiTTTeiv. "EBei Be tovtov avfju^alvovro^

VTrovocnovcrav TroXXaT^ou c^alvecxOai ttjv yrjv. "En Be Bid tIv aiTiav

irepl Toirovi Tivd<i ttoXXAki^; yiverai tovto to ttcWo^ ovBefiia Biacpe-

povTa<i virep^oXfi Toiavry Trapd tou? dX}\.ov<; ; KaiToi i'^prjv, "OX&j? Be

rot? ouTO)? vTToXa/x/Bdvovcriv dvayKalov tJttov del tou? aeia/j,ov<; cpdvac

yiyvecrdai, Kal TiXo<; iravaacrOai irore aeiofj.evrjv to ydp aaTTOfievov

TOiauTijv 'e')(et cpvaiv. "Q,aT el tovt dBvvaTOV, BrjXov oti dBuvarov Kal

TavTrjv elvai rfjv alriav.

                            b2
--4 REPORT 1850.

*' 'AXX' iireiBr) (ftavepav on, dvayKu^ov Kol airb vypov koI utto ^rjpov

yiryv(T6ai avaOvfMiaaiv, wairep etTro/Ltev iv roi? Trporepov, avdyKij rov-

Tcov v'irap')(0VT(t)v yijveadat toli? a-ei<Tfiov<;. "T7rdp')(^6t jdp rj 777 kuO

avTr]v fxev ^r)pd, Bui 8e tov<; 6/j,/3pov<; e')(ovaa iv avrf} voriSa TroWrjv,

b>aO VTTO T Tov TjXiov KOL Tov v avTrj TTfpo? dep/xaivofx,ev'rj<; TToXu fiev

e^(o TToXi) 8' ivToii jivea-dac to Trvevfia' Kal rovro ore fxev cruveve? e^o)

pel irdv, ore S' eXaw Trdv, eviore 8e Kal fiepi^erai,. Et Si] tout dBuva-

rov aXXu><; e^etv, to /xeTci tovto aKeTrreov av etrj ottolov KcvrjTiKcoTaTov

dv elrj Twv aoofjudrcov dvdyKr] yap to eVt TrKelcrTov re 7r^VKb<i levai koI

acpoSpoTaTov /xaXicna toiovtov elvai, ^(fioBporarov /xev ovv e^ dvdyKr)<!

TO Ta^tcTTa (pepo/jbevov Tvirret, yap /xaXia-ra Bid to Ta^09" eVl TrXelarov

Be Tre^vKe Buevat to Bid TravTo? levai p-dXiaTa Bvvdp,vov, toiovtov Bk

TO XeTTToiaTOv. "£laT elirep -rj tov 7rve6/jiaTO<; ^ucrt9 ToiavTT], fidXiaTa

TMV aco/xaTwv to irvevfJia kivtjtikov' Kal yap to irvp OTav fieTa irvev-

/AaTO? yuyv6Tai <pX6^ Kal (pepeTai Tapj^ew?. Ovk dv ovv vBcop ovB^
                    fj,

yrj a'lTiov eir), dXXd 'Kvevfia tt)? Kivrjaewi, OTav eaco tu^t; pvev to e^o)

dva6vfj,id)/Mvov. Aio yiryvovTai vrjve/jiia 01 TrXeiaToi Kal fjieyicrToi twv

aeiafjLwV cruve;^^? yap ova-a r) dvadv/j,iaai<i dKoXovOei a)? eVt to ttoXv

ToTrj op/iir] T»7? dp')(ri<i, w(TTe r) ecxo d/xa tj e^co op/xa Trdcra.  S" e'vioi/y

yivecrdai Kal 'rrvev/xaTO<; ovto? ovBev dXoyov opwfjiev yap ivloTe dfia

nrXeiovi 7rveovTa<; dvefxov;, mv OTav et? t^v yrjv opfirjar) ddTepov, ecrrai

7rvevfxaT0<; ovto? o (Tei(rfji6<;. 'EXaTTOu? B' ovtoi to /xeyeOoi; yiyvovTai
Bid TO Birjprjadai ttjv dp')(r]v Kal Tr]v aiTiav avTotv. Kat vuacto? 8' oi

TrXeiov; Kal fiei^ov; yiyvovTai twv aeitTfjiSiv, oi Be tj}? r]fjiepa<i irepl /xe-

(77)fi^p Lav' vrjve/iKOTaTov yap eaTiv o)? eVt to ttoXv t?}? r)fiepa<i V fie-
atjfi^pia (o yap tjXio'i OTav /xdXicTTa KpaT-^, KaTaKXelei ttjv dvadv/xiaaiv

et? Trjv yrjV KpaTel Be fxdXicrTa Trepl TrjV /xecrrj/x^piav) Kal ai vu/CTe? Bh

TMV rj/xepcov vrjve/xcoTepai Bid tt]v dirovaiav ttjv tov rjXiov mctt et(Tco

7t7veTat TrdXiv r) pvai<?, (ocxirep dfxTTCOTi<i, et? TovvavTiov t^? e^wdev

TrXTjfi/xvpiBo'y, Kai Trpo? opdpov /jidXiaTa' TrjviKavTa yap Kal Ta Trvey-

fiaTa Tricj^vKev dpj(ea6ai irvelv. 'Eav ovv etam TV')(rj fxeTa/SdXXovaa r)

dp')(r] avTwv oyaTrep EuptTTO?, Bid to 7r\?'}^o? Icr-^vpoTepov iroiel tov

aeKTjxov. "Eti Be irepl tottou? TotouTOU? ol lO'j^ypoTaToi yivovTai tmv

ddXaaaacreicTfXMV, oirov 17  pocoBrj<; rj rj ')((opa (T0fX(f)r} Kal v7ravTpo<;. Aib

Kal rrepl 'EWj/o^ttovtov Kal irepl 'A^aiav Kal ^iKeXiav, Kal Tr/? Eu-

l3oia<i Trepl tovtov; tou? tottou?' Bokci yap BiavXcovi^eiv vtro Trjv yrjv 17
ddXaTTa. Ato Kal Ta depfxd Ta irepl AiBe-^ov dirb ToiavTr)<; atrta?

yeyovev. Hepl Be tow? eipT]p,vov<i tottou? ol a-eia-fxol yivovTai fidXiaTa

Bid TTJV (TTevoTTjTa' TO ydp irvevfia yevofievov acpoBpbv Bid to irXrjdoii

Trj<; daXdTTr}<i ttoAX?}? '7rpoa(f)epo/xevri<; diroydeiTai irdXiv et? Trjv yrjV, to

ye Tre^f/co? diroirvelv diro Ti]<; 77}?. At' Te %wpat ocrai <70fi<f)ov<i e-^^ovat
Tou? KaTft) TOTTOi;?, TToXv Be')(pfjievai irvev/xa creiovTai /xaXXov. Kal

apo<; Be Kal /xeTOTrcopov /xdXiaTa Kal ev e7rofM^piai<; Kal av')(jJiol<; yivov-

Tai Bid TTjv avTrjv aiTiav at ydp wpai avTai irvev/xaTcoBea-TaTai' to ydp

6epo<; Kal 6 'yeifioiv, to /xev Bid tov irdyov, to Be Bid Tr)v dXeav iroiel

TTjv dKivrjcTiav' to /xev ydp dyav ·>^v')(p6v, to 8' dyav ^rjpov ecrTiv. Kai

ev /i.ev Tot? av')^jxoi<i Trveu/xaTw^?/? 6 dr^p' tovto ydp avTo eaTiv 6

av')(jjio<;, OTav irXeicov r) dva6vp,iaai<; t) ^rjpd yiyvrjTai Trj<; vypd<;' ev Be

Tat? V7rpo/ji/3piai<i TrXetw Te Trotet t^v e'vTo? dvaOv/xiaaiv, Kal tw iv-
ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.                5

aTToXafi^dvea-Oat iv (XTevcoTepoi<i roTrot? koI aTro/Sid^eadat et? eXdrTO)

Toirov T^v ToiavTtjv diroKpicnv, Tr\r)povfj,evoov tcov KotXicov vSaro^, orav

dp^r)Tai, Kparelv Bid to ttoXv ei? oXcyov 7n\r]07]vai tottov, lcr')(ypu)<i Kivel

onpi(ov 6 dve/xo^ Kal irpoairiTTTOiv. Ael yap voelv  axT'jrep iv tw> aco/xaTi

·fjfiwv Kal Tp6fJ,(ov Kal a^vyfimv aiTLOv qotiv r) rov TrvevfiaTO^ evairo-

Xafjb^avoixevT) Svva/u^is, ovtco Kal iv rfj yfj to irvevfia irapaTrXijaia TTOtetv,
Kal Tov fiev TCOV aetcrficov olov Tpo/uuov eivai rov 8 olov a(f)vyfj,6v, Kal Ka-

ddirep avfi^aivec TToXAa/ct? fierd rrjv ovprjauv Zid rov aco/j,aro<; {ylverat

yap axTTrep rpo/xo'i Tt? dvrifMeOiarafievov rov '7Tvev/u,aro<i e^codev earn

ddpoov), roLavra yiveaOai, Kal rrepl rr]v yrjv. "Oar]v S' ep^et to rrvevfia

Bvvafiiv, ov fiovov e« rutv ev ra> dipt hel dewpelv yLyvoyuivwv [ivravda

fjuev yap Bid to fieyeOo'i v7roXd/3oi Ti? dv roiavra Bvvacrdai rroieiv) dXkd

Kal iv T0t9 crcofiacn Tot? rwv ^a)cov' oi re. yap rkravoi Kal oi aTraa/xol

TTveu/^aTO? fiiv elai Kivrjcrei^, roaavrriv S' e^ovaiv la')(pv ware 7roXKov<i

afia ireipcofjuevovi drrol^id^eadai /mtj Bvvaadai Kparelv t^9 Kivi]aeai^ rwv

appwarovvrcov. To auTO Bel voelv yivofievov Kal iv ry yfj, d)<i eiKdaat

TT/ao? fxiKpov fjiel^ov. 'Z'rjp-ela Be rovrcov Kal 7rpo<i rr}v rj/xerepav atadr^cTiv

iTo\ka')(ov yeyovev ijBr] yap aei(r/j,6<; iv tottoi? rial yivofievo^ ov irpo-

Tepov e\7]^e, rrplv iKpj'j^a'i ei<; rov iiirep 797? roirov ^avepai<; warrep iK-

ye^la<i i^ijXdev 6 Kivijaa'i dve/xo<;, olov Kal rrepl 'Hpa/cXetav iyevero rrjv

ev Tw Tiovra vewarl, Kal irporepov rrepl rrjv 'lepdv vrjaov' avrrj S" iarl

fiia TCOV AioXov Ka\ovfj,evcov vqawv. 'Ev ravrr) ydp i^ava>Bei ti t^?

7^?, Kal dv^ei oXov Xo(jicoB7j<i 07/C09 p,erd yfrocpov Te'Xo? Be payevro^

i^rj\6e TTvevfia troKv, Kal rov <^e-^aXov Kav rr]v re(l>pav dvfJKe, Kal rrjv

T Anrapaicov 7r6X.1v ovaav ov Troppco rrdaav Karerecjipcoae, Kal et? eVi'a?

TCOV eV IraXia TroXewv rfkOev Kal vvv en orrov ro dvacjiuarj/xa rovro

iyevero, BrjXov iariv. Kat ydp Br) rod yiyvofievov Trvpo<; iv rfj yy rav-

r'Tjv oirjreov elvai ryv airlav, orav KOTrrofxevov iKTrpyaOfj rrpwrov et?

fiiKpd Kepfianadevro^ rov depo<i. TeKp,y]piov B' iarl rov pelv vivo ryv

yrjv rd irvevfiara Kal ro yiyvo/xevov rrepl ravraf Ta? v^aovi' orav ydp

avefio<; fMeXXy Trvevaeladai v6ro<i, irpotrrjfJiaLvei irporepov y-^ovai ydp oi

TOTTOi i^ &v yiverai rd dva(f}vai']p,ara, Bid ro ryv ddXarrav piev rrpoco-

deladai i^By iroppwOev, viro Be ravrrj<; ro iK t^9 7^9 dvacfivaoy/jievov
dircadeladai irdXiv eiaco, yirep iirepyerai y ddXarra ravrr). Tloiel Be

y^o^ov avev aeiafMov Bid re rrjv evpv')(wpiav rcov tottcov [vTrep'X^elrai ydp

elf ro aT^ave9 e^co) Kal Bi 6Xoy6rr]ra rov d7rco6ov/j,evov depo'i. "Etj to

yir^veadai rov ijXiov d'^XvcoXr] Kal dfjiavporepov dvev v<pov'i, Kal irpo

TCOV 6p6picov aeiafKOV iviore vyvepbiav re Kal Kpvo<; ia)(yp6v, ay/jielov tj}?

eipr]p,evrj<i alrias ianv. Tov Te ydp ifXiov d')(Xvd>B7} Kal dfiavpbv dvay-

Kalov elvai, inrovoarelv dp-)(pp,evov rov Trvevfiaro'i et9 t^v yrjv, rov Bia-

XvovTos rov depa Kal BiaKpivovrof,Kal 7rpo<; ryv eo),Kal rrepl rov<i opdpovi,

vyvefiiav re Kal '\|ru^09. T^v jjiev ydp vyvefiiav dvayKalov 0)9 eVt to ttoXu

avfji^aiveiv, KaOdirep eipyrai Kal irporepov, olov p,erappoia<i e'iaco yivo-

/iev^9 ToO 7rveu^aT09' Kal fidXXov irpo tcov fMei^ovcov aeiafxwv fxi] Biaairco-

fievov ydp ro fj,ev e^(o, ro 8' ivro'i, dXX' ddpoov <pep6fj,evov dvayKalov
ia')(yeiv p,dXXov. To Be (^V')(pf avfj,/3aivei Bid ro rrjv dvadvfMiaaiv eiaco

irepirpiireadai, ^vaei depp-yv ovaav KaO' avryjv. Ov BoKovai S' oldve/jioi

eivai depfiol Bid ro Kivelv rov depa irXyprj ^frv^pd<; ovra Kai iroXXi]^

dr/MiBoff (oairep ro irvevfia to Bid rov arofjiarof (^vacofievov. Kat ydp
--6 REPORT 1850.

aWaTovTO iyyvdev /j.ev eVrt Oepfjuov, wcrirep Kol orav ad^cofieV        Bi

oXiyoTi^ra ovk 6/j,oio}<; eTrlSrjXov. YloppwOev hk '^v')(^pov, Sta rrjv avrrjv

atriav rot? avifio(,<i. ^FjTnXeiTrovarj'i ovv ei9 rr/v 7?)v t»}? T0iavT7]<i hv-

vd/j,e(a<;, avviovaa 8id vypoTijTa rj aT/xtScoS?;? diToppor) rroiei to -^^vj^o^,

amoviv 019 crv/x/3aLV6L T07roi<? ylveadai rovro to Tra^o?' to S' a^iTO  «at

Tou elcoOoTO^ ivlore yuyveaOat a-r]/j,iov irpo rcov aeKT/jL&v rj yap fieO^

rjfiepav, >) fjiiKpbv fierd 8vafjbd<;, al6pia<; ova7]<;, ve^eXiov Xctttov ^alveTai

BiaTelvov, Kol p^aKpbv, olov ypa/ji/juri<; /iijAro? evdvrrjTi BtrjKpt^ay/Mevov, tov

Trvey/ittTO? ci7ro/j,apaivofMevou Bid rvv fjuerdaracriv. To 8' ojjloiov (tv/m-

^aivet Koi iv rfj OaXdrTrj Trepl tou? alyiaXoix;' orav p,ev yap KVfxaivovaa

eK/SdWr), a(f}6Bpa Tra^etat kuI aKoXial ylvovrai al pr)yfjiive<;' orav Be

yaXijvr) Bid to /j.ucpdv iroieiaOai rijv eKKpiaiv Xcmal elat Kal evdeiai,
                          f),

"Oirep ovv rj OdXarra iroiei irepl rrjv yi)v, tovto to Trvevfia irepl rrjv iv

Tw depi a^Xuv, wcr^' orav yevrjTai vTjve/aia, TrdfiTrav evdelav icai XeTTTrjv

KaTaXehreadai, wairep p7]y/j,iva ovaav depo<; rr)v ve^iXrjv. Atd TavTa

Be Kal Trepl Ta? e«;A.ei'\j!ret? ivioTe tj'}? creX-)]V'r]<; avfji^alvei ylyveadai aeia-

jxov' OTav yap 7]Br) ttXtjo-iov rj dvTi(j)pa^i^, Kal /lli^ttco fiev r/ TrdfJbTrav
                                                                                                  f)

diroXeXoiiro'i to 0&)9, Kal to diro tov ifKiov depfiov iK tov depo<;, tjBtj S'

aTTOfiapaivofjievov, V7]vep,ia yiverai, avrifiediaTafxevov tov irvev/xaTO^ ei?

t^v yr/v, TToiel tov (xeiapiov irpo rwv iKXeiy^recov. TivovTUi yap Kal

dve/xoi irpo twv iKXei-\fr6cov iroXXdKi'i, dKp6vv')(pi fjuev Trpb tmv fieaovvK-

TLiov iKXeiyjrecov, fieaovvKTioi Be Trpb twv ewcov. ^vfi^aivei Be tovto,

Bid TO d/xavpovaOai to Oepfxbv rb avro t?)? o-eX,7;v^9, otuv TrXrjaiov t^Bt]

w wyiyvrjrai rj cfjopd iv yevopbevwv earai rj eKXeiyfri';. ^Aviefi,evov ovv

/caT6i^T0 6 drjp Kal r/pep^ei, TrdXiv KiveiTai Kal yiyverai Trvev/jia t^?

eKXel^jreo}'; TrpcoiaiTepov. "Orav S' tVp^upo? yevrjTai a-eiafib<;, ovk evOv'i,

ovS" elaaTra^ TraveTai aeiaa^, dXXd to irpcoTov fiev f^e'^pt Trepl TCTTa-

pdKOVTa TTpoeiai TroXXdKi<; rj/j,epa^, varepov Be Kal icj) ev, Kal eTrt Bvo

Amoverr} iTriar)fxaLvei Kard Tov<i avTOv<; tottou?.  Be tov //.ev /u,eyedov<;

TO TrXrj$0'i TOV Trvev/xaT0<;, Kal twv tottcov rd <7^7;/LiaTa Bi wv dv pvfj'
fi ydp dv avTirvTrrjar), Kal f^r) paBico^ BieXOr], p^dXicTTa Te aeiet, Kal
iyKaTaXeiTreadai dvayKaiov iv Tal<; eva^copiai<;, olov vBcop ov Bvvdfievov

Bie^eX6elv. Aib KadaTrep iv o-co/xari o'l a^vy/xol ovk i^aicpviri TravovTai,

ovBe Ta')(ea><;, aXX' e'/c TrpocTaywyri<i d/j,a KUTafMapaivofMevov tov Trd6ov<;,

Kal r) dp'^r) dcjy "^9 rj dvadvfji,iaa-i<i iyeveTo, Kal 77 opfir) tov Trvevfj,aT0<y

BrjXov oTi OVK ev6v'; aTraaav dvdXcoae ti]v vXrjv, i^ ^^ iTroirjae tov

dvefjbov, ov KaXovfjiev aeiap^bv. "Ea)9 dv ovv dvaXtoOfj rd vTzbXoiTra

TovTwv, drdyKT) aeieiv' '^pe/xaiTepov Be Kal fjie-)(^pi tovtov, ecof dv eXaTTOv

rj TO dvadvjjbico/jievov, rj ware Bvvaadai Kivetv e7rt8r?A.ct)9. JJoiei Be Kal

Toix; yjrocfiov'; tov<; vtto Tifv yrjv yivop,evov<i to Trvevfjia, Kal tov? Trpb twv

aeiapiMV. Ka.t dvev Be aeicr/jiMV, r^Brj ttov ye^ovaciv vtto yrjv Mcnrep

ydp Kal paTTi^o/tievo? 6 arjp TravToBaTTOv^ d^irjae \lro^ov<;, ovTca Kal

TVTTTcov avT6<i' ovdev ydp Bia^epei' to ydp tvtttov afxa Kai avTo tvtt-

TeTai Trdv. ITpoepT^eTat 8' 6 \{r6(l>o<; t')J<; Ktvijcye(o<; Bid to XeTTTO/nepea-
repov elvat, Kal fidXXov Bid TravTO'i levat tov TrvVfu,aTO<; tov "^ocpov.

"Orav S" 'iXarrov 97 rj ware Kivrjaai rrjv yrjv Bia XeTTTOTrjTa, Bid fiev to

paBico<; BirjOelaOai ov Bvvarai Kivelv Bid Be to TrpoaTriTrreiv dTepeol^

oyKois Kal KoiXoi<; Kal TravTo8aTroi<; (T')(fjfjbaai, TravTo8aTrd<; d<f>iricr

^ft)va9" wctt' ivioTe BoKelv, oVep Xeyovaiv oi TepaToXoyovvTe<i, fiVKaadao
.

   ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.                               7

TTjv yrjv. "HSt) Se koX vSara aveppdyr] yir/vofievcov aeoarficov' aX)C ov

aXVoia TOVTO aiTtov to vSoyp t/)? Kivrjaem'i,  av y e'^ iimroKr]'; t]

Karmdev ^cd^rjrai to Trvevfia, iicelvo to klvovv iarlv, wairep rS>v

KVfiaTtov 01 ave/j,oi, a\X' ou rd Kv/juara twv dvi/xcov icniv atria' eVet

Kal rrfv yrjv outw? dv ti<; alrtwro tov irdOov;' dvarpeveTat yap a-eco/iievT),
aWKavdirep vScop (77 yap eKvyai^; avdrpe'^L^) rt^ eaTiv)'
                                                                       alna ravra

aXVfiev dfiipw ft)? vXt] (Trda-)^ei yap,  ov iroiel)' to Se Trvev/iia to? dp'X^i]'

OTTOV 8' dfia KVfjba aeiafim yeyovev, acrcov, orav ivavria yiyvrjTai, rd

TTvevfiara. Touto 8e yiyverai, orav to cretoi/ rT]v yrjv 7rvev/j,a (f)epo-

dWovfjtevqv VTT  Trvevfiaro'i rfjv 6d\acra-r)v, aTTwaai, fiev oXcd? fit)

Svv7}rar irpowOovv 8e Kal a-varreWov eh ravrov avvadpoCa-rj TToXKrjv'

Tore ydp dvayKalov r^rrrjOevro'i rovrov rov 7rvvp^aro<; ddpoav d)dov/j,evr]V

viro rov ivavriov 7rvev/iaro<; i/cprjyvvaOai Kal rroielv rov KaraKXvcrfiov.

'Kyivero Be rovro Kal rrepl A.')(aLav e^co fiev ydp rjv p-oto?, e'/ce? Se

/Sopiaf. Ni^ve/Ata? Be yevofievTj^, Kal pvevro^ etaw rov dve/xov, iyevero

to, re Kvfjua Kal 6 aeia-fib'i dfia' Kal /j,dWov Bid ro rrjv 6d\arrav firj

rwSiBovai Biairvoijv  vrro rr)v yrjv Q}p/j,T]/j,iva) rrvevixari, aXX,  avrij>pdrreiv.

^Airo^ia^ofjieva ydp dWrfXa, to fiev rrvevfjia rov creiafiov eiroirjcrev, rj
Be viroaracnii rov KVfiaro<i rov KaraxXvar/xov. KaTa fj,po<i Be yiyvovrai

01 aeia-fjiol t^? yrj<;, Kal TroWaKi^ eirl fiiKpov roirov oi S' dvefioi ov

Kard fiepo<;. K.ard fiepo<i fiev, orav at dvaOvfiida-ei^ ai Kara rov

roTTov avrbv Kal rov yeirvicovra avveXdcocriv eh ev' (ocnrep Kai rovt

avjQioix; e<f>afj,ev ylyvecrOai, Kal rd<i u7re/30/x/3pta? rd<; Kard /Mepo<}. Kal

Kol fiev (xeicTfiol yiyvovrai Bid rovrov rov rpoirov ol avefioi, ov. Ta

fiev ydp ev r^ yfj rrjv dp')(r]v e')(ei, wcrr e^' ev aTrao-a? opfidv 6 S' rjXio'i
ovy ofioiaf Bvvarar rd<; Be fierecopov; fidWov, ware pelv, orav ap^^rjv

Xa^Qxriv diro rfj^ rov rfkiov <f)opd^ rfBrj Kara rd<; Bia^opa<; rwv tottcuv,

i(f) ev. "Orav fiev ovv y rroXv to rrvevfia, Kivei rr)v yrjv, wairep dv 6
Tp6fio<}, cttI ifKdro'i fiev, yiyverai S" oktyaKif Kal Kara riva<; tottou?,

olov 6 (r<l)vyfid<i, dvco Kal Karadev' Bib Kal eXarrovdKi<; creiet rovrov rov
rpoTTOV ov ydp paBiov ovrco iroXKrjv crvveXdeiv apx^jV eirl firJK0<i yap

iroWarrXaaia rfj<; drrb rov ^ddovf, r) BiaKpicri^. "Ottov 8' dv yevrjrao
TOiovTO<; aeia-fioii, eTrnroXdl^ei rrXrjdo^ XiOcov, Mcnrep ratv ev roh XiKvoi^
dva^parofievmv. Towtov ydp rov rpoirov yevofievov aeicrfiov ra rrept,

^iirvXov dverparrrf Kal ro ^Xeypaiov KaXovfievov ireBiov, Kai ra irepi,

rrfV AiyvcrrtKTfv '^copav. 'Ev Be rah vr](TOi<i rah rrovriai'i yjrrov

yvyverai aei<rfi6<;, rwv rrpocryeiwv. To ydp irXrjOo'i t^? daXdrrr]^

Kara^^^v^ei rd<i dvadvfiidaei<i, Kal KotXvei ra> /3dpei, Kai airo^ia^erai.

"En Be pet, Kal ov aeierai Kparovfievr) vrrb twv rrvevfiaTcov. Kal Bid

TO TToXuv eireyeiv roirov, ovk eh ravrrjv, dXX^ e« ravrr}<i at, dva6vfiiaaei<i
y'vyvovrai, Kai ravrai<; dKoXovdovaiv ai e« rrj<i yrj<;. At S" iyyv<; tj)?

ffireipov vqaoi fiopiov elai rrj<; yireipov. To ydp fiera^ii Bia fiiKporrjra

ovBefiiav e^ei Bvvafiiv Ta? Be irovrUtf ovk ecrri Kivrjaai dvev rrj<;

6aXarrr]<i oXt]^, v(}> ^? rrepiexofievai rvyxdvovaiv. Tiepi fiev ovv

aeiafiSiV, Kal rh V <}>va-i<; avrwv, Kal Bid riv airiav yiyvovrai, Kai rrepi

--rS)V dXXoiv r(bv arvfi^aivovrmv rrepl avroV<;, eiprjrai crxeBov irepi twv

fieyioTOiv." 'AptaTOTe\ou<?, Trepl MerecopoXoyiKwv, B, KetfyaXaia rj

Kal &

   " TloWawt? Be Kal o-u77ev9 irvevfia evKparov ev yfj irape^madev eh
-- REPORT 1850.

fixr)(lov<i arjpa'yya'; avTfj<;, e^eBpov yevofievov ck twv olKeiav tottcov,
·TToWd fJ'epr) avveKpdSavev. TloWa/ci? 8e iroXv yevofxevov e^coOev
iyKareiX'^dr) toI<; TavTr)<; KocXcofiaai, koI aTroKkeocrOev i^oBov fMera 0ia<i
avri)v avveriva^e, ^tjtovv e^oSov eavrw, Kal aTreipydaaTO rrddo'i tovto,

   Kokelv elw6ap,v (Teia/juov twv Be (xetafj,(av, ol /xev et? ifkayia aeiovTa
Kar o^eca^ ycovia^, iiriKkivrai KaXovvraf oi Be avco pnnovvTe<i, koX
KaTW Kar 6p6d<i y(ovia<i, /SpdaTat' ol Be avv7]^i]aet^ 7roiovvTe<i el<; ra
KoiXa, '^aa/JbariaC ol Be ^acr/Aara dvoiryovTe<i, koI yfjv dvappr)yvvvT<;,
prjKrai KoXovvrai. Tovtcov Be, ol p,ev,Kal irvevfia 7rpoaava/3dWovaiv'
01 Be, 7rerpa<i' ol Be, Trrfkov ol Be, 7rr]yd<; (^alvovcL Ta9 irpOTepov ovk
ov(Ta<i' Ttve? Be, dvaTpeTrovre'i Kara fjbiav Trpocoaiv, ou? Kokovcrcv wara?'
ol Be dva7rdX\ovTe<;, Kal rat? eh eKdrepov eyKklaeat koX dvaTrdXaeai

--BiopOovvreii del to aeiop-evov, 7raXfx,aTtat Xeyovrat, rpo/xM Tra^o? ofioiov

atrepya^ofievQi." ^ ApcaToreXov;, irepl K.6ap,ov, Ke^aXaiov S' *.

   Such are Aristotle's facts and opinions. The main difficulty of mastering
his views, consists in the interpretation we put upon the word nvevpa. It is
very difficult to discover whether by it he means, simply the wind, or some

" universal life of the world," the expansive efforts of elastic gases, or merely
some unknown force beneath, that which Humboldt calls " the reaction of
the interior of a planet upon its exterior." I incline to adopt the latter view.

   The doctrines of the eloquent Seneca are next in ancient importance; they
have been well said by Humboldt to contain the germ of almost everything
that has been advanced in modern times as to volcanic action in its large sense.

    " Ideoque antequam terra moveatur, solet mugitus audiri, ventis in abdito
tumultuantibus : nee enim aliter posset, ut ait noster Virgilius,

'Sub pedibus mugire solum, et juga celsa moveri,'

nisi hoc esset ventorum opus. Vices deinde hujus pugnae sunt; desinit ca-

lidi congregatio, ac rursus eruptio. Tunc frigida compescuntur et succe-

Dumdunt, mox futura potentlora.  ergo alterna vis cursat, et ultro citroque
--spiritus commeat, terra concutitur." Senec. Natur. Qiicest., lib. vi. 13.

" Quidam ita existimant. Terra multis locis perforata est, nee tantum

primes illos aditus habet, quos velut spiramenta ab initio sui recepit, sed

multos illic casus imposuit. Allcubi diduxit, quidquid superne terreni erat,

aqua: alia torrentes exedere, ilia aestibus magnis dirupta patuere. Per haec

intervalla intrat spiritus : quem si inclusit mare, et altius adegit, nee fluctus

retro abire permisit, tunc ille exitu simul redituque praecluso, volutatur. Et

quia in rectum non potest tendere, quod illi naturale est, in sublime se in-

tendit, et terram prementem diverberat.

" Etiam nunc dicendum est, quod plerisque auctoribus placet, et in quod

fortasse fiet discessio. Non esse terram sine spiritu, palam est. Non tantum

illo dico, quo se tenet, ac partes sui jungit, qui inest etiam saxis mortuisque

corporibus; sed illo dico vitali, et vegeto, et alente omnia. Hunc nisi ha-

beret, quoraodo tot arbustis spiritum infunderet, non aliunde viventibus, et

tot satis? Quemadmodum tam diversas radices, aliter atque aliter in se
mersas foveret, quasdam summa receptas parte, quasdam altius tractas, nisi

niultuni haberet animse, tam uiulta, tam varia generantis, et haustu atque

alimento suo educantis ? Levibus adhuc argumentis ago. Totum hoc coelum,

quod igneus aether, mundi summa pars, claudil, omnes hse stellai, quarum

inveniri non potest numerus, omnis hie ccelestium ccetus, et, ut alia preeter-

* See note at end.
-- --:

ON THE FACTS OF BARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.                                 9

earn, hie tarn prope a nobis agens cursum sol, omni terrarum arabitu non
semel major, alimentum ex terrene trahunt, et inter se partiuntur; nee uUo
alio seilicet, quam halitu terrarum sustinentur. Hoe illis alimentum, hie
pactus est. Non posset autem tam niulta, tantaque, et seipsa majora,
terra niitrire, nisi plena esset animse, quam per diem et noctem ab om-
nibus partibus suis fundit. Fieri enim non potest, ut non multum illi
Bupersit, ex qua tantura petitur ae sumitur ; et ad tempus quidem, quod
exeat, naseitur. Nee enim esset perennis illi copia sutfecturi in tot coe-

lestia spiritus, nisi invioem ista excurrerent, et in aliud alia solverentur.

Sed tamen necesse est abundet ae plena sit, et ex condito proferat. Non
est ergo dubium, quin multum spiritus interlateat, et caBca sub terra spatia
aer latus obtineat. Quod si verum est, necesse est id saepe moveatur, quod
re raobilissima plenum est. Numquid enim dubium esse potest cuiquam,

--quin nihil sit tam inquietum quam aer, tam versabile et agitatione gaudens?"
    Natur. QucEst, lib. vi. 15, 16.
   " Maxima ergo causa est, propter quam terra moveatur, spiritus natura
citus, et locum e loco mutans. Hie quamdiu non impellitur, et in vacanti

spatio latet, jacet innoxius, nee circumjectis molestus est. Ubi ilium extrin-
secus superveniens causa solicitat, compellitque et in arctum agit, scilicet ad-
hue cedit tantum, et vagatur. Ubi exemta discedendi facultas est, et undique

obsistitur, tunc,

                   ' magno cum murmure montis
                     Circum claustra fremunt,'

quae diu pulsata convellit ae jactat; eo acrior, quo cum valentiore mora luc-

tatus est." Natur. Qucest., lib. vi. 18.

After Seneca we may at once transcribe the views of Pliny :
" Haustu aquae e puteo praesensisse ae praedixisse ibi terras niotum

Et haec quidem arbitrio cujusque existimanda relinquantur ; ventos in causa
esse non dubium reor.

" Neque enim unquam intremiscunt terras nisi sopito mari, cceloque adeo

tranquillo ut volatus avium non pendeant, subtracto omni spiritu qui vehit

pec unquam nisi post ventos, condito scilicet in venas et cava ejus occulta

flatu. Neque aliud est in terra tremor quam in nube tonitruum; nee hiatus

aliud quam cum fulmen erumpit : incluso spiritu luctante et ad libertatem

exire nitente.

" Varie itaque quatitur, et mira eduntur opera alibi prostratis mcenibus, alibi

hiatu profundo haustis, alibi egestis molibus, alibi emissis amnibus: nonnun-
quam etiam ignibus, calidisve fontibus, alibi averso fluminum cursu. Pro-

cedit vero, comitaturque terribilis sonus, alias murmur, similius mugitibus,

aut clamori humano, armorumve pulsantium fragori: pro qualitate ma-

terias excipieiitis formaque vel eavernarum vel cuniculi per quem meat, exi-

lius, grassante in angusto eodem rauco in recurvis, resultante in duris, fer-

yente in humidis, fluctuante in stagnantibus, item fremente contra solida.

Itaque et sine motu ssepe editur souus. Nee simplici modo quatitur, sed

tremit vibratque. Hiatus vero alias remanet, ostendens quae sorbuit, alias

oceultat ore compresso, rursusque ita inducto solo, ut nulla vestigia extent,

urbibus plerumque devoratis, agrorumque tractu hausto. Maritima autem

maxime quatiuntur. Nee montuosa tali malo carent. Exploratum est niihi

Alpes, Apenninuraque saepius tremuisse    Ideo Gallias et i^gyptus

minime quatiuntur, quoniam hie aestatis causa obstat, illie hyemis

. " Navigantes quoque sentiunt non dubia conjectura, sine flatu intumes-

cente fluctu subito aut quatiente icti. Intremunt vero et in navibus posita

aeque quam in asdificiis crepituque prasnuntiant : quin et volucres non

impavidas sedentes. Est et in coelo signum prasceditque motu futuro,
--10 REPORT 1850.

aut interdiu, aut paulo post occasura sereno ceu tenuis linea nubis in Ion-

gum porrectae spatium. Est et in puteis turbidior aqua nee sine odoris

taedio.

   " Sicut in iisdem est remedium quale et crebri specus praebent : conceptum

enini spiritum exhalant, quod in certis notatur oppidis quae minus quatiuntur,
crebris ad eluviem cuniculis cavata. Multoqne sunt tutiora in iisdem illis

quEe pendent : sicut Neapoli in Italia intelligitur, parte ejus quae solida est

ad tales casus obnoxia.
   " Intissimi sunt aedificiorum fornices, anguli quoque parietum, postesque,

alterno pulsu renitente. Et latere terreno facti parietes niinore noxa qua-

tiuntur.  Magna differentia  est  et in ipso genere motus                                                                                     pluribus siquidem
                                                                                                                                           ;

modis quatitur. Intissimum est cum vibrat crispante aedificiorum crepitu :

et cum intnmescit assurgens, alternoque motu residet: innoxium et cum

concurrentia tecta contrario ictu arietant : quoniam alter motus alteri reni-

titnr. Undantis inclinatio et fluctus more quaedara volutatio infesta est : aut

cum in unam partem totus se motus impellit.

"Desinunt autem tremores, cum ventus eniersit : sin vero duravere non

ante quadraginta dies sistuntur: plerumque et tardius, utpote cum quidam

annuo et biennii spatio duraverint.

" Factum est et hoc semel, quod equidem in Etruscse disciplinai volumini-

bus inveni, ingens terrarum portentum        Namque montes duo inter se

concurrerunt, crepitu maximo assultantcs, recedentesque inter eos flamma

fumoque in coelum exeunte interdiu           Eo concursu villas omnes elisae:

animalia permulta quae intra fuerant exanimata sunt                                                                                           Non minus

mirum ostentuni et nostra cognovit aetas, anno Neronis principis supremo

          pratis oleisque intercedente via publica in contrarias sedes trans-

gressis in agro Marrucino

   "Fiunt simul cum terrae motu et inundationes maris, eodem videlicet

spiritu infusi ac terrae residentis sinu recepti

   " Eadem nascentium causa terrarum est, cum idem ille spiritus, attoUendo

potens solo non valuit erumpere. Nascuntur enim nee fluminum tantum in-
vectu, sicut Echinades insulae ab Acheloo amne congestae, majorque pars

JEgypti a Nilo, in quam a Pharo insula noctis et diei cursum fuisse Homero

credimus ; sed et recessu maris, sicut eidem de Circeiis.

   "Quod et accidisse in Arabraciae portu decem raillium passuum inter-

vallo et Atheniensium quinque millium ad Piraeeum menioratur, et Ephesi

ubi quondam aedem Dianae alluebat. Herodoto quidem si credimus, mare

fuit supra Memphini usque ad j^thiopum montes: itemque a planis Arabiae.

Mare et circa Ilium, et tota Teuthrania quoque campos intulerit Maeander.
Nascuntur et alio modo terrae ac repente in aliquo mari emergunt velut

paria secura faciente natura, quaeque hauserit hiatus alio loco reddente."--

Plin. Nat. Hist., lib. xi. 81, 89.

   And thus we may pass from classic times to the middle age of earthquake

history.

   Multitudes of tracts, pamphlets and books, of the fifteenth, sixteenth and
seventeenth centuries, exist on our subject, most of them recording some par-

ticular earthquake, and straightway founding a theory thereupon; but others

there are giving good resumes of all past knowledge of the subject, and a

few of remarkable interest from the singularity or originality of their views.

A mere list of these books would fill many pages ; and as in a second part

of this Report I hope to present as perfect a bibliography as possible of earth-
quakes, so I shall only notice here such of these works as having come under

my notice, appear to be of more than ordinary interest, still proceeding in

order of time.
----                                          ----

ON THE FACTS OP EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.               11

   Liberti Fromondi, Coll. Louvainiensi Proff., was the author of a work on
meteorology, ' Meteorologicorum Libri sex' (4to, Antwerp, 1527). The last
chapter of his fourth book is dedicated to a good resume of all the ancient
knowledge of earthquakes, divided under the heads of

                1. Quae causa efficiens terrae motus.

                 2. Species terrse motus.

                3. Quae loca obnoxia terrje motibus.

            4. De magnitudine et duratione terrae motus.

              5. Quae anni terapora maxime sentiunt terrae motus.

               6. Quae signa antecedentia terrse motus.

                7. EfFectus terras motus.
              8. Timor numinis causa finalis terrae motus.

             9. Comparatio cuniculorum nostrorum militarium cum terrae motu.

   As to the first cause, after noticing the old Greek notions of Neptune,
^Yivvoaiyaiov kcu Seio-ix^oca, and several others of a mythological character,
he agrees with Aristotle :

    " Sententla Aristotelis et verissima est, spiritum subterraneum causam esse
terrae motus effectricem. Probatur, quia quoties terra pulsu pertunditur

aut dehiscit, evolant halitus aliqui, saepe pestilentes, ignis etiam aliquando et

cineres : ergo ille fuit qui terrain rupit et earn sufFodiendo concussit. Idem

--patebit post ex omnibus terrae motus affectibus." p. 197.
    This passage is remarkable, as showing the sense in which "spiritus terrae,"
TTvevixa, as used by Aristotle, is interpreted by Fromondi, i.e. as our volcanic
force of elevation in Humboldt's extended sense, " the reaction of the interior
upon the exterior of our planet."

   As to the species of earthquakes (art. 2), Fromondi thus classifies :
   " Auctor libri de mundo et ex eo D. Damascenus, septem species acci-
dentarias terrae motus fecit, i. e.

1. Epiclintae sen inclinatores.
2. Brastae seu efFervescentes.
3. Chasmatiae.
4. Rhectae (viam effringunt).
5. Ostae (uno impulsu).
6. Palmatiae (vibrant).

7. Mycetiae (cum mugitu).

" Aristoteles tamen duabus speciebus, pulsu et tremore, contentus fuit, sed

tertiam inclinationem optime Seneca adjecit.

" Pulsus est motus quo terra, instar arteriae animalis, diastole et systole

vicissini erigitur et subsidit, vel generalius est qui terram succutit, unde a

Seneca vocatur succussio. Tremor enim concutit et vibrat : inclinatio vero

in unam solam partem totum onus suspendit     septem autem alige spe-

cies a diversitate eff'ectuum sumptae sunt et ad tres istas possunt revocari." .

p. 201.

   Of the Rhectae, Fromondi says :

" Ceterum pulsus Rhectes et effractor, omnium sine dubio est pernicio-

cissimus, deinde langa et undans inclinatio quae parietes et fastigia aedificio-
rum extra fundamenti perpendiculum suspendit. Brevis autem et crispans
tremor partem inclinatam statim contrario motu in sedem restituit, praevenit-
que lapsum, unde Plinius, lib. ii. cap. 82, 'Latere etiam facti parietes minore
noxa quatiuntur,' inquit." p. 202.

 -- --As to the places subject to earthquakes : Egypt, he says, was very free

from them, and so was Belgium, especially its southern and Dutch por-
                                               --

12 REPORT-- 1850.

tioris ; but he quotes from 'Gemma Cosmocritica,' lib. ii. cap. 1, an account

--of two earthquakes in Flanders in the years 1554 and 1569. p. 204.
   On the magnitude and duration of earthquakes he gives several facts:

About the year 369, under Valentinian, and in 1116, nearly the whole world
was shaken, and in 1601 Asia, Hungary, Germany, Italy, Gaul: " uno fere

--momento feruntur tremuisse." p. 205.
   Of the duration he judiciously says, " incerta etiam est et inconstans."

The earthquake of 1601 was forty days, that in Italy of 1538 fifteen days ac-

cording to Fallopius, and again in 1570, one lasted for two whole years, accord-

ing to Fabricius of Padua. Averroes says Spain shook for three whole years

in his time. Aristotle says forty days was a usual time: " Scepe solennes

fuisse." It is remarkable that this early author well distinguishes between

the total duration of the earthquake and the time of and intermittence be-

--tween the several shocks a distinction so much neglected by modern nar«

rators. Fromondi enumerates several presages of earthquakes, and then

classifies their effects into nine species in cap. 7 ; but his division is bad,
mixing up primary, secondary, and doublj"^ secondary effects without di-

stinction.

Passing chapter 8th as not bearing on physical questions, the chapter

9th is perhaps the most remarkable in Fromondi's book. In this he seeks
to show the strong analogy that subsists between the effects of mines charged

with gunpowder, and even of bombshells, when exploded, with those of

earthquakes; and he gives a curious diagram to illustrate his views (p. 219,

Antwerp Edit.), which however he does much more forcibly by referring to

the effects observed at the blowing up of the bridge over the Scheldt at

Antwerp by the Duke of Parma, by means of a lighter full of powder floated

in under it and so exploded, and the blow of which was felt over great part

of Holland ; and again by those observed in 1546, on occasion of the blow-

ing up by a stroke of lightning of a tower at Malines, containing much gun-
powder, when part of the town walls were shaken down by the blow, and the

Avater so emptied out of the neighbouring river that the fish were found at a

distance on dry land.

' Del. Terraemoto dialogo del. Signor Lucio Maggio, Gentilhuomo Bo-

Alognese.' 4to, Bolog. 1571.  curious book with much observation, and a

digest of all the ancient and then current opinions. Lib. i. gives a discussion

of all the conceivable causes of earthquakes.

    In lib. iii. he enunciates eleven signs or presages of earthquakes, viz.

1. Stillness of the air. 2. Gloom and obscurity of the sun, haze, &c.
3. Eclipse of the sun. 4. Unusual conduct of animals. 5. Muddiness of
wells. 6 and 7. Motions and swellings, or odours of the sea without any wind.

8. Various sounds in the earth and air. 9. The appearance of columns of
smoke or of exhalations in the air. 10. Comets. 11. Certain appearances

of the sun on the night preceding the earthquake. These were partly

the learned, partly the popular notions of his time in Italy, and continue

nearly unaltered as matters of popular belief in that country to the present

day.

   One of the most remarkable tracts or works on earthquakes M'hich I have

discovered is that " Francisci Travagini, super observationibus a se partis,
tempore ultimorum terrsemotuum, ac potissimum Ragusiani : Physica disqui-

sitio, seu giri terrte diurni indicium." 4to, Lug. Bat. 1679 ; and also a Vene-
tian edition of 1683 : a copy exists in the British Museum. It seems to be
about the earliest attempt to found a physical theory of earthquake motion,
and presents a singular instance of that coasting along very close to a truth
                                           ;

ON THE FACTS OP EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.  13

which is yet never attained, of which the history of all observational science

is full.

   The author begins by stating that a horrible earthquake had occurred on
the 6th of April, 1667, which had almost thrown down the whole of Ragusa,
and then proceeds in a very clear way to relate the observations which he
had made during its occurrence, while at Venice, the earthquake having
shaken the whole of Romagna, &c. He then describes the motions of the
earth, " moveri multiplicatis vibrationibus, ab occidente ad orientem et
reciproce ;" then the wave motions of the water in the Venetian canals, no-

ticing the relations of the directions in length of these channels to that of
the shock, the waves running along the canals, whose lengths were from west

to east, and from bank to bank, or across all others. He then describes the

directions in which belfries and other buildings were shaken ; then the mo-
tions of pendulous bodies, as church lamps, and describes his own sensations
as like those of a man in a boat in motion which had struck some obstacle.

    From all his observations he concludes, " Ecce igitur, mi lector, ex obser-
vatione communi in eodem terrsemotu, quasi tres gradationes seu facies;
prima qua motus illi est mixtus ex succussatione atque ex laterali ilia vibra-
tione, ita tamen ut lateralis ista vibratio minor sit succussatione, quod accedit
60 loco ubi maxime dessevit causa movens.

    " Altera qua motus iste etiamnum mixtus minore praefert succussationem,
quam vibrationem, quod contingit in locis remotioribus abs causa movente,
ubi plus minusve desidit ilia succussatio pro ratione, majoris aut niinoris suae

remotionis causa movente.
    " Tertia denique, ubi sola lateralis ilia vibratio percipitur, quod contingit

in locis remotissimis ab ilia causa movente, quae tamen sint intra sphaeram

 activitatis illius, cujusmodi erat Venetia nostra respectu motus Ragusaei."
    Having found that all the lateral vibrations were from west to east and the

 contrary, he proceeds further to inquire into the physical conditions that

will satisfy the above complex motions, and without troubling himself much

 to inquire as to the nature of the first mover, but merely glancing at the
opinions commonly held up to his time, he at once assumes any force what-
 ever to break through the crust of the earth.

    " Ex natura inquam cum semper tempore terraemotu aliquid videatur ali-

 cubi foras prorumpere certe quicquid illud sit ut sic foras prorumpat debet
 revera terram supra stantem succutere, sed nihil omnino quod prorumpendo
 debeat sic lateraliter eandem vibrare : enimvero ita si foret sequeretur totum
 terrae globum eodem motu tunc sic vibrari et ex aequo vibi'ari super axem
 suum, quod experientia ipsa arguit falsitatis manifestissimae."

     In illustration of this he gives the following figure : " Terra sit A, loco ubi
                                                 sunt vel sulphura vel nitrum, vel aquas bullientes,
                                            &c., sit B. Sentiatur motus corporis exiturientis

                             Da per B usque ad E. Si motus iste esset

                                     etiam vibrationis lateralis a B ad D, necessario

                             Ddeberet etiam terra vibrari a in F, et ab F in

                                   E ob solidam continuitatem totius globi, secun-
                                      dum omnes suae partes."

                                                  This last expression is a very remarkable one
                                                 it is the first glimpse, as it were, that I can find in
                                              any author, of a true conception of pulse forces
                                           moving in solids, a notion that none of the ancient
 authors on earthquakes seem ever to have approached ; all of them insisting
 upon the cavernous and perforated interior of the globe being the condition
 essential to the transmission of earthquakes.
            --:

--14 REPORT 1850.

   He then proceeds to a diagram explanatory of the Ragusan earthquake
" Verum ut magis sibi constet haec nostra opinio, ac solidius firmetur, ipsi

diligentius hie consideremus singulares omnes illos affectus qui supradictis

materiis dum terram movent atque exitum suum moliuntur possunt adscribi

quocumque modo debeant prorumpere : statuo igitur hanc figuram. ABCF

                   sit hypogaeum seu locus

                   subterraneus in quo

                   materia ejusmodi reclu-

                   ditur. Ragusium sit in

                   D, Venetiae in E, Nea-

                   --polis in I Pars terrae

                   concussae sit in E, D,

                   --O, I hoc supposito vi-

                   detur certe quod spiri-

                   tus ille exituriens de-

                   beat quaquaversura

                   sphaerice agere ac dif-

                   fundi nempe ab A ad

                   C, ad B et ad F, ita

                   tanien ut hand dubie

                   longe violentius feratur

                   in altum secundum li-

neam perpendicularem ad B quam per lineas obliquas AC et AF, cum de

spirituum ejusmodi natura sit potissimum ut perpendiculariter in altum de-

BDferantur : atque adeo sua succussione deferent terram  versus G, ut con-

tigit Ragusii, ubi et exhalationes et flammae et odores ac similia visa sunt

expirare."

Travagini then proceeds further to develope the conditions according to

Avhich the pulses (succussationes) will travel to the outward points of his

diagram. He finds the vast mass of matter moved in the directions AH,
AO, by the smaller force in these directions, a difficulty in his way ; and by

another diagram (which I copy as an illustration of the peculiar mode of

treatment of the author) he proposes to show the effect of distance upon the
pulses and their mode of propagation :

A^

   " Certura enim quod iterates dicti mallei ictus omnia vibrabuntur versus
illam partem ad quam ictus illi adiguntur, et quod tamen ipsa tabula nulla-

tenus usquam discessit a loco suo aut divelletur ab aliis tabulis contiguis."

He then proceeds to show by another pair of diagrams, how that upward and
downward pulses of the earth's crust may produce a lateral swing in bodies
                                                                         ;

ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PH^ENGMENA.                         15

Afixed upon it. Thus he says, let        represent the earth, whose surface,

c

DDBI, is thrown up by some force so as to assume the form between and

I of DCI ; further, let there be two rods, DC, DB, jointed at D, which shall

DBrepresent one-half of the elevated portion of the earth's crust, viz. DC,

in the former figure. Now, he says, if motion towards and away from the

Arod be given to the rod DC, round the point D, then will the pendulums

DCfixed to the rod     swing laterally.

The question of partial elevations by earthquakes, and their presumed

effects upon the length of the day at the place, are then discussed. The au-
thor then proceeds to show how that, by the repetition of insensible pulses,
motion may at last become sensible at a given point ; from this, and from

the (unhappy) assumption that all earthquakes vibrate from west to east and

the contrary, which he admits to be an essential condition upon which his

final conclusion depends, he proceeds to make out an imaginary theory to

account for all earthquakes as being related to a sudden or partial cessation of

the earth's rotation, according to the Copernican view, taking care, however,

to put in a precautionary clause, " Salva quam ecclesiasticis statutis debeo
reverentia." On this conclusion we need make no remark, but in the au-
thor's own words, from his Epistle Dedicatory, " Nempe quod cum isti tunc
crederent motum ilium esse in suo capite, qui tamen fere erat in terra ipsa
ego e contrario gyrum ilium quem mihi videor in terra conspicere, totum in
capite meo perpetior."

   Although thus finally led off from all that is true in his subject and to
an absurd conclusion, the work of Travagini is a truly remarkable one, from

the peculiar inductive and experimental manner in which he treats a subject

previously never regarded but as matter of the vaguest guessing, and from
his appearing to be the first who obtained some imperfect glimpse of earth-

quake motions being due to pulses, or wave forces, in solids.

Hooke's discourses of earthquakes were delivered before the Royal

Society about 1690, and were published in his posthumous works, by
R. Waller, Sec. R.S., in 1705, fol. Though called a discourse of earth-

quakes, these lectures are, in fact, a sort of system of physical geology, in
which the forces, forms, conditions and effects of elevation of land are largely

considered, but in which the ingenious author loses sight perfectly of what

an earthquake is, and systematically confounds all sources, sorts and degrees

of elevatory forces and their effects, with the transient action and secondary

effects of earthquakes as rightly defined. These lectures are a repertory of

much valuable information and thought to the geologist, but add little

indeed to the subject of their title. Hooke divides the effects of earthquakes

into four sorts ; viz

                                   The first sort or genus.
1st species.--The raising a considerable part of a country which before
                                                                                                                            --

16 REPORT 1850.

       lay level with the sea, many feet, nay sometimes many fathoms above

     --its former height.

    2nd species. The raising of a considerable part of the bottom of the
       sea, and making it lie above the surface of the water, by which means
        divers islands have been generated and produced.

    --3rd species. Raising considerable mountains out of a plain or level

        country.

    --4th species. The raising of the parts of the earth by the throwing on

       of a great access of new earth, and for burying the former surface
       under a covering of new earth many fathoms thick.

                          The second sort or genus,

    -- A1st species.  sinking of some part of the earth's surface lying a good

    way inland, and converting it into a lake of almost unmeasurable

     --depth.

    2nd species. The sinking of a considerable part of the plain land near

    to the sea below its former level, so that the adjoining sea comes in

    --Aand overflows it.sinking of the parts of the bottom of the sea much
    3rd species.

    lower, and creating therein vast vorages and abysses.
    -- A4th species.
                      making bare or uncovering divers parts of the earth

    which were before a good way below the surface, and this either by

    suddenly throwing away these upper parts by some subterraneous

    motion, or else by washing them away by some kind of eruption of

    waters from unusual places vomited out by some earthquake.

                                    The third sort or genus.

    --Species 1. Are the subversions, conversions, and transpositions of the

        parts of the earth.

                                   The fourth sort or genus.

    --Species 1. Are liquefaction, baking, calcining, petrifaction, transfor-

    mation, sublimation, distillation, &c.

    So much will serve for a sample of Hooke, who in fact uses earthquake in

a sense commensurate with all geological action on the earth's surface; and

it is perhaps rather in this sense, than in its strict one, that he comes to the

true conclusion that " there is no country almost in the world but has been

--some time or other shaken by earthquakes." p. 311.
   He even gives an undue importance to his own sense of the word. Thus

he supposes that elevations by earthquakes may have changed the centre of

gravity of the earth and the length of the year.

    One sentence will suffice to give a notion of Woodward's views :

    " This subterranean heat or fire being in any part of the earth stopt by

some accidental glut or obstruction in the passages through which it used to

ascend, and being preternaturally assembled in great quantity into one place,

causes a great rarefaction and intumescence of the water of the abyss, putting

it  into very great  commotions                                                       and  making  the  like  effort  upon  the earth
                                                                                   ;

expanded upon the face of the abyss, occasions that agitation and concussion

--which we call an earthquake." Woodward, Nat. Hist., 1695.

    ' The Earth twice shaken wonderfully, or an analogical Discourse of Earth-

quakes,' by J. D. R. 4to, Lond. 1693-94, said to be by Rouffional, a French

Protestant minister, a curious and learned tract, with ten corollaries discussed.

--He previously inquires, Cap. 1. How many sorts of earthquakes there are.

Cap. 2. What was the nearest natural cause of this earthquake. Cap. 3.
       ----

       ON THE PACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHiENOMENA.                17

An earthquake hath not properly an end, yet its chief ends are sickness,
inundation and sterility. Cap. 4. An examination of how earthquakes differ

and agree in form and second causes, and in regard to aspects oi' the planets.

The ten corollaries are
   1. Whether it be true, as Pliny affirms, that France and Egypt are sel-
      dom shaken, by reason of the heat and cold, &c.

  2. Why rivers decrease by earthquakes.
  Why3. those places lying on or encompassed by sea and rivers are ob-

    noxious to earthquakes.

4. What credit may be given to Plato of the island Atlantis drowned by

    an earthquake.

5. Whether exterior wind entering the earth from above be able to move it.
6. Whether subterraneous exhalations are generated by the sun's beams.
7. Whether some more solemn times of earthquakes are to be appointed

   for any certain reason. In this he discusses Aristotle's opinion of the

   Equinoxes, and quotes ' Agricola de Metal.' p. 29, against him.

8. Why birds are frightened by an earthquake.

9. Whether vaults in houses are safest from earthquakes.
10. If the late earthquake be so ended that the same countries through

   which it went are secure from its iteration. He decides in the negative,

giving a long list of authorities for earthquakes occurring repeatedly in
the same places, with short intervals and continuing for long periods.

   In the year 1693, John Flamsteed published a letter, in which, after de-
tailini; with a sort of method, some of the facts observed, he proposes a
physical theory of earthquakes. His views, however, are abundantly vague
and obscure ; he supposes some setherial explosive matter to exist in the
atmosphere, by the occasional firing of which, the shock is given to buildings,
ships, &c. Nothing but the name of the illustrious author would make this

pamphlet deserve notice.
   There is a curious book by Hdttinger (Hottingeri Dissertationes de Terras

Motu), partly scientific, partly theological. The title of one dissertation
(the fourth) will give an idea of the book :

   " Unde Terras motus immittantur, sintne fortuna pure naturales an Ger;-

Xaroi."

   Amontons (Mem. Acad, des Sciences, 1703) endeavoured to prove that

atmospheric air might be expanded by heat to a suflScient degree of pressure,
when confined under the earth, to produce volcanic effects, and those of
earthquakes. Stukeley's arguments, against this and all other views, that

assume the direct expansion of elastic fluids as the immediate cause of earth-

quakes, derived from a consideration of the vast areas shaken at once by the

latter, are worthy of perusal, though not free from error, and intended to

sustain his own views of their electrical origin only.

That electricity Ln some unknown undescribed and incomprehensible way

was the direct cause of earthquakes, was specially pleaded for by Stukeley,

Percival, Beccaria, Priestley and several others, whose imaginations, filled

with the power and grandeur of the electrical phaenomena, which their expe-

riments perpetually brought before them, and adapting in a loose and con-

fused way some of the electrical phaenomena that are constantly observed to

accompany the secondary effects of great earthquakes, referred the whole to

the agency of their favourite force, and were satisfied.

Their precise works and words need not be quoted.

The Rev. John Mitchell, Fellow of Queen's College, Cambridge, published

a paper on earthquakes, in the 51st volume of the Philosophical Transactions,

in 1760, which, up to a very recent date, was by far the most important and

1850.                                                     c
                           ----

18 REPORT--1850.

remarkable work upon the subject, though very much overlooked. His
principal views are best given in his own words.

   He commences by refuting the notion, that there is any necessary con-
nection between the air, or the weatiier, or state of moon and tide and earth-

quakes.

    And assuming then that they have an origin under ground, he enunciates

the following propositions, sustaining eacli with its appropriate facts:

       1st. The same places are subject to returns of earthquakes, not only at
           small intervals for some time after any considerable one has hap-
           pened, but also at greater intervals for some ages.

        2nd. Those places that are in the neighbourhood of burning mountains
            are always subject to frequent earthquakes, and the eruptions of those
           mountains, when violent, are generally attended with them.

       3rd. The motion of the earth in earthquakes is partly tremulous and
           partly propagated by waves, which succeed one another, sometimes at
           larger and sometimes at smaller distances ; and this latter motion ia
          generally propagated much further than the former.

        4th. It is observed in places wliich are subject to frequent earthquakes,

           that they generally come to one and the same place, from the same
          point of the compass. I may add also, that the velocity with which
            they proceed (as far as one can collect it from the accounts) is the

            same, but the velocity of earthquakes of different countries is very

               different.

     A5th. great earthquake (such as the Lisbon one) has been succeeded

          by several local ones since, the extent of which has been much less.
   From a discussion then of the known facts of volcanoes, he concludes,
" That in all probability the fires of volcanoes produce earthquakes. That,

however, the vibrations, &c. felt close to volcanic foci, either at their first
formation or after, are not of the precise nature of earthquakes, or at least,
differ in degree from them: and that

   " The greater earthquakes seem rather to be occasioned by other fires that
lie deeper in the same tract of country, and the eruptions of volcanoes which
happen at the same time with earthquakes, may with more probability be
ascribed to those earthquakes, than the earthquakes to the eruptions, when-
ever, at least, the earthquakes are of any considerable extent."

   He then proceeds to give, considering the time he wrote, a wonderfully

large and accurate view of the general conformation of the superficial crust
of the earth, its arrangement into strata and beds, their relative position and
co-ordination at distant places as to horizon, the nature of faults, dykes, &c.,
and from all he concludes that " from the want of correspondence in the
fissures of the upper and lower strata, as well as on account of those strata
which are little or not at all shattered, it will come to pass that the earth

cannot easily be separated in a direction perpendicular to the horizon if we

take any considerable portion of it together ; but in the horizontal direction,

as there is little or no adhesion between one stratum and another, it may be

separated without difficulty."
   After this he endeavours to show that the explosive power of volcanoes ii

due to pent-up vapour or steam, produced by the contact of water with
masses of incandescent matter in the earth ; that the alternate repose and
activity of their action may be accounted for on this hypothesis, and that the
expansive force is adequate to the phaenomena, &c. ; and having established
this mechanism, he proceeds to announce the precise mode of formation and
of propagation of the wave, in which he conceives earthquake motion to
consist : he says, " As a small quantity of vapour almost instantly generated
--;

ON THE FACTS OP EARTHQUAKE PHiENOMENA.  19

at some considerable depth below the surface of the earth will produce a
vibratory motion, so a very large quantity (whether it be generated almost
instantly or in any small portion of time) will produce a wave-like motion:
the manner in which this wave-like motion will be propagated, may in some
measure be represented by the following experiment:

   " Suppose a large cloth or carpet (spread upon a floor) to be raised at one
edge, and then suddenly brought down again to the floor, the air under it,
being by this means propelled, will pass along till it escapes at the opposite
side, raising the cloth in a wave all the way as it goes. In like manner a
large quantity of vapour may be conceived to raise the earth in a wave as it
passes along between the strata, which it may easily separate in a horizon-
tal direction, there being, as I have said before, little or no cohesion between
one stratum and another ; the part of the earth which is first raised being
bent from its natural form will endeavour to restore itself by its elasticity,
and the parts next to it beginning to have their weight supported by the
vapour, which will insinuate itself under them, will be raised in their turn,
till it either finds some vent, or is again condensed by the cold into water,
and by that means prevented from proceeding any further."

    Several successive waves, he. then proposes to show, might be thus gene-
rated, and their height will be greater the nearer they are to the point of

their origin.

   In the third part of the paper he endeavours more minutely to describe
the mechanism of the focus, as to how the water gains access ; why the roof
should fall in, &c., and applies some of the facts or fancies to the recorded
secondary conditions of earthquakes, and to the fluctuations of the sea,

which result from them. And in the seventh section, he shows, that by in-
vestigating the point of departure of various great sea-waves, when observed at

distant points of arrival, after any great earthquake, whose origin is (as he
supposes that of all great earthquakes to be) under the sea, we may find
the point vertically over the focus of original disturbance. This he does as
respects the great Lisbon earthquake, and shows a most remarkable percep-
tion of the nature of the motion of waves of translation, far more than the state
of exact knowledge of the subject at the time would have made us suppose
possible. Lastly, he inquires whether it be then possible to determine any-
thing as to the depth of the focus of disturbance below the surface, but
thinks it can be only guessed at ; but that, if we could carefully observe and
reckon the thickness of upturned strata at some great volcanoes, we should

arrive at; it.

    Such is Mitchell's paper, which I have analysed at some length, from itS
importance. It contains much that is useful, mixed with the leading fallacy
as to the nature of the earthquake wave of shock.

  --Two other works on the facts Of earthquakes require to be mentioned,

viz. ' The History and Philosophy of Earthquakes,' and ' Memoires Histo-
riques et Physiques sur les Tremblemens de Terre,' par Mons. Bertrand, a
la Haye, 1757.

    In the former, the facts of ten great earthquakes are recorded, and in
the latter, those of Switzerland, and all such others as the author could col-

 lect.

    Bouguer, in his ' Voyage en Peru,' whither he accompanied the French
academicians to measure an arc of the meridian, conceives volcanoes and
 earthquakes as one and the same, and " due to gaseous inflammations and
explosions. The weakest shocks are those from the earth already shaken
 the strongest, those caused immediately by the inflammation, which are ana-
 logous to the roarings of the volcanoes, and which are repeated more or less

                                                                          c2
                                    ----

20 REPORT 1850.

frequently, according to the facility with which the materials take fire, and

also as their volume has relation with the extent of the spaces in which they

are enclosed." His views are nearly identical with those of Don Ulloa, but

are more clearly expressed by the latter, who says

   " The bursting of a new volcano causes a violent earthquake ; this tremu-
lous motion, which we properly call an earthquake, does not so usually

happen in case of a second eruption, when an aperture has been before

made, or at least the motion is comparatively small." " Volcanoes owe their

origin to sulphurous, nitrous, and other combustible substances in the bowels

of the earth ; these, mixed and turned into a paste, with subterraneous waters,
ferment and take fire (this was Lemeri's view) ; by dilating the contiguous

wind or air its volume is so increased, as to produce the same effect as gun-

powder fired in a narrow space." " The subterraneous noise proceeds from

the ignition of the airs on exploding."

Dolomieu's theories, as to the Calabrian earthquake of 1783, are not very

different. " Interior waters, increased by those from the surface, may have

run into the focus of ^Etna : they would in consequence be converted into

very expansive vapour, and stril^e against every obstacle to their dilatation."

He has previously shown that Calabria itself is not a volcanic country ; he

therefore proceeds :

" Provided these should have met with channels conducting them to the

cavities below Calabria, they would have been capable of occasioning all

those convulsions of which 1 have given a description."

   Sir W. Hamilton concludes from all his examinations of the Calabrian

earthquakes, that " some great chemical operation of the nature of the vol-

canic sort was the cause." (Phil. Trans, vol. Ixxiii.)

Thus the older writers fix their regards wholly upon the presumed focus

or origin of the explosion, as Dolomieu calls it, but none, except Mitchell,

attempt to show any distinct train of causes by which the forces here origi-

nating, in a centre of volcanic activity, are transferred and become opera-

tive at vast distances and in lands not subject to volcanic action. Nor, it

must be confessed, have modern authors, even Humboldt, been much more

successful in this, or in shaping to themselves a distinct idea of what the

--nature of the earthquake shock itself is. The words " a trembling," " a

vibration," " a concussion," " a movement," " an undulation," are to be found

scattered through the narratives of earthquakes, but even amongst scientific

authors these records refer merely to the effect upon their senses, of the

motions of the earth's surface, and not to any definite or precise idea, either

of the origin or the mode of propagation of the shock.

Humboldt in his latest work, the ' Cosmos,' as well as in his ' Personal

Narrative,' does not express himself with clearness upon earthquake move-

ments. He seems disposed at one place to adopt the theory of Mitchell im-

plicitly                            yet at another,  one  fancies  he  has  some  notion  of the earth-shock
                                 ;

being a wave of elastic compression, and therefore propagated in a totally

different manner from that of the subteraneous lava tidal wave, moving the

solid crust above it, in which Mitchell's theory consists : his clearest expres-

--sion of view is perhaps in the following sentence : " The filling up of fissures

with crystalline matter interferes by degrees with the free escape of vapours,

--which confined become operative through their tension in three ways
   concussively, explosively, or suddenly up and down, and as first observed

in a large portion of Sweden, lifiingly or continuously, and only in a long

period of time perceptibly altering the level of the sea and land." Here he

confounds as thoroughly as the ancient authors, the direct effects in perma-

nent elevation of land by volcanic or other action from beneath, with the
                                       ;

ON THE FACTS OP EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.  21

transient effects of the earthquake which may result from such actions.
He does not attempt to assign the law of motion of any one of the several
orders or sorts of earthquake waves. The shocks, he says, are either hori-

--zontal and vertical, or rotatory and vorticose in direction ; the two former,

he says, are always observed together the latter is rare ; several secondary
effects of earthquake action, such as twisting of buildings or their parts,
landslips, &c. he gives an erroneous account of.

    But this is rather anticipating as to date : before concluding, however, the

remarks that I am called upon to make upon the views of Humboldt, I would
wish to add that they are made with the fullest appreciation of that almost

universal and yet searching genius, that derives its resources from, and il-

lustrates nearly every portion of creation.

   Bakewell, who wrote his 'Introduction to Geology' as early as 1813, gives
in his lOth chapter an account of earthquakes, which, for his day, is lumi-
nous and good. He briefly and correctly describes the principal phaenomena;
traces a distinct connection between volcanic and earthquake effects
proposes the sudden evolution of steam by contact of water with igneous

matter at great depths as the immediate cause of both ; conceives the horrid
noises as due to the rending of rocks or strata, and seems to have had some
obscure notion that the internal heat of our planet might be independent of

any form of combustion.
   In 1835, a copious and exceedingly strange work, the ' Theorie des Vol-

cans,' par le Compte A. de Bylandt Palstercamp, appeared at Paris, 3 vols.

Svo, with fol. atlas.

  We have here nothing to do with the author's singular attempt to build up

a theory of volcanic action, indeed almost a cosmogony, from considerations
derived from the relations and reactions on our planet, of light, heat, elec-
tricity and magnetism. With all its wildness and incoherence it carries per-
haps a dim fore-shadowing of truth.

    In his first volume, p. 373 to 392, he devotes a section to the consideration
of earthquakes, as derivative effects of volcanoes. This, like indeed every
other part of the book, bears the peculiarity of containing some truths, or
quasi truths, much in advance of the author's day, mixed with a great deal of

absolute error.

   He clearly recognises earthquakes as merely one class of effects due to

volcanic action ; but although he uses the word vibration, &c., and has even
arrived at some of the phaenomena resulting from wave motion clearly enough,
it is obvious that he has formed no clear idea of pulses transmitted through
elastic media in virtue of the elasticity of the solids themselves ; his vibrations,
and their origin, are nearly analogous to those of Mitchell. Shocks or
blows transmitted through and from cavities under the earth, suddenly filled
or emptied of aeriform fluids, which actually lift up and again drop down the
walls of these cavities in rising and falling, originate and constitute Bylandt's

--shock. So far, therefore, he is not beyond his predecessors. But further:

   " Etablissons d'abord comme principe que les effets des tremblemens de

terre sont toujours contradictoires aux causes qui les produisent, et diriges
dans le sens inverse, et que les raemes causes produisent des effets contra-
dictoires dans les lieux opposes." " Les causes des tremblemens de terre
resident toujours dans I'interieure de la terre et a une certaine profondeur.
Or en elevant une perpendiculaire du fond de cette profondeur et en trans-
 mettant le mouvement du point le plus bas au plus eleve, I'effet sera celui
 d'un pendule, c'est-a-dire contradictoire entre les deux extremites.

    " Lorsqu'on a senti a la surface une vibration ou oscillation dans la direc-
                             --;

22 REPORT 1850.

tion du nord au sud, il fallait replier la cause vers sa veritable direction qui
etait du sud au nord."

  --He divides earthquake movements into three classes " en verticmix ou

directs, en horizontaux ou indirects, et en circulaires ou accidentels, comme ni

tenant a aucune cause, ni a aucun systeme regulier."
    After explaining that by the first he means direct upward and downward

motion over the volcanic centx-e, "et proviennent du goufleraent de la matiere,"
he proceeds to the horizontal motions :

    " Ce mouvement ondulatoire ressemble aux vagues de la mer, et ne dure,
comme tous les tremblemens de terre, que peu d'instans; du moment ou
I'elevation s'est fait, elle s'abaisse de suite, et ne reste jamais permanente.

Un tremblement de terre quelque violent qu'il soit ne peut elever le terrain

que par ondulation de 4 a 5 pieds au plus."

  He here, and in the succeeding passage, clearly recognizes the difference so

usually overlooked, betvveen the transient elevation, and as immediate de-
pression of surface due to the passage of the earthquake shock, and the per-
manent elevation produced directly by volcanic action from beneath.

   He seems to have had small knowledge of the facts of great sea-waves

and seems (p. 378) to consider them sufficiently explained by " the contra-
dictory effects " in producing a surge, of severe shocks taking place under

 the sea bottom.
    Although horizontal shocks are indirect and only " la consequence d'une

cause directe ou de son contrecoup," he considers they produce more
 formidable effects than the direct or vertical ones ; but he does not get at
the true cause : he says, " cela depend des corps conducteurs et de la forma-
tion du sol, car il existe dans I'interieur de la terre d'immenses cavernes sur
lesquelles la croute superficielle n'est pour ainsi dire quesuspendue ;" and a
violent direct shock, he thinks may throw these fragile crusts down at a
 distance, and bury cities, &c.

    And as to the third class, or " secousses accidentelles," he is of opinion

 that they are due only to the occasional and capricious falling in of such
 cavities, and are in fact not properly a part of earthquake phaenomena at all

--an easy way of disposing of the question.
  --One of the most remarkable of the author's conclusions is, that, " La

 distance a laquelle les tremblemens de terre etendent leur chocs, depend
 en premier lieu de la profondeur du foyer dans lequel la commotion s'est
 developpee, en second lieu de la liaison des conducteurs du mouvement dans

 I'interieur de la terre."
    It is to be borne in mind that his "conducteurs" are not solid vibratory

 bodies, but always hollow tubes or ducts in the interior of the cavernous

 earth.

    in page 385, in a passage too long for transcript, Bylandt well insists upon
 the impossibility of earthquakes being properly considered as causes or
 means of geologic elevation, but simply effects and symptoms of the action

--elsewhere of the great elevatory forces acting slowly from beneath.
    He proceeds: " Maisapres avoir compare les tremblemens de terre entre

 eux, definissons les mathematiquement, et eprouvons que les effets des tremble-
 mens de terre, sont entre eux en raison inverse du carre de dista?ice de chaque
point de la surface au centre du foyer." Those who desire to know the
 author's demonstration of this, and that the effects of earthquake shocks are in
 the opposite direction to the shocks themselves (owing to the inertia of
 the bodies overthrown), must refer to the work itself, and to the very curious

 atlas of plates and diagrams accompanying it. One of Bylandt's diagrams,
-- ----

ON THE FACTS OF EABTHaUAKE PHENOMENA.  23

however, is so strange a mingling of the false and the true, that it is worth

transcription.

                                                                Volcanic focus.

   The title given to this diagram, in which, it is to be observed, the lines
divergent from the centre do not merely represent lines of force, but channels
of subterraneous volcanic communication, is, " Les effets des tremblemens
de terre sont entr'eux en raison inverse du quarre des distances de chaque
point de la surface au centre du foyer et leur produits seront contradictoires,

dans les lieux opposes," that is, the towers at both sides will fall inwards.

(Bylandt, planche 7.)
   Dr. Young, in his lectures upon Natural Philosophy, casually notices the

probability that earthquake motions are vibratory, and are analogous to those
of sound, &c. This view, however, was first put, I believe, in a definite form
by Gay-Lussac, at the termination of an exceedingly able paper on the
chemical theories of volcanoes, in the ' Annales de Chimie:' he says

   " Un tremblement de terre comme I'a tres bien dit le Dr. Young est ana-

logue a un tremblement d' air, c'est une tres fort onde sonore, excite dans la
masse solide de la terre par une commotion quelconque, qui s'y propage avec

la meme vitesse que le son s'y propagerait. Ce qui surprend dans ce grand

et terrible phenomene de la nature c'est I'etendue immense a laquelle il se
fait sentir les ravages qu'il produit et la puissance de la cause qu'il faut lui

iupposer.
   " Mais on n'a pas assez fait attention au branlement facile de toutes les

particules d'une masse solide. Le choc produit par la tete d'une epingle,

a I'un des bouts d'une longue poutre, fait vibrer toutes ses fibres, et se transmet

distinctemeut a I'autre bout a une oreille attentive. Le mouvement d'une
voiture sur le pave ebranle les plus vastes edifices et se communique a
travers des masses considerables, comme dans les carrieres profondes au
(Jessous de Paris. Qu' y aurait il done d'etonnant qu'une commotion tres

forte dans les entrailles de la terre la fit trembler dans un rayon de plusieurs
centaines de lieues ? D'apres la loi de transmission du mouvement dans les
corps elastiques lacouche extreme ne trouvant pas a transmettre son mouve-
ment a d'autres couches, tend a se detacher de la masse ebranlee; de la

meme maniere que dans une file de billes, dont la premiere est frappee dans

le sens des contacts, la derniere seule se detache et prend du mouvement.
C'est ainsi que je consols les effets des tremblemens a la surface de la terre,
et comment j'expliquerais leur grand diversite en prenant d'ailleurs en con-

sideration, avec M. De Humboldt, la nature du sol et les solutions de conti-

nuite que peuvent s'y trouver.
   " En un mot, les tremblemens de terre ne sont que la propagation d'une

commotion a travers la masse de la terre, tellement, independante des cavites
aouterraines, qu'elle s'etendrait d'autant plus loin que la terre serait plus
homogene." Annul, de Chim. vol. xxii. p. 4-28, 429.

   In Von Hoff's ' Geschichte der Veranderungen der Erdoberflache,' 5 Theil,
Gotha, 1822 to 1841, much information as to earthquakes is to be found;
--24 iiEPORT 1850.

the author Iiowever limits himself almost whoUj' to the descriptive character
which a history of the earth's superficial changes alone requires, and says
little of theory, and as 1 shall have large occasion to refer to him hereafter in

reference to earthquake catalogues, the present notice of his work may here

suffice.

   Hoffman and Kries may also be noticed as German authors on earthquakes.
   In 184'.'5, the Professors H. D. and W. B. Rogers of America commu-

nicated a paper to the British Association of rather an elaborate character
upon the phaenomena and theory of earthquakes. They adopt Mitchell's
view, and suppose the earth-wave an actual fold of the solid crust, produced
by a lava-wave of translation on the surface of the molten matter beneath.

   They infer from two great earthquakes that this moves at from 27 to 30
miles per minute, either in nearly straight or in curved lines, according to
the form and position of the focus or points of volcanic action.

   The sea-waves of earthquakes they suppose to be broad undulations of
the Avater moving in the same direction with the pulsation of the crust
and corresponding in breadth with that of the undulations of the earth's
crust ; yet these, say they, moved at the rate of 3| miles per minute, in the

case of the New England earthquake of 1756, and of 5 miles per minute in

that of Lisbon ; a striking inconsistency with the velocity previously assigned
to the earth -wave.

   The tremor or vibratory jar accompanying the great shock or earth-wave,
they suppose arises from the crushing of the strata through which the shock

passes.

   In 184-4 appeared Mr. Scott Russell's full report upon sea and other waves,
the laws developed in which as to the motions of waves of translation had an
important effect upon the immediately subsequent advance towards a com-
plete and true theory of earthquake phaenomena.

    In February 1846, the author's paper upon the dynamics of earthquakes
was read to the Royal Irish Academy, and published in vol. xxi. part 1 of
the Transactions of that Academy, in which the first attempt was made to
establish upon strict physical bases a theory that should embrace and account

Howfor all the recordedplicEnomena of earthquakes, both on land and sea.

far he has succeeded in this, futurity must decide.
    In June 1847, Mr. Hopkins produced his report on the theories of ele-

vation and earthquakes (Trans. Brit. Assoc). The principal features of
this paper are, a digest of his previously published mathematical papers
on the formation of fissures, &c. by elevations and depressions; a popular
resume of the acknowledged laws of formation and propagation of elastic and
fluid waves, and the partially placing in a mathematical dress the author's

theory of earthquake motions as developed in the paper last alluded to ; to
this is to be added a demonstration of a method for finding analytically the
depth of the centre of disturbance, from observations made with a seismometer,
such as that described by the author. (Trans. Roy. Irish Acad. vol. xxi.)

   I have thus brought the literature of earthquakes down to the present
time ; in doing so I would not be misunderstood as attempting a complete ac-
count thereof, but such merely as is sufficient to mark the progress of human
knowledge of our subject ; I have therefore omitted to notice the able resumes
of such literature given by Sir C. Lyell (Prin. Geol. chap. 28 to 33), and by
several otiier authors. Neither have I at all adverted to the works of authors

writing specially of volcanoes, as, although connected with our subject, not
properly belonging to it.

   I now proceed to the more immediate subject of this Report.
----                                    :

ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHJBNOMENA.  25

   In commencing a Report upon the facts of earthquakes, it would be de-
sirable, if possible, first to discuss and state the distribution of their occur-
rence both in time and in space upon the earth : for either of these, however,
complete data are not yet in existence ; no catalogue of eai-thquakes has ever
yet been compiled which endeavours to embrace in number and condi-
tion those recorded even since the invention o( printing. The completest
catalogue that could be compiled would not give much more than the places
convulsed and the dates of the occurrence approximately; yet such would
not be without important use, and I have accordingly made considerable
progress in the laborious task of having such a catalogue prepared, and
trust to be enabled to give the results of its completion and discussion in a
second part of the present Report at a future meeting. Meanwhile I may

state (provisionally) that

       1st. Earthquakes occur over all parts of the earth's surface, both
          on land and under the ocean.

   Egypt was one of the countries long believed to be free from earthquakes,
from which no doubt, like many other parts of the world, it enjoyed during
a long historical period a considerable immunity. But that even Egypt has
been absolutely exempt from earthquakes, seems disproved by the scattering
of the gigantic ruins of the Memnonium, bearing all the marks of having
been thus overthrown, and by the distinct testimony of Strabo, that one
of the two colossal figures of the plain of Thebes was commonly said in his
time to have been overthrown by an earthquake :

    " eyravdu Be Svo'iv KoXocrerwv ovrwv fiovoXidwv aX\{]X-<t)v ir\r)aiov, 6 fiey

--iTiiJ^erai, tov S' erepov to. avio fiepr) to. awo ttjs KadeSpas irexTWKe aeiaiiov

yeyridei'Tos, i'ls (paai." Strab. Her. Geogr. lib. xvii.
   The question of earthquakes occurring in Egypt is set at rest however by

Bishop Pocock the traveller, who tells us in his 'Description of Egypt,'p. 195,
   " It has hardly been known that they had any earthquakes in Egypt, but

in January 1740 they had three great shocks, which threw down mosques
and several houses."

      2nd. They occur in all time, at all seasons, and at all hours of
          day and night.

   So that were we able to survey this planet's history in all time, we should
find no portion of its crust which had not at some period or other been
convulsed by earthquakes ; and could we have intelligence constantly from
over its entire surface, we should find that no day passed free from one or
many of these phaenomena.

    Seneca, in a passage as remarkable for its truth as for the dignity of its
expression, affirms his belief in the universal dominion of change, and of

earthquakes over all the earth :

   " Omnia ejusdem sortis sunt, etsi nondum mota tamen mobilia; erramus
enim si uUam terrarum partem exceptam immunemque ab hoc periculo
credimus : omnes sub eadem jacent lege, nihil ita ut immobile esset natura
concepit: alia temporibus aliis cadunt; et quemadmodum in urbibus magnis
nunc haec domus, nunc ilia suspenditur, ita in hoc orbe terrarum, nunc haec
pars facit vitium, nunc ilia. Tyrus aliquando infamis ruinis fuit. Asia duo-
decim urbes simul perdidit. Anno priore Achaiam et Macedoniam quse-
cunque est ista vis mali quae incurrit nunc Campaniam laesit. Circuit fatum,
et siquid diu prasteriit repetit. Quaedam rarius solicitat, ssepius qusedam
nihil immune esse et innoxium sinit. Non homines tantum, qui brevis et
caduca res nascitur ; urbes orseque terrarum et litora et ipsum mare in ser-
                                --;

--26 REPORT 1850.

vitutem fati venit. Quo ergo nobis permansura promittimus bona fortunae,

et felicitatem (cujus ex omnibus rebus humanis velocissima est levitas) habi-

turam in aliquo pondus et moram credinius? Perpetua sibi omnia promit-
tentibus in menteni non venit, id ipsuni supra quod stanius stabile non esse.
Neque enim Campaniae istud aut Achaioe, sed oranis soli vitium est, male
cohoerere, et ex causis plurimis resolvi, et summa manere, partibus ruere."

 Qucest. Nat. lib. vi.

       3rd. There seems at present no sufficient ground for affirming
           that one portion of the earth's duration has been more subject
            to their occurrence than another

      4th. Or that one portion of the earth's crust has always been
           more subject to earthquakes than another.

       4th bis. But some portions of the earth's crust appear to have
            sustained a sort of periodicity in their visitation by earthquakes

     -- long periods of repose being followed by shorter, but still

            long periods of agitation.

   Thus Antioeh affords perhaps the most remarkable instance, having for a
long period been shaken nearly every year during the Roman empire, then
having a period of repose of nearly 300 years, and then again becoming very

subject to these convulsions.

       5th. But those portions of the earth's surface which lie in or
           around the great present lines or centres of volcanic action do
           appear at present to be most subject to earthquakes.

      6th. And earthquakes are most prevalent and most violent in

           some relation to the activity and intensity of the volcanic ac-

            tion, at these lines or centres, at given times.

    There appears to be beyond question the closest sympathy within all vol-
canic areas \i.e. areas where active volcanoes are found and surrounded with
formations due to their former and present action), between the activity of
the volcanic vents and the shocks of earthquakes.

    Thus, in 1816, slight earthquakes at Scaccia in Sicily preluded the eleva-

tion of the new island Julia.

   When Monte Nuovo was thrown up in 1538, on the day and night before

above twenty shocks were felt.

   When Monte Rossi was formed by iEtna in 1669, and when the enormous

fissure of twelve miles in length at once opened up the bowels of the volcano,
an earthquake shook down Nicolosi and damaged Catania. The eruptions
of 1811 and 1819 were also attended with earthquakes.

    In Iceland earthquake^long preluded the great eruption of Skaptar Jokul,

and reached their maximum violence on the day of the eruption, 11 th of June,

1783.

   At Lancerote in the Canaries, violent earthquakes preceded and followed
the eruptions, near the shore, of 1824. Santorin in the Greek Archipelago,
was separated from Therasia by an ejuption in the year before Christ 236,
which, according to Pliny, was attended with earthquakes ; and several more
recent submarine eruptions, near it, have been also accompanied with earth-

quakes.
    In a w ord, every great eruption, in whatever part of tlie world it has been ob-

served, and whether from a volcanic vent on land, or formed beneath the sea,
is accompanied by earthquake shocks of greater or less violence and duration.
ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.  2'j

    But conversely, not only are eruptions thus accompanied by earthquakes,
but earthquakes, though not always, are on almost all great occasions accom-
panied by eruptions or perturbations of established volcanic action. For ex-
ample, during the great Calabrian earthquake Stromboli was noticed to be
less active than it had been for years before, and at Messina, " the com-
mandant of the citadel saw the sea at a quarter of a mile from the fortress
rise up and boil in a most extraordinary manner, accompanied with a horrid

noise, while all the rest of the water in the Faro was tranquil " (Sir W.

Hamilton) ; and afterwards there was shoal water at the spot where before
it had been deep.

   In the great Chilian earthquake of 1820, at the moment the shock was
felt at Valdivia, in lat. 39° 50' S., two volcanoes near it burst at once into
eruption for a few seconds, and then again became quiescent. (M. Place,

Quart. Journ. vol. xvii.)

   At Concepcion, volcanoes broke out from beneath the sea at the time the

great sea-wave rolled in (or probably before it?).
   Hot springs have frequently sympathized with earthquakes at great di-

stances, as those at Tcepliz, which ran dry, and then again flowed discoloured

with iron rust during the great Lisbon shocks. No one is ignorant of the

melting of the chain cable of the Volage man-of-war at anchor during an
earthquake off the coast of South America ; and instances might be multi-
plied almost without limit of similar events during the period of earthquakes
which have not been begun with visible eruptions from neighbouring vents.

   Thus the close connection of volcanic action and of earthquake movements
must be viewed as abundantly established.

   There appear to be over the earth's surface at least twenty eruptions per
annum, and probably quite as many considerable earthquakes. Several in-
stances are on record of earthquakes having at once ceased on the opening
up of volcanic vents near or more distant. Thus Strabo (lib. i. p, 85) re-
lates, that the shocks of the island of Euboea ceased as soon as a crevasse
formed in the Lelantine plain, which discharged " a river of fiery mud," i. e.
of lava. That such vents are efficient at enormous distances from the shaken
country is well evidenced ; it is only, in other words, that earthquake shocks
are transmitted from their centres to vast distances.

   There are not data to enable us now to affirm what portions of the earth's
surface are now or have been at given epochs least affected by earthquakes,
nor does it follow that those most remote from volcanic active centres will

be those least subject to earthquakes ; on the contrary, there is reason to
suppose that the intervening formations, in the nature and depth of their

rocks or loose materials, have much influence upon this. It is certain that

      7th. Many portions of the earth's surface, which are not now

           active volcanic centres, nor very closely adjacent thereto, nor
            yet the centres of extinct volcanic action, are subject to fre-
            quent earthquakes.

   Thus earthquake shocks have been felt even in the loosest alluvial depo-
sits of Holland, around Middleburg and Flushing, in the great Prussian
plain, and at Cutch, in the low-lying Delta of the Indus.

      8th. Regions which are the centres now of extinct volcanic ac-
          tion do not appear more subject to earthquakes than other

           regions whose formations are altogether non-volcanic.
       9th. Although regions of active volcanic action are those also of

          most frequent earthquake movements, yet the most violent
28 REPORT-- 1850.

   earthquakes do not appear to be those whose theatre of action
   is closest to the volcanic vents themselves : on the contrary,
   the most violent recorded earthquakes appear to have con-
   vulsed regions lying some degrees away from the nearest
   volcano in action.

10th. And in general tlie most violent recorded earthquakes

   have occurred within a certain undetermined radius round
   active volcanic centres, not far inland or in the heart of con-
   tinents, but upon the sea-coasts, or near them.

   Some doubt however hangs over this last, as some very ancient earthquakes
of tremendous intensity appear to have occurred in central and northern Asia.
Whether the proximity of the sea also is directly concerned or not is unde-

termined : it seems probable that all the great lines or centres of active vol-
canic action are near the sea-coast, and that their propinquity determines that
of the earthquake.

10th bis. It seems to be the opinion of Humboldt, that the area
   of shaken country also sometimes enlarges in consequence of

    a previous violent earthquake.

   Thus, " It is only since the destruction of Cumana in 1Y97> that every
shock of the southern coast is felt in the mica-slate of the peninsula of Ma-

--niguarez." (Cosmos.) The centre of disturbance also shifts its position

during long-continued earthquakes. Thus, in the Calabrian earthquake it

moved twice northward eight or nine leagues, and in the New Madrid earth-

quakes of 1811 to 1813, the progress northward in the basins of the Mis-
sissippi, the Ohio and the Arkansas was remarked.

   This opinion, however, is hard to give unquestioned credence to, if we
bear in mind that earthquake shocks are not communicated through tubes or

vents, torn in any Avay or already existing under ground, but are best pro-

pagated and go furthest where the ground through which they pass is most

solid, dense and homogeneous.

11th. Earthquake shocks have been felt on the ocean at vast                      I
   distances from any land, and in some cases the shock has been
   nearly vertical and occurring in places where the depth of
   water was profound, and where no phaenomenon on the sur-
   face of the ocean indicated any volcanic action then active
    beneath.

On this we may remark, however, that the most formidable volcanic ac-

tivity, greater probably than we have any experience of on the dry land, may

possibly exist constantly or occasionally in the bed of the deep ocean, and

yet no trace of it beyond a transient earthquake shock be known to those
floating over the surface. At a depth of tive miles of sea water we can well

imagine that lava poured out would be rapidly cooled, that steam formed

would be condensed long before it reached the surface, that rocks projected
upwards into so dense a resisting medium would fall back long before they

reached even the sun's light, and that pumice or other light and porous pro-
ducts of volcanoes on land or in shallow water may have no existence under

such prodigious pressure.

Great confusion prevails amongst earthquake narrators as to the use of the

Weword sJwck.  find constant mention made of the " shook lasting several
ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.  29

minutes ;" " the shock continued nearly an hour," and other such vague ex-
pressions. The abuse of language here consists in almost every author using
the words, duration of the shock, as synonymous with the whole period of
motion, comprehended from any one commencement to the next great pause

during the occurrence of the whole earthquake. To be able at all clearly to
comprehend these narratives, it is necessary to bear in mind that the word,

shock, is properly limited to the single motion due to a single impulse ; that
this motion occupies an extremely short time in passing a given station, and
that when " the shock lasting some minutes," &c. is spoken of, it means that
for some minutes there was a succession of these motions with short or
variable intervals between them ; i. e. a great number of shocks in quick suc-
cession. Hence we find that

       12th. The earth-wave or shock is a motion of great velocity and
         occurring during a very short moment of time at any given

              spot.

    It varies indefinitely however in force and in extent of motion ; sometimes
it amounts to a concussion like the blowing up of a mine at a great depth
under one's feet; at other times it is a mere vibration scarcely to be felt, like
that produced by a carriage running over a distant pavement ; yet these are
but degrees of the same thing. So again the rapidity with which the shocks
succeed each other varies. Sometimes a single powerful shock is felt alone,
or but two or three are felt in pretty rapid succession, and then a period of
complete or of comparative tranquillity occurs, during which the shocks are
so reduced in power as to require attention to perceive them ; and in this
case they often recur with such rapidity as to convey to the observer the
idea of a vibration or continuous jar, and this often along with the roll of the
greater wave-like shock.

   It has been ascertained that sixteen vibrations per second, or 960 in a
minute, is about the limit at which the ear distinguishes between a continuous

sound or tone, and a regularly recurring noise or jar. I am not aware that

any information exists as to the relative sensibility to recurrent vibrations of
the ear, and of the nerves of feeling generally ; but assuming them to be about
the same, it follows, that when the number of shocks per second is about six-
teen, nothing will be felt but a continuous vibration or jar by an earthquake
observer, whilst below this number the separate vibrations or shocks can
be distinguished. This view, I conceive, clears up one very puzzling cir-
cumstance hitherto looked upon as deducible from most earthquake narra-
tives, namely, that there are two distinct sorts of shocks, the explosive and the
vibratory, or three, as Humboldt makes out, by adding the vorticose to the
number. It appears just to conclude from all narratives rightly interpreted,
that there is but one order of earth-wave or shock, namely, the normal
wave, and possibly small transversal vibrations transmitted along with it, and
these capable of reflexion, dispersion, change of velocity, &c. ; but that
the rate of succession and the individual intensity of each shock vary in-

definitely.

       13th. The total duration of motion at a given spot varies indefi-
           nitely, or between limits which have not been ascertained.

    It appears to be established that in the greatest earthquakes, the most
violent shocks are very few in number, sometimes only one, usually not more
than three or four, and that to these the great mischief is due, so that in a
few seconds a vast country is laid waste and its cities and towns overturned,
as in the great Calabrian earthquake of 1 783 ; that these great shocks recur
--30 REPORT 1850.

at intervals wholly irregular, but that in the intervals between (and preceding
and following) these, there is occasionally a more or less continuous recur-
rence of smaller shocks ; these also have tlieir irregular periods of greater and
of less repose ; so that on the whole the earthquake is often, as to time, like an
occasional cannonade during a continuous but irregular rattle of musketry.

    The small rapid shocks are usually in close precession and succession to
the great ones, and coexist with them. Tims, Don Palaccio Faxar, in his de-
scription of the earthquake at Caraccas, of March 26, 1812, says, "The
weather being fine, a hollow roar like that of a cannon was heard and was
followed by the shock, which lasted about 17 seconds; this was succeeded
by a shock lasting 20 seconds ; and after 14 seconds' interval by a third of
15 seconds* duration. Total durationU minute and 15 seconds with a motion
from W. to E." (Quart. Journ. vol. ii. p. 4-02.)

   The total duration of motion (i. e. of violent rising and transverse undula-
tion) of the great earthquake of Caraccas (March 26, 1812), was estimated

--by some at 50 seconds, by others at 1 minute 12 seconds. Humboldt, Per.

Nar. vol. iv. p. 17.

   Again, as to the New Zealand earthquake of 19th October ISiS, " At five

in the morning a sharp shock. The extreme force of the shock lasted rather
less than a minute; there was considerable motion for 3^ minutes, and the vi-

--bration lasted for 8 minutes from the commencement of the shock." West.

Rev. July 1849.

   The Syrian earthquake of 1759 also lasted altogether about 8 minuted

(Dr. Russell, Phil. Trans. 1760), but a continuance of very small shocks at
intervals, or of very small and rapidly recurring shocks, has been often ob-
served for long periods of time. Thus, in the Andes, the earth has quaked
incessantly for days together; and on the eastern slopes of the Alps of

Mont Cenis, about Fenestrella and Pignerol in 1808, in North America, at
New Madrid and Little Prairie, north of Cincinnati after 181 1, and at Aleppo
in 1822, shocks were felt hour by hour for several months ; so also at Comrie

in Scotland, at longer intervals, they have long been felt ; and at Zante, in the
Greek Archipelago, slight shocks, at all hours, are almost continual, as long as
the present inhabitants recollect.

   Humboldt is of opinion that this prolonged continuance of slight shocks
only occurs in districts remote from anj' active volcano. This however does

not appear to be borne out by the observations made in New Zealand. In

the earthquake there of October 1848, the shocks continued nearly five weeks
before they became insensible, the district being one immediately adjacent to
active volcanoes. There were during the larger portion of the time at least
one thousand shocks per day. (West. Rev. July 1849.)

   The recurrence of slight shocks at nearly regular intervals, and having an

apparent connection with the recurrent projections from closely adjacent vol-
canoes, has been observed ; thus, Humboldt remarked shocks on Vesuvius and
on Pichincha, which were regularly periodic, and from 20 to 30 seconds be-
fore each projection of ashes and vapour.

       14th. The absolute area convulsed at one earthquake epoch,
           varies vrithin indeterminate limits, and is related apparently
         in its extent to the maximum force of the shocks.

    Instances are recorded of very violent single shocks having been felt which
were limited to very small areas, and here usually the direction of the shock
has been nearly vertically upwards. This has been most remarkable in ob-
servations made at sea; and slight shocks, however numerous, do not appear

to actuate large areas, but in the greater earthquakes the total space shaken
                                       ;

ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.  31

ia enormous; thus, in the great Lisbon earthquake of November 1755, an
area of the earth's crust more than four times the surface of all Europe was

shaken.

   It was felt in the Alps, on the shores of Sweden, in the West Indies, on the
lakes of Canada, in Ireland, in Thuringia and in Northern Germany ; at
Toepliz (where the hot springs ran drj'), and at the Lesser Antilles, the usual
tide of two feet or so was one of twenty feet.

   Thus, taking the area shaken at 3300 miles long and 2700 miles wide, which
is equal to 7,500,000 square miles, and supposing the motion only extended
to an average depth of twenty miles, there must have been 150 millions cubic
miles of solid matter put in motion, a mass which conveys to the imagination
some notion of the enormous power of the originating impulses. Yet let it
be remembered that the whole of this mass was never in motion at once, but
merely a comparatively small crest or wall of its particles put in motion,
which transferred their moving force again to those beyond.

   The earthquake in Syria in 1759, extended, says Sir C. Lyell, over a space
df ten thousand square leagues, and for three months continuously this vast
area was shaken.

   Hamilton thinks the main force of the great Calabrian earthquake was
comprised within a circle of 44 miles diameter, or 1520 miles area, but that
its shocks were felt throughout a circle of 144 miles diameter or over an area

of country of 16,286 square miles.

   M. Place (Quart. Journ. vol, xvii.) says of the earthquake of 1820, the
principal force was exerted in a circle of about 50 miles diameter, the centre
a little N.E. of Valparaiso persons N. of that felt the shocks from the S.W.,

                                                                                                                                    ;

those to the S. of it from the N.E. The earthquake was felt from Copiabo
in the north to Valdivia in the south, distant 900 miles, and convulsed not
leas than 100,000 square miles.

   Sometimes however the area shaken even by a very violent shock is ex-
tremely limited ; thus the city of Coquimbo was destroyed in great part by a
shock in 1820, which produced no alarm and did no mischief in any other
part of the country, according to M. Place (Quart. Journ. vol. xvii.). The
shock here probably in every case is a vertical one, from directly beneath,
and at a small depth as regards centre of impulse.

      15 th. The shock or earth-wave is a true undulation of the solid

            crust of the earth.

   " The sand in the streets of Port Royal rose like waves of a troubled sea,"
says the recounter of the great Jamaica earthquake of 1692.

   The amount of undulations, and the rapidity with which these succeed each
other, differ, but the great mass of earthquake observers concur in descri-

bing a distinct undulation of the surface of the ground. In the greatest
shocks this undulation has been often visible to the eye, as in the great
Jamaica earthquake, where the passage of the wave was said to be rendered
visible by the opening and immediate closing in again of fissures (this how-
ever need.s confirmation). It is indirectly rendered evident by the tops of
trees bending over first to one side and then to the opposite, and by various
other motions described as communicated to solids and liquids.

   Whenever the undulation of the surface has been described as most distinct,
the direction of the shock has been also described by being nearly horizontal
where, on the other hand, the shock has been felt as coming up from beneath,

the undulation of the surface has escaped observation or not existed.

   In the smaller shocks, whatever their direction may have been, the undu-
lation of the surface has not been observed, that is to say, was not directly
observable ; but it has been inferred from observations made as to the oscilla-
                                                  --

--32 REPORT 1850.

tions communicated to fluids, pendulums, &c. ; and there is no reason from
any recorded facts for supposing that the small jarring and rapidly recurrent
shocks are less undulations than the greater ones, though the former may
mutually interfere and be incapable of recognition as undulations directly by
the unaided senses.

       16th. The undulation which constitutes the earth-wave or shock
            has a real motion of translation.

   The shock travels over the shaken country visiting it in succession (where
the direction is nearly horizontal, which is by far the most usual case) ; this is
generally obvious, and the cases of simultaneous shock over large areas are

rare.

   " The motion evidently moves along a line " (i. e. horizontally and parallel
to itself), " and at the same time moves upwards so as to produce an undu-
lating motion. Any one who has been in the habit of swimming in the sea
during a considerable swell, must have felt something of this; the wave
comes on and moves the swimmer's body forwards, but not so much as it
moves it upwards when under the full influence of the wave." Such is the

graphic account of the describer of the New Zealand earthquake of 1848.
--(West. Rev. July 1849.)

   Thus also at Messina, in the great Calabrian earthquake, the shock was
seen to commence at one end of the Faro, and in rapid succession to overturn
the houses and buildings of the city, advancing along to the other end, " like
a succession of mines rapidly sprung beneath."

   So in the earthquake of Lisbon, the distances travelled by the shock were
so immense that the ordinary measures of time became sufficient to point out
roughly the intervals of its successive arrival at distant places ; and from such
observations Mitchell has constructed a table, by which, with wonderful ac-
curacy for his time, he has calculated both the time of transit of the shock and
of the great sea-wave which subsequently broke upon so many different shores.

   But such calculations cannot be precise, because we do not know the exact
direction of motion of the shock, which is probably never perfectly horizontal
at any given spot.

       17th. The direction of translation of the earth-wave or shock
           varies from vertically upwards, to horizontally, or nearly hori-
           zontally in any azimuth.

    This is evident from all earthquake narrations; but in carefully discussing
these I conceive the following propositions will be found borne out :

    a. In shocks felt after having traversed a long distance, i. e. at long
        distances from the point of impulse, the shock is usually, if not always
         nearly horizontal.

    b. In great earthquakes within a considerable radius, and in all within a
        certain range of the centre of impulse, the direction of the shocks is
       sensibly inclined more or less upwards.

    c. In some of the greatest and most destructive recorded shocks, the di-
       rection of the movement has been nearly vertically upwards, as in the
       great shocks of Calabria and at Riobamba in South America.

   d. The direction of successive shocks often varies during the continuance
       of the same earthquake. Thus during the Calabrian earthquake, the point
       from which most of the shocks seemed to come moved northwards, by
        a distance of eight or ten leagues, at each of two epochs, 5th and 7th
        of February and 28th of March.

    e. It sometimes happens that two shocks, moving in diffierent directions,
        arrive at the one spot in close succession, or almost together. In this
                                                                             ;

       ON THE FACTS OP EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.     33

    case, it has been stated that one shock is observed moving nearly horizon-
    tally, and the other nearly vertically, or very much inclined to the horizon.

f. There is no good evidence of two shocks arriving together, or nearly so,
    at one point, both horizontally, and from different points of the horizon.
    Such an occurrence has been often inferred from phsenomena admitting
    of another solution (as we shall see when speaking of vorticose move-

    ments); but there is no a priori reason why, from two distant centres
    of impulse, horizontal shocks should not be felt at once; and this seems

    to have been remarked by Humboldt in Asia.

18th. The motion of translation of the earth-wave or shock is
   rectilinear and not curvilinear.

All observers concur in stating, that the general direction of motion of the

shock, whether horizontal, inclined or vertical, is rectilinear. Such is the
testimony of the unaided senses. It is also the conclusion to be drawn from

the motions observed as given by the shock when more or less horizontal,

to fluids in bowls or tubs, to pendulums, to candelabra in churches, to

furniture, &c. ; and from the motions directly given to men, who have felt
themselves "jerked upwards," as in New Zealand (West. Review, July 1849)

or to articles thrown on to others, as a barrel standing close to a mass of jars,

and caused to leap up upon them, as at New Zealand ; or to a ship's mast, un-

shipped by a shock from beneath at sea.

But from a misinterpretation of some such phsenomena, authors of the

highest ability have affirmed, that there are other shocks which are not recti-

linear in their motion of translation, but consist in a vorticose or twisting motion
of the ground, a rapid rotation in fact of any given point round some distant

centre. The Italians distinguish popularly three sorts of shocks, the orizontale,

the oscillatorio and the vorticoso. The twisting of the Calabrian obelisks has

been given as the most convincing proof of this; and Humboldt (Cosmos) says,

" Circular or rotatory concussions are the rarest, but they are the most dan-

gerous of all. The twisting round of the steeple of the church at Inverness,

Scotland, on the 13th of August, in the year 1816, as related in Tilloch's

Magazine, vol. xlviii. p. 150, though a little known or noticed instance, is a far
more remarkable one than that of the oft-recited obelisks. Twisting round of

walls without throwing them down, plantations of trees which had previously

stood in parallel rows deflected, the directions of the ridges of fields covered

with grain altered, were observed at Riobamba, Feb. 4, 1797, and in Calabria,

Feb. 5 and March 28, 1783." He adds, " With the latter phsenomenon of rota-

tion, or the transposition of fields and cultivated plots of ground, of which one

has occasionally taken the place of another, there is connected a translatory

motion, or mutual penetration of several strata. When taking the plan of the

ruined city of Riobamba, I was shown a place where the whole furniture of one

dwelling-house had been found under the ruins of another. The loose earth

of the surface had run in streams like a fluid, of which it must be conceived

that it was first directed downwards, then horizontally, and finally upwards."

I maintain that there is no evidence whatever, from any observed facts,

for assuming any vorticose motion of the shock, or any other than a recti-

linear one. The case of tlie Calabrian obelisks and of the church of La
Merceda at Valparaiso, I believe it is admitted that I have disposed of in my
paper on the Dynamics of Earthquakes, read to the Royal Irish Academy in

Feb. 1846, and shown that rectilinear motion is sufficient to account for all

such cases of twisting. In the cases above adduced by Humboldt, he has

fallen into the greater error of mistaking the secondary eflTects of landslips,

and THEIR twistings of the land, for those of vorticose motion, as I shall more

particularly explain when treating of the secondary effects of earthquakes.

1850.                                         D
--34 REPORT 1850.

   Lastlj', the observer of the New Zealand earthquake of ] 848 records, that

certain vessels of milk had a movement of rotation given to the fluid they
contained, so as to accumulate the cream in the centre. (Westminster Re-

view, July 1849, p. 402.) He appears only to infer rotation from the accu-

mulation of the cream in the centre. This accumulation might take place
from oscillation in one plane only in a shallow milk vessel; but admitting
at once the rotation, there is no ground for concluding vorticose motion in
the shock from this. Indeed this observer himself goes much nearer it when
he says, " Some of the shocks had a cross motion," &c. It is not easy to say
what this exactly means ; but one can readily see, that if oscillation be given to
a fluid in a circular vessel, first in one plane, and then, while this continues, in
another plane forming an angle with the previous one, by a subsequent shock
whose direction was different, rotation will be at once communicated to the
fluid ; and this I believe to have been the solution of this case.

   M. Place records, and the same has been done by others, that in some of
the South American earthquakes a conical cavity was found worked out in

the ground, around the base of the trunks of palms and large trees. This
would appear at first sight like a vorticose twisting round and round of the
stem, so as to work out this hollow ; and such a twisting actually took place
no doubt; but any inverted pendulum with an elastic stem, such as a tree is,

                              the centre of gravity of whose head does not coincide with
                                the vertical plane passing through the centre of elastic eflbrt
                                of the stem, will thus rotate from a single impulse given in
                               one right line; and it is the tendency to do this that con-
                              stitutes the vice of all inverted pendulums as seismometers.

                                    While, however, I consider it proved that there is no
                            evidence whatever for any other mode of propagation or
                                translation of the earth-wave or shock than that of a right
                               line in any given direction towards the earth's surface,

                          or parallel to it, I am prepared to admit that upon

                               this very principle it is possible for a most violent
                               wrenching or twisting motion to be given to any spot
                             of tolerably large size upon the surface of the earth.
                                If, for exau\ple, from a centre of impulse at a great
                             depth below the centre of a surface comprehended by
a circle of, say a mile in radius, and in a direction to meet the extremity of
any given radius, a shock be transmitted, and that by rapid and continuous
change in the nature and direction of the impulse, a quick succession of
such shocks be transferred round the whole circumference of this circle, so
as to describe by their path a cone in the solid earth, whose apex is the centre of
impulse, and whose base is the circle on the surface before defined, then as
each portion of this circle is lifted in rapid succession, it is manifest that all
upon and within it, and by connection of parts all for a distance, gradually
disappearing around it, will be shaken by a violent wrenching motion, which
will make every body upon the surface describe an irregular conical figure
in space also.
    But while it is thus worth while to show that such a complex movement

may result from simple rectilinear wave motion, I have been able to find no

record that gives the least presumption of any such phaenomena having ac-
tually occurred, when the facts are rightly interpreted in accordance with
admitted mechanical laws.

    Let it be noticed however here, that there are, a priori, strict grounds of
exact science for believing, that in all great shocks of earthquake, besides the
transmission of the great wave in the normal direction from the point of
original impulse, there will necessarily be transmitted one, if not two sets of
ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.  35

transversal waves, of much less dimensions, and whose time of arrival at a
given distant point from the origin, will be somewhat later than that of the
normal wave; and where the normal is transmitted in a direction horizontal,

or nearly so, these transversal secondary waves will be felt as a short tremor,
or shaking up and down, and crosswise to the line of translation of the normal

wave, and almost at the same time with it. (See Poisson, Mem. Acad. Scien.,

1816, 1817, 1823.)

   This combination of motion is clearly described by Aristotle ; and when
experienced by alarmed persons, unused to precise observation, may well
give rise to the extraordinary and perplexing accounts of the nature of the
movements which abound in earthquake narratives.

       19th. The earth-wave or shock has in all cases a true wave form
          upon the surface of the earth, and when its direction of trans-
          lation is quam proxime horizontally along the earth's surface,
           the crest of the wave advances along a given line and parallel

             to itself.

   For this more perfect evidence is desirable. In the case where the shock
comes up vertically, or nearly so, from beneath, we have evidence that the
demolition of buildings, &c. has been greatest where the shock has been felt
most vertical, as under the town of Oppido in the great Calabrian earth-
quake, and that all around this the destruction became less and less as the
direction of the shock was more inclined, yet not diminishing with a very

strict regularity.

   Now as in such a case the mere change of direction of shock from vertical

to inclined would have the directly opposite tendency, if taken alone, as the
inclined shocks all around would, if eqnal in extent of movement, throw
down buildings, &c. more effectually than a vertical one (as is evident), the
change in destructive power must have been due to another cause, namely
to the actual amount of motion having been greater at the centre under
Oppido than in circles receding around it. Hence we conclude that the
greatest amount of motion was at the centre, where the shock was vertical
at Oppido, and that here the crest of the wave was raised the highest ; that,
in fact, at the moment of the shock the whole surface was momentarily raised
into a very flattened dome-shaped wave (the height of the dome being of
course extremely small as compared with its diameter), and again dropped
down to its former configuration of surface as the wave passed outwards at

all sides.

   Whatever differences may be due in such cases to differences in terrene
formation, this must never be overlooked, namely, that supposing a shock
transmitted through a perfectly homogeneous mass from a deep centre of
effort, and the pulses passing outwards in all directions in spherical shells,
there will be a circle, upon the earth's surface, somewhere at a determinate

horizontal distance from the central point vertically over the centre of effort,
in which the upsetting or overturning power of a shock of given intensity
will be greater than at any point within or without this circle ; within, be-

---6'-"

         u2
--36 RKPOBT 1850.

cause here the direction of shock is more vertical, and therefore less calcu-
lated to overturn buildings, &c. ; and without, because the power of the
shock, though there more horizontal, has become weakened by distance of
transmission. Thus let a be the centre of effort, b, b' the extreme limits of
shock, o,c the vertical passing through the centre of effort, then some points,
e, e', on the earth's surface, b, e, c, b, will lie in a circle, where the shock will be
more potent in overthrowing buildings than in any other within or without.

    But when the surface of observation lies much further away from the

 centre of impulse, so that the shock advances along the surface, apparently
horizontally, then there is more distinct evidence that its advancing crest is

linear. Thus in the Calabrian earthquake, observers remarked many build-
ings, or even whole villages, overthrown at the same moment along a distant
line of country ; and this demolition appeared to progress in a similar way
over the country. Similar facts are recorded by Prof. Rogers of American

 earthquakes. (Trans. Brit. Ass. for 184'3-4'4.)
    There is every a priori reason to suppose, that the crest of such a wave,

being the intersection at the surface of the spherical shell of elastic com-
pression produced by the original impulse of whatever sort beneath, moves
upon the earth's surface outwards, from the point immediately above its deep
centre of impulse, in lines parallel to themselves, and which are large circles,
or several intersecting large circles, or possibly occasionally ellipses, and with
the dimensions of the wave itself continually decreasing, but with unaltered
velocity of transit, save in so far as this is effected by changes in the character
of the formations through which it passes. This has not yet been proved by
any direct observation, and it remains still to be found what is the curve or
form assumed by the crest of the nearly horizontal travelling earth-wave or
shock. But to this we shall more particularly allude when referring to the
desiderata of our knowledge of earthquakes. To those lines along which
the shock is simultaneously felt in passing outwards from the origin, I have
proposed to give the name oi coseismal lines.

       20th. The earth-wave or shock has determined dimensions in
           height and breadth, or in altitude and in amplitude, and these
           are dependent upon the force of the original impulse, the
           nature of the materials through which it passes, and the

            distance it has travelled.

   Here also much evidence remains to be collected. Thus much, however,
we know, that in some ratio the shock is greater, in other words, the wave is
larger, as the originating impulse is more powerful. The absolute dimensions
of the wave have never yet been correctly ascertained, nor is this possible
without the aid of well-constructed instruments. All that we know is, that
these dimensions vary from waves whose altitude and amplitude are but a
small fraction of an inch, to those whose motions were such and so great, as
to throw down the heaviest buildings; to detach vast landslips and whole
mountain-sides of rock, or even, as affirmed of the great stroke at Riobamba,
to throw the bodies of human beings many feet into the air. [This latter
case, however, though recorded on the authority of Humboldt, not from his
own observation, however, but from testimony given to him, seems much to

need confirmation.]

   From all these, however, and generally from the narratives of the effects
of all great earthquakes, there is good ground for believing that the altitude
and amplitude of the great wave of shock may amount to many feet in either
dimension. I have in a former publication (Admiralty Manual, ' Earth-
ON THE PACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.                               3?

quake Phaenoraena '), stated that " the wave or shock, travelling at the rate
of perhaps thirty miles per minute, often takes ten or twenty seconds to pass
a given point; and hence that its amplitude must occasionally be many miles."

   The fact of one shock taking ten or twenty seconds to pass a given point,

however, is only derived from the narratives of great earthquakes, and from
the extremely loose use by authors of the word shock, as confounded with
whole period of motion, possibly consisting of many rapidly successive shocks
(as already adverted to) : this conclusion as to dimension of the wave requires

to be taken with caution.

21st. The velocity of transit of the earth- wave or shock has never
   been correctly ascertained for any one locality or occasion.

A loose approximation was made by Mitchell to the speed of transit of the

shock in the Lisbon earthquake, from which he deduces a mean v,elocity of

about twenty miles a minute, or 1760 feet per second.

Humboldt states the velocity ('Cosmos') to be from five to seven geogra-

phical (German) miles per minute, which is about twenty or twenty-eight

statute English miles per minute, and by others various vague and insufficiently

supported statements of its velocity have been made ; but the truth is, the real

velocity has never yet in any one instance been even approximately ascer-

tained. No mean velocity, such as those given by Mitchell and Humboldt,

CAN be true, for if it be granted that the shock is a wave due to the elasticity

of the materials through which it travels, then the velocity must vary as these

alter, and be dependent on their density and moduli of elasticity.

This we do know, however, that its velocity is extreme in passing through

some formations, and very great in all. " The ground," says M. Place, speak°

ing of the great Chili earthquake, " rose and fell with inconceivable rapidity

like a mine sprung beneath one's feet." Such are his words ; and Dolo-
mieu quotes almost the same as the experience of those who had felt the

Calabrian shock at Messina. Thus the shock from below upwards upon a

British ship at sea, eleven leagues from Manilla, as recorded by De Guignes

in 1796, in his account of the Philippine Islands, was so sharp and sudden

as to unship and splinter the mainmast ; and the Winchelsea, a British ship

from Bengal to England, was similarly struck on the 10th of February 1823,

in lat. 52° N. and long. 85° 33' E. ; and Dr. Percival states, that in the earth-
quake felt in Lancashire in September 1777, " a passage-boat upon the

Bridgewater Canal was stopped in its course as if it had struck upon a cable

or other obstacle" (Ann. Reg. vol. xx. p. 79) ; and ships have been repeat-
edly strained so as to leak by such a shock at sea. The velocity of the

shock in sea-water is probably about 4700 feet per second. Stones have

been observed j(??'o;ecifec? out of walls to a considerable distance by the shock,

tearing themselves from the mortar-bed ; and, what is more direct proof of

great velocity, bodies of great stiffness and small inertia have been bent or

twisted, as for instance, an iron cross and a rod bearing the arms of Hun-

gary, which were both bent by an earthquake at Pesth in the last century,

Abut my authority for which I have been unable to recover.          somewhat

similar case is recorded by Professor Ferrara (Silliman's Journal for 1826).

" On the 5th of March 1823," he says, " the vane on the top of the palace-

gate at Catania, upon which he bent his eyes, was bowed in a direction from

N.E. to S.W., and remained so bent 20° from the plumb-line until it fell."

A" tall slender palm-tree he saw do the same."

   Few better proofs can be found of the amazing force and velocity of the

--lateral shock than the overthrow of the Rhodian Colossus a bronze figure,

steadied by being filled with stone as to its lower limbs, and cramped with

lead into the solid masonry of the mole. " Ante omnes autem in admira-
                                        --

--38 RE POUT 1850.

tione fuit Soils Colossus Rliodi        septuaginta cubitorum altitudinis fuit.

Hoc simulacrum post quinquagesimum sextum annum terrse motu prostra-

tum, sed jacens quoque miraculo est         spectantur intus magnae molis
--saxa, quorum pondere stabiliverat constituens." Plin. Nat. HistA.xwiv. 18.

It was thus overthrown, accoriting to Eusebius, in the second year of the

139th Olympiad, or 221 years before the Christian eera.
   In coherent formations, or rocky strata, there seems a priori ground to

suppose that the velocity of the earth-wave is not less than 10,000 feet per

second, but it may be much less in loose and incoherent material.
   I trust in a future Report to be able to give the results of some actual

admeasurements of the velocity of earth-waves in various formations, co-
herent and incoherent, the experiments for which are now in pi'ogress.

22nd. The direction and velocity of translation of the earth-

wave or shock change occasionally in passing from the boun-

daries of one formation to those of another.

   This part of the subject demands much additional careful observation.

   It has been long remarked, that buildings have been variously affected in
the same earthquake in different localities, which varied in the nature of

their subjacent formations, or in their levels or elevations.

   The change in destructive effect from the same shock has generally been
most evident along the lines of boundary separating different formations.
And along such junctions, shocks have been described as succeeding each

other in opposite directions, but with a difference in force, with scarcely any

interval in time betwixt them, and the second shock being the weaker one.

Thus in the New Zealand earthquake of 1848 most of the shocks came from

the North or N.N.E., but very few of the shocks appear to have come
from the opposite direction, i. e. S.E. and S.S.E. " May these," says the nar-
rator, " be a sort of subsidence from the southward after some upheaving from
the northward ? " He appears, however, to infer the directions from the move-
ments of furniture only. The Lisbon shock was felt all over Spain, except
in Catalonia, Aragon and Valentia ; it is difficult to see why these should
be excepted ; but the difficulty may arise (assuming the fact) only from our
ignorance of the nature of the intervening formations. (Encyc. Londinensis,

in verb.)
   Dolomieu, in his dissertation on the Great Calabrian Earthquake, says, the

shocks sustained by the houses and villages situated upon the hills on the
solid rock, were less felt and did less damage than those which occurred in

the plain.
    It is to be recollected that the general formation of Calabria, from the axis

of mountains towards the sea, as described by Dolomieu, may be roughly

represented by the following section :

ti. Grnnite.                            c. Sand, or scarcely coherent sandstone.
«', Slates.                             d. Clay of great depth.
b. Decomposed granite.                  e. Alluvium ; black rich earth.
ON THE FACTS OF EABTHQUAKK PHiENOMENA.  39

    There is no volcanic rock of any sort, he affirms, in any part of Calabria
visited by the earthquake of 1783-

    The great jjlain consists of a vast collection, as it were, of small table-

lands, separated by deep ravines, having steep escarpments cut into the clay
and sand or sandstone by the action of the rivers and torrents. These ravines
are often 500 to 600 feet in depth below the table-land, which is highly cul-
tivated above them, and the sides of these ravines are of the dense clay or
scarcely coherent sandstone. All these slope up and abut against the sides
of the Apennines, which form the axial line of the country.

   This somewhat tedious account is necessary to make the remarks here-
after to be made as to the secondary effects of earthquakes intelligible.

   The centre of effort in this earthquake was under the great plain, and pro-
bably about under where once stood the village of Oppido, but at an unknown,

depth.

   The observations made amount to no more than this ; that the shocks did

less mischief to structures on the granite or slate rocks of the hills than they

did to those on the plain of clay, &-c. ; that the destructive effects of the
shocks were very great along the line of junction of these, at the bases of the
hills (from which some of the philosophers of that time concluded that the
earthquake came from the mountains), and that along this line, shocks in
close succession were felt, not only horizontally and vertically, but also in

opposite directions.

   Now we may a priori account for these facts, on the principle that the

velocity of the shock or earth-wave depending on the density and modulus of
elasticity of the formation through which it passes, and its velocity being
greatest in those whose elasticity is highest, while its range of motion is most
limited in the same ; therefore the shock here was of less velocity in the plain
than in the rocky hills; but had in the former a longer range of oscillation,
and hence did most mischief in the plain. Along the line or plane of junc-
tion of two formations of different elasticities, &c., the earth-wave will change
its course and also its velocity (like light in passing from one medium to
another); and here the wave will be divided, part of it will be refracted, and
part will be reflected (or total reflexion may take place if the angle of inci-
dence be suitable at the plane of junction); and the latter portion of the
wave will in such case double back upon itself, and give rise to a shock in
the opposite direction to the first one. Hence along such a line of junction
the destructive effects will be very great. Although the direction of transit
of part of the shock is changed by thus passing from one formation to an-
other, and its force also modified, yet it often happens that such changes do
not arrest much of its main progress or effects.

   Even large ranges of mountains abutting on plains of soft material are
shaken through and through, and the shock is transferred beyond them. Thus
the shock at Lahore in India of 1832, passed through the chain of Hindu-
Cutch to the Upper Oxus, and even to Bokhara; and in South America they
pass through " the littoral chains of Venezuela and the Sierra Parime."

(Humboldt, ' Cosmos.')
   Such differences in effects of shock due to situation have been repeatedly

observed. Humboldt says that at Quito, which stands at the foot of the
active volcano of Rura Pichincha, 8950 feet above the sea, and contains large
and lofty buildings, with spires and domes, he has been often surprised at
the severity of the shocks which he has felt, and which nevertheless but
rarely rent the walls ; whilst in the plains of Peru much weaker oscillations
injured even lowly houses built of cane ; and many other instances might be
quoted. To myself the explanation of the facts which theory gives appears,
40 REPORT 1850.

I confess, here sufficient ; but the observations made so far, of the facts them-

selves are too loose and inapposite to say that as yet theory has here been

tested by the fact. This truth must never be left out of view, that there are

two elements in the problem of destructibility to buildings, columns, &c.

in the case of every shock, viz. 1st, its absolute range of motion and velocity;

and, 2nd, the direction of its motion, which may be such as to be incapable

to overthrow a given       building,  however  great  its  range  and velocity                                               gene-
                                                                                                                          ;

rally it will probably be hereafter found that, ccBteris paribus, shocks in a

direction nearly but not quite horizontal, with large range and moderate

velocity, do the most mischief to all ordinary buildings of masonry.

Another circumstance must be borne in mind also in considering the facts

recorded of the Calabrian earthquake, which modified materially the dif-

ference in effect upon the plain and in the hills.

Let the above be a rude section of the country shaken, of which we have

already given the general geology. Let p be assumed as the place of the

centre of impulse at any depth under the great plain, below the bed of soft

material, and either between it and the first hard rock, or within the masses

subjacent ; in this case it is evident the arrows a, b will be the directions of

emergence of the shock in the plain, but the arrows c and d will be those of

emergence of the same shock in the hills, and buildings situated at m and *

along their slopes will be principally exposed to the waves c,, and d,,, given

off at  right  angles  to  the  normal wave c and d, and   therefore  less  shaken
                                                                                                        ;

while buildings at the remote side of the mountains,/, will receive the full

violence of the shock. Dolomieu attributes much of the difference of de-

structive effect on the hills and on the plains to the " motion of the concus-

sions in the latter being more irregular, being modified by communication

through the medium of a soil yielding more or less to the force which

convulsed it, and consequently transmitting it unequally. In the mountains,

on the contrary, notwithstanding that the agitation of the surface was pretty

considerable, they were less destructive. The rocks on which the towns were

built communicated to them a more regular motion, being better conductors ;
the soil after each oscillation resumed its position, and the edifices preserved
their fixity." " So," he continues, " a glass full of water will bear a great

vibration without a drop being spilt, while it is emptied by the least irregular

shake." It is very difficult to see what he precisely meant by this, but it is

evident that a solid foundation of rock will favour the preservation of build-

ings, rather than a yielding one of clay, under shocks otherwise the same.

   The great earthquake of the Caraccas (March 1812) is stated by Hum-

boldt to have been everywhere more violent in the Cordilleras of gneiss and

mica-slate, or immediately at their foot, than in the plains, and this difference

was peculiarly striking in the plains of Varinas and of Casanara. In the

valley of Aragua the commotions were very weak, and at Coro, situated
ON THE FACTS OP EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.  41

upon the coast between towns at either side which suffered much, no shock
at all was felt. These differences, says Humboldt, in the direction and pro-
pagation of the shock are probably owing to the peculiar arrangement of
the stony strata. (Per. Nar, vol.iv. p. 19.)

    Again, it is manifest that in estimating the demolishing effects of any
shock upon buildings, very much depends upon the direction in which the
shock acts upon the building with reference to its particular form and struc-
ture, and as this was not sufficiently known or attended to by former ob-
servers, fresh information remains to be collected by competent persons as

to this part of our subject.
    This concludes the first branch of our subject, viz. all that relates directly

to the earth-wave or shock ; and we now proceed to the sound-waves, which
are more or less connected with it.

       23rd. Earthquakes occur which are accompanied by various
         sounds, having a subterraneous origin, and which may either
           precede, or accompany, or succeed, the occurrence of shocks,

         or precede, accompany, and succeed, the shocks of some of

           them; and again, earthquakes occur, even of the greatest
           violence, unaccompanied by any sound whatever.

   The intensity of the sound is by no means in proportion to the violence of
the earthquake. One of the most tremendous earthquakes on record, that of
Riobamba, occurred, according to Humboldt, unaccompanied with any

noise whatever.

    The kind of sound has been very variously described, so variously as to
induce the belief that there are different sounds on different occasions.
Humboldt says (' Cosmos '), " It is either rolling, or rustling, or clanking, like
chains being moved, or like near thunder, or clear and ringing as if obsidian
or some other vitrified masses were struck in subterraneous cavities." One
cannot but imagine that in the latter similitude the ear has borrowed its
impression from the preconceived view of the author's mind.

    Professor Krashenikoff, of St. Petersburg, in his description of Kamschatka,
as translated by Dumaresque (1760), says, " Earthquakes happen here several
times in the year. The most violent that was observed, was in the beginning
 of February 1759, which, during a westerly wind, lasted exactly six minutes ;
and before it a noise was heard and a strong wind under ground, with a hissing

which went from north to south." By some the sound has been directly
 compared to that of quenching a mass of red-hot iron in water. There was

 a shock of earthquake at Coningsby in Lincolnshire, in England, on the 6th
 of February 1817, and also at Holderness near it, when it was heard " like
 waggons running away upon a road ; and so forcible was the illusion, that
 waggoners on the roads actually drew up their teams to let the supposed
 runaway waggon pass them safely. While this was heard at Coningsby, they
 heard also at intervals of about a second of time, sharp and loud noises like
 the discharges of gunshots ; and all gradually died away to a grumbling noise,

 which shifted from the east to the south." (Quart. Journal, vol.xviii.)

    Hollow bellowings is a common expression with narrators. The describer
 of the New Zealand earthquake of 1848 (West. Rev., p. 397, for July 1849)
 says, " The earth is in a continual state of tremulousness, and the dull sound
 of the earthquake is continually heard. This sound has been much ex-

 aggerated ; it is something like the sound of a railway train rumbling through
 a tunnel, I mean as heard by a person outside and near the mouth. I have
 also heard nearly a similar sound made by a very large steam ship chimney,
 42 REPORT 1850.

 except that the earthquake sound is less sonorous. It has been compared
 with distant thunder and with distant guns, but it is more rumbling in its
 nature ; in short, it admits of no exact comparison. I have noted that when
 the shocks occur during a heavy gale, this dull rumbling sound is not per-
 ceptible : it is overcome by the nearer noise of the wind."

    The allusion to the steam ship chimney here relates to a peculiar and
 most powerful sound, a true m.usical tone, which is produced occasionally
 when there are powerful blazing fires under the boilers, with a strong draft,
and the furnace-doors are partially shut, in which case the funnel acts as a
great organ pipe, to which the furnace-doors play the parts of reeds, and
the draft of the fire that of bellows. The note here is about the lowest that

the organ is capable of sustaining.

    I have myself met a gentleman who had for a long time resided in the
convulsed districts of South America, and whose occupation as a mining
engineer gave him large opportunities of observation, and who compared the
noise most usual to that of steam blowing off into cold water : a low irre-
gular rumble, accompanied with still more irregular, sharp detonations, such
as we may hear frequently in travelling by railway, when steam is blown
from the engine boiler into the tender to heat the cold water therein ; the note
however being in the case of earthquakes far graver than in this instance.

    In the Caraccas earthquake (April 1812), the explosions of the volcano
of the island of St. Vincent were heard at the Rio Apura, like the discharge
of the heaviest artillery ; the distance in a straight line being 210 nautical

leagues, of 20 to a degree, a distance as great as from Mount Vesuvius to

Paris. (Humboldt's Per. Nar., vol. iv. p. 27.)

   Yet the " Bramidos," however awful and loud, may be derived from a very

slight original stroke or grinding together of rock surfaces, the volume of
sound being multiplied by the vast surface of the earth from which at nearly
the same instant it is transmitted to the air and thence to the hearer. Thus,
for example, the large blocks of stone on the Breakwater of Plymouth, or
on the piers of Kingstown Harbour, Ireland, are some of them so circum-
stanced, as to oscillate slightly like logan-stones, and to strike together under
water by the motion of the waves, with, however, a force and range of mo-
tion so slight, that, when left dry at low water, and moved thus by band, the
blow is quite inaudible at a few feet distance ; nevertheless, when so moved
by the swell under water, the noise and crash sound quite formidable, and
would at first lead the hearer to suppose the whole structure was washing
away from beneath him, when thus heard on a calm clear day with a swelling

sea.

   There is a deep mountain tarn in Ireland, Lough Bray, one boundary of
which is a steep mural precipice under water; when a stone of a ievi pounds

weight is dropped gently from a boat at this side of the lake, the crash of
its descent under water, as it falls over the face of the precipitous rocks which
emerge from the dark waters, conveys a most awful impression. So also the
ticking of a watch, inaudible even to the holder when held in the hand,
becomes distinctly heard across a large room when laid on a table. The
signals in use by a blow given to the side of a diving-bell, and clearly trans-
mitted through some fathoms of water, are also in point.

   The intensity of the sound heard at a given station will depend in some
degree upon the same circumstance that will determine its time of occurrence
with relation to the shock, and it will also much depend upon the sonoricity
of the media (formations) through which it passes to be heard. Thus, what-
ever may be the original impulse producing the noise, whether fracturing of
ox THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PH.EXOMENA.  43

  strata, falling in of rocks, grinding of masses over each other, or the reper-
  cussion produced by steam, evolved by the heat of molten matter under the
  earth or sea, and again suddenly condensed by being driven into contact
  with cold water; in any of these cases if the centre of impulse producing the
  noise, be distant from that producing the shock, or if the two waves, e. e. tliat
  of sound and of shock, arrive to the ear through different media, they will
 arrive at different moments. So if the impulse be extended along a line of
 impact passing away from the listener, he will hear a prolonged sound from

 a single blow, producing perhaps but a single shock. The general rule,
 however, a priori, is that the sound-wave and the earth-wave of shock travel
 at the same speed through the same formations, and if they arise from one
 common impulse will generally reach the ear and observer at the same mo-
 ment ; and accordingly this is by far the most usual case recorded ; but
 innumerable perturbations and complications of this may and do take place,
 many of which I have remarked upon in my paper on the Dynamics of
 Earthquakes (Trans. R. I. Acad.), and for brevity here I pass them over as
 easily predicted by those versed in acoustics.

     In most earthquakes perhaps, certainly in very many, a sound is heard
 before the great shock, and usually a vibratory jar felt also. The earth-
 quake of Tiffliz, in Georgia, of 29th of January 1818, was so. (Quart. Journ.

  vol. vii.)

     Count Mercate, in his account of the earthquake of 20th of December
 1820, at Zante, says the sound was heard before the shock was felt. (Quart.

 Journ. vol. xviii.)
     Hamilton says of the Calabrian earthquake, " All agreed that every shock

 seemed to come with a rumbling noise from the westward, beginnincr with
 the horizontal' and ending with the vorticose motion." (Phil. Trans, vol.
 Ixxii.) This does not apply to the great shock of the 5th of February, " which
 was from below upwards."

     In the Chili earthquake of 1822-23, the explosive sound and great shocks
 seem to have arrived simultaneously. (Mrs. Graham, Geol. Trans, vols. i. ii.

 ser. 2. p. 413.)
     Dolomieu says, the Calabrian shocks " were preceded by a loud subterra-

 neous noise like thunder, which was renewed every shock," speaking not
 however of the great upward shocks. " This great shock," he says (5 Feb.),
 " occurred without the prelude of any slighter shocks, without any notice
 whatever, as suddenly as the blowing up of a mine." " Some however
 pretend that a muffled interior noise was heard almost at the same
 moment."

    The great Lisbon earthquake " began with a noise like the rumbling of
 carriages, which grew gradually louder until it equalled the loudest artillery,

 and then the first great shock occurred." (Phil. Trans, vol. xlvi. xllx. Iviii.)

    In some very great earthquakes it should be remarked that a very loud

. noise has been heard a very considerable lapse of time after the shock.
 Thus at Quito and Ibarra the great noise (el gran ruido) was heard eighteen

 or twenty minutes after the shock. At Lima and Callao, in the great

 earthquake of October ITiS, the subterraneous peal of thunder was heard
 at Truxillo fifteen minutes after the shock. These great noises could scarcely
 have been due to the same impulse that produced the original shock, but
 more probably to a subsequent one, whose shock was delivered in a different
 direction to the first, and hence not felt at the places where the sound was
 heard, which may have reached them indirectly and through the air.

    The time of transit of the sound-wave will manifestly differ, whether it

 reach the ear through the sea or through the solid land ; in the former case
                                              ----

44 REPORT 1850.

its rate will be about 4700 feet per second, and in air about 1140, and at

the following rates for the rocks or formations, given below :

Lias limestone                         SG^O i'eet per second.

Coal -measure sandstone ....5248              ,,

Oolite                                 5723   ,,

Primary limestone                      6696   ,,

Carboniferous limestone .... 7075             ,,

Hard slates                            12757  ,,

For granite and igneous rocks we have as yet no data, but the rate will be

greater than in any of the preceding.

Another remarkable fact observed as to sound is, that in some great earth-

quakes sounds have continued to be produced at comparatively regular

intervals for long periods after the shock, but unaccompanied with any sen-

sible motion of the ground. Boussingault informs us, that, after the earth-

quake of New Granada in 1827, noises like the discharge of cannon were

heard in the whole of the valley of Cauca for a long period, at nearly regular

intervals of thirty seconds, and several other instances of the same sort are

recorded ; these, like the slight noises in Perthshire at present, I should be
disposed to attribute to the periodic fracturing in cooling of newly-formed

igneous rock below or near the country where they are heard.

As there are shocks of earthquakes without any sound, so there are sub-

terraneous sounds heard often without any shocks. Thus in Caraccas, on

the plains of Calabozo, and on the banks of the Apure, a branch of the

Orinoco, over a region of 9200 square miles, Humboldt informs us there was

heard on the 30th of April ] 8 12 an extraordinary thundering noise without any

shock, while the volcano of St. Vincent, in the Lesser Antilles, at a distance

of 632 miles to N.E., was pouring out lava ; this, he adds, was as if an erup-

tion of Vesuvius was heard in the south of France. In the great eruption of

Cotopaxi in 1744, subterraneous noises like those of cannon were heard in

Honda on the Magdelana River. The crater of Cotopaxi is 18,000 feet

above Honda, and separated from it by the colossal mountain chain of Quito,

Pasto and Popayan, full of valleys and rents, and in distance 436 miles apart.

The sound, he says, was certainly not propagated through the air, but through
the earth, and at a great depth. During the violent earthquake of New

Granada of Feb. 1835, subterraneous thunder was simultaneously heard at

Popayan, Bagota, Santa Marta, and Caraccas (where it continued for seven

hours without any movement of the ground) ; also in Hayti, Jamaica, and on

the lake of Nicaragua.

The subterraneous noises of Mexico, which continued without any trace

of earthquake at Guanaxuato, for more than a month from midnight of Janu-

ary 9, 1784-, and are known there as the bramidos y truenos subterraneos,

described as if thunder-clouds lay beneath the feet of the inhabitants, from

--which issued slow rolling sounds and short quick claps of thunder, belong to

this order also ; and there can be little doubt but that Pliny formed his notion
of earthquake theory from such sounds, when he says, "Nequealiud est in terra

tremor, quam in nube tonitrum, nee hiatus aliud quam cum fulmen erumpit,

incluso spiritu luctante et ad libertatem exire nitente." Plin. lib. ii. 79.

  --After recording many of these singular phaenomeua, Humboldt (' Cosmos')

sums up oddly enough in these words : " Thus do chasms in the interior of

the earth open and close, and the sonorous waves either reach us or are in-

--terrupted in their progress," apparently forgetting for the moment that the

sounds must be conveyed more siirely and more rapidly through the solid

crust of the earth than through any fissure. These sounds, without shock,

must be attributed to impulses given in such directions, and with such a re-
----

ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.  45

gulated force as is sufficient to affect the air, from some quarter near the

hearer, most probably by the vibration of great tabular or mural surfaces of
rock, but insufficient to shake the ground under his feet; or sometimes to the

impulse of shock, being principally directed by circumstances of formation
in one direction, while only enough of the original impulse is enabled to

pass in others towards the hearer to affect his sense of sound, without his

feeling a shock. Where the resonant surfaces are so vast as in these cases,

extending over a whole surface of rocky country, a very slight vibration
will produce an overwhelming sound, of which some familiar illustrations

have been already given.
   In every case it should be borne in mind, that from a distant horizontal

centre of impulse, or rather from a point vertically above it, two sets of sound-
waves must arrive to the hearer from each shock capable of being heard at
all, viz. one coming through the earth rapidly and directly, and the other
emerging first vertically upward through the earth to the surface immediately
above the centre of impulse, and transferred thence laterally through the air
at the usual rate ; hence any single blow delivered in the depth of the earth's

crust will be heard, if heard at all, at a distance, not as a single, but as a pro-
longed rumbling sound, or as two distinct sounds.

  We now pass on to the consideration of the effects of earthquakes upon the

ocean or sea when their centre of impulse is beneath it.

      24th. Where the centre of impulse of an earthquake is under the
           sea, and within a certain distance (usually a comparatively small
         one) of the land, the sea at about the moment that the shock is
          felt by an observer on the shore is seen to swell and to retire
           from the beach slightly, and at a certain interval of time after
          the shock (dependent upon the distance of the centre of im-
          pulse), a great sea-wave of translation rolls in upon the shore.

   The originating impulse of earthquakes being either 1st under the sea, or
2nd on dry land, gives rise to some difference in the nature and succession
of the phfenomena constituting the who\e phase of one complete shock. Thus
considered, d priori, if the origin be inland, we may, if stationed on the beach,
have the following succession of waves for one complete phase of shock :

   1. The earth- wave of shock, accompanied and perhaps preceded and fol-
       lowed by sound-waves through the earth.

   2. The sound-waves through the air.
   3. The forced sea-zvave, as I have denominated the small wave produced

      on the beach at the moment that the earth-wave of shock either plunges
      beneath the sea, or vice versa, emerges from it when the origin is under

        the ocean.

   If the origin be under the ocean, then the succession for one complete
phase of shock will be

   1. The earth-waves of shock and sound together, or nearly so.
   2. The forced sea-wave lost upon the beach.
   3. The sound-wave through the sea.
   4. Sound waves (possibly) through the air.
   5. The great sea-wave of translation, which rolling in upon shore with

       immense velocity and violence, completes the catastrophe.
   Some of these may be wanting in given instances, or the order of the
sound-waves may be sligiitly different from causes already adverted to, but
the above-named order of theoretic succession represents nearly that which
has been recorded of most great earthquakes.
   In the records of many of these, the peculiar wave phaenomenon occurring
                                                                                          ;

--46 REPORT 1850.

on the beach, to which I have given the name of the forced sea-ivave (Dy-

namics of Earthquakes, Trans. Roj'. Ir. Acad.), is mentioned.
   Thus Darwin ('Journal of a Naturalist') says, "In almost every severe

earthquake the neighbouring waters of the sea are said to have been greatly

agitated; the disturbance seems generally, as in the case of Concepcion, to

have been of two kinds: first, at the instant of the shock the water swells

high  up                           on  the  beach with  a  gentle  motion, and  then  as  quickly retires
                                                                                                                                                           ;

secondly, some time afterwards the whole body of the sea retires from the

coast and then returns in waves of overwhelming force." " During most

great earthquakes, and especially in those on the west coast of America, it is

certain that the first movement of the waters has been a retirement."

Some authors have attempted to account for this by assuming that the

water retains its level, while the land is suddenly elevated or thrown up

out of it and again dropped down to its former level ; but Darwin well
says, " surely the waters close to land, even of a steep coast, would here

partake of the motion of the land." Darwin views this secession of the

water as due to the first action of the great sea-wave formed or forming far

out at sea. I have, on the other hand, endeavoured to show that it is due

to the traversing along under the sea of the crest of the earth-wave of shock,

which moves so fast as to force up a low broad unbroken ridge of water

vertically over it, which is imperceptible while the earth-wave is moving

under deep water, but becomes visible as it approaches the shallow shore

and the effect of the sudden coming in to land, of this earth-wave, carrying

the forced sea-wave as it were on its back, is, that at the moment they part

company upon the beach, the beach itself is for the instant elevated to the

height of the earth-wave and as instantly dropped again, so that slipping from

under the sea, the earth-wave gives to the sea for the moment the appearance

of having retired and again advanced to its former level. (See Dynamics of

Earthquakes, p. 18, 20.) In this Report upon the facts of Earthquakes, it

would be out of place to do more than refer to my memoir above alluded to

for more detailed speculations of the subject.

Combinations analogous to those which f suppose produce the forced sea-

wave, will also account for those strange movements of distant lakes, islands,

rivers, &c. recorded as occurring in connexion with distant great earthquakes.

Thus may be produced the oscillations often observed in inland lakes far

removed from the convulsed centre, as in the highland lakes of Scotland, on

occasion of the great Lisbon earthquake, and of the South Carolina earth-

quake of 1811, when the course of the Mississippi was temporarily arrested

below New Madrid; or as in the Calabrian earthquake, where the course of

the river Metramo was thus momentarily stopped, and then began again

to run                             in the latter cases the crest of the earth-wave, bearing aforcedivave of
                                ;

water over it, having run up stream like a moving subaqueous or partial

dam across the river.

But a far more striking phsenomenon is the great sea-avave which

so often rolls in upon land at the conclusion of great earthquakes.

This has never been observed to take place in any earthquake whose

centre of impulse was inland, however violent. Thus in the Calabrian earth-

quake there was no great sea-wave, for the great wave that swept the mole

of Messina and drowned the Prince of Scilla and many thousands of his

people, was produced by the sudden fall into deep water of an enormous

mass of rocky mountain close at hand, detached by a shock. On the other

hand, wherever the origin has been at sea, and especially in the great South

American and in the Lisbon earthquakes, an immense rolling wave has come

in shore some time after the shock has been felt, and this has travelled in
ON THE PACTS OP EARTHQUAKE PHiENOMENA.  47

from the offing : the height of these waves has never been accurately mea-
sured ; that of the Lisbon earthquake, at Cadiz, was said to have been 60 feet,
and about 18 feet at Funchal in Madeira.

   These waves have been repeatedly observed, and from a remote antiquity,
as by Thucydides ; and in South America some of the shores, or even lands
comparatively remote from the shore, still present traces of their violent pas-
sage in times very remote, with the same circumstances as at the present day.

   They are described as rolling in one long unbroken ridge of water with
a steep impending front, and not breaking until after they had rolled some
distance inland, overwhelming and sweeping away everything in their rapid
and impetuous course. Darwin says, " It is remarkable that while Talcahuano
and Callao near Lima, both situated at the head of large shallow bays, have
suffered severely during every earthquake from great waves, Valparaiso,
seated close to the edge of profoundly deep water, has never been over-
whelmed, though so often shaken by the severest shocks."

  A good account of the great earthquake of Talcahuano and of the great

sea-waves thereof, will be found in the London Geogr. Journ. vol. vi. p. 319;
the inundation of the sea, the author says, was similar to that recorded
by Thucydides (iii. 89).

   The incoming of the great sea-wave, if in water of moderate depth and on a
sloping beach, is immediately preceded by a slight recession of the water at

the shore.

   The first great wave is often succeeded at intervals by others growing less
and less ; in the Lisbon earthquake there were eighteen such waves on the

shore at Tangier.

   I must again refer to ray ' Dynamics of Earthquakes,' (Trans. Roy. Irish
Acad.) for discussion of the theory of these great sea- waves. I have endea-
voured to show that they are produced by the actual disturbance of the sea-
bottom, directly over the point of original impulse ; that a wave is here gene-
rated like that produced by dropping a stone into a pond, and is transmitted
in constantly enlarging circles, or at least in closed curved figures. This wave
translates itself outward in all directions, with a speed dependent upon the
depth of the water over which it is passing, and at last reaches the shore, or
perhaps many distant shores, its line of motion being widely different at
those points, perhaps, from that in which the shock was felt there. Its di-
mensions depend upon the force of the original impulse and the extent of
sea-bottom simultaneously exposed to it, and the depth of the water and its
force, time of breaking, &c. upon the form of the shores, depth of water close
inland, and so forth. The view I have taken accounts for all the facts that
have been recorded, satisfactorily to the demands of the science of tidal and

fluid wave motion ; but I am thus brief upon this part of the subject because

there are extremely few facts as to the dimensions, direction of motion,
time of arrival, or other circumstances of great sea-waves that have as yet
been observed at all with accuracy.

    Navigators have often remarked and been placed in peril by, a peculiar sort
of inshore waves called "rollers" coming upon them suddenly and most unex-
pectedly : I just notice these here, as it remains as yet uncertain whether these
are nodal waves produced by the junction of several smaller waves far out on
the ocean surface after storms, or be in some way connected with our subject.

    It seems probable that in the great ocean such vast nodal waves or rollers
are frequently produced and propagated to great distances from the regions

of storm where they originate, and may simulate many of the phsenomena of

earthquake great sea-waves.

   A good account of these will be found in Captain Owen's narrative of the
--48 REPORT 1850.

surveying voyages of the Leven and Barracouta, on tlie east coast of Africa,
in 1821 and following years, vol. i. p. 288. One of the ships was nearly
wrecked off Quilimani by one of these rollers, " which burst with fury on
the decks, bearing everything before it, nearly swamping the ship, and
throwing her on her beam ends."

   Capt. Owen says, " The roller moves as a precipitous hill of water from
10 to 50 feet in height, overwhelming everything in its course. They are

observed on all the sliores of the Atlantic south of 30° N. lat., sometimes

--rising in a perfect calm, probably I'rom past gales in distant parts ; but their

true cause is not yet known." Owen, Voyages, p. 288.

  We now pass to some remarks upon tiie secondary effects produced by the

proper phenomena of earthquakes, viz. by those which we have already

treated of.

   Again let it be observed, that most authors have very confused notions as to
the essentially different nature of earthquakes and of permanent elevations or

depressions of land. An earthquake, however great, is incapable of producing

any permanent elevation or depression of land whatever ; its functions of ele-
vation and depression are limited solely to the sudden rise and as immediate
fall, of that limited portion of the surface through which the great wave is
actually passing, momentarily. Hence, it is inexact, or rather untrue, to class
earthquakes as amongst the causes of permanent elevation or depression of
the land. But as earthquakes are unquestionably closely connected with vol-
canic forces, and with those nearly identical forces upon which permanent
elevations and depressions without eruption depend, so there are few earth-
quakes of any magnitude that are not accompanied by permanent eleva-

tions and depressions of the land. These and the earthquake have a common
origin, and are to be regarded as each the symptom of the other; but while
the elevation or depression of the land may cause the earthquake, or rather

be the immediately forerunning event to the earthquake, the earthquake can
never cause the permanent elevation or depression of the land. I dwell upon
this because it is important to our future progress in earthquake knowledge,
that we should form a clear conception of what it is, and how far its limits
extend, and clearly distinguish these from both the permanent elevations and
depressions, often of vast extent, that accompany their occurrence due to the
great elevatory forces of the interior of our planet, and also from all those
secondary, or doubly secondary pheenomena, which change the face of the
country shaken, but which are only contingent and accidental effects of the
earthquake, and which vary with the local conditions of the country in which
they occur. The confusion resulting from having lost sight wholly of this
distinction is well seen in the extracts I have given from Hooke's discourses
of earthquakes in a preceding part of this Report.

   In reading over the narratives of earthquakes at large, we are constantly told
of mountains being removed from one place to another, of valleys being oblite-
rated, of the course of rivers being altered, springs and fountains spouting up,
fissures and chasms of vast depth and extent being formed, with smoke and
flames issuing from them, lakes formed where none were before, and so forth;

--all of which are said in a word to have been produced by the earthquake.
    For example: "Terras quoque motus profundunt sorbentque aquas;
sicut circa Pheneum Arcadia; quinquies accidisse constat. Sic et in Coryco
monte amnis erupit posteaque cceptus est coli. Ilia mutatio mira ubi causa
nulla evidens apparet ; sicut in Magnesia calidas factas frigidas : salis non
mutatursapore. Et in Caria, ubi Neptuni templum est, amnis qui fueratante
dulcis mutatus in salera est

   " Rhodiorum fons in Chersoneso none anno purgamenta egerit. Mutantur
                                           .

       ON THE PACTS OP EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.                 49

et colores aquarum, sicut Babylone lacus sestate rubras habet diebus XI.

Et Borysthenes sestatis temporibus caeruleus fertur, quanquam omnium

aquarum tenuissimus: ideoque innatans Hypani. In quo et illud mirabile,

--Austris flantibus superiorem Hypanim fieri." Plin. Nat. Hist., lib. xxxi. 30.
 --Again : " Saepe motu terrarum itinera finminum turbantur et ruina in-

terscindit aquas, quae retentae novos exitus queerunt, et aliquo impetu faciunt

aut ipsius quassatione terras aliunde alio transieruntur  quod accidisse

ait Theophrastus in Coryco monte, in quo post terrarum tremorem nova vis

--fontium emersit." Senec. Nat. Qucest., 1. iii. 1 1

It will be necessary to go somewhat into detail, not only to record some

of these facts, but to show how they depend upon the accidental features of

country as affected by earthquake motion.

These phaenomena were presented in great variety and upon a peculiarly

grand scale in the great Calabrian earthquake ; and we are chiefly indebted

to Sir William Hamilton, in his account of them addressed to the Royal

Society of London, for first pointing out the true relation that they bore to

the earthquake itself.

The general geological features of the Calabrian plain which have been

already given, the great tabular surface of clay, sand, and soft decomposed

rock, divided by deep ravines and river courses, must be now borne in mind by

the reader. The following then are some of the principal secondary phaeno-

mena that were there observed, and which are more or less common to all

earthquakes on land.

1st. Vast landslips take place.

The shock transferred horizontally through the plain (either as the normal

or wave at right angles to this), on reaching the steep escarpments of the

valleys, shook down enormous masses of these ; the deep clay banks above split

into fissures, extending to a great depth, and the weight of superincumbent

stuff often forced out the base of the escarpment into the middle of the ravine

or valley, so that the upper part of the bank fell nearly perpendicularly (in

some cases 500 feet), and was deposited with all its trees and crops growing

upon it at the bottom. In other cases, where the escarpments were less steep,

landslips in the more ordinary form took place, and the upper lands slid down

over a rough inclined plane of previous ruin, sometimes leaving nought but a

chaos of upturned trees and crops, with mud and soil and sand at the bottom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;

and at others, where the thickness of the mass detached was greater, or the sur-

face over which it was launched was more uniform, landing the whole upper

surface safely down some hundred feet, with even houses, standing firm on the

surface and all the crops uninjured : people descended unhurt on such sin-

gular and mighty vehicles ; but often the surface over which the slip was

launched was not a plane, but curved or twisted, so as to change the direction

of motion of the moving mass ; and here the mass was sometimes broken to

pieces, but at others its surface was only twisted and distorted in rude copy

of thai over which it had passed and on which it came to rest. Thus, straight

rows of elm-trees and of olives became curved, furrows straight from the

plough became twisted and contorted.

Childrey, ' Britannia Baconica,' gives several instances taken from Cam-

den's pages, of the effects of great landslips in altering the form and directions

of furrows, hedge-rows, landmarks, &c., and one especially of twenty-six acres

of land which so moved in Herefordshire in 1571. (Hooke, Dis. of Earth-

quakes, p. 309.) Another great English landslip is recorded in Baker's ' Chro-

nicle,' p, 419, near Kynaston, in Herefordshire. These are the phaenomena

that Humboldt appears to have mistaken for evidences of vorticose shocks.

1850.                                                     E
50 REPORT 1850.

    Again, these landslips often took place from both sides of a straight valley
at the same moment, or from two projecting headlands at opposite sides, one
higher up the valley than the other (whep in the latter case the shock passed
the valley, not directly across, but diagonally), and then the vast debris
meeting in the bottom of the ravine, by the mutual reaction of one side
against the other, forced up a huge mass in the middle, often to half the height
nearly of the table-land at each side, i. e. to 250 feet above the bottom of the
valley, and thus a so-called hill or mountain was formed in the valley. Thus,
near Terra Nuova, when the whole town of MoUochi di Sotto v^s detached
with many vineyards, and descended into the ravine on whose bank it before
stood, "some water-mills that were on the river having been jammed between
two such masses as these were lifted up by them in the middle of the valley,
and are now seen on an elevated situation many feet above the level of the

river." (Hamilton, Calabrian Earthquake, Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxii.) And in the

plains also wonderful effects of the propagation of pressure to vast distances
by superincumbent weight are recorded by Hamilton, Spallanzani and Dolo-
mieu. Thus, says the latter, " In the deep valleys of the rivers Tricucio, Birbo
and BoscJinio, sand and clay ran like lava, or as if carried away by water ; in
other places considerable portions of mountains ran for several miles in their
way to the valleys, without falling to pieces or even changing their shape."
Hamilton says that the loose underlying sand formation, when wetted by the
danmiing up of the rivers, &c., became a sort of fluid rollers, upon which the
most enormous masses were moved ; in one place, two portions of land, each

about a mile long by half as much wide, with all their cultivation, were thus
moved bodily down a valley, a distance of more than a mile ; and a mountain
mass of sand and clay was moved (or at least was affirmed to have been
moved) nearly four miles.

      2ncl. New lakes and river-courses are formed, and old ones

               obliterated.

    In many places the valleys dammed across by these landslips arrested the

 course of the rivers passing through them, and formed lakes of great size and
profound depth. In some places these dams were so stanch from their
 clayey material, that the lakes, brimful, overflowed the table-land at the sides
of the valley, and traced out new river-courses on the plain, which again
fell into the old course further down, the new course rapidly eroding the soft
alluvial plain, and preparing to form in course of time a new ravine as deep

as that that had been dammed so suddenly. These lakes became putrid from

 the masses of vegetable and animal matter brought into them, and had to
be drained at once by public measures to avoid pestilence. But in many cases
 the dams, unable to resist the pressure of the rising waters above them, burst
 at length, and the debacle totally altered the form and features of the valley for
 miles below, overspreading everything with a rounded and fluent mass of

mud and slime, imbedding vast numbers of trees and vegetables, animals and
men, to become the organic remains of the post-tertiaries to our own remote

posterity, should the present ceconomy of the earth last long enough.

  --How well does Hamilton remark of all this ! " What causes a confusion

 in all accounts of this (and he might have added of all earthquakes) is the
 not having sufficiently explained the nature and peculiarities of the soil and
 situation. They tell you that a town has been thrown a mile from where it
 stood, but without mentioning one word of a ravine on the edge of which it
 stood (a.> at Terra Nuova) ; that woods and corn-fields have been removed
 in the same manner, when, in truth, it is but upon a large scale what we see
ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHiENOMENA.                                      51

every day upon a smaller, where the sides of hollow ways, having been
undermined by rain-waters, are detached into the bottom by their own
weight ; " or he might have added, shaken down by anything causing vibra-
tion, as the passage of a waggon or cart.

3rd. New valleys are also hollowed out.

Not only are they hollowed out gradually, as above, by the erosion of newly-

formed river-courses, but they are made at once by the slipping of vast

masses of soil. Thus, along the bases of the hills, says Dolomieu, referring

to those above the great plain along the whole length of the chain, the soil,

which adhered to the granite of the bases of the mountains, Caulone, Esope

Sagra, and Aspramonte, slid over the solid nucleus, the inclination of which

is steep, and descended, leaving almost uninterruptedly from St. George to

beyond Christina, a distance along the base of the hills of nearly ten miles, a

chasm between the solid granite nucleus and the sandy soil of the plain. Thus

a valley was formed of great length in a moment, pai-allel to the mountain

sides and below them ; but this cut off the drainage of the mountain slopes
from the plain, and hence in after years the ridge of debris forming one side

of the valley would become cut through and traversed by streams and torrents

descending to the plain, dividing it into isolated masses of hills, and soon de-

stroying all recognition of its singular mode of formation.

  A ravine was measured by Grimaldi, which was formed nearly a mile long,

105 feet wide, and 30 feet deep, in the district of Plaisano ; another was

produced at Cerzulle, three quarters of a mile long, 150 feet wide, and 100

feet deep ; and one at La Fortuna about a quarter of a mile long, 30 feet

wide, and 225 feet deep ; and various others are mentioned which it is need-

less to detail here.

Without enlarging the list, " what is said will be sufficient to demonstrate,"

says Dolomieu, "that the singular circumstances attendant on the earthquake

were the natural effects of a violent shock acting on a sandy ground pre-

viously opened and torn by torrents." " The general effect was, that of

heaping together the soil, establishing slopes where there were before steep

escarpments, disconnecting masses that had bases insufficient for their bulk,

or only supported by lateral adherence, and of filling interior cavities."

These landslips, had they occurred in land reposing upon hard rock, such

as clayslate or granite, and more especially if the deep beds of clay already

contained pebbles and boulders of hard stone, would in their progress have

furrowed and grooved the subjacent rocks, and left thereon permanent traces

of their movements, that would have presented to a geologist, thousands of

years after, all the aspects of ice or glacier action, and where no other grounds

to suspect earthquake origin existed, would probably have been set down to

these causes.

Let us remark here the vast difference in effects that these secondary phae-

Qomena will give rise to in a low flat country of soft or incoherent material

in its formations, and in one of hard, rigid and highly elastic rock, severed

Howby valleys and rising into mountain crests.  different would be the

effects in our own country of a great earthquake that should shake at once

the London basin, and all the eastern side and south of England, and the

.Isle of Wight with the mountains of North Wales, and the Grampians!
What vast landslips should we record of the southern cliffs of the Isle of

Wight, how utterly would its surface and geology be changed in a day;

what changes on the face of the cultivated banks of the Severn, the Thames,

the Medway, to say nothing of our brick-built cities I Yet how different from

the effects in Snowdonia and the Grampians ! Here, or in any such regions

                                                                        e2
                  --

--52 REPORT 1850.

of hard and elastic rocks, vast crevasses may be rent into the mountain
masses, huge blocks may be detached at the instant of the shock (as at
Messina, and as seen from the deck of the Volage, when a mighty cliff de-
tached itself, and plunging at once into deep water disappeared), and may
fall into the valleys, and be shattered into fragments, vast, angular and with-
out order, such as we see filling the commencement of the pass of the
Spliichen above Chiavenna. But the mountain torrents still find their way
through or over such debris, the dams formed are not water-tight, their ma-
terials are too huge, and interlock too much, to be moved by debacle any

great distances ; the whole iron frame of the country is too elastic and too
strong to be very greatly altered, and the earthquake leaves but compara-
tively slight traces of its destroying hand, save upon the frail habitations of
man, and upon his best and largest works.

4tli. Fissures of various sizes are formed in the earth's crust.

   These are directly formed in the solid rock. Sir Hans Sloane describes the
rocks in the Blue Mountains of Jamaica as greatly shattered in 1687 by the

earthquake.

   Mrs. Graham describes the granite rock of the beach at the promontory
of Quintero in Chili, after the earthquake of 1822, as found rent by sharp
recent clefts, very distinguishable from the older ones, but running in the
same direction. Many of these could be traced to a distance of a mile and a
half across the neighbouring promontory, where in some instances the earth
parted, and left the base of the hill exposed. (Geol. Trans., vol. i. 2nd series,

p. 4.15.)

   Hot springs frequently are found issuing from such clefts in igneous rock.
Thus Humboldt tells us that the " Aguas calientes de las Trincheras burst
out from a granite rock, split into regular fragments" (Cosmos) ; and many
other similar instances may be found recorded.

Most, if not all writers on this subject have tacitly assumed however that

all fissures formed during earthquakes are due to the direct action of the

shock ; and some accounts, such as tiiat of the great Jamaica earthquake of
1692, affirmed " that the ground undulated like a rolling sea, and that fissures
opened as the undulations passed, two or three hundred of which might be

seen open at once ; that these opened and closed again rapidly, as the un-
dulation rose and fell ; and that people were even caught and bitten in two

by these Titanic mouths ; that some, thus swallowed up, were again cast out."
Assuming this narrative veracious, I for some time believed the opening

and closing of fissures by the direct passage of the earth-wave to be possible

in incoherent formations. On further consideration of the subject, however,
I am disposed to reject this solitary and truly wonderful Jamaica narrative,

for the present at least; and judging from a connected view of all the other

mynarratives of earthquakes, to state  strong impression, that fissures, at least

those of any magnitude, any that are more than rents or cracks in rock or

masonry or other coherent bodies, are never produced during earthquakes

directly by the transit of the shock, but are solely the result of secondary

actions, and due either

   1. To landslips, more or less complete.
   2. To subsidences in the ground, due to subterranean action at great

depths, of the true elevatory and depressory character, and producing

lateral slips by resolution of motion.

3. To elevations of the ground produced in the same way, and producing

similar effects.

4. To the action of water, either forced up from beneath, or removing
ON THE FACTS OF EARTHftUAKE PHiENOMENA.  53

       land or softening it by lateral action, as in newly-formed rivers and

       lakes, and thus producing slips.

   The following are some of my reasons for this conclusion. The limits of

elasticity of none of the soft materials of which plains of clay, &c. consist, and
indeed of none of the incoherent formations that we are acquainted with, are
sufficiently great to permit of the formation of fissures of the width and size
upon record. The fissures that have been carefully observed have always
been found parallel to great escarpments or to lands that have slipped ; thus
all the observers of the Calabrian earthquake concur in stating that the great

fissures were parallel to the faces of the steep banks of the ravines or valleys,
and more numerous the nearer they approached them ; and those curious
radiating fissures at Jerocarne, which are alluded to and figured by Sir
Charles Lyell, are probably no exception, but most likely arose from the
ground having fallen away in all directions around, which it would do if cir-
cumstanced as an insulated mass, surrounded wholly or on three sides by the
usual deep gorges with precipitous sides, of the Calabrian plain. I cannot
possibly attribute such " fissures, like cracks in a broken pane of glass," to
either subsidence or elevation of such a mass of deep soil, which was never-
theless imperceptible to the eye. Bishop Pocock, in the third book of his
' Travels in Thrace and Greece,' states that " cracks were formed of six inches
wide, by an earthquake which occurred at Zeitoun, but that it is situated on
the south side or slope of a hill at the foot of a high mountain." So that
here there was a supported and an unsupported side to the embankment upon

which the town stood. The fissures formed by the first shock of Calabria
were greatly widened by subsequent ones ; now this would not be the effect
of direct action of the earth-wave, an elastic wave ; but it would be just that
of slow separation, due to subsiding away, from any cause which left gravita-
tion to act ; in fact, in a common slip upon a railway embankment may be
seen in little, if the soil be favourable, all the phaenomena recorded of earth-
quake fissures in incoherent material. The first great fissures are produced
when the slip occurs ; others are formed in its mass after it has assumed a

state of comparative repose. These, like the crevasses of a glacier, are all
transverse to its general line of motion, just as they are in the earthquake

transverse to the line of motion of the shock, or may be ; but every new vi-

bration, every passing train widens the mouths of these fissures, until the

whole mass of the slip has gained its position of final repose.
    Again, some of the widest of these chasms, recorded as fissures, are of

comparatively very small depth in relation to their width. Thus one at
San Fili, the government Calabrian Commissioner, Grimaldi, found was half a
mile long, two and a half feet in breadth at the surface, and only twenty-
five feet deep ; and the deepest fissure I can find any record of, does not ex-
ceed five hundred feet, and this does not seem to have been measured, and

is probably exaggerated. Now as the wave of elastic compression and ex-

tension, or shock, traversed miles in depth of the earth's crust at these places,
it is inconceivable that these fissures, if produced by its passage, should not

correspond with it in depth, or at least much more nearly than these com-

paratively shallow dimensions represent.

    Moreover, many of these fissures were crescent-shaped, as that near
 Soriano, and figured in the government account of the earthquake, and the
curve wais extremely short and excentric ; it is difficult to conceive such a form

of fissure produced h^ fracture, i.e. by a shock of any sort or degree of vio-
 lence ; while the excessively irregular figure of some others of the fissures,
as that at Polistena (also figured), makes them quite as irresoluble on the
 fracture theory ; and indeed the gradual closing in of all these fissures by
the slow subsidence of the soil, as noticed by the Government Commission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;

54 REPORT 1850.

of the Neapolitan Academy, and also by Sir W. Hamilton, is alone sufficient

to show that the elasticity of the formation in which they occurred was far
too small to permit their formation hy fracture.

   Of the extent of these subsidences at the time of the earthquake various

instances have been recorded, such as the cylindrical lining of the well of the
convent at Terra Nuova, being left projecting out of the soil like a tower, nine
feet above the surface, and the lateral motion of the mass of soil in which it
was dug, also evidenced by the whole well having got an inclined position
from the vertical. That these subsidences produced often hollows of a cup
form is not wonderful.

    In conclusion, I conceive the formation of all fissures, where effecting soft
or incoherent formations, to be due to varieties of subsidence due to one
form or another of landslips or land removal by water; that they may be
and are produced in hard rock, and in buildings, &c., directly by the transit

of the shock, I also conceive there is no doubt of, and this leads me next to

a singular fact often recorded, viz.

      5th. At the moment the fissures open in the earth, fire and
          smoke (apparently) have been observed to issue.

   On this matter much new and exact observation would be most desirable.
The narratives generally affirm that flame made its appearance momentarily

at the mouth of the fissure, and that a volume of smoke, or some say dust,
was vomited forth and hung for some time above the mouth.

   That some earthquakes have been observed from points situated so directly
above and so close to the focus of volcanic action beneath, as to make all this
quite possible in its most literal sense, cannot be doubted, when we call to
mind the Volage's chain cable having been made incandescent, and even
partly melted, as she swung by it at anchor on the coast of South America
or Captain Tilland's narrative in the Philosophical Transactions for 1811, of
the submarine volcano, which he actually saw rise, upon the surface of the
sea, near the island of St. Michael's, when laying to, within a few cables'
length of the spot. Within four hours after the first visible commotion, the
summit of the crater was 20 feet high above water, and 400 or 500 diameter;
and before he left, it had raised itself to 80 yards in height. Volumes of
steam were discharged, the sea was violently agitated as though boiling, light-
ning-flashes were emitted from the clouds above, and water-spouts formed in
various places around showed the violent disturbance of electric equilibrium.

A continuous noise like musketry mingled with discharges of cannon stunned

the ear, and the shocks of earthquake felt were sufficient to shake down part
of a cliff upon which some observers stood. Many such recoi'ds show how
closely men may sometimes approach the " Atri janua Ditis," and live in the
midst, as it were; of the smoke and fervent heat of the unknown regions
within ; but when the occurrence of flame and smoke is recorded of fissures
in non-volcanic lands, and in territories suffering from earthquakes whose
origin is manifestly far away, as in the Lisbon one for example, some different
solution must be sought for.

   The following suggests itself as at least worthy of future investigation.
   The experiments of Becquerel and other electricians have shown, that when

fractui'e in a solid takes place, a powerful electrical disturbance is the con-
sequence. This will be great in proportion as the surface and mass fractured

are themselves large. When therefore a fracture of a mile long and of many

feet in depth is formed, whether by subsidation and slipping, or in any other
way in soft material, and yet far more when one of those greater fractures in
hard rock takes place, such as have been described when a whole mountain
mass has been rent in two at a blow, the disturbance of electric equilibrium
ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHiENOMENA.  55

may be expected to exceed that of a heavy thunder-storm, and may, quoad

 this particular part of earthquake phaenomena, realize the dreams of the older

philosophers, who thought an earthquake was a thunder-storm under ground.

    In this then I believe is to be found the usual source of the flame or flash,
seen suddenly to appear and vanish at the mouth of the rent, and the iden-
tification of the supposed flame or flash with electricity in an analogous case,

was made by Sir W.Hamilton, who alludes to its violent disturbance always
in the cloud above the crater of a volcano in eruption, though he suggests
no origin for such disturbance in the case of fissures opening, from which he
had satisfied himself by subsequent examination, that there was no evidence
of flame or volcanic exhalations of any sort having issued from their mouths.
And as to the smoke which has even been described by some authors as dust,
I fancy it has been none other in almost all cases, if not in all.

    Eye-witnesses of the falling of towns and cities by earthquakes describe
the volume of dust that rises from the shattered buildings as instantly ob-
scuring the scene of desolation from view ; thus Catania in 1692 disappeared
in an instant in a cloud of dust ; and any one who has seen a large blast fired
in a quarry of hard rock will remember the dust that rises through and over
the falling and shattered masses. There can thus be no doubt that the rend-
ing of a mountain mass of rock must be attended with similar volumes of
dust, and that the same must attend the fracture of earthy materials, such
as the clay of the plains of Calabria or that of Lisbon, which from the dry-
ness and heat of both climates must be for many feet down in a friable con-
dition. But there is another cause yet for the cloud of steam, or dust and

steam, even when the walls of the fissure may be perfectly wet. By the
sudden yawning of one of these vast chasms a void space is instantly opened,

into which of course the surrounding atmosphere immediately rushes ; a
partial vacuum is thus for the moment produced just above the mouth of the
crevasse ; the great mass of air suddenly rarified or expanded has its capacity

for heat increased, its sensible temperature is therefore as suddenly lowered,
and a deposition of vapour, in form of a great cloud, takes place above the
crevasse, which is greater or less in proportion as the dew-point is higher or
lower at the time and place.

    Conversely, if the crevasse be wet and suddenly opened to a considerable
depth, the temperature of its sides and of the water dripping from them being
that due to the depth, and therefore above that of the air at the surface,
will instantly fill it with steam or vapour; this will rise and mingle with the
air above in the form of steam clouds at every breath of wind that enters
the chasm and disturbs its repose, will be slowly driven out by the descent
of the colder surrounding air of the surface, or may be wholly expelled if
the crevasse close again, as it often does ; and these sources of change of
state in the air and vaporization of water, «jr condensation thereof, are them-
selves powerful causes of electrical disturbance.

    Whether therefore the formation through which a fissure or crevasse is
cloven during an earthquake be hard or soft, dry or wet, on the mountain or
in the plains, whetlier it be due directly to the earth-wave or shock, or se-
condarily to subsidence or slipping, I conceive that there is abundant evidence
of sufficient meteorological and electrical disturbance to account for the
(clouds of steam or supposed smoke, flashes or sudden flame, and dust, so often
mentioned as occurring far from volcanic active centres.

    Smoke in the true and ordinary sense of this word, it may be remarked

in passing, has never been observed by any competent authority actually
issuing from even any volcanic vent. The gaseous products are almost
wholly vapour of water, holding some acids, as SO- and CI-I-H, in suspension.
--56 REPORT 1850.

and various solids in the form of fine dust or sand ; but bodies in that pecu-
li.ir intermediate state between mechanical suspension as sand, and chemical

diffusion as vapour, such as constitutes common carbonaceous smoke, and
whose peculiar characteristic it is to deposit a portion of its mass as a soot
or sublimate of some sort, and the remainder to float for days or weeks

permanently in the air in an uncondensed and unprecipitable state, do not
seem ever to issue from the interior of true volcanic vents ; so that there is
a priori the strongest improbability of smoke having ever been really been
to issue from an earthquake fissure.

    Compare the younger Pliny's account of the eruption in which his uncle
perished, where his graphic account of the thick darkness that in a moment
overwhelmed them in absolute obscurity and almost choked them, cannot
be mistaken for smoke, though he calls it " a thick cloud."

       6th. Water often spouts from fissures, wells and springs, or
          bursts up in unexpected spots from the ground at the mo-
           ment of the shock ; and it also is rolled out of the mouth of
           great fissures or crevasses, often in a turbid and discoloured
            state, and sometimes for a considerable time after the earth-

             quake.

    These pbsenoraena, various and singular as they are, and apparently per-
plexing, as we find them recorded in earthquake narratives, all arrange
themselves into order and become of simple solution when once we have got

--the key to the whole, which is this : They are all cases of reaction, in which

the inertia of masses of water lodged in the earth is brought into play by the
 passage of the shock, through its solid parts, or they are secondary effects of
those cases of slippage and subsidence, which, as we have already shown, are
themselves secondary effects of the shock.

    This will be most rapidly made clear by a few instances.
    In the Jamaica earthquakes of 1687 and 1692, Sir Hans Sloane informs
 us, that " of all wells, from one fathom in depth to six or seven, the water
 flew out at the top with a vehement motion," i. e. at the moment of the shock,
 which was here a vertical one. The sudden motion of the transmitted wave
 (the earth-wave) is, to use Humboldt's words ('Cosmos'), "increased at the

 surface in conformity with the general laws of mechanics, according to which,

 when motion is communicated in elastic bodies, the outermost free-lying stra-
 tum tends to detach itself from the others ;" like the last of a train of billiard
 balls, whicii alone flies off, when the first is struck ; or to illustrate the fact

 (not this principle), if one hold a cylindrical tumbler (the well) nearly full of
 water, and suddenly raise it up a couple of feet vertically and there suddenly
 arrest it, the water will in great p^rt leap out of the glass.

     The water of springs and natural wells is contained in the earth chiefly in
 two forms ; it either lies in plates or bands of fluid in the crevices of rock
 formations, which are mostly either vertical or inclined to the horizon, and
 are usually of great length and depth and of constricted width, or the water
 lies in beds of sand and gravel, lying stretched out over large spaces, fol-
 lov'jiipf sometimes the contour of the surface, and at others cropping out here
 and tliere, where tiie springs themselves bubble out to the surface; or
 again they lie in the vacuities which have been washed out between the
 beds of stratified rocks ; or lastly, in the caverns and sinuous apertures that
 have been dissolved out of calcareous rocks, as about Trieste and in

  Ireland, &c.

     Now, in the first case, when the earth-wave passes nearly horizontally
ON THE PACTS OF EARTHftUAKE PHENOMENA.  57

through a formation of rock, bearing vertical or inclined plates of water, each

of these will be powerfully compressed at the moment of the passage of the
shock, for it is by the compression of the water only, that the shock itself can
be transmitted onwards to the rock beyond the plate of water; and as fluids
transmit in all directions equally, any pressure communicated to them in one,
so the water in each such plate will press upwards at the moment of the
shock, and will fly upwards, because in this direction resistance is least ; and
as the pressure, though but for an instant, and even often acting through a
very restricted range, yet acts on an enormous surface, namely, on perhaps
the whole length and depth of the water plate, each amounting to miles, at
the same instant, its total eff"ect, quoad the volume of water displaced, is very
great, for it is as though a piston of very short stroke but of enormous surface
suddenly expelled water through a comparatively very small aperture. But
furthermore, the spouting fluid has acquired a certain velocity which it does
not lose at once, and has further an elasticity of its own, as well as the solid
walls that compress it ; hence it spouts higher, and a rather greater volume
of water is expelled from the fissure than is due merely to the (diminution of
its capacity by the passage of the shock and to the speed with which this is
effected. Shocks in a vertical direction will affect such plates of water, if
vertical or nearly so, precisely in the way already described for open cylin-

drical wells.

   Proceeding now to the casein which the water lies in a water-bearing bed or
in several, of sand or gravel, overlaid by rock or by clay, or any other im-

pervious material : if the direction of shock be horizontal, as before, the
water in such reservoirs will, by its inertia, oscillate first in the opposite di-
rection to that of the shock, and then again in the same direction as the
shock moves ; and if in either of these directions its bed crop out to the

surface, or it can find vent to it any other way, it may suddenly emerge in

vast volumes, and from the principle just alluded to, of quaquaverse pressure,

such pourings out of water are not confined narrowly, to the line of direction

of shock or its opposite, but may occur at any angle to it, laterally, or up-

wards, or downwards.

   But let us now take the case in which a country underlaid by such a

water-bearing bed or beds is exposed to a vertical shock or one nearly
vertical. Here, on the principles already stated, every open well, or natural
fissure or duct communicating with the water-bed through the impervious
strata above, will spout out volumes of water ; and if there be considerable
tracts over which there are no such artificial or natural vents, or whose
combined areas are insufficient to ease off the sudden pressure of the water

upwards, it may break through the retentive stratum above, whether of rock
or of clay, &c., at the points of least resistance, and there spout out where
water had never been known before, and may bear with it volumes of gravel,
sand, and mud from the beds below.

   Now these were just the conditions of the great Calabrian plain, and of that

of Lisbon and of Port Royal. In Calabria, as we have seen, a vast deposit
of clay forms the surface of the plain, described by Dolomieu as consisting of

" a stratum of vegetable earth, argillaceous, black or reddish, very strong,
very tenacious, and from four to five feet in thickness," beneath which lie
various formations resulting from the decomposition of granite, and under
this " a white micaceous clay rather unctuous and ductile ;" and beneath all,
the deep bed of sand and scarcely coherent sandstone, which he informs us
is a water-bearing stratum in most places, and to which he says " the roots
of the trees penetrate to a great depth in search of the humidity always
contained in the lower part of the sand."

   Sir William Hamilton also describes the "swampy plain of Rosarno" as
--58 BEPORT 1850.

" consisting of clay," and the higher grounds reposing on the sides of the hills

above it (i.e. the understratum), as "of a gritty sand."

   Now the great shocks of Calabria, three in number, were almost vertical,

and spoutings of M'ater, botli out of wells and crevices, and out of spots

where before there was neither aperture nor water, were numerous. And

these conditions give me the means of explaining the very curious circum-

stance of tlie satid-cones and circular hollows found in the plain of Rosarno,

as described by the Calabrian Government Commissioners, and also figured

and described by Sir C. Lyell (Principles of Geol. p. 465). They say, " in

the plain of Rosarno were found numerous circular hollows, for the most

part about the size of a coach-wheel, but some larger and some smaller ; these,

like wells, were full of water within a foot or so of the surface ; on digging

down, they were found to be funnel-shaped cavities in the clay, full of sand,

and some which were dry presented nothing but an inverted cone of sand in

the clay-bed, concave in the centre on the top, and rippled oft' at the edges.

Eye-witnesses had seen these hollows suddenly formed by the spouting up

of water mixed with sand during the earthquake, which was thrown to a

considerable height. In the great Chilian earthquake of 1820, M. Place

describes similar sand-cones as formed on the banks of the river Concon,

fifteen miles from Valparaiso, each, he says, with a crater-like cone in the

inside ; and he describes the plain there as clay with a substrate of sand."

(Quart. Journ. vol. xvii.) And Mrs. Graham, in her description of the

Chilian earthquake of 1822-23, says, " In all the small valleys the earth of

the gardens was rent and quantities of water and sand forced up through

the cracks to the surface. In the alluvial valley of Veiia a la Mar, the whole

plain was covered with cones of earth about four feet high, occasioned by

the water and sand which had been forced up through funnel-shaped hollows

beneath them, the wliole surface being thus reduced to the consistence of a

quicksand." (Geol. Trans. Vol. i. 2ud ser. p. 414.) Similar sand-cones, under

similar conditions, are recorded in the ' Philosophical Magazine,' vol. ix.

p. 72, as having been formed during an earthquake at the Cape of Good Hope

on December 5, 1809.

   Thus this phasnomenon is seen not to be an isolated or peculiar one, but
common to several earthquake-shaken countries resting on water-bearing

sand beds. Sir W. Hamilton "thinks the phaenomenon easily explained;"

thus, "the impulse having come from the bottom upwards, the surface of

the plain suddenly rising, the rivers which are not deep would naturally dis-

appear, and the plain returning with violence to its former level, the rivers

must naturally have returned and overflowed, at the same time that the

sudden depression of the boggy grounds would as naturally force out the

water that lay hid under their surface." He says he observed that "where

this sort of phEenomenon had been exhibited the ground was always low and

rushy." His explanation is scarcely intelligible, and certainly not true. I

am not aware that any other writer has attempted a rigid explanation of the

spoutings of water and sand, &c. in earthquakes, but from what has preceded,

I think I may lay claim to having, for the first time, done so; and we may

now see that the Calabrian sand-cones were simply the ajutages through

which in the lowest places, and where the swampy clay offered the least resist-

ance; the bed of water, reposing in the great sand-formation beneath, broke

forth at the moments of vertical shock, sweeping up more or less of the sand,

along' with the water.

The form of these cones, as figured in section by Sir Charles Lyell, is pre-

Wecisely that which an issuing fluid would shape to itself.  may readily see

now what prodigious secondary effects in dislocation and removal of masses^

such violent and sudden hydrostatic pressure brought to bear under a large
ON THE FACTS OP EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.  59

surface of undulating country and of soft material may produce, and what
Bhattering and breaking up into blocks, it may be capable of when acting
thus from beneath upon countries consisting of stratified rock in a tolerably

level and unbroken bed.
   Lastly, from crevices formed during an earthquake, water has been ob-

served to pour out in vast volumes for a considerable time after their for-
mation, at which moment they were dry, and within them the water slowly
welled up at first.

    This case is not to be confounded with the obvious one of a crevasse having
some underground communication with a higher source, then opened to it
as a mouthpiece, for the first time, and the explanation of which is obvious ;
but the following seems to be its solution : the crevasse, if formed in deep
clay, as in Calabria, or Lisbon, or Jamaica, and rent down to a water-bearing
stratum at its lowest parts, will have the base of its sheer sides soon sapped
by the water at bottom and by that dripping from its walls, and there beginning
to slip, its sides will gradually bulge inwards, first at the bottom, and this rising
upwards slowly, the whole chasm will close in and gradually eject and press
out over its lips, the whole of the water it had before contained, though this

may have at first stood fathoms below the surface ; and as the whole capacity
of some of the crevasses we have seen is immense, and the closing up gradual,
a large stream may thus be kept running from many of them for a long

period.

   This gradual closing in (and no doubt from this combination of circum-
stances) was remarked in many of the great crevasses of the Calabrian plain

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;

the enormous force with which the sides closed together, was remarked
with wonder by those who dug out the remains of buried habitations, and
found beams and masonry, furniture, utensils, and bodies of men and animals
pressed together and compacted into one undistinguishable mass ; but such
a result will excite no wonder in those who have had an opportunity of
carefully examining the phaenomena and effects of any great landslip, or even
slip of heavy embankment, or of the effects of the " creep and crush" in
our deep coal pits.

   To such a subsidence taking place suddenly, no doubt, was due the dreadful
disappearance of the quay of Lisbon in 1755, which became suddenly perched

as it were upon the very brink of a vast crevasse, formed under the waters of
the Tagus, which rapidly softening the blue clay upon which Mr. Sharp

(Geol. Proceed. 1838, p. 36) informs us the lower part of the city is founded,
soon caused the banks of the rent to yield under its overwater load ; and to
a similar cause must the sinking of the quay or mole at Messina be ascribed,
which was built upon a submarine bank of clay and sand, sloping rapidly off
into profoundly deep M'ater close by. The water poured out from these
spouting apertures or from large crevasses, has often been described as im-
pregnated with foreign matters ; these have chiefly been described as " hepa-
tic, or sulphureous, or bituminous," and have mostly been recorded as coming
from the overflow of crevasses some time after the earthquake; of course
Water-bearing beds full of soluble mineral matter will eject more or less of
these with their fluid contents ; but when such crevasses affect deep inco-
herent formations containing sulphurets and organic matter together, rapid

decompositions will give rise to all those horrible evolutions of foul water
and poisonous gases that have been recorded so often, and especially in the
Jamaica earthquake of 1692.

   If, for example, such wet crevasses as we have been considering vVere to be
Opened in the deep carboniferous formations of Westphalia or Lower Saxony,
or even in some of our own coal-measures, with what rapidity the coal and
        ----

60 REPORT 1850.

pyrites of the latter, and the strange mixture of pyrites and vegetable matter,
which Mitscherlich describes as used in Saxony for making copperas from,
and which only needs to be dug out and moistened to heat and decompose
spontaneously, would give rise to black and foetid water, saturated with
sulphates, evolving torrents of sulphuretted hydrogen and carbonic acid, and

mingled with red mud of oxides of iron ! Again, should such crevasses

affect a country such as that of the salt formation of Cheshire, and stretch
also into some of the neighbouring coal-measures, what rapid and important
chemical action would result from all the above, brought into contact with

saturated solutions of common salt, with gypsum, with limestone and with
clays dissolving into a paste at the first approach of moisture ! What enormous
evolutions also of carburetted hydrogen from the coal-beds would the sudden

relief of superincumbent pressure give vent to I
    Before proceeding to another branch of our subject, it will be proper here

just to notice some few unusual and ill-ascertained phcrnomena, of which the
facts are doubtful or incomplete, and for which no perfect explanation can
be offered :

    1st. Fixed objects are said in a few instances to have been inverted; thus
       by the " sbalzo " or leap into the air, fixed pavement is affirmed by the
        Neapolitan academicians to have been thrown upM'ards, and found after-
       wards in its own place, but with the stones inverted.

    2nd. In the midst of the universal ruin and prostration of a whole town or
        village, a single edifice, and often one not remarkable for strength or
       for humility, has stood quite uninjured. Thus at Radicina, in Calabria,
        a single small square house of one story remained standing, all the rest
        of the town being prostrated ; similar events have been noticed in South
        America, where

    3rd. " Nodal points or lines " occur, namely, isolated portions of country
        which constantly escape the shocks which convulse the parts all round
       them ; these portions are so well known, Humboldt says, that the Peru-
        vians say " the rocks form a bridge," " rocas que hacen puente " in
         Spanish.

    4th. Shocks felt in deep mines, as in the Marienberg in the Saxon Erzge-
        birge, not felt at all at the surface, and e converse, shocks at the surface
        not felt at all underground, as at Fahlun and Presberg in Nov. J 823.

    It would be easy to speculate on the probable causes of such phaenomena,
on the known grounds of reflexion, refraction and total reflexion of elastic
waves at certain angles, but the facts themselves are too doubtful to make it
at all useful. But we must leave this subject, fertile as it is in consequences,
having, as I trust, developed the nature of secondary effects from the earth-
wave itself, sufficiently for the purposes of this Report, and proceed to a few
remarks upon the secondary consequences of the great sea-wave.

       7th. The great sea-wave, when it comes ashore, after the earth-
            quake, produces all the effects on land of. a great debacle.

    It does not appear needful to enlarge much upon this, as everything re-
mains to be done in the way of accurate collection of facts, of which M'e
have very few, principally due to Mr. Darwin, to W. Parish (seeGeol. Soc.)
and to Virlet (Bull, de la Soc. Geol. de France, tom. iii. p. 103), who has re-
 corded some curious facts as to the effects of a great sea-wave that broke
 over Santorin and the island of Sikino, seven leagues off, after the earthquake
 of September 1650.

    Mr. Parish, in a memoir presented to the Geological Society of London in
 November 1835, has collected all the historical notices of great sea-waves
                                       ;

ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE rH^NOMENA.  61

which he was then able to discover accompanying earthquakes on the coasts
of Chili and Peru ; in 1590 the sea rose over Chili for some leagues, leaving
ships, dry far inland ; in 1605 such a great wave swept away the greater part
of Areca. In 1687 Caliao was similarly overwhelmed, and ships were carried
from the roadstead a league into the country ; the shock of this earthquake was

felt by Wafer 150 leagues from the coast out at sea. He also saw at Santa,

three miles from Caliao, three rotting ships in a valley, where they had been
carried inland over a low intervening hill in 1687. In 1746, Caliao was
again swept away, and vast heaps of gravel and sand left where it stood;
large ships were thrown far inland by this wave. Lima has suffered in the
same way with Cavallos, Guanape, Chan^ay and Guara, and the valleys of
Barranea, Sape and Patevilca; when Penco was thus destroyed in 1751, a
similar but less wave reached Juan Fernandez and overwhelmed houses
along the shore.

   Mr. Alison (Pro, Geol. Trans. 1835) describes similar waves of the earth-
quake of Chili of Feb. 1835 ; but it is unfortunate that no precise levellings or
sections were made of the land swept over in any of these cases, or observa-
tions of gravel boulders, &c. moved, which would have been highly important.

    This dearth of facts is the more to be regretted, because our theoretical
knowledge is more perfect of liquid waves than of those of elasticity, as
respects this our subject, and observations of the effects in denudation, trans-
port, and effects on vegetable and animal life, producible by their agency,
would have important bearing upon other extensive regions of geology
and when facts and observations as to the precise effects produced by great
sea- waves shall hereafter have been collected, it may provide geologists with
a new instrument of investigation by which to trace upon many distant shores
the evidences of ancient earthquakes, whose (rt"igin was below the ocean^.
and of which no other record remains capable of being investigated.

   In examining the many meagre notices of earthquakes which I have
had occasion to collate in reference to this Report, I have been struck in
several instances with notices of sudden recessions, and as sudden subse-
quent unusually high risings of the sea, in various places where there was no
account of any accompanying earthquake, either there or anywhere else at
the same time.

   Thus of the Thames at London in 1762, and in 1767, of the sea at Malaga
and at Leghorn in 1774, and in several other tidal rivers and estuaries, small
but unusual fluctuations have been recorded ; some of these occurred in great
earthquake years, but there are no recorded shocks occurring anywhere at the

times given for these fluctuations.

   I am disposed therefore not to attribute such to earthquake shocks at all,

but to the sudden slippage under water of large masses of submarine banks

of sand or mud. Where such banks accumulate in large masses, often, indeed

generally, with one steep side next deep water, the progress of accumula-
tion upon the top is equilibrated either by slow and gradual subsidation of the
whole mass, or by sudden and partial slippages into deep water of portions
of the mass ; such a circumstance occurring upon a very moderate scale
would be sufficient in a narrow estuary to produce a wave of translation
liable to be mistaken for the effect of an earthquake.

    In thus examining in a more detailed and systematic manner than has
previously been done, the secondary effects of earthquakes, I have been
able, I trust, to cause the geologist to bear constantly in mind the broad
distinction between the great cosmical forces of permanent elevation
and depression, one of the secondary efforts of whose paroxj'smal efforts

is the production of earthquakes, and the secondary effects of earthquakes
                ;

m REPORT 1850.

themselves. The distinction is most important to the clear conception of
both. While to the former is reserved the mighty task of perpetually yet so
gradually (as on the whole not to interfere with the inhabitants of our globe)
lifting fresh land from beneath the ocean bed and dropping others below its
waves, so that the earth, which has already " waxed old as doth a garment,"
shall be renewed again and "changed like a vesture," and its fitness for the
support of man and animals ever preserved, the geologist becomes convinced
that as the volcano is itself but insignificant in all its results taken by them-
selves, when compared with the totality of the mighty cosmical law of which
it is at once the superficial index, and also the most striking evidence; so the
earthquake, great and formidable as are its effects upon man and upon his
works, is as nothing when compared with the enormous forces in whose throes

it receives its birth.

   Yet as in our estimations of the united effects through time of the sum
of all the forces acting upon the surface of our planet, we are compelled to take
large account of those directly due to volcanic foci, active and extinct, so
the secondary phoenomena that we have pointed out and endeavoured to
systematize, produced by the transient yet violent passage, of the earthquake
shock, cannot be neglected in their continual and reiterated effects upon our
earth, but should form an element in all our attempts to estimate and explain

the past revolutions of its surface.
    So far as our knowledge yet enables us to judge, the office of earthquakes,

the general resultant geological effect of their secondary action, is not one of
elevation but of depression, of degradation and of leveling, although always
probably preceded and accompanied by the proper forces of elevation to whose

action it is referable.

    Perhaps the most remarkable of the secondary effects of earthquakes to a

remotely future supposable posterity, may be the prodigious mass of organic
remains of men and animals mingled with many of the least perishable of
man's works which will be found entombed in our existing, most recent, or
at least most superficial formations, when these may have become depressed,
heated, consolidated and altered in texture and re-elevated to become the
pleistocenes of future races of mankind. To estimate the numbers of men
only that have perished by eartiiquakes within the period of history is im-
possible ; thousands have repeatedly been in a few moments entombed
60,000 persons at Lisbon, 10,000 at Morocco, 40,000 in Calabria, 50,000 in
Syria, and probably 120,000 in the same country in the time of Tiberius and

Justin Elder, a.d. 19 and 526.

   In the reign of Justinian earthquakes shook the whole Roman world re-

peatedly ; Constantinople shook for forty days ; an impulsive and vibratory
motion was felt, enormous chasms opened, huge and heavy bodies were dis-
charged into the air, and the sea advanced and retreated beyond its usual
margins ; a part of Libanus was thrown into the sea and became a mole for

Botrys in Phoenicia. At Antioch 250,000 persons perished. May 20, a.d.

526, and at Berytus all the students of civil law there collected, July, a.d.
551. (See Procopius, Agathias, and Theophanes, as quoted by Gibbon.)

On the 21st of July 365, in the second year of Valentinian, a fearful
earthquake shook almost the Avhole Roman w orld ; and the retreat and sub-

sequent rolling in of the great sea-wave of the Mediterranean is described
as tremendous, sweeping two miles inland and carrying ships over the tops
of houses, so that at Alexandria 50,000 persons lost their lives. (See Liba-
nius, Sozomen, Cedrenus and others, as quoted by Gibbon.) In the earth-
quake of Messina, 1692, 74,000 persons are said to have perished, some
accounts raising thenumber to 100,000 (Practical Reflections on Earthquakes,
ON THE FACTS OF EARTHaUAKE PHiENOMENA.                           63

by John Shower, 1750, 8vo). In the year 602 a second earthquake of the

country about Antioch slew 60,000 persons, (Cluverius.)

In the earthquake in the province of Quito of 1797, notwithstanding the

thinness of the population, 40,000 natives are stated by Humboldt to have

been buried in crevasses or under the ruins of buildings, or drowned in lakes

or ponds temporarily formed. (Per. Nar. vol. ii. p. 237.)

   Such are the numbers to be met with in narratives ; and if we suppose but

one great earthquake in three years over the whole earth, and that this in-

volves the entombment of only 10,000 human beings, and that such has been

the economy of our system for the last 4000 years, we shall have a number

representing above 13,000,000 of men thus suddenly swallowed up, with

countless bodies of animals of every lower class. Sir Charles Lyell then

with good reason suggests that even in our own time we may yet find the

remains of men and of their habitations and implements thus buried deep and

embalmed as it were, by earthquakes that occurred in the days of Moses and

the Ptolemies.

But such entombments extend also largely to the vegetable world ; masses

of vegetable matter, entangled beds of broken branches and leaves and single

trees, with all their peculiar insect and other inhabitants, have with man thus
found a common grave. And at the present moment, short as has been the

lapse of time, were excavations carefully made in the deep clay and sand of

the Calabrian plain, there can be no doubt but that evidence would be dis-
covered throwing much light upon the nature of those obscure processes by

which vegetable and animal forms are mineralized and preserved, and that
we should already find many of the trunks of trees buried in the sand,

converted into brown coal or lignite, and thus presenting us with an ex-
planation of that puzzling fact we so often see in the sandstones of our own

coal-measures, as for instance at Gascube Quarry near Glasgow, where in the

midst of perfectly clear undiscoloured beds of sandstone of enormous thick-
ness, we now and then find a trunk of a single tree buried and fossilized, but

bearing no traceable relation, either to the direction of the beds in which it

Howis found, or to any conceivable process of their deposition.  readily may

such facts be brought to bear upon the heterogeneous gathering together of

multitudes of forms, such as those of the- fish of Monte Bolca, at one spotl

and again, reflectively, the occurrence of such remains thus thrown together,

may become the indices to us, of the loci of ancient earthquakes, as erratic

blocks are assumed to be of ancient ice. Nor must the effects of great sea-

waves, in entombing beneath the sea in littoral deposits, the various natural

and artificial productions of the land, be overlooked. " The great sea wave,"

says Caldcleugh, " in its reflux brings everything to sea along with it." (Phil.

Trans. 1836, p. 21.)

Large however as thus would seem to be the gross effects of earthquake

action upon the organic world, they are probably insignificant in comparison
with the aggregate entombment even of man alone, due to the every-day

progress of accidental events ; and shipwrecks alone will probably disclose a

vaster mortality, "when the sea shall give up her dead," than all that have

perished by earthquake and its effects.

   It only remains now for me to make a few observations upon the assumed and
presumable connections between astronomical and meteorological
PHENOMENA AND earthquakes; and first as to the former. Numerical

discussions of earthquake catalogues have been made by several persons, as
the Abbe Scina of Palermo, Von HoflT, Merian, Hoff'man, Cotte and Perrey,

for the purpose of discovering their frequency at any one particular period

of the year, or during the lapse of some centuries ; but always upon insuf-
--64 REPORT 1850.

ficient bases, generally confined to some one district, so that none of their

conclusions can be received as certain, or even very probable yet.

The three last of these authors come to the conclusion, that in the tropics

at least, the periods of the equinox are rich in earthquakes.

" Ideoque post austros noxii praecipue terrae niotus. Noctu Auster, interdiu

Aquilo vehementior             Et autumno ac vere terrae crebrius

moventur, sicut fiunt fulmina  Item noctu saepius quam

interdiu ; maxime auteni motus existunt matutini vespertinique : sed propinqua

luce crebri, interdiu autem circa meridiem. Fiunt et Solis Lunaeque defectu,

--quoniam tempestates tunc sopiuntur. Praecipue vero cum sequitur imbrem

aestus, inibresve aestuni." Plin. Hist. Nat., 1. ii. 49, 84. These, like many

of the opinions of the ancient learned upon similar questions, are but the ex

cathedra repetition of popular and ill-founded notions.

Perrey's large catalogue (Mem. Cour. des Scav. Etran. de Belgique, tom.

xix.) applies to central Europe or to the basins of the Rhine, Rhone, Danube,

and to France and Belgium, only, and extends from the9tli to the 19th cen-

turies.

   As we purpose returning to this part of our subject upon an extended base,

it is scarcely worth while here to extract his tables, merely stating that his

general result shows a preponderance of earthquakes in the winter, i. e. in the
months of January, February and March, for the whole, which seems again con-
firmed by the discussion alone, of the results of the I7th, 18th and 19th centu-
ries, during which the accounts are more to be relied on than at remoter dates.

   Perrey's Table, in which he seeks to deduce the resultant direction of

all shocks in a given region, and the intensity oi the shock, on the assumption
that this intensity is proportional to the number or reiteration of shocks at a
given point from one direction, is probably of doubtful value, from the more
than uncertain hypothesis on which it rests.

  --Ow the Influence of the Season of the Year and Time of Day upon Earth-

quakes. Von Hoif remarks, " As we have already noticed, a dependence of
the earthquake upon the time of year has occasionally been supposed to have

been remarked. In the equinoctial regions earthquakes have been thought to
occur more frequently during the rainy season than at any other time of
year. Sometimes they have been supposed to be peculiar rather to the pe-
riod of the equinoxes, sometimes to the winter months ; with many other
similar opinions. Indeed examples are not wanting which appear to favour

such views ; as for instance, the observation, that of all the earthquakes

which occurred in Sicily from 1792 to 1831 (Hoffman in PoggendorfF's An-
nalen, b. xxiv. s. 52), double as many took place in March as in any of the
other months. Still however an almost more profound obscurity hangs over
the question, whether earthquakes and volcanic eruptions are more peculiar
to one time of the year or day than to another, than over the consideration
of the other connections of these phaenomena with those of the atmosphere.
This subject has also been treated of in an elaborate manner in another
paper on the causes of earthquakes (Memoire couronnee, Utrecht, 1820-28,
and enlarged, Leipzig, 1827-28) by Herr Kries, who has brought forward
instances in no small number, which prove that earthquakes, even of the
most violent kind, have occurred at every time of day and in every season

of the year."

   " I myself (says Von HofF) have in another place (Poggendorff's Annalen,
b. xxxiv. (110) s. 99 f.) made the experiment of collecting and arranging
all the instances of earthquakes which occurred during ten years, in order
to find whether any one time of the day or year presented a greater
number of these phaenomena than the others. The result of these re-
                                            --

       ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHiENOMENA.                   65

searches however seems to be, that with respect to this relation of earth-

Wequakes also, no law can be laid down.         must con&ider it as an

established fact, that both earthquakes and volcanic eruptions may occur at

any time of the day or year, since experience has shown this with respect to

almost every time. The only question which remains on the subject is,

whether we can ascribe to any one or other season or time, a greater ten-

Adency to produce or favour the production of such phsenomena.  mere

collection of facts, even though embracing a long period of time, would of

itself hardly supply an answer to this question ; since, in order to draw to-

lerably accurate conclusions from such a collection, many other circum-

Westances would have to be taken into consideration.  ought not to content

ourselves with collecting and arranging a mere successive list of these phae-

nomena, but on the contrary, we should compare with one another only the

most considerable, and those which occurred in the same climate, with other

precautions of a similar nature. That, however, the motions (Bewegungen)

which are always going on, in the inner portions of the earth, are at certain

times much more energetic and more continuous than at others, numerous

examples testify. There have been periods of many years in which these

motions remained continuously violent and widely spread, as from 1666 to

1694, 1749 to 1768, &c. ; and others in which for several years they seldom

manifested themselves. On the whole, however, if it be probable that the

idea of any influence exercised by the atmosphere upon the volcanic process

should be considered as overturned, the opinion of the influence of the time

of day or year upon the occurrence of earthquakes, &c. will retain but little

probability." (Von Hoff, Gesch. Verand. Erdober, Th. iv.)

Seneca, ' Quaest. Nat.' vi. c. 1 ; a writer in the ' Annal. de Chim.' vol. xlii.

p. 416 ; Cotte, in ' Journ. de Phys.' for 1807, p. 161 ; and Hofl'man, ' Hin-

terlassene Werke,' Theil 11, have discussed the question as to whether earth-

quakes are more frequent at one season than at another. Kant, in his ' Phys.

Geogr.,' vol. ii. p. 199, thinks they occur chiefly in the spring and fall of the

year. Smith, in his 'Memoirs of Sicily,' p. 6, states, that thirteen earthquakes

occurred there betwixt the 10th of January and the 28th of the succeeding

March. Shaw, in his 'Travels in Barbary,' p. 152, comes to the conclusion

that they are most frequent there at the end of summer and in autumn. All

these however are observations on far too narrow a basis.

Hoffman, ' Hinterlassene Werke,' xi. 357, and Kries, ' Ursachen des Erd-

beben,' p. 8, have given a large catalogue of earthquakes during the Christian

epoch. Arago, in 'Annal. de Chim.' xlii. p. 409, has discussed the earth-

quakes of forty years at Palermo. Pouqueville has given a list of sixty-three

earthquakes at Joannina from 1807 to 1825. Cotte gives a list of 338

earthquakes in the 'Journ. de Phys.' for 1807. Hoffman has compared

these with the forty years' earthquakes of Palermo (Poggen. Annal. xxiv. 52,

and xxxiv. 104), and Von Hoff" (whose great 'Chronik der Erdbeben' has

never yet been fully discussed) has compared all these with those for the

years 1821 to 1830, occurring in the northern hemisphere. And Meriau

(' Uberdie in Basil Wahrgenommenen Erdbeben') has given a list of those oc-

curring at Basil. All these the author of the able article Erdbeben (L. F.

Kamtz) in the ' AUgemeine Encyklopadie der Wissenschaften und Kiinste,'

von Ersch und Gruber, Theil 36, has arranged in the following table by

mouths, adding the sum in another column :

1850.
--66 REPORT 1850.

                          Month.
         ON THE PACTS OP EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.                       6?

the state of weather or appearance of air and sky immediately before earth-

quakes.

   In the south of Europe a general belief prevailed that calms, oppressive
heats and a misty atmosphere, were the usual preludes of earthquake. Ha-

milton says he found it a general observation in Calabria, " that before a

sheck the clouds seemed to be fixed and motionless, and that immediately

after a heavy shower of rain (during the earthquake), a shock quickly fol-

lowed." And in the Philippine Islands, De Guignes informs us that " a calm,

the sky gray and cloudy, the atmosphere heated and heavy, occasional gusts

of wind, and at intervals gentle showers of rain, are the prognostics by which

earthquakes are anticipated there." After recording a number- of vague

opinions held by the South Americans, as to the weather prognostics of
earthquakes, Humboldt says, " These are however very uncertain, and when

the whole of the meteorological variations at the times when the globe has

been most agitated are called to mind, it is found that violent shocks take

place equally in dry and in wet weather, when the coolest winds blow, or

during a dead and suffocating calm." (Humboldt, Per. Nar. vol. ii. p. 223.)

Again, the veteran philosopher says that " even in Italy this belief is dying

away;" and expresses his own conviction, strengthened by that of those who

have lived long in the great shaken countries of South America, that earth-
quakes are independent of the weather or appearance of the heavens imme-

diately before the shock. He says he has felt earthquakes when the air was

clear and a fresh east wind blowing, and also when there was rain and

thunder-storms ; and this has been very recently confirmed by the continuous

observations made at New Zealand during the earthquake of 1848, which

began in a gale of wind.

   On the relation of earthquakes and volcanic eruptions generally to the
condition and phaenomena of the atmosphere. Von Hoff remarks ; " The

question, whether any relation or causal connexion exists between the various

movements of the earth and those occurring in the atmosphere, has for a

long time remained unanswered. The intimate connexion which subsists
between the earth and its atmosphere, and which manifests itself in so many

phaenomena, has always induced people to presuppose a similar connexion

between earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, and the condition of the atmo-

sphere. They believed that the influence of the latter might be engaged in the

volcanic process, and that, on the other hand, earthquakes and volcanic erup-
tions might produce some effect on the condition of the atmosphere. The

proof of the first of these opinions, it has been thought, was to be found in

great falls of the barometer, in remarkable calms, in dry mists, and unusual

gray or red colouring of the sky, and especially in great heat.

" Amongst the effects supposed to be produced by the earthquake on the

atmosphere, were reckoned tempestuous winds, thunder-storms, meteors, cold-

ness of the air, severe winters, heavy rain, miasmata, producing diseases and

Aaffecting vegetation.  very remarkable instance of the latter is quoted,

namely, that in Peru ; after the earthquake of 1687, wheat and barley would
not thrive at all, though formerly the country was remarkably favourable for

them.

" There can be no doubt that an answer to the question, whether a con-

nexion exists between these phaenomena of fixed terrestrial bodies and the

condition of the atmosphere, is of the greatest importance to a thorough

knowledge of both. But from the multifarious conditions which have here

to be taken into consideration, from their complication, and from the diffi-

culty of distinguishing, amongst many recurring at the same time, between

the indifferent and those which are really important, an extended series of

                                                                 y2
--68 iiEPORT 1850.

successive observations, made with the utmost care and circumspection, will
be required, in order even to approacli the object which is aimed at in re-
searches of this sort." (Von Hoff, Gesch, Erdober, Th. iv.)

    2nd. Effects on Artimals.
    Hamilton saj-s that during shocks, horses and oxen extended their legs
widely to avoid being thrown down (an evidence of the velocity of the
shocii), and that hogs, oxen, horses and mules, as also geese, appeared to
be painfully aware of the approach of the earthquake of Calabria ; and the
neighing of a horse, the braying of an ass, or the cackling of a goose, even
when he was making his survey, drove the people out of their temporary
sheds in expectation of a shock.
    All birds appear sensible of its approach, but geese, swine, and dogs more
remarkably than any other animals ; the geese quit the waters before the
earthquake and will not return to it. Can it be that with their heads immersed
they are able to hear the first distant mutterings, while these are yet inaudible
to those who hear through the air, and not as in their case through a liquid ?

    Von Hoff notices " a presentiment (vorgefiihl) which it was thought
had been remarked in particular species of animals shortly before an earth-
quake. Even men have sometimes, a short time before such occurrences,

felt a tendency to headache, giddiness (vertigo), and an inclination to
 vomit.

    " It has been remarked, that at such times domestic animals showed a
 decided uneasiness, dogs howled mournfully, horses neighed in an unusual
manner, and poultry flew restlessly about. These latter phaenomena might
easily be produced by mephitic vapours, which often ascend to the surface
 of the earth before the breaking forth of the earthquake."

    The Cirricelli, (possibly our Sand-eels,) a little deep-water fish, like our
white bait, which usually lies buried in the sand, Hamilton says, " came up
to the surface with many others, and were caught in multitudes ;" this might
arise either from actual heat of the sea-bottom and water close to it, or from
its being fouled by the commotion or by exhalations into it ; or they may
have been startled by the vibrations, as trout are when one stamps violently

 on a river bank.
    There is unquestionable evidence of earthquake shocks (and not of great

intensity) producing nausea and vomiting in men and women ; sometimes,
 as in a school at Philadelphia, numbers were so afl'ected, at the same instant
 awakened from sleep by the shock ; whether this arise from sudden dread

produced by the unusual and fearful visitation, or be analogous to sea sick-
 ness, has not yet been determined.

    These few particulars constitute nearly all that has been observed of this
 point of our subject.

        Srd. The Barometer.
    There does not seem to be any ground for supposing that the period of
 occurrence of earthquakes is marked by any very remarkable rise or fall of
 the barometer just before, nor certainly by any remarkable fluctuations

during the continuance ; on this the New Zealand observations are pecu-

liarly important, as during the days from the 7th to the 15th of October,
before the earthquake, the range of the barometer was fiom 28*97 to 29'25;
and during the remainder of that month, whilst there were continual shocks,
its limits were from 28*37 to 29*58 ; and during the immediate subsequent
period of eighteen days in November, free from shocks, the barometer re-
mained steadily at about 29\ inches ; the limits of variation being from

29-53 to 2910 only.
    Humboldt (Relat. Hist.) has shown that the horary oscillations are not
          ----

ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE I'H^NGMENA.                                69

affected during or after earthquakes in South America; and Erman has

shown the same for Asia.

At the moment of the t\yo first shocks of the earthquake of Cumana of

1799, Humboldt says there was a strong electrical explosion at a great

height, and a few minutes before a violent blast of wind, succeeded by rain.

The barometer was a little lower than usual, but the progress of the horary

oscillations was in no way interrupted; the shock took place just at the mo-

ment the height was a minimum. (Per. Nar. vol. iii. p. 319.)
   Cotte thinks the barometer rises during earthquakes. Hoffman (Pog-

gen. Annal. xxiv. 56) says it fell at Palermo.

It has been asserted, that at Cape Francois a water barometer fell 2^ inches

at the moment of the shock of 1770 ; this would correspond to about one-
fifth of an inch of mercury. No general or well-authenticated facts of falls

or rises of the barometer on such occasions could be traced however by

Humboldt, and if there be any, he is disposed to attribute them to evolutions

of gaseous matter from the shaken earth. (Per. Nar. vol. ii. p. 225.)

   It however must be borne in mind, that at the moment of shock, if it have

any vertical element of motion whatever, some motion must be produced by

mere inertia, in the mercurial column, and this fact does not seem hitherto

to have met any attention from earthquake observers.

Von Hoff says, " Since the condition of the barometer on the occurrence

of an earthquake has been attentively observed, before, during, and after the

shock, both at the place where the earthquake took place and at others more

or less distant from it, these observations seem to convince us that no fixed

rule with respect to the behaviour of the barometer during an earthquake has

been up to the present time proved." There are examples of falls of the baro-

meter before or during earthquakes, and there are also instances of the mer-

curial column rising during similar occurrences, as well as others where

perfect absence of motion prevailed during very violent shocks. The same

Weobservations have been made w.ith respect to volcanic eruptions.    are

indebted to Herr Kries (De Nexu inter Terrse Motus, &c. et Statum Atmo-
sphaerae,' Mem. cour. Leipsic, 1832) for an excellent memoir on these baro-

metrical changes, supported by numerous examples. As the view given by

him does not come down further than the year 1826, we add here some ex-

amples of more modern date, and also some not in Kries's collection.

Examples of Falls of the Barometer preceding Earthquakes.

--A1720, 1st July.  great fall of the barometer tivo days before the earth-

quake in the Erzgebirge.

1744, 3rd June. Before the earthquake in North America, the mercury fell

3 lines.

1826, 23rd 3\xae.--At the moment of the shock at Trient, there was a fall of

   --1 inch 3 lines.

1828, 29th January. Immediately after the shock in the Swabian Alps, the

   --barometer fell 3 lines.

1828, 8th February. At the same place, on the day following the earth-

quake, there was a fall of 3 lines.

1828, 23rd February. Before the earthquake in Belgium, there was a very

great fall of the barometer through the whole of Germany and even

   --further. It rose however during the shock.

1828, 22nd March. On the repeated shock, a much more widely-spread

       low position of the mercury.

--1830, 9th September. On the occasion of the earthquake in the Swabian
             -------- ;

--70 REPORT 1850.

       Alps, the barometer fell 6 lines immediately after the shock, and in the
       evening of the same day rose again 4 lines.
1834, 15th October During the earthquake in Hungary the barometer
        fell 1 inch, as also in Vienna.

   On the other hand, in the following examples the mercury had a high po-

sition or ascended :
1683, 28th September. During the earthquake at Oxford.

--1822, 19th February. During that in Savoy.

1825, 23rd December. At Strasburg.

--1828, 2nd February. At the time of the very violent earthquake in Ischia.

1830, 23rd September. In the Swabian Alps, the barometer reached its

       lowest position in this month, 6 lines below the average. From the
       22nd to the 23rd (the day of the earthquake, and consequently before
        the shock), it suddenly rose 4- lines, and on the following day fell slowly.

--1834, 2nd February. In Silesia.

   In the following instances the barometer remained perfectly quiet :--

--1826, 26th March. At Kremsraiinster.
--1829, 26th November. During the widely-extended, earthquake in Transyl-

        vania and Russia.
1829, 30th November At Innspruck.

--1834, 22nd March.--In Mexico.

1835, 20th February. During the extremely violent earthquake in Chili.

1836, 9th May.--In Dalmatia.

    Here therefore we find twelve instances in which, on the occurrence of
earthquakes, the barometer did not fall, against nine cases in which it did.
The number of these examples is doubtless very small as contrasted with
that of the earthquakes which occurred in the period of time from which
they are selected ; but they are the only ones which we have found in that
period, since in the accounts of the numerous remaining ones, nothing is

noticed with respect to the position of the barometer before, during, or after

the earthquake. Here also they are very much divided, and in this respect

 can prove nothing, or at least can only confirm the fact, that, as already
mentioned, no more sufficient foundation as yet exists upon which to base a
law with respect to the behaviour of the barometer during earthquakes.
 This is also proved by a very instructive comparative view of the position of
 the barometer in fifty-seven earthquakes which have been observed at Pa-

lermo from 1792 to 1831, which we owe to Frederick Hoffman (Poggen-
dorff's Annal. Physik und Chimie, bd. xxiv. (100), s. 49-64), whom we
 have already had occasion to make honourable mention of.

        4th. The TJiermometer.

   I can find few observations of this recorded. Those of the New Zealand

 earthquake show no remarkable fluctuations of temperature either before or
 during the earthquake. The range during the days from the 7th to the
 15th of October, before the earthquake, was from 42° to 52° morning, and
48° to 62° night; and during the remainder of the same month of continual
 earthquake, its range was from 45° to 62° morning, and 48° to 66° at night
 while for the eighteen first days of November, the range in the morning was
 from 48° to 64°, and in the evening from 56° to 73°. (West. Rev. July

 1848.)
    During the earthquake which took place in Piedmont in the year 1808,

the thermometer experienced a slight fall on the occurrence of each shock.

    Von Hoff remarks, " Observations have as yet failed to lead us to any
rule, as to whether changes in the degree of warmth of the atmosphere
ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PH^ENOMENA.  Jl

 have any connexion, whether close or not, with earthquakes and eruptions of
 volcanoes. It has certainly been sometimes remarked that great heat has
 preceded an earthquake, but there have been fully as many examples where
 very violent earthquakes have occurred at all degrees of atmospheric tem-
 perature, and at all seasons of the year; so that heat preceding an earth-
 quake can by no means be considered as a regularly occurring phaenomenon ;
 which likewise in the Avork of Herr Kries, already quoted, is clearly proved.

     " It must also be admitted, on the other hand, that changes in atmospheric
 temperature may be a consequence of earthquakes, since there are undoubted
 instances where, after violent and widely-spread earthquakes, such changes
 in the condition of the atmosphere, and especially in its temperature, have
 manifested themselves, which may with probability be ascribed to the forces
 which produced the earthquake, at least until some other cause for them be

 observed.

    " On the whole, it is more probable that earthquakes, volcanic eruptions,

 and the whole of the fiery process carried on beneath the surface of the earth,

may exercise some influence on the atmosphere, than that the foregoing

phsenomena occurring in the atmosphere, react upon this process, which
belongs to the earth and manifests itself in such an energetic manner. In
all relations between this earth and its atmosphere, the former is to be con-
sidered as the principal (principale), and the latter only as its appendage
(accessorium). The atmosphere is the child of the earth and is supported
by it. Its influences do not extend beyond the actual surface of the earth,
but the internal operations (einwirkungen) of the latter appear solely to de-

termine the condition of the atmosphere, with the exception of the influence

which the sun and moon exercise upon it, which however with respect to

terrestrial bodies, at least as far as relates to meteorological phaenomena, is

only superficial. Of the great cosmical influences, as attraction and such

like, M'e naturally do not speak here."

   On these observations of Von HoflT I would remark, that when we consider

the powerful effects in heating or cooling of the air which the earth's surface is
capable of, as manifested to our senses, in the oppressive feel and closeness,
&c. of an overcast or clouded summer night, when free radiation is greatly
impeded, or conversely, of the dew produced by the free radiation of the earth's
heat outwards, we readily perceive what great meteorological changes, in fog,
heat, vapour, rain, meteors, &c., may be producible by the local overheating
by only a fraction of a degree of a vast supravolcanic district of the earth
before, or during, or after an earthquake ; and thus violent perturbations of
season and weather, followed by pestilences and failures of crops, cease to be
wonderful, as doubly secondary efl^ects of earthquakes, especially within the
tropics, where the natural limits of every sort are so wide and so suddenly

passed into.
    " It follows," says Dolomieu, " that the atmosphere is not so immediately

connected with the interior movements of the earth as has been so inces-
santly maintained, and it is probable that the tempests (in the Calabrian
earthquake) experienced in the Strait of Messina and in other parts of the
coast, may have been due to other causes." Perhaps so, but certain it is
that the earth acts far more energetically upon the atmosphere than the latter
can ever react upon the earth as respects earthquakes.

   If several, or even but a few, surprising pheenomena once manifest them-
selves at the same time (or still more if this occur several times), or follow

close upon each other, the world is only too much disposed to look for a
connexion, or even a relation of cause and effect between them, so as to make
them forget the more commonly occurring events which accompany these
--72 REPORT 1850.

phaenoniena. Hence, perhaps, but a few instances in which earthquakes

followed great heat, sufficed to produce amongst the Greeks and Romans

the opinion that earthquakes occurred more rarely in the cold season of the

Howyear than in the warm.  little this opinion of the older naturalists is

founded in reality, may be gathered from the fact that directly the contrary is

asserted and believed by those of more modern date, namely, that a greater

number of earthquakes happen in winter than in summer. In different coun-

tries also different opinions have been entertained on this subject, which per-

liaps always arose from some few, but great, and therefore striking phae-

nomena.

5 th. The Rain-gauge.

Torrents of rain have often been noticed as falling during earthquakes,

and they have also often begun in heavy rain, and sometimes have been

concluded with rain, and this has in each case often been accompanied
with thunder, lightning and wind ; but, on the other hand, so many earth-
quakes have occurred with serene skies, before, during, and after the shocks,
that we must conclude there is no necessary connexion established be-

tween them. I can find no numerical observations as to rain, in relation

to our subject, recorded.

   As secondary effects after earthquakes, disturbances in the usual fall of
rain may be almost certainly anticipated in a degree greater as we approach

the volcanic centre ; but this branch of seisrao-meteorology is as yet un-

touched.

    6th. 77i Electrometer.

Eandi observed a Volta-electrometer much agitated during the long-con-

tinued earthquake movements of Pignorol in 1808 (Journ. de Phys., t. xlvii.

p. 291.) ; but even were these experiments more copious and refined, it by no
means follows that agitations of instruments, at all times in activity, and
whose extraordinary activity at any moment may depend upon a passing

cloud, have any necessary connection with earthquakes.
   " Thunder-storms," says Von Hoff, " have undoubtedly on some occasions

burst forth at the same time with earthquakes. Examples of this are to be

found in his Chronicle in the years 365, 1138, 1570, 1627, 1680, 1704,

1711, 1715, 1720, 1752, 1821, 1824, 1828. But how many earthquakes

took place during this lapse of time without the occurrence of storms, and

what innumerable storms to the production of which no earthquake contri-

buted!" (Gesch. Veran. Erdober, Th. iv.)

   On the theory of probabilities only, it would be strange were it not so,

amidst the numbers of earthquakes of which some record exists.
   But here again we are without any facts (to be truly so called) as respects

regions visited by earthquakes far beyond the range of the volcanic centres;

within these, or in proportion as they are approached, of course this, like

other atmospheric perturbations, may be expected.
       7th. The Magnetometer.

   Humboldt found, in the great earthquake of Cumana (4th Nov. 1799),

the declination and magnetic intensity unaffected, but to his surprise the dip

was diminished by 48 minutes. He had no ground to suppose an error.

   With this solitary exception, in all the otiier earthquakes he experienced

on the high lands of Quito and Lima, all the magnetic elements remained

unaffected. (Relat. Hist., t. i. pp. 515, 517.)
   These movements are of course totally different to those which have been

observed by Arago, Biot, and repeatedly at Dublin by Dr. Lloyd, in their

magnetic observatories, viz. oscillations suddenly affecting the magnetometers,

and most probably due to the transmission of very small impulses from
ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.  73

a distance through the earth, and having their origin in very distant earth-
quakes. Such raust have been the cause of the simultaneous movements
of the magnetometers of Arago at the Observatoire, and of Biot at the Col-
lege de France some years since. Indeed it was found that at the moment
a slight shock had been felt in Switzerland and southern France. Capocci,
Director of the Observatory at Naples, relates that at the eruption of Vesu-
vius of Jan. 1st, 1839, the declination-needle was moved. (Poggend. Annal.,

b. 1. p. 192; Coraptes Rendus, t. ix. p. 735.) It is questionable, however,
in all such cases, whether the motion be due to magnetism or to pulses com-
municated to the needle through the shaken ground ; and hence special in-
struments would be desirable, formed to make the distinction.

   "In many instances," says Von HofF, "in which an opportunity of ob-

serving the magnetic needle during an earthquake has presented itself, an
alteration in its direction for the time has been observed. The usual peri-
odical oscillations (Abweichungs-Schwingungen) are quicker, or take place

in a different direction, or are altogether interrupted. It is only in very
modern times that great and regular attention has been devoted to the
observation of the magnetic needle ; consequently good observations of it

made during earthquakes are as yet but few in number. The suddenness
and unexpectedness of earthquake phsenomena certainly render it difficult to
obtain accurate observations made at the place where the earthquake occurs,

if even the necessary preparations for such observations should be ready,

which is to be expected from very few places. The greatest care and the
most perfect and accurate instruments also are required for magnetical ob-
servations made at the place of the earthquake ; the more especially since
the shock itself, in proportion to its violence, may mechanically put the
needle in motion, which motion is quite independent of that produced by
magnetism.

    " More remarkable however are the changes in the direction of the dip- and
variation-needles, which take place at a distance from the place where the
earthquake was observed, and at a place where the shock itself is not per-

ceptible; as, for instance, in Paris, on the 19th of February and 31st of May

 1822, simultaneously with an earthquake which occurred in Savoy and some
 of the southern parts of France. If this observation should be established
 by others carefully made, the existence could not be denied of a connexion
 between terrestrial vulcanism (Erd-vulcanismus) and terrestrial magnetism."
 (Gesch. Veran. Erdober, Th. iv.) It may be here remarked, that without
 self-registering seismometers and magnetometers, any correct or sustained
 observation of a connexion between these forces is impracticable.

        8th. The Wind.
    " The opinion, that surprising calms precede earthquakes, is also sup-
 ported by some evidence, as in the earthquakes of 1704 in England, 1754<
 in Asia Minor, 1759 at Aleppo, and several others noted. But, on the
 other hand, earthquakes are sometimes preceded by high wind and tem-
 pestuous weather; and with respect to this also no law can be laid down.
 Violent storms, which raged at the same time with earthquakes, are men-
 tioned as having occurred in the year 359 in Asia Minor; in 1703 at
 Rome; J 827, 30th of November; 1828, 21st and 23rd of March; 1829,
 13th of April. Storms burst forth immediately after earthquakes, in 893 in
 India; 1703, at Abruzzo ; 1824, 26th of October; 1829, 23rd of April;
 1833, 9th of October; 1836, 18th of November; 1837, 24th of January.
 The few instances here adduced, laboriously sought for out of such a long
 period of time, during which innumerable earthquakes occurred, at least
--74 REPORT 1850.

prove nothing in favour of a constant law with respect to any connexion

between these phaenomena." Such is Von HofF'8 view. (Gesch. Veran.

Erdober, Th. iv.)

    9th. Meteors.

A" somewhat nearer connexion may be supposed to exist between earth-

quakes and phaenomena of this kind. These meteors belong to a class of

phaenomena  proportionally seldom  displayed  by  the  atmosphere                                            yet  they
                                                                                                          ;

have been tolerably frequently observed to occur at the same time with

earthquakes. To this class belong the so-called globes of fire, and other

extraordinary lights and illuminations (Entziindungen) in the regions of the

air, which cannot be considered as belonging to the ordinary methods of

electrical discharge."

Such meteors have been observed to occur contemporaneously with earth-

quakes in the years 95 B.C., and a.d. 893, 1001, 1325, 1640, 1674, 1683,

1703, 1737, 1752, 1756, 1810, 1820, 1821, 1822, 1824, 1828, 1829, 1831,

1833 and 1835.
   Humboldt states, that just before the great earthquake of Riobamba, a

great shower of meteors was seen at Quito (4th of Feb. 1797); that he was

informed at Cumana, that just before the earthquake of 1766 a similar dis-
play had been seen; and on the 11th of November 1799, he and Bonpland

witnessed such a phaenomenon in close connexion as to time with the earth-

quake which then afflicted Cumana. (Per. Nar., vol. iii. p. 331 ; Cosmos^

notes 44, 45.)

       10th. The Aurora.

This phasnomenon, now so well ascertained to be in direct sympathy with

terrestrial magnetism, has been often observed before and after earthquakes;
I have found no instance in which it was remarked during an earthquake-

shock, but it might then easily escape observation.

   On the 19th and 20th of October 1848, during the New Zealand earth-

quake, the aurora was very bright in the south-east (the direction nearly
towards which the shock travelled) ; but there was nothing to show any con-
nexion, in this or in any other case, with the forces concerned directly in the

shock.

If there be any real reaction upon the magnetometer for declination here-

after discovehed, as due to volcanic action, and not traceable to secondary,

electrical or other disturbance close to active vents (and nothing can
be more possible than that the sudden movement beneath of great masses of
fluid igneous rock, usually rich in iron, shall be found to have such reaction),

then it may dlso be found that the aurora, that most airy and evanescent of
all visible meteors, may have some direct, though probably slight relation to

the most tremendous agency that the mechanism of our planet possesses.

        11th. Other Atttiospheric Pkcenomena.

   Under this head Von Hoff has placed together some curious facts. " I
have already mentioned," says he, " that it seems to me more probable, that
the changes going on in the interior of the earth exercise some influence on
the atmosphere, than thai the latter should in any way influence that process
which seems to have its seat deep in the inner portions of the earth. As the
globes of fire before spoken of may have their origin in peculiar gaseous

exhalations, so it seems probable that other changes in the condition of the

atmosphere may be produced by these terrestrial forces. Indeed, alterations

in the ordinary state of the atmosphere have not unfrequently been remarked,

which ought not too boldly to be ascribed to the influence of the earthquake.

We have already noticed the observation, that the earthquake in Peru, in the
--

ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKK PHiENOMENA.      75

year 1687, for a long time prevented the success of certain crops. There
have also been strange colourings of the heavens and unusual fogs noticed

as occurring at the same time with earthquakes; such as the unusual colour
of the sky at Lisbon on the 1st of November 1755, and the dry fog (Nebel),
which was so thick as to produce darkness, during the earthquake in Cala-
bria in 1783. Since observations upon phaenomena of this kind, made in
modern times, deserve more confidence than those which are preserved in
the older accounts, I do not consider it altogether superfluous to quote some

instances in modern times of remarkable conditions of the atmosphere existing

during earthquakes:

" 1824', 12th August.-- In Tuscany. The sun appeared as it were veiled, and

   --was more like the moon.

" 1824, 30th November. In Martinique. After the earthquake, the tempe-
       rature of the air (which before had been very high) fell very con-

   --siderably.

" 1825, 19th January. At St. Maura. Extremely heavy showers succeeded

       the earthquake, and lasted for several days.

--" 1826, 23rd November. In the Tyrol. The violent wind which had existed

       before the earthquake, ceased during its continuance, and rose again

   --after its termination.

" 1827, 1st February. In Naples. On the day of the earthquake, the air,

       which before had been very cold, suddenly became pleasantly warm.
" 1827, 3rd June In Martinique. Rain immediately succeeded the earth-

   --quake, although none had fallen for sixty-six days before.

" 1828. In Peru. The most unusual and extremely violent rain, lasting four
       days, succeeded the earthquake in the district which had been most
       severely visited by it, namely at Truxillo, Lambeyeque, Chiclaya, Puira,

and in the desert of Sechua.
-- A" 1830, 8th February. At Agram.
                                     fog, having a very bad smell, spread

itself abroad, and lasted for three hours.

" 1831, 3rd December At Martinique. Heavy showers of rain fell after.

   --the earthquake.

" 1832, 18th October. In Saxony. After the earthquake, the thick yellow
       fog, which had existed there for several days, suddenly dissipated itself,
       and the air, which before had been harsh, became mild.

--" 1834, 4th October. At Bologna. After the earthquake, the air became

        suddenly cold.
" 1835, 27th October In the Pyrenees. During the earthquake there rose

       clouds of hot air, which gave out a distinct smell of sulphur." (Von

       Hoff, Gesch. Veran. Erdober, Th. iv.)
   Further observations on this whole branch of our subject are imperatively

called for. Meanwhile we have provisionally concluded, with great proba-
bility, that earthquakes occur in all times, seasons and weathers, and have no
very immediate relation with meteorology, in the epochs just before and

during their occurrence.

   But it is a very difi"erent question how far their occurrence or frequency

--may be influenced, 1st, by the climate; and 2nd, by the meteorological

conditions prevailing in a given large district for a considerable time before
their occurrence ; and again, a totally different inquiry is, what are the im-
mediate and remote reactions of earthquakes upon the climate and meteoro-

logy of the country affected.
    It cannot be too often insisted on that earthquakes are not motive agents

of elevation and depression on the globe, for we find this confusion perpe-
tually, even in the highest authorities, such as Sir Charles Lyell, who fre-
                                                 --

--76 REPORT 1850.

quently alludes to " their upheaving or depressing force," and to land
elevated by them (Principles of Geol. pp. 4-31, 433, 435, 439, 689); but
whatever be the ultimate nature of the elevatory and depressive forces to
which earthquakes are due wlien in action, these forces manifest themselves
to us in the reaction of the inner portions of our planet, acting through their
exalted temperatures upon its outer crust. The term volcanic^re has been
so long used, and so loosely, and become so habitual, that its abuse has pro-
duced in almost every mind, a conception of chemical interchange of ele-
ments, offire in its popular sense, in which something enters into combination
with something else and burns with a true combustion (like that of a metal
in chlorine, or of coal or wood in the air), as a true representation of
the heat of the inner portions of the earth, the external manifestations of
which we behold in the volcano. Yet nothing probably can be further
from the truth ; the main phaenomena of volcanic action, so far as we
know them, are those of ignition, up to liquefaction of solid bodies incapable
of any combustion; nor is there any evidence of this ignition being produced
or maintained by the consumption of a fuel, i.e. by chemical combination,
in which a body, or \)&vt of a body, before solid, becomes gaseous.

   For as the explosive energy shown in volcanic eruptions is but the by-
play, and not of the same nature with the enormous and quietly-acting force
by whose (hydrostatic) action from beneath the great elevations are effected,
so are the local evidences of combustion at the crater of the volcano, but the
by-play also, and not of the nature of that rise of temperature up to ignition
Avithout the consumption of a fuel, which is the main phaenomenon.

    In a word, let us not be dazzled by the glare of the volcano itself, grand,
and to us vast, as may seem its forces and their phaenomena, so as to confound
these, the true combustions, gaseous explosions, and all the other superficial
actions at the crater, with the mighty and quietly-acting forces deep below,
of which these are all but symptoms, and perhaps as slight ones, as some
cutaneous disorders are of deep-seated and all-pervading inflammatory
action in the human frame.

   This error is not fallen into by the greater observers amongst continental
cosmologists : hear Von Hoff (Gesch. Veran. Erdober, Th. iv.) :

    " In the great mountain-chains of Europe there exists at present no vol-
canic energy. It seems to have ended by the great act of the upheaving of
these mountains, and since then to have been turned into other channels.

   " The same seems to be true, at least for the most part, with respect to
the mountains of i^sia. Only some portions of the Andes are remarkable as
being continually affected by volcanic eruptions. Such are parts of Chili,
Quito, and Guatemala. Here we cannot avoid making the remark, that the
Andes pass along and close to the great Pacific ocean, whereas the great chains
of mountains of Europe and Asia constitute the inmost centre of great conti-
nents, whose whole condition of surface has been determined by them. This
is especially true with respect to Asia, and perhaps this want of volcanic
openings has been the reason of the upheaval of such a large extent of land.

    " These volcanic springs are the outlets for the violent efforts of the sub-
terranean vulcanismal processes ; and it is remarkable that in countries where
there are these outlets, and especially where they exist in large numbers, the
inner forces never increase sufficiently in strength to upheave large tracts of
land, or to alter the character of the sea-bottom, whilst in places where
these outlets for the vapours and gases produced by the subterranean pro-
cesses are wanting, their concentrated force is able to upheave whole coun-
tries. Hence probably the neighbourhood of the sea to the most active vol-
canoes, of which by far the greater number are found on coasts and islands.
                                                                               ;

ON THE FACTS OP EARTHQUAKE PH^ENOMENA.                                    77

The opinion, that active volcanoes are only the outlets for these internal

workings, or as it were, the chimneys, not of particular fires scattered here

and there, but of enormous volcanic furnaces existing in the depths beneath,

has of late been distinctly enunciated by the most eminent geologists and

--observers of volcanic phsenomena."
   Again, hear Humboldt: "It is only by considering these various rela-

tions under a general point of view, and following them on a large extent of

the surface of the globe, through formations of rocks the most different, that

we are led to abandon the supposition of trifling local causes, strata of

pyrites, or of coal set on fire." (Per, Nar. vol. iv. p. 47.)

    Steffens, on the other hand, in his 'Geognostich. Geologische Aufsetze,'

p. 325, finds in such combustibles " the condition, sine qua non" of volcanic
action ; and it is strange how the same crude notion of the necessity for a
combustible besets almost every author down to the present day, forgetful

that cosmical fire needs no fuel, that the perpetual evolution of heat from

the interior of a planet (without anything being burnt away) is no more

wonderful, than (nay, is only in analogy with) the perpetual evolution of

light and heat from the fixed stars and sun, which no one supposes to be

flaming fires. See on this Humboldt in his ' Pers. Nar.' vol, i. p. 257.

The whole question of the chemical reactions, conjecturable as occurring

within the active volcanic foci, has been ably discussed by Gay-Lussac, in his

' Reflections sur Volcans,' in Annales de Chim. et de Phys. tom. xxii. p. 415,

which paper contains the germ of nearly everything that has been since ad-

vanced upon the subject, clearly and succinctly given.

Thus, then, ignorant as we are of all within the outer surface or skin of

our globe (and of how much of its exterior, for the ocean shrouds two-thirds

of it from our eyes !), we are compelled to see the close connexion of these
mighty heating powers in which ignition is present on the vastest scale, yet

without combustion, with the forces of terrestrial electricity and magnetisrn

forces which are those alone, that within range of our observation are mu-

tually convertible, and both convertible into heat.

Currents of both we know are ever passing with variable activity through

enormous volumes of the earth's crust, the different parts of which possess

very difi^erent conducting powers. Can it be that these currents, constrained

to pass through narrow and bad conductors, at vast depths, in some formations,

ignite them in their progress? Will it be found that the great lines of vol-

canic activity (as dreamed of by Bylandt) are in some way connected with

those of terrestrial magnetism ? are possibly normals to the surface curves

of equal magnetic intensity ? A glance at one of Gauss's magnetic maps,

and at another of the great bands of active volcanoes on our planet, almost

forces the mind into such conjectures.

If, then, as seems at least possible, there be a direct connexion (still more,

if this be one of cause and effect) between volcanic action and those forces of

electricity and magnetism whose cosmical relations we are just beginning to

get glimpses of; and if, again, these are modified and possibly determined in

their extent and laws of action by the astronomic motions of the earth, and

by its variable reception of heat from the sun, and dissipation thereof again

in the celestial spaces ; it must result that the volcano and the earthquake are

not independent of the laws which determine climate and regulate the vicis-

situdes, and the limits of perturbation, of the seasons.

It is perhaps the most wonderful circumstance in the history of our globe,

that its mightiest agencies interdepend, upon a balance so precise, that per-

turbations in any one of the forces, so small as to appear to us at first sight

perfectly insignificant, would, if continued or not corrected, be sufficient

Wetotally to alter or disarrange the vast machine.        can prove this in some
--78 REPORT 1850.

degree in the exacter branches of cosmical science ; we can show it to be so

as respects the establishment of the tides, of the great currents of the ocean
and of the atmosphere, of the relations of land and water to climate, and of
the astronomical conditions of our planet to its mean temperature ; but as

yet we can only guess from their analogy, as to what and how great may be
the total effect, of perturbations of climate, and season, and weather, within
the limits known to us, upon the molecular forces acting beneath the surface
of the earth, upon which the great agency of elevation depends, and with it
the volcano and the earthquake.

   But again, we may view it thus : granting that perturbations of climate,
season and weather, may not be the appointed agents in determining the
local play of the all-present force of elevation, may it not be that their dis-
turbance may be the sufficient and immediately anterior cause, of their being
brought into play within a given region, where before they were in equili-

brium, but nearly ready to break forth ; the last drop as it were to cause the

cup to flow over ?
   To take (in our ignorance) a rude example ; suppose a widely-extended tract

of sea-bottom, beneath one portion of which, or of adjacent land, the ignited
or fluid materials of the inner earth have approached the surface by thin-
ning of the solid crust, or in a word, by any such play of forces as have
been well imagined by Mr. Babbage and Sir J. Herschel. Let this portion
be under the dry land ; and suppose the ordinary rise and fall of tide at the
place to be 15 feet or so, that by any of the combined causes which are

known to affect the local establishment of tides this becomes a 20-foot tide,
and that at the same time a rise of 2 inches of the barometer takes place
over the sea, and a corresponding fall over the land. The conspiring
effect of all this would be equivalent to a tide of about 80 feet in total
rise, brought at once to bear upon the already thinned crust of sea-
bottom ; this, taking the specific gravity of fluid and porous lava at about
2*0, being equal to a bed of this of 40 feet in thickness, or to a dead
pressure of nearly 20 tons per square yard, and acting over hundreds of

square miles of surface, it is conceivable that the combination of circum-
stances might at once bring on an active eruption and earthquake, felt far
away upon the land, which otherwise had reposed in safety on its molten

base. Compare Von Buch, ' Descript. des lies Canar.', Tp. 334, and Hoffman,
in Poggendorff"s Annalen, band xxiv. s. 8.

   Nor yet may the changes in the organic world of life upon the earth be
without influence upon these, the most formidable forces that exhibit them-

selves in nature. Who has yet determined, for example, what meteorological

effect is produced, by the wonderful change that takes place during the year
in the vegetable covering, upon the surface of the plains of the Pampas,
where over thousands of square miles of country covered with scorched and
embrowned grass and lowly herbage, a forest of gigantic thistles grows up,
and in a few weeks makes the plain impassable for man or beast, and the

earth no longer reached by the sun's rays? What may be the co-exercitive

effect within the tropics of the changes of the vegetable world at the com-
mencement and end of the rainy season, at the vernal and autumnal equi-
noxes, and at the changes of the monsoons, at which times popular belief
has long asserted within the tropics some connexion with earthquake ? and
long-held popular belief usually contains some deformed truth, misinter-
preted and overlaid with a mass of error, but yet a truth within.

   On this branch of our subject we literally know nothing; and in the obser-

vations upon it just concluded, 1 have been anxious rather to suggest the
directions in which future investigation may run, than to advance any con-
nected speculations where there is at present no certain basis for them.
ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.                                  'J9

But before quitting the region of conjecture, I would add a few words upon

the probable nature of that force, or mode of application of that force, upon

Wewhich the earthquake shock, the actual stroke, depends.  have seen

sufficiently that this force must be an impulse, it must be of the nature of a

blow, percussive ; hence it is not produced by the direct action of the elevatory
force itself, which acts slowly, liftingly (erhobenlich), as Humboldt says, and

hydrostatically. It may result occasionally from fractures, produced by the

steady pressure of this evenly acting agency, yet these cannot be the usual

or principal action, but only subordinate-

  Now the almost universal succession of phaenomena recorded in earth-

quakes is, first a trembling, then a severe shock, or several in quick suc-

cession, and then a trembling, gradually but rapidly becoming insensible.

It would be possible to fill page after page with accounts of earthquake

shocks, which all ring the changes, on a tremor beginning gently and in-

creasing rapidly, then one or more violent shocks, like blows, and afterwards

a trembling again, gradually dying away, rarely indeed the shock first.

Thqs to take one example for all, from Dr. Patrick Russell's account of the

--earthquake in Syria, on 25th November 1759: "About half-an-hour after

seven at night the earthquake came on ; the motion at first was gently tre-
mulous, increasing by degrees until the vibrations became more distinct and

at the same time so strong as to shake the walls of the house with consi-

derable violence ; they again became more gentle, and thus changed alter-

nately several times during the shock, which lasted in all about two minutes."

In general the average of nunierous narratives seems to give from three

or four to fifteen seconds as the duration of the great shocks ; from two to

ten or fifteen minutes for that of the powerful vibratory shakings; and an

unlimited, or at least uncertain time, for slighter tremors afterwards. What

sort of impulse then will be competent to account for this general order of

succession ? I believe it will be foupd either in the sudden bringing into

contact under pressure of large ignited surfaces with cold water, or the

blowing, through and into, cold water, of volumes of ^team under pressure,

and this steam suddenly condensed therein.

  When an irruptjon of igneous matter takes place beneath the sea-bottom,

the first action must be to open up large clefts or fissures in its rocky ma-

terial, or to lift and remove its incoherent portions, such as mud, gravel, &c.

The first portions of water that gain access thus to the ignited surfaces,

repelled by their heat, are brought into that peculiar state which Boutigny

and others have called spheroidal. While in this condition their intestine

motion may be great, but little steam is generated ; and while this is the

case, no impulses will ever be conveyed to a distance, but only those trem-

blings or vibrations which precede the shock, and which wjth wonderful

ftcuteness Aristotle calls ftpatrrai, ebullitions like those of a boiling caldron ;

but no sooner has the surface of lava become cooled to the point at which

repulsion ceases, and the water, altering its state, comes into close contact

with the heating surfaces, than a vast volurpe of steam is evolved explosively,

and, blown ofi' into the deep and cold water of the sea, is as instantly con-

densed ; and thus a blow or impulse (or several of these), of the most tre-
mendous sort, is given at the volcanic focus, and being transferred outwardly

in all directions, is transmitted as the earthquake shock ; but the surfaces

of ignited material, now cooled down below the point at which steam can

be generated rapidly, merely keep up a gentler ebullition, which is trans-

mitted as the trembling after the shock, dying away as the mass grows cold,

or again repeating all the phases, as the surfaces again become heated by

conduction from the fervid magazine in the interior of the lava mass.

Of course this may be endlessly varied. The first great blow may break
                                 --

--80 REPORT 1850.

up and shatter the bottom, and scatter the molten matter, or may provide

 the conditions for successive shocks; but the above seems to account for the
 general facts.

     Again, if the eruption occur under land communicating with the sea by-
 rents and fissures, and steam be generated therein, or be blown continuously
 for a longer or shorter time from them into the sea-water, its unequal and
per saltum condensation under pressure, will produce all that trembling and
 repercussion, which, transmitted, will form the earthquake. The phsenomena of
 fluids in the spheroidal state, first systematized by Boutigny, though observed
 in part long before, seem to remove the great difficulty that Gay-Lussac
found in admitting the possibility, of access of sea-water to volcanic vents,
 viz. that it could not gain access against a pressure capable of sustaining co-
lumns of fluid lava 7000 or 8000 feet deep. Let us now remember that
water and white-hot lava might be stirred up together in a huge caldron,
as one would shake oil and water together, and there would be no repulsion,
no explosions, until the lava had cooled down nearly to blackness, when the
whole mass would be suddenly and with explosion shattered into fragments
from the steam evolved in all its cells. Compare Dolomieu, ' Descr. Calab.
Earthquake.'

    I do not regard these views as wholly conjectural. I conceive the facts
known are sufficient to enable us to say, that they are a true, though pro-
bably most incomplete statement of the operations in nature; and it is
remarkable, that not only that most accurate observer, Aristotle, was struck
with the similarity of the sound and trembling motion to the ebullition of
steam in water, but we have seen a long-practised observer compare his
experience of South American earthquake sounds and shocks to the blowing
of steam through the tender of a locomotive engine ; and that some have
compared the first noise of the coming shock to that of a large piece of red-
hot iron quenched in cold water; while Mrs. Maria Graham, in her account
of the earthquake at Chili, in 1822 (Geol. Trans. 2nd ser. vol. i. p. 414),
says she felt "a general tremor and a sound like that of vapour bursting
out, similar to the tremor and sound which she remembered to have observed
at each jet of fire while standing on the cone of Vesuvius during the erup-
tion of 1818."

    Briefly, then, it seems to me, that, however modified, the immediate im-
pulses producing earth-waves of shock are due

   1st. To the sudden formation of steam from water previously in a state of
      repulsion from the heating surfaces, (spheroidal state) and which may
      or may not be again suddenly condensed under pressure of sea-water.

   2nd. To the evolution of steam through fissures, and its irregular and

       per saltum condensation under pressure of sea-water.

   3rd. To great fractures and dislocations in the rocky crust, suddenly

        produced by pressure acting on it from beneath, or in any other

         direction.

    4th. Occasionally, but rarely, to the recoil from mighty explosive eflTects
       at volcanic foci, as when a mass of rock weighing 200 tons was shot
       from the crater of Cotopaxi to the distance of nine miles (Humboldt),
       or when nearly one-half of the crater of Vesuvius was blown away.

   In such cases the shock from recoil must have been far greater than upon
any occasions when powder magazines have been blown up. Yet during the
last century, when a powder-mill at Walthani- abbey exploded, the inha-
bitants of districts so far removed as not to know the true nature of the case,
felt the shock, and had their furniture and houses, &c. so shaken, as to conclude
that it was the shock of an earthquake due to natural causes. (Annual Reg.)

And numerous instances will be found in the pages of the ' Gent. Mag.' of
                                                                                   --

           ON THE FACTS OP EARTHaUAftE PHENOMENA.                                                                             81

explosions of powder being first recorded as earthquakes, and, subsequently,

the shock ascribed to the true cause ; for example, the blowing up of the
Amphion frigate at Portsmouth about the end of last century, was taken for

an earthquake over all the south of England. On occasion of the explosion

of the powder-mills at Hounslow this year, 1850, it was stated in the papers
that the shocks, corresponding in number to the explosions (three in all),
were distinctly felt at Sussex, a distance of between 50 and 60 miles from

Hounslow ; and at Petworth, ^O miles off, the people ran out of their houses,

supposing  it  to be an  earthquake                                           yet  here  the  weight  of  powder  fired  was  not
                                                                           ;

very large. The same circumstances were remarked when the great Spanish

powder magazine was purposely blown up during Sir John Moore's retreat,

said to have contained 1500 barrels of powder; it was felt as an undulation

of the ground for miles away ; and again, in a less degree, when early in last

century one of the great lintel stones of Stonehenge fell down upon the

ground, it was felt all over Wiltshire, and thought at first to have been an

earthquake. In fact all these were earthquakes, though not originating in

natural causes*.

   Finally, it remains to make a few remarks upon the directions in which it
is desirable that earthquake inquiries should be in future extended, and what
are the chief desiderata of the subject. In the article drawn up for the Ad-

miralty Scientific Manual, and published in that volume, on the observation
of earthquake phaenomena, the general character and classification of earth-

quake observations will be found, and to this I refer.
   But altogether the most valuable and important additions that this branch

of physics can now receive, must come
   1st. From a large and careful determination of the moduli of elasticity
       of rocks and of the other substances forming our geological forma-
       tions, and of the changes due to increase of temperature, upon such

moduli.

2nd. From systematic and connected observations of the direction, di-
   mensions, and other conditions of earthquake shocks or waves by self-
   registering instruments suitably placed in countries which are subject

    to very frequent shocks.

3rd. From the co-ordination and comparison of such self-registered ob-
   servations, with those of self-registering meteorological and magnetic

        instruments.

   These observations must be continued for a considerable period, and those
at distant points of observation must be in connexion as to time, &c. The
island of Zante, as being almost hourly shaken by earthquakes, almost all of
which are of a manageable degree of force, and capable of exact registration,
would be an excellent station for a first trial of such instruments, in con-
nexion with some other Mediterranean station; but when a complete self-
registering seismometer shall have been constructed, it would be most de-
sirable that every astronomical and magnetic observatory on the globe
should be furnished with one, and this kept constantly in action, and its indi-
cations systematically recorded in connexion with those of meteorology,

electricity, &c.
   I have' to regret that in the latest edition of his work on volcanoes. Dr.

Daubeny has discouraged the employment of such instruments, by an ob-

* While these sheets have been passing through the press, an explosion of Eome tons of

gunpowder, effected at Seaford on the south coast of England, for the purpose of removing

seaward a large mass of chalk cliff, produced so real an earthquake, that a chimney was

--thrown down in an adjacent village, and houses shook at a distance of three miles, yet no

sound or shock was transmitted through the air. See ' Times,' Sept. 1850.

1850.                                                                                                             G
--82 REPORT 1850.

jection to that which I have proposed, namely the supposed difficulty of keep-
ing a galvanic battery constantly in action to ensure that of the seismometer.

One would have tliought that the thousands of miles of electric telegraph
now kept in hourly activity, would have shown the groundlessness of such

 an objection.

    The observations heretofore made with seismometers, constructed on the
solid pendulum principle, are worthless, by tiie nature of tlie instrument, even
if they were not much too few and too ill-connected to be of any service.

A seismometer must give the direction of emergence of the earth-wave at the

station, the time occupied by the passage of the wave, and the form of its
crest, i.e. its altitude and amplitude. The transit velocity at the station
must for the present be assumed as that due to the modulus of elasticity of
 the formation upon which the instrument stands.

   Upon this subject I would refer to my memoir on a self-registering seis-

 mometer, Trans. Roy. Irish Acad, for 184-0.
     It has been objected to the value of determinations of elastic moduli as

 respects our subject, that they will only give us information as to the purely
 superficial substances of tiie earth's crust. This is however not a valid ob-
jection. The Belgian coal-measures dip as far below the sea-level as Chim-
 borazo rises above it, so tliat it is in our power to get measures of the
 elasticity of formations extending in actual depth to j-i-y of the earth's radius,
 and by obtaining a series of moduli for the same rock, descending in depth,
 to get the law of its variation, and so to arrive at conclusions as to rocks

 which we can never see or examine by tlie senses ; and again, it is not phi-
 losophic to refuse to investigate to the depth we may, because we are limited
 to a certain depth ; to refuse the aid, as Locke says, of the sounding-line,
 because we cannot always strike the bottom with it.

    To be truly serviceable however to the physical geologist, the elastic mo-

 dulus of any given rock should be ascertained in the three directions as it
 lies in situ, of dej)th, breadth, and length. Those desirous of entering more

 fully into this part of the matter, I refer to the Rev. W. Haughton's Memoirs

 on Elastic wave Motions (Trans. Roy. Irish Acad. 1849).
     Direct experiments for admeasurement of the transit rate of elastic waves

 in the solids of the earth's crust, and especially through its loose and inco-
 herent formations, clay, gravel, sand, &c., are of great value to this inquiry,
 and may be made by the explosion of small quantities of gunpowder in a
 suitable manner.

     These investigations, involving expensive instruments and the devotion of

 much time and conjoint labour, can only be attempted with the aids and

 support that bodies such as the British Association can bestow ; and probably
 no laranch of cosmical science would better reward efforts judiciously made
  to advance it, a reward which would not be confined to geology, but would
  enrich many other departments of physics and natural science.

     I have now concluded the Report upon the facts of earthquakes, so far as
  time and other avocations would permit, but I do not view the subject as

  completed.
      In a second part of the present Report, therefore, I hope, with permission

  of the British Association, to present---

    A1st. complete catalogue or chronology of earthquakes from the earliest

          times to the present day, discussed with reference to time and to distri-
           bution over the eartli's surface.
      2nd. Earthquake maps founded upon this discussion.
     3rd. As complete a bibliography of earthquake literature as I have been

            able to collect.
                                        ON THE PACTS OP EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.         83

^th. An account of my own experimental admeasurements, now in pro-

   gress, of the rate of earthquake-wave transit through some of the rocky
   and incoherent formations of the earth's surface.

Sth. An account of the progress made in the construction of a self-regis-

    tering seismometer, with the aid of the British Association.

                                    NOTE (page 8).

   The obscurity of some passages in the original and the extreme difficulty
of grasping the meaning of the author almost throughout, with other reasons,
have made it appear desirable to subjoin a veiy literal translation of the
passages of Aristotle quoted in the text.

   The Greek seems unquestionably corrupt in two or three instances. The
text is from the Oxford Edition of 1837, in 9 vols. 8vo, an amended reprint
from Becher.

   " The shakings and movements of the earth are next to be spoken of. For the
cause of this affection of the earth is closely connected with what we have been

treating of (namely, the wind).

   " Three theories on the subject have been handed down to us by three different

persons                                 namely, Anaxagoras of Klazoraene, before him Anaximenes the Milesian,
                                     ;

and later than these Democritus of Abdera.

" Anaxagoras says that the aether by nature rises upward, but that when it falls

into hollow places in the lower parts of the earth, it moves it (the earth) ; because

the parts above are cemented or closed up by rain, all parts being by nature equally

spongy or full of cavities, both those which are above (where we live) and those

which are below. Of this opinion it may perhaps be unnecessary to say anything,

as being foolish ; for it is absurd to suppose that things would thus exist above and

beneath, and that the parts of bodies which have weight would not on every side be

borne to the earth, and those which are light, and fire rise ; especially since we see

the surface of the earth to be convex and spherical, the horizon constantly changing

as we change our place, at least as far as we know. And it is also foolish to assert

on the one hand that it remains in the air on account of its great size, and on the

other to say that it is shaken when struck from beneath upwards. And besides

these objections, it is to be remarked that he has not treated of the attendant cir-

cumstances of earthquakes, for neither every time or place is subject to these coii-

vuisions.

   " But Democritus says, that the earth being full of water, and receiving much

also by means of rain, is moved by this. For when the water increases in bulk, be-
cause the cavities cannot contain it, in its struggles it causes an earthquake. And
when the earth becomes partially dried up, the water being drawn from the full
reservoirs into those which are empty, in passing from one to the other, by its

movements it causes an earthquake also.
   " Anaximenes, however, says that the earth when parched up and again moistened,

cracks; and by the masses thus broken off falling on it, is shaken; wherefore

earthquakes occur in droughts and again in times of rain ; in droughts, because, as

we have said, it cracks when highly dried, and then when moistened over again it

cracks and falls to pieces. Were this the case, however, the earth ought to appear

Whyin many places subsiding.            then is it that hitherto many places have been

very, subject to these convulsions which do not present any such remarkable differ-

ences from others ? Yet such ought to be the case. And moreover those who think

thus must assert that earthquakes constantly become less and less, and at last cease

altogether. For the continual condensation of the earth would cause this. Where-

fore if this be not the fact, it is plain that this is not the correct explanation."

                                            g2
--84 REPORT 1850.

" But since it is manifest that exhalations must arise both from moist and dry

places, when this is the case, earthquakes must necessarily occur. For the earth itself

is by nature dry, but receiving much moisture on account of rain, when it is heated

both by the sun and also by the fire which burns within itself, a great quantity of

vapour must be produced both inside and outside of itself, and sometimes the

whole of this flows uniformly inwards, sometimes outwards, and sometimes it is

divided.

" If this then be necessarily so, the next point to consider is, what kind of bodies

is most easily moved. But it is inevitable that what can go the greatest distance

and what is most vehement should be specially of this nature. Therefore the most

vehement is of necessity that which is borne along most rapidly, for it strikes with

greatest violence on account of its velocity. For that naturally moves over the

greatest space which can most easily move through everything, and such is the pro-

perty of that which is most subtle. Wherefore since this is the nature of wind, it

of all bodies is the most mobile. For fire, when it occurs along with wind, causes

flame, and is rapidly borne along. Therefore neither water nor earth is the cause of

earthquakes, but the exhalation of wind, when having flowed inwardly it has

chanced to be exhaled outwardly.
   " Therefore the greater number of earthquakes and the most violent ones have

taken place during calms ; for the exhalation being uniform, follows for the most part

the impetus of its commencement, wherefore either all flows inwards together or all

outwards. But that some earthquakes should take place during a wind is nothing un-

reasonable, since we sometimes see several winds blowing at the same time, of which,

if one be borne into the earth, there will be an earthquake while the wind is still

blowing. But these are of less magnitude, since their origin and cause are divided.
   " But earthquakes are also more numerous and greater in the night, and, of those

in tlie day, about the middle of the day. For the middle of the day is in general

the calmest part of it. [For when the sun has most power it keeps the exhalations

bound in the earth, and it has most power in the middle of the day.] And the

nights are even calmer than the days, on account of the absence of the sun, so that

then the flow of wind is again inward, as if a regurgitation in an opposite direction

to that in which the effusion took place ; and this especially towards dawn, when
the winds usually begin to blow. If therefore the origin (or direction r) of them

shall be changed within, as at Euripus, on account of their great mass the earth-

quake will be the more violent.
   " Earthquakes also seem to have been most violent about such places as are loose

and full of cavities, and where the sea has many tides. Such are the places about

the Hellespont, and Achaia, and Sicilia, and Eubcea, for about these places the sea

seems to flow beneath the earth on account of the narrowness of the passage. For

the same reason the hot baths near CEdipus were formed.
   " Near all these places which we have mentioned the earthquakes are very violent

on account of the narrowness ; for the wind being rendered violent on account of
the great mass of the sea, which is borne to the land in great quantity, is repelled

again back upon the earth, though naturally it should blow out from the earth.
And thus those countries, the earth below which is spongy and therefore capable

of containing much vapour, are more violently shaken.
   " In spring and autumn also the greatest earthquakes take place, both during

drought and rain                                                                                 but the winter and summer,  the  one  by its cold, and the other
                                                                                              ;

by its droughts, produce immobility, for the one is too cold, and the other too dry.

But even in droughts the air contains vapour (jTvevfiaTa>hr)s ea-rl), for this is a drought

when more dry than moist exhalations are produced. But during rain the wind

causes a greater amount of exhalation within, and by this kind of secretion (djrd-

Kpia-Lv) being intercepted in narrower places, and the same mass being driven into a

smaller space, the hollow places of the earth being full of water ; when it begins to

have power, on account of a great mass being forced into a small space, the wind
moving and striking produces violent motion.

   " For it is necessary to be understood, that as in our bodies the force of the wind

which is intercepted is the cause of tremors and throbbings, so also the wind pro-

duces similar effects in the earth, and one earthquake appears like a tremor and

another hke a throb. And as it often happens after a discharge of water (for then a
.

ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA.  85

certain tremor is produced through the body, when a quantity of wind is necessarily
transferred in a mass fiom without inwards), so also it happens with the earth.

    " Such strength has the wind that we need not look for it only in the effects which
it produces in the atmosphere (for there, on account of its great magnitude, any one
would presuppose that it could do such great things), but also in the bodies of ani-
mals. For spasms and convulsions are some of the other motions produced bj' wind,
and such strength have they, that many people, at once trying to restrain the move-
ments of the person afflicted, are unable to do so.

    " So also we must suppose it happens in the earth, to compare a great thing with

a small.

   " Several signs of it also have taken place under our own observation. For in
several places, when an earthquake has taken place, it has not stopped until the
wind which caused it burst forth like a storm upon the part of the earth above. This

happened in the earthquake which took place lately about Heracleia in Pontus, and

formerly in the island Hiera, which is one of those called the yEolian Isles. For

in this island a part of the earth swelled, and rose like a hill, the motion being ac-

companied by noise, until at length rending, much wind came forth, and threw up
cinders and fine ashes, which burnt the whole city of the Jjiparasi, which was not
far off, and reached even to some of the cities of Italy ; and where the swelling took
place is visible to the present daj'. For this is to be supposed to be the cause of this
fire produced in the earth, that when cut off it burned, the air being first divided into

small particles (? Greek)
    " But an infallible sign that winds flow beneath the earth, is afforded by that

which takes place with respect to these islands. For when the south wind is about
to blow, it is known beforehand by particular signs, for noises are heard at those
places from which the eruptions take place ; because the sea being forced forwards
already from a distance is again repelled from the land where it happens to come
upon it, by the eruptive force. But it produces a sound without a shock on account
of the great size of the place (for the sea is poured into an immense space without),

and also the small quantity of the repelling air.
    " Besides these signs, the sun becoming dull and obscure though without clouds,

and calms and great cold before earthquakes happening in the morning, are signs of
the cause we have been speaking of. For it is a necessary consequence of the wind

(which dissolves and separates the air) beginning to return into the earth, that the

sun should be obscured and gloomy, and that in the morning, towards dawn, there
should be much cold and calmness. For it is necessary that the calmness should
for the most part happen when the wind returns inwards, as we have said before,
and more so before the greater earthquakes, for then that which is within and that
which is without are not separated, but the whole being borne along, it necessarily

produces great effects.

   " But the cold happens, because the exhalation, which is in itself of a warm na-
ture, now goes inwards. But the winds do not seem to be warm, because they move
the air which is full of cold vapour, in the same way as the air which is breathed
through our mouths. For that which is near is warm, as when we exhale, but on

account of its small quantity it is not equally manifest ; but that which is at a di-

stance is cold, for the same reason as the winds. Such force therefore being wanting
in the earth, the vaporous emanations coming together, on account of the moisture,

produce cold in the places which are thus affected.
    " The same is the reason of a phaenomenon which generally occurs before an

earthquake, namely, that either during the day or a little after sunset, the weather
being quite serene, a little cloud appears, narrow and stretched out to a great length,
and quite straight, the wind being weak on account of its change of place. For the
same takes place in the sea round the coast ; for when rising in large waves it is
flung in upon the shore, deep and irregular ripple-marks are produced, but when

it is calm, less effects are produced, and these are small and straight. What then

the sea does on the coast, the wind does on the cloud which is in the air, so that
when there is a calm the cloud is left altogether straight and narrow, being as it

were a ripple-mark in the air.
   " For the same reason also earthquakes often happen about the time of eclipses

of the moon. For when now the interposition is near, and the light and heat derived
--86 REPORT 1850.

from the sun are not entirely removed from the air, but just decreasing, a calm
takes place, the wind returning again into the earth, which causes the earthquake
before the eclipse. For winds also often happen before eclipses, blowing in the
beginning of the night before those which take place in the middle of the night, and
in the middle of the night before those which happen in the morning. This occurs
because the heat diminishes which is derived (rom the moon, when now the path
((popa) is near in which the eclipse takes place. That therefore being removed which
detained the air and rendered it calm, the wind is again put in motion, and blows
previous to the eclipse. But when a violent earthquake has taken place, the shocks do
not cease suddenly and at once, but in the first instance they often continue for forty
days, aud after that are in force for one or even two years in the same place. But the
cause of the greatness of the earthquake is the great amount of wind and the con-
figuration of the places through which it flows, for where it is repelled and cannot
easily pass through, there it produces the greatest shocks, being retained in narrow
places like water, not being able to pass through. Wherefore, as in the body throb-
bing pulsations do not cease suddenly and immediately, but gradually, as the malady
spends itself, so also it is with the beginning of the exhalation and the original im-
petus of the wind ; for it is manifest that the material is not at once consumed from
which the wind is produced which we call an earthquake.

    " Until therefore the remains of this be consumed, the shocks must necessarily
continue, but continually becoming less and less until the exhalation is too slight to

produce any perceptible shock.
    " But the wind also produces those noises under ground which are heard before

earthquakes. And in some places subterranean noises are heard unaccompanied by

earthquakes, for as the air by being struck produces every kind of sound, so it does
also when it is itself the striking agent, for it makes no difference, since when it strikes
against any object, it is itself stricken. But the sound comes before the shock be-
cause it consists of more subtle parts, and can therefore penetrate through every-

thing better than wind.

    " But when it is unable to move the earth, it is on account of its subtlety, which
enables it to pass through without moving it. But when it strikes against bodies
whether solid or hollow or of whatever figure, it produces every species of sound, so
that the earth often appears, as those who utter portents say, to bellow.

    " Water also is often thrown out during earthquakes. But we are not to conclude
from this that water is the cause of earthquakes, for whether it be on the surface or
below, the wind it is which supplies the force, which is the moving power, as the
winds are of the waves, and not the waves the cause of the winds. Since else any
one might attribute this convulsion to the earth itself, for when shaken it is over-
turned like water (for pouring out is a sort of overturning) . But both these causes are
causes as matter is (passive not active causes), but the wind is as an inceptive cause.

    " But when a wave occurs at the same time with an earthquake, it is owing to
two winds acting in opposite directions. But this happens when the wind which is
 agitating the earth cannot altogether repel the sea which is borne along by another
wind, but propelling and driving it together, it collects a large body of water. Then
when this wind is overcome, it necessarily follows that a great impetus is given to
the opposing wind, and a deluge is produced. And this took place in Achaia, for
 without the south wind was blowing, but there the north ; but a calm taking place,
 and the wind flowing inwards, a wave was produced, and an earthquake at the same
 time, and the rather because the sea did not give an outlet to the wind acting under
 the eaith, but opposed an obstacle to its egress. For of the two forces in action,
 the wind produced the earthquake, and the remains (iinocrTaa-is t) of the wave the

 inundation.
     " Earthquakes arc covfined to particular parts of the earth, and often to a small

part ; but the. irinds are not so. But they are so when t/ie exhalations vMch are in the

 place itself and the neighhoiiring jilace, Jioio together, since the rains and droughts are
 so too, as we have before said, and the earthquakes take place in this manner, the winds
 do not. For these have their origin in the earth, so thai they all flow toget/ier into one.
 But the sun has not a similar power, but the lofty exhalations rather so as to flow into
 one, when they receive an impetus from the path ((popa) of the sun (? Greek).

    " When a great deal of wind is present, it shakes the earth, producing a sort of
                                          ----

ON THE FACTS OF EARTHQUAKE PHiENOMENA.    87

tremor sideways, but it occasionally and in some few places happens that it appears

like a violent throbbing from below upwards. This seldom occurs, for it is not easy

for much motive power to be collected in this way, for there is a much greater evo-
lution of this sideways than upwards. When such an earthquake takes place, a
multitude of stones are thrown up as if shaken up in a sieve. It was by an earth-
quake of this sort that the parts about Sipylos were overthrown, and the plain called

Phlegreean, and the Ligurian country.
    " But in islands far out to sea, earthquakes are less felt than in those which are

near shore. For the great mass of the sea cools the exhalations and keeps them
down by its force and weight. And besides, the sea is in constant motion, and is
not shaken, overcome by the winds. And because it occupies a great space, the ex-
halations are not produced into, but out of this, and those which are produced in

the earth follow these.
   " But those islands which are close to the main land are in fact part of it, for the

intervening water on account of its small size has no force. But islands far at sea
cannot be moved but with the whole sea which surrounds them.

   " Concerning earthquakes therefore, and their nature, and causes, and all other
circumstances concerning them, we have here treated of the principal things."

Arist. Meteor., Lib. II. cap. 7-8.

  " It often happens, however, that a similar wind, hidden in the earth, when these
(i. e. means of exit) are absent, when it has insinuated itself into hollow places and

dark passages in the earth, as if breaking out from its proper resting-places, pro-

duces a vibratory motion in many places round.
   " And it often happens that when much wind from without has got into these hol-

lows, all means of exit being cutoff, in turning itself within it shakes the earth with
immense force, in vain seeking a place of exit, from which arises that convulsion of

nature which we call an earthquake,
   " But those earthquakes which shake the earth obUquely at an acute angle are

called ' Epiclintse,' as acting in a transverse direction.

   " But those which toss the earth up and down at a right angle are called

' Brastas,' from their likeness to the motion of boiling water.
   " But when the sinking of the ground leaves hollows in its subsidence, they are

called ' Chasmatias,' from their gaping.

" But those which produce chasms by an eruption are called ' Rhectae,' that is

Nowbreakers forth.  some of these in their eruption carry forth blasts of wind,

others stones, others mud. There are some also which produce springs where

before they did not exist.

   "Those are called ' Ostse' which with one thrust overturn what they move.
   " But those which with much shaking, and inclining, and vibrating to either side,

always throw the objects they shake upright again, are called ' Palmatix,' that is

vibratory, as producing an atfection very like a tremor." Arist., De Miindo. cap. 4.

A mere regard for the verbal construction of the preceding passages

would, on the whole, lead the reader (especially if unaided by reference to the

Greek) to the conclusion, tiiat Aristotle meant to convey that wind simply

in some form or another, was the efficient cause of earthquakes; after care-

ful consideration, however, I am still disposed to adhere to the view given

in the foregoing report, and to believe that in so far as he had in reality any

distinct idea, it was that of some intangible, imponderable force or agent

present in the earth and above it, acting upon the winds, and acted on by

them, though not the winds themselves, and giving rise in such reactions to

earthquakes and volcanoes. Perhaps from the want of any distinct ideas as

to atmology, and its relations to those forces which we call molecular, and

having no clear metaphysics of spirit and matter, an abuse of words is found

in the Greek physical writers, which often renders them (as throughout the

above passages) almost unintelligible. The word -nyev^ia was used to express

pure spirit, and the wind (compare John's Gospel, cap. 3, ver. 8), as well as

condensable vapours, and this alike by the philosopher and by the vulgar.
--88 REPORT 1850.

Letter to the Assistant General Secretary to the British Association.

                                                                                                                  Dublin, July 22, 1850.

My --dear Sir, As the working member of the Committee appointed at last

meeting of the Association for the instrumental admeasurement of earthquake
--Awaves, I have to report as follows :
                                         sum of £50 was placed at the disposal

of this Committee, the entire amount of which has been devoted to the com-

pletion of a self-registering seismometer, upon my construction. In this con-

siderable progress lias been made, and we hope to present it in action at the

next meeting of the Association after the present one, it being found imprac-

ticable to have it completed in time for the Edinburgh meeting.

  When so finished and found, as we trust, to answer its purpose, it would

be most desirable that a second instrument at least should be constructed, and

that both should be sent out and kept at work in whatever earthquake di-

strict might appear most favourably circumstanced for registration.

The island of Zante and some other one or more moderately distant stations

in the Levant, would seem to offer great inducements to fix on tiiem. I have

reason to know that competent persons could be found at Zante to undertake

the task of superintending the instruments and recording their indications.

After such a conjoint arrangement for self-registering observations of the

peculiarly manageable and almost constant shocks felt at Zante and its sur-
rounding regions, should have been in operation for a year or so, we might

expect to arrive at some very definite knowledge as to the position and the

depth beloiv the surface of the centre of those frequent impulses, in other

words, probably, of the actual depth of the great volcanic focus of the Me-

diterranean basin.

The whole sum of £50 has been drawn, and the whole, with the exception

of a small sum, remains as yet to the credit of the Committee, but will very

soon be required for payment.

Should a second instrument hereafter be constructed a further grant will

be necessary.

Previous to the appointment of this Committee at the last meeting, I had

arranged and in part proceeded with a series of experiments for the experi-

mental admeasurement of the rate of transit of waves of impulse (analogous

to those of earthquakes) produced artificially in various coherent and inco-

herent formations of the earth's crust, and at first proposed that the expense
of these experiments should be defrayed from the grant made to this Com-

mittee at Birmingham ; but finding that the cost of the seismometer for self-
registration would, as a first instrument, involving alterations, &c., absorb

nearly the whole grant, if not the whole, and that the expense of these transit
experiments would be very considerable, I proposed to the other members of

the Committee that the whole grant should be devoted to the seismometer,

and that I would complete the experiments on rate of wave transit, as I had

commenced, from my own resources.

I have already completed that class of those experiments that regard the

rate of impulse wave transit in incoherent formations, and with very interest-

ing and unexpected results, and am now proceeding with those in coherent

or rocky formations. The impulses in the former case were produced by the

explosion of rather large quantities of gunpowder. In the latter it will pro-

bably be found most convenient to resort to a blow delivered by the fall of

a heavy body.

    I propose giving an account of these experiments as a portion of a second
report on th^ facts of earthquakes, should I be directed by the British Asso-
ciation, at its approaching meeting, to prepare such report. In this would also

be embodied the extended catalogue of earthquakes, and discussion of same
                                                   --

    A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OP LUMINOUS METEORS. 89

--by curve-diagrams and maps, which I have in progress, and which I expect to

be the most complete ever tabulated about two thousand earthquakes, new to
any previous catalogue, have been already collected, arranged and tabulated.

   The bibliographical catalogue of works relating to earthquakes has also
been brought to a very forward state, and through the assistance of friends
abroad I have been enabled to obtain complete excerpts of the seismological
books existing in several of the most important foreign libraries ; when finish-
ed, therefore, I expect this will form a better index to future students of this
interesting branch of physical geology than they have before had access to.

   I am indebted to Dr. Robinson for some valuable suggestions as respects
my experimental determination of wave transits above adverted to, and to
my eldest son, William Mallet, for much laborious aid in the preparation of

those catalogues; but these and other such obligations received from other
friends will best be fully acknowledged hereafter.

   I would beg the favour (as I am myself unable to be present at the Edin-

burgh meeting) of your presenting this in the proper quarter, as the provi-
sional report upon the above matters, in order that the views of the Associa-

tion may be ascertained upon the question of a second report, &c.
                                         Believe me truly yours, Robert Mallet.

On Observations of Lu'minou$ Meteors ; continued from the Reports of

   the British Association for 1849. By the Rev. Baden Powell,

   M.A., F.R.S., F.R.A.S., F.G.S., Savilian Professor of Geometry in

    the University of Oxford.

In continuing my report to the British Association for the year elapsed since
the last Meeting, on observations of Luminous Meteors made in various parts
of the world, I have been aided by the contributions of many friends, among
whom Mr. Lowe, as on former occasions, has been pre-eminent in the number
of observations he has kindly communicated. From other quarters I have
not received so many as last year, though Dr. Buist has favoured me with a

considerable number from India. I have also been enabled to prefix a notice
of some older observations which in some instances throw light on those in

former reports.

   The arrangement of the tables is nearly the same as before, with a slight
extension in their form, which it is hoped will add to their perspicuity. The
time is usually only common clock time, and therefore open to much uncer-

tainty, unless otherwise expressed ; but in all Mr. Lowe's observations it is

Greenwich mean time.

I. List of a few Meteors prior to the date of the commencement of the

                             Catalogue for 1849-50.

(i.) 18^8 or 1829. At Allport, Derbyshire, about the end of August or

beginning of September, at 3 p.m., a bright light was seen to traverse the sky,

slowly  when  it  exploded,  with a loud  noise                      pieces  fell  in  a  field  of  mown
                                                                  ;

Agrass, where persons at work picked them up.                                specimen was picked up

and preserved by B. Staley, Esq.
   It was analysed by Dr. R. A. Smith. It contains oxide of iron, making

its specific gravity about 2; also free sulphur, which appears in minute
crystals visible to the naked eye as a fine dust as soon as a fresh surface is

exposed. Its composition is in these respects totally unlike any other meteorite.
It contains also charcoal, which might perhaps be acquired from matter
among which it fell. The analysis by Dr. R. A. Smith is as follows:
--90 REPORT 1850.

    " It contained 22*32 per cent, of sulphur in small crystals, i^S-59 of carbon
and 34'09 of oxide of iron, in which number is included a fraction of a per
cent, of silica. It did not contain phosphates, sulphurets or earths."

   Communicated by Dr. R. A. Smith, Manchester.

(ii.) Observations of Luminous Meteors prior to Aug. 184'9. Commu-

   nicated by Dr. D. P. Thomson. Extracted from his Introduction to
    Meteorology, 18i9.

1837. Sept. 21, 1^ iS"" p.m Cast a shadow; seen at Paris, (p. 305.)

--184 1. Dec. 21. Twice the apparent diameter of moon, and exceedingly

effulgent; the tail was variegated, and the body burst in a blaze of light;
seen at Glasgow and near to Stirling at the same time. (lb.)

  --18'13. Feb. 5, about 8 p.m. Passed over Notts, resembling a large mass

of fire of a blood-red coloui-, and assumed various shapes ; its course was

from N.W. ; its apparent height trifling, and its velocity about fifty-five miles

--per minute. (lb.)
    1846. June 20, about H^ 30"" p.m. Witnessed at Marieux near Autun,

Saone et Loire ; it was of a violet colour, and seemed a yard in circumference.

It continued visible about a minute, and descended perpendicularly to tlie

horizon, giving off five other balls, each nearly one-fourth the size of the

parent mass, which nevertheless preserved its original volume; before disap-
pearing it burst into sparks, spreading i'ar and wide. (lb., Evening Mail.)

   1846. Aug. 1, about \0^ 30'" p.m.-- At Cassel, at an altitude of about

80°, near to the meridian ; it burst with a sibilant sound, leaving behind a train

-- Aof sparks. (lb.)  bolis appearing as large as an orange, with a train
    1846. Sept. 15.

some yards in length, crossed Wrenbury, Cheshire, about 10 p.m. (p. 305).

The observer was my brother, Mr. William Thomson, surgeon, Wrenbury,

--near Nantwich.                  very fine bolis was observed by my friend
A1847. Oct. 17} at 6^ 5°' p.m.

the Rev. Charles Aldis, crossing from S.W. to N.E. at Wrenbury, with a long

train and a faint whizzing noise ; another of very large diameter was seen

near to midnight on the 23rd of November of the same yeai-, at Birkenhead.

" The finest bolis which the autlior ever witnessed occurred on the 2nd of

February 1848, about 9 p.m. [near Wrenbury, Cheshire]. The night was

--calm and beautiful, three hours before he had been testing a reflecting tele-

scope upon the ring of Saturn [then a difficult object]. Returning from a

professional visit, his attention was drawn to the south by a sudden and

brilliant light not far from [the belt of] Orion. It was a fireball slowly de-
scending at an angle of nearly 20°. Its light was more intense than that of
Jupiter, which was then shining in great splendour, and it had a decided ap-
parent diameter. The body of the meteor was coloured grass-green, and it

was partially bordered with crimson, in a crescentic form in the direction of

the white and tapering tail. The bolis disappeared without sparks, falling
seemingly to the ground between the observer and the wood of Combermere

Abbey, nearly a mile oft'. Before sunrise the sky was overcast ; the follow-

--Aing day was bleak and windy, and rain soon followed." (p. 3C6.)
1848. March 8.        luminous meteor shot across the clouded sky at Bath

from the S.W.; the nucleus seemed larger than a cricket-ball, and the tail

appeared about three-fourths of a yard in length. (lb. p. 306.)

  --Query. Might not this be the same which was seen by Mr. Symonds near
Pto Oxford, at 45"^ on the 9th ?
--A1849. Jan. 9.
                  bolis crossed the sky at Edinburgh, seemingly one-third

the moon's diameter; passed slowly to the south. (MS. Edin. Advertiser.)
                                                   .;

          A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. 91

     -- (iii.) Other Meteors up to August 1849.

   1846. " I never saw more meteors than this winter. From October 17th to
December 17th they appeared in great numbers almost every clear night, some

as large as Jupiter. The most remarkable were between October 17th and 26th,

and on November 10th, 11th, and 12th." (J. F. Miller, Whitehaven.)

  --1847. August. Whitehaven, J. F. Miller, Esq. Multitudes of shooting

stars, and several larger meteors, almost every clear night between the 2nd

--Aand 20th. (MS.)          very large bright meteor fell during a grand display of
    1847. Oct. 24.

aurora borealis. (Darlington, Durham, by J. Graham, Esq.)

          1848. Jcin.27.--Several very brilliant meteors. (Uckfield. C.L.Prince,Esq.)

          These four communicated by E. J. Lowe, Esq.

Date.               Hour.   Description.                                                                Place.    Obsen-er.            Reference.

       1815.    hm
Feb. 18
                            Explosion ; meteorite                                                       Dooraila, India. Captain Bird  Bombay Times. See
       1822.                                                                                            Kadonah                           App., No. 22.
Aug. 7                           fell.
                                                                                                                                       lb. App., No. 23.
                            Meteorite

       1825.                Elongated fire-ball .                                                       Calcutta  Colonel Blacker lb. App., No. 24.
Nov. 3                                                                                                                                       lb. App., No. 25.
Nov. 22 ..                  Brilliant meteor like a Ibid

       1832.                    comet.                                                                                                 lb. App., No. 26.
June 23 ..                  Three fireballs united Delhi

July24....                     into one.                                                                                               lb. App., No. 27.
Nov. 18 .                                                         Meerut                                                               lb. App., No. 28.

                            Innumerable meteors ... Bulrampore and

       1833.                                                                      Asia                            Mr. Taylor           lb. App., No. 29.
March 18.       5 27 p.m. Very brilliant in N.B.... Madras.

       1841.                                                                                            Calcutta                       lb. App., No. 30.
Sept. 10 .

       1842.    4 a.m.                                                                                            Capt. Shortrede lb. App., No. 31.
April 11 .

        1843.   3-^ p.m. Meteorite fell                                                                           Various ob-          lb. App., No. 32.
July 26....

                                                                                                                  servers.

       1848.                                                                                                      Capt. Abbot.
Sept. 4....
                8 45 p.m. A very singular lumi Wrottesley,                                                        Assistant to Lord See Appendix,

                    (m.t.)  nous streak dissolved near Wolver- Wrottesley.                                                             No.l.

                            in train of sparks.                                                         hampton.

Sept. 7.        6 30 p.m. Large fireball, from N. Poona                                                           Correspondent Bombay Times. See

                            to S. ; course deviated                                                               to Bombay            App., No. 33.

                                        at right angles ; burst                                                   Times.

Oct. 29                                into fragments.                                                                                 lb. App., No. 34.

                7 p.m. Large fireball , from W. to Bombay and

        1849.                        E.; horizontaljthenfeU. Poona.                                                                    lb. App., No. 35.
July 27         8 30 p.m. Bright nieteorwith large Porebunder, In- Id.

                            train of red sparks dia.

                            visible about 5 sees.

                            fell perpendicularly

                            from an alt. about 70'"

Aug. 25         10  p.m.    A splendid meteor                                                           West of Chester- A Correspondent Derby Courier. See

                            = 2 ? , followed by field.                                                                                 Appendix, No. 2.

                            train of stars path
                                                                                                     ;

                            marked byadark cloud

Aug. 12, 13,14              Great numbers of me- Midhurst, Sussex M. Bulard                                                            Comptes Rendus,

                            teors observed, and                                                                                        No. 10, p. 269.

                            their tracks laid down                                                                                     See also App.

                            on a map ; all a|)                                                                                         No. 3.

                            peared to originate in

                            Pegasus.
--92 REPORT 1850.

                              II. Catalogue of Luminous Meteors

Date.  Hour.                 Magnitude or        Colour.      Train or explosion.   Velocity or
                                                                                     duration.
                               brightness.

  m1849. h                   SmaU                Blue         No tail               Rapid

Oct. 8. 10 53 p.m.           = 4th mag.          Blue         No tail              'Rapid.
                                                 Blue
         9. 9 45 p.m.           3rd mag.                      Sparks               I
       10. 11 55 p.m.
                             = 4th mag           Blue         Sparks                Rapid.
                 12 17 p.m.
       12. 9 58 p.m.         = lst mag. ; round, Orange-red.  Train of bright sparks ... Rapid

                 10 8 p.m.   well-defined disc.

                 10 12 p.m.  = 4th mag.          Yellow       No tail.              Rapid
                                                              No tail.
                             = 4th mag.          Blue ..                            =Rapid.
                                                              Sparks
        10 13 p.m.           = 4th mag           Yellow                             Rapid
                             = 4th; as bright.
13... 10 30 p.m.             = 5th mag.          Blue ..      Sparks                Rapid
                             = 3rd mag.          Orange
14. 9 29 p.m.                = lst mag.                       No taU                Rapid
          9 35 p.m.          = 4th mag.          YeUow        No tail.              Rapid
                             = 2nd mag
20... 6 20 p.m.                                  Yellow       No tail.              Rapid.
                             Very brilliant
          6 35 p.m.                              Yellow       Sparks                Rapid.

           8 2 p.m.                                                                 3 or 4 seconds ..
           8 7 p.m.
          8 30 p.m.

31... 3 00 p.m. ... No meteor visible

Nov. 1... 11 00 p.m. ..

2.. 5 10 p.m. .. Bright                                                             Nearly 20 seconds

       5 30 p.m. .. Large ; round                             With train            About 8 seconds

       =5 33 p.m. .. Globe meteor ^ of Orange-red . For the 1st half of course Very slow ; visi-
                                                              separate sparks ex- ble 30 seconds
       (g.m.t.)              the moon.

                                                              tending through 10°,

                                                              thence without any.

       6 5 p.m. .. Small                         Blue

       7 33 p.m. ... Larger than ? when Orange-red            With sparks.          Moderate

       (g.m.t.)              at S, and twice as

                             bright.
A CATALOGUE OP OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. 93

                      (continued from the Report of ISid).

Direction.
                            .                                              .;                          ... .  . .;

--94 REPORT 1850.

 Date. Hour.     Magnitude or                Colour.  Train or explosion.      Velocity or
                   brightness.                                                  duration.
 m1849. h

Nov. 5 6 8 p.m.

    6 10 p.m. Head composed of 7 Bluish               Vivid train of sparks which 5 seconds; train re-

    (g.m.t.)     or 8 small balls.                    seemed attracted to- mained about 2

                                                      gether in masses.        minutes.

    6 20 p.m.    = 1st mag              Red           Train of red light ; explo
      (g.m.t.)   =Brightness Ij.
                                                          sion.
    6 30 p.m.    Bright circular de- Greenish white
                     fined disc.                      Leaving remarkable thin Moderate
    9 p.m.                                                lines of red light
    6 18 p.m.    = 4 times ? ; I'ght                     through whole path
                   = full moon.
                                                      Towards end threw out
                                                          train of sparks 10° long
                                                          visible 3 or 4 sees, after
                                                          meteor.

                                                      Burst with loud explosion

                 1st mag                Orange

    ] 44 p.m. =3rd mag.                 Blue ...      Continuous streak or tail . Rapidly

    9 20 p.m. = 2nd mag.                Yellow

      9 21 p.m. =3rd mag. .             Blue ..                                Rapid.
12 6 20 p.m. = 2nd mag.                                                        Rapid
                                                                               Rapid
    10 37 p.m.   = 4th mag              Blue
        From                                                                   Rapid.
                 =)8 meteors ; 1    ?;                                         Rather rapid
    10 30 p.m.                                                                 Rapid
            to   =1= J^; 15 1st mag.;                                          8 sees.

                 31 = 2nd mag.

    12 30 p.m.

13  From         =69 meteors; 1     $;

    10 30 p.m. 9 = 1st mag.;

    to 20 = 2nd mag.;

    12 15 p.m. 25 = 3rd mag.

    10 23 12' Afireball

15 10 29 p.m. Small

    10 31 p.m. Small                    Yellow            Streamers
                                                      ... Sparks over 1°
    10 31 p.m.

Dec. 4 11 40 p.m. Globular ; three times Orange-red

                 as large and four

                 times as bright as

    11 30 p.m. Appeared to increase Greenish white Shower of sparks ; no       Rapid

                 as it descended to                       noise.

                 mag. =4 limes ^                      Leaving a continuous lu- Over 4° ; rapid
    10 35 p.m. = 3rd mag
                                        Yellow

    10 36 p.m. = 4th mag.                             minous streak in its track
                                                                                                Rapid

    10 38 p.m. = 4th mag.                                                      Rapid

19 5 10 p.m. = 2 ?                                    Leaving a streak.        Remarkably slow
                                                                                   visible 2 mins.
                                                                                  30 sees.
                                                                                             ;

         A CATALOGUE OP OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. 95

         Direction.                                                                                   General remarks.         Place.        Observer.                                                                                                                                                                                                      Reference.

From 3° above « Urs. Mag. to                                                                                            Stone, near    M.V.Fasel                                                                                                                                                                                                     Phil. Mag.

8° above j3 Bootis.                                                                                                     Aylesbury.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Feb. 1850, 115.

From near Pleiades and close to                                                                                         Chester        R. L. Jones, Esq. Communication to

a Arietis, [to 10° above Del-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J. Glaisher, Esq..

phinus (from alt. 13°, azim.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Phil. Mag.

N. 68° E. to alt. 60°, azim.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         May 1850, p.381.

S. 8° W.), Glaisher.

From azim. N. 7°, W. alt. 30°,                                                                                          Stone          M.V.Fasel                                                                                                                                                                                                     lb. Feb. 1850.

to azim. N. 59° , W. alt. 38°.

From 14 Draconis to h Herculis Mr. Glaisher sug Highfield House, E. J. Lowe, Esq. MS. list. See

                                                                                                      gests this maybe Nottingham.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Appendix, No. 7.

In Pleiades; about 20° alt.;                                                                          the same as last.                Id                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bombay Times,
                                                                                                      The air full of Bombay                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Nov. 3-16, 1849,
  from W. to E.                                                                                       small meteors at

                                                                                                      present."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      See Appendix,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     No. 8.

Prom E. to W.,                                                                                                          Asseerghur     Id                                                                                                                                                                                                            lb. See Appendix,

 down ; from slightly W. of                                                                                             Highfield House, Id                                                                                                                                                                                                             No. 9.
                                                                                                                           Nottingham.                                                                                                                                                                                                               MS. list.
« Urs. Maj.

Through 5° ; from t Ceti at an                                                                                          Ibid           Id                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ibid.
   incl. of about 7° to horizon

towards S.

E!rom below « Aurigae ; incl. at                                                                                        Ibid.          Id                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ibid.
   45° downwards.

Just under <?, through 1°..                                                                                             Ibid.          Id                                                                                                                                                                                                            , Ibid.
From 54, 55, 56 Persei to Ca-                                                                                           Ibid.          Id                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ibid.

    pella.                                                                                                              Breslau.       Prof. Bogus-                                                                                                                                                                                                  Comptes Rendus,
                                                                                                                                          lawski and                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nov. 26, 1849.
From 1° below Capella through                                                                                                              Assistants.                                                                                                                                                                                                  Phil. Mag. Jan.

    3°.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1850, p. 75.

CVom Camelopardalis to Urs                                                                                              Ibid.          Id                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ibid.

Maj.

From /3 Aurigae to » Gemin. ...                                                                                         Highfield House E. J. Lowe, Esq. MS. list.

                                                                                                                        Nottingham.

From under CapeUa towards S                                                                                             Ibid           Id                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ibid.

Under Pleiades                                                                                                          Ibid           Id Ibid.
                                                                                                                        Ibid
Horizontal from between t and                                                                                                          S. Watson, Esq. Mr. Lowe's MS.

Eridani                                 ^ nearer the former                                                                              & F. E. Swann, list.
                                     ;
                                                                                                                                          Esq.
: about  1°                             beneath «· and
                                                                                                 ;j;

Ceti ; fading away near ai

Piscium.

From zenith to S.W. ; exploded Dimmed the hght Near Shorapore. CoiTespondent See Appendix,

at alt. 20° nearly.                                                                                   of stars.                              to Bombay                                                                                                                                                                                               No. 36.

                                                                                                                                             Times.

From 4° below <J ; in direction                                                                                         Ibid           E. J. Lowe, Esq Ibid.

   of Orion's belt.

From H. I. Camelopardalis to                                                                                            Ibid                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ibid.

   y Persei.                                                                                                            Ibid                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ibid.
From between y and | Draconis

   -J- down.

From a Draconis; slightly above                                                                                         Beeston, near M. J. E. Durand, Ibid.
   X Draconis to just above Ca                                                                                            Nottingham, & J. F. MiUer,

pella.                                                                                                                  at Whitehaven Esq.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                                                                     .; . .

--96 REPORT 1850.

Date. Hour.          Magnitude or            Colour.                                                                                                                                                                                                  Train or explosion.        Velocity or
                       brightness.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                duration.

 1849    hm          =Bright nucleus 2 <J ;                                                                                                                                                                                                           Train increased in length Uniformly through
Dec. 19
         5 15 p.m.      another estimate
          (g.m.t.)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    as meteor advanced;        65° in 30 sees.
                       = 4 2A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      length established from

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30' to 5° ; no explosion.

                     Nl <?                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Train                      Through 76° in 15

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 sees.

         10 16 p.m. = 2nd magnitude, but Orange-red                                                                                                                                                                                                   No streamers               Slow ; 4° in 1 sec.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Rapid; ^sec........
         7 58 30»       brighter than 1st.

                     =Size 4th magnitude Blue
                       =brightness 3rd

                     mag.

         6 36 30' Size= If. ; brighter Fine red.                                                                                                                                                                                                      A few separate sparks.     H sec.
                           than ^ at ,?; cir-

                     cular disc.

         7 30 p.m. At first small, but in-                                                                                                                                                                                                            Scintillated like a rocket 2 1 sees.

         (g.m.t.)    creased to brighter                                                                                                                                                                                                              before disappearing ; no

                     than Aldebaran.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  explosion ; left a con-

30 5 21 p.m. 2nd mag.                        Rather red.                                                                                                                                                                                                  siderable train.       Instantaneous
      5 45 p.m. Brilliant ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      No streak

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Rapid

                     Globe about 4' diam.

 1850.   6  23 p.m.  Bolide  brighter    than Reddish                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bright train ; no noise    About 35 sees.
Jan. 30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .

                     S at brightest.

         6 50 p.m. Several small, and one
         8 48 p.m. Much larger than 2/.

             9 30 p.m. Smaller than J/.      YeUow                                                                                                                                                                                                    Oblong form                Slow

Feb. 3 8 10 p.m. = 4th mag                   Yellow                                                                                                                                                                                                   No train                   Quick
                                             Orange                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Rapid
       4 8 55 p.m. =2nd mag                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Slight train
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Train
      6 8 15 p.m. = lst mag
         8 20 p.m. = 4th mag                                                                                                                                                                                                                          No tail
          7 p.m. Large, =moon

     6 30 p.m. Many shooting stars                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Some with streaks
      &at 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      =Tail 4 times diam. of     Instantaneous
    11 15 p.m.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          head.
10 8 30 p.m. Brilliant, =^moon.

         8 46 5^ =- Sirius, but brighter Red..                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tail                       Rapid

         8 46 50' = Rigel                    Blue                                                                                                                                                                                                     Leaving white streak       Rapid.
A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OV LUMINOUS METEORS. 97

Direction.
       98 REPORT 1850.

Date.      Hour.             Magnitude or                           Colour.               Train or explosion.          Velocity or
                               brightness.                   Reddish .                                                   duration.

m1850, h                                                                                                       Slow

Feb. 11 5  p.m. Brilliant nucleus                                                         Tail blue

       Accounts of the great meteor of February 11 were collected by Mr. J.
          a large part of England, in the Phil. Mag., March and April 1850.

        --tabular form as the preceding :

Feb. 11 10 41 p.m.           Various estimates from Various                               Long train, emitting sparks From 10, 41, 16, to
                   (g.m.t.)                                                                   according to some, not 10, 41, 27 at
                               = moon to about i ; contrary                                  so according to others Greenwich =11

                                very bright and in- accounts                                  report afterwards at in sees. ; others es-
                                                                                             tervals of from 1 to 5 timated from 2 to)
                                 creasing in bril- changeable.
                                                                                                                                        40 sees.
                             liancy till disap-

                             pearance.

       Mr. Glaisher institutes calculations on the data furnished which give the

                                                             Height at 1st appearance 84 miles, nearly over a point
                                                             HHeight at disappearance 19 miles, nearly
                                                                                                                       mile S.

                                                             Height of luminous sparks at disappearance 10 miles.

                                                             Real velocity 30 miles per second.

                                                             In addition to the accounts cited by Mr. Glaisher, the

Feb. 1110 50.' p.m.                                          Nucleus bril-                Train bluish ; outer edge
                                 At first like a star            liant red.                  with rainbow tints ; n0|

             11 42 p.m. Large ; brilliant                    Greenish                         report.

                                                                                          Descended with a stream

                                                                                          of light of various co-

                                                                                          lours ; explosion like di-

                                                                                          stant thunder.

                                                                                          A succession of sparks ; no Slow; visible  abou

                                                                                          explosion.                   5 sees.

       10  50 p.m.           Round                           gradually ex- Succession of
                                                          ;

                             panding.                        colours

                                                             green, red,

                                                             violet.

       10 40 p.m. Bright light followed
                              by a distant report

                             after 2 min.

       10 30 p.m. Brilliant                                                               Disappeared with sparks Rapid.

                             Small globe increasing Head intensely Train darting out sparks                            Rapid; 2 or 3 sees.,

                             as it advanced, by blue.                                     disappeared without

                             successive jerks or                                          noise, throwing off

                             bursts till it be-                                           bright fragments.

                             comes nearly

                             = moon ; intensely

                             brieht.

                                                                                          A report afterwards
                          ----

           A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OP LUMINOUS METEORS. 99

           Direction.                      General remarks.                                                                                                                                                                                        Place.  Observer.           Reference.

                                           i Atmosphere elec-   [Holy Moorside,                                                                                                                                                                            A Correspond-  Derby Courier.
                                                tric ; thunder      Derby.
                                                heard.                                                                                                                                                                                                         ent.

Glaisher of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, from various observers, over
The following is a brief summary of the main results thrown into the same

horn W. to E., slightly in                                      Numerous parts Correspondents Phil.Mag.vol.xxxvi,
  dined, at a mean altitude of
                                                                of England :                                                                                                                                                                               to Mr. Glaisher pp. 221 and 249
  about 20°.
                                                                extreme points                                                                                                                                                                                            See Appendix,

                                                                Penzance,                                                                                                                                                                                                 No. 18.

                                                                Brighton,

                                                                Durham.

following ultimate results :

13 miles N.E. of Montgomery.
18° E. of Biggleswade.
Real diameter from 1800 to 2000 feet.
Path, Parabolic.

following have been furnished from other quarters :

                                                                SouthgateHouse, P. C. Maxwell, Derby Courier. See

                                                                near Chester- Esq., and H.J Times, Feb. 13.

                                                                field.                                                                                                                                                                                     Bowdou, Esq. See App. No. 13.

                                                                Renshavr Street, A Correspond- Ibid. See Appen

                                                                Hulme, Man- ent.                                                                                                                                                                                          dix, No. 15.

                                                                chester.

·om W. to E. by N., horizontal Undulatory or jerk- Hollovpay, Isling- F. Barnard, Esq. Letter to Prof.

                                           ing motion           ton.                                                                                                                                                                                                      Powell. See Ap-

rom W. to  E.              path curved...  Seemed to roll Kennington                                                                                                                                                                                                                      pendix, No. 16.
                        ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W. F. Whitmore, Times, Feb. 13. See

                                           over and disap- Lane,                                                                                                                                                                                           Esq.           Appendix, No.

                                           pear."               Lambeth.                                                                                                                                                                                                  14.

                                                                Hartwell Rec- Rev. C. Lowndes Mr. Lowe's MS.

                                                                    tory.

                                           Light illuminated a Wrottesley,                                                                                                                                                                                 Lord Wrottesley Letter to Prof.

                                           room vrith fire,     Wolverhamp- and others.                                                                                                                                                                                   Powell.

                                           candles, and         ton.

                                           blinds down.

·liquelv from W. to E.; mean                                    New Coll., Lane, Mrs. Baden                                                                                                                                                                               See Appendix,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             No. 19.
alt. about 20°.                                                 Oxford.                                                                                                                                                                                    Powell.

                                           Mean estimate of 5 Oxford                                                                                                                                                                                       Communication Letter to Prof.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,
                                              observers; inter-                                                                                                                                                                                            to Mr. R.      Powell.
                                              val between dis-
                                              appearance and                                                                                                                                                                                               Wheeler.
                                              report 2 min.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          h2
                                                                                                                                                   .;               ..

--100 REPOET 1850.

Date.  Hour.       Magnitude or                                                                                    Colour.         Train or explosion.       Velocity or
                     brightness.                                                                                                                               duration.

 m1850. h

Feb. 1110 30 p.m.

       10 48 p.m. Several globes follow
                               iug in a luminous

                                     train.

13 7 45 p.m. Very small                                                                                            White           Train                     Rapid
                                                                                                                   Yellow                                    Mean .
    =7 47 p.m. 4th mag.                                                                                                            No tail

       8 p.m. Small

       8 1 30'     = 3r(l mag ; defined Deep red

                     disc.

       8 p.m. Small                                                                                                Deep red        Gave out sparks           Slow

        =9 45 p.m. ^ moon ; dazzling                                                                               Bluish white .  Mo noise                  HiVbout    sec.
                                                                                                                   Orangcred.
                                brightness pear-                                                                                   Separate stars            Rapid
                                                                                                                ;
                                                                                                                                   Explosion with no noise.
                                shaped.

                            Several small

        =8 32 p.m. lst mag

       11 50 p.m.

       =11 47 p.m. Bright, moon ; be- Blue                                                                                         Anterior part remained 3 or 4 sees.
                                                                                                                                      round ; back separated
                            came pear-shaped                                                                                          into luminous fragments
                              round end below                                                                                         and streaks ; no report.

       11 57 p.m. Large

2610 32 15^ Bright blue, =3rd                                                                                                                                10 sees.
                            mag. ; defined disc.

Mai-. 4 7 20 p.m.

       69  =p.m. Sirius                                                                                                            Train with falling sparks, About 15 sees.
                                                                                                                                      most numerous about
       9 15 30' Small, =3rd mag.                                                                                                      the middle part.
                                                                                                                                                                            About 1 sec.

       9 25 p.m. = lst mag                                                                                         Deep orange     Tail                      Rapid
       9 40 p.m. Larger than % and                                                                                 Red
                                                                                                                                   Continuous stream of light Slow, 2 or 3 sees.
                                 brighter.

       8 47 p.m.

       7 25 p.m.                                                                                                   Blue            Continuous train of light. Hardly 1 see..

       9 12 p.m. = 4th mag                                                                                                         Train of blue light extend-
       =6 55 p.m. Brilliant, "4                                                                                                        ing 5°
                                                                                                                                                                              Slow.
       9 48 p.m    Small, = 2nd or 3rd
       8 59 50'                                                                                                                                                               About 1 sec
                       ning.
       9 3 40'     Small
A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OP LUMINOUS METEORS. 101

Direction.                                                                                                           General remarks.         Place.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Observer.           Reference.

2° above Procyon, just above                                                                                                           Beeston, Not-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mr. Butler.       Mr. Lowe's list.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mr. Wyatt.            See Appendix,
the head of Hydra, ending                                                                                                              tingham.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 No. 17.

near 15 Sextantis.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Communicated to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Prof. Powell.
                                                                                                                     A drawing taken Paddington
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,

                                                                                                                     immediately and

                                                                                                                     an engraving ex-

                                                                                                                     ecuted.

Horizontally from 42 to H. 35                                                                                                          Highfield House E. J. Lowe, Esq. MS. list.
   Ursa Major.                                                                                                                            Notliugham.

/From £ to below Cassiopeise                                                                                                           Ibid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ibid.
                                                                                                                                       Ibid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ibid.

through Polai'is.

from « to Orionis                                                                                                    Gave the appear- Ibid.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Id.               Ibid.
                                   ;t;

                                                                                                                     iance of a small

                                                                                                                     ball at no great

                                                             height.                                                                   Ibid.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Id.               Ibid.
Phrough 2° from 25Monocerotis

upwards towards zenith, at

inclination about 70°.

)bliquely downwards                                                                                           disap                    Hincksey, near A. Locker, Esq., MS. communica-
                                                                                                           ;

peared before reaching hori-                                                                                                           Oxford.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pemb. Coll.  tion,

zon, from about 15° alt. in E.

                                                                                                                                       Highfield House. E. J.Lowe, Esq JIS. list.

'rem I Draconis to a Cephei.                                                                                                           Ibid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Id Ibid.
rewards S.E                                                                                                                            Aylesbury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A Correspondent, Oxford Journal,

n S.S.E. by S. ; alt. 15° per-                                                                                                         Albany Road,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       J. Wallis, Esq.      March 2.
  pendicularly down.                                                                                                                      Camberwell.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Phil. Mag.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                vol. xxxvi.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            p. 318.

from W, of Crater to S.                                                                                                                Stone, Aylesbury, Rev. J. B. Read Phil. Mag. May

   ploded near horizon.                                                                                                                                               and Mr. Dell, 1S50, p. 363.
                                                                                                                                                                          Aylesbury.
'erpendicularly down from 30'                                                                                                          Highfield House E. J. Lowe, Esq, MS. list.
  E. of a Hydras, and same alt.                                                                                                           Nottingham.

   over 15°.                                                                                                                           Aylesbury.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T. Dell, Esq. .. Phil. Mag. May
Crossed Orion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1850.
horn RA. 15°, N.P.D. 20°,
  through 5° from E. to W,                                                                                                             Surat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A Correspondent Bombay Times,

i'rom /3 Comae Beren. to just                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mar. 13, 1850.
  under S Leonis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            See App. No. 20
 I
                                                                                                                                       Castle Doning- W. H. Leeson, Communicated by
'Vom H. 35 to <s Cassiopeiae. . .
I'rom a Draconis through c Urs                                                                                                         ton.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Esq.          Mr. Lowe.

   Maj. to 6 Urs. Maj.                                                                                                                 Highfield House, E. J. Lowe, Esq. MS. list.

 \                                                                                                                                     Ibid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Id                Ibid.

Ni^rom E. of 2/ towards                                                                                                                Aylesbury                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T. Dell, Esq.     ... Phil. Mag. May
                                                                                                                                       Ibid.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Id
I'rom a Urs. Maj. to « Hydrse,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1850.
   through llegiilus.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ibid.

  !                                                                                                                                    Highfield House, E. J. Lowe, Esq. MS. list.

 'hrough 1° perpendicularly                                                                                                            Nottingham.

  down from a. Cephei.                                                                                                                 Aylesbury                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T. Dell, Esq. ... Phil. Mag. ibid.
'rom above Sirius to 15° S. ...

'rom i Cancri through 30' ...                                                                                                          Ibid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Id                ibid.
'rom 30' to E. of y Leonis, to
                                                                                                                                       Highfield House, E. J. Lowe, Esq, MS.
  nearly 2° below Regulus ...
                                                                                                                                       Nottingham.
'Vom y Urs. Maj. to near Cor
                                                                                                                                       Ibid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Id.               Ibid.
   Caroli.
                                                                                                                                                                ;.

      --102 REPORT 1850.

Date. Hour.       Magnitude or                           Colour.            Train or explosion.         Velocity or
                    Brightness.                                                                           duration.
                                                                      Train of blue light
 1850. h m                                               Red          Small tail.                Rapid.
                                                         Blue
Mar. 24 9 3 40' Almost at the same
                                      instant ; another

                                          smaller.
       28 8 45 p.m.
        31 9 5 p.m.
April 2 8 30 p.m. Small

May 1 10 31 p.m. 5th mag. ..                             Pale yellow

      10 33 p.m. = 2nd mas                               White.       No tail.                   Slow ..
                                                                      No streamers               Rapid .
          11 10 p.m. Small                               Blue ..                                 Rapid..
                                                         Yellow
      30 10 38 p.m. = 2ud mac                                                                    H sec.

June 1 10 30 p.m. Defined globe meteor Red                                                       i sec; rapid.
                                                                                                 ^ sec.'; rapid.
                        = 2j: , but duller

      10 30 p.m. Small, ill-defined,                     Blue

                      = 3rd mag.

      10 45 p.m. 3rd mag                                 Blue

      Evening ..  Lightning-flashes termi-                            Train of gradually decrea Several minutes.
                     nating in sr/uiires and                              sing brightness.
        Between      balls of fire, whence
                     again streamers flew                             Curvilinear luminous track
      &9 10 p.ra     out, sometimes in
                     straight lines and occa-

                      sionally in spirals.

                  Globular, = moon

                     much more bril-

                  liant.

      9 15 p.m. Brighter than gas-

                  flames, as if lumi-

                  nous balls formed

                  . out of each other

                  successively.

July  =8 20 p.m.  J at brightest.

      9 26 p.m. Increasing brightness Pale blue                       At first without sparks ;
                           from just visible in                           afterwards separated
                             twilight to 3 times                         into sparks and dis-
                                                                          appeared.
                     % in size and 6
                                                                                                                  Rapid .
                              times brighter ; ill-
                                                                      Burst, leaving a train 1°
                                defined.                                  in length.
      8 45 p.m. Bright

       8 54 2^-42 Very brilliant ;  = <?                 White.
       Grantham at brightest.
      mean time
      (disappear-

           ance).
A CATALOGUE OP OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. 103

Direction.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      General remarks.          Place.        Observer.         Reference.

Prom nearly same point, but                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Highfield House, E. J. Lowe, Esq. MS.
   inclined slightly downwards.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Nottingham.
From a Pegasus to y Androra.
From y Virginis to 3° or 4°E.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Aylesbury       T. Dell, Esq.                         [1850
Under J/, j downwards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Phil. Mag. May
Nearly perpendicular ; inclining
   slightly to N. from 4' Dra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ibid            Id               Ibid.
   conis over 1°.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Hartwell House E. J. Lowe, Esq. MS. List.
From Spica 5° in direction of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Observatory.
    2 Corvi.
Perpendicularly from 5° S. of 2/.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Highfield House, Id.             Ibid.
Horizontally towards S. from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Nottingham
    « Lyrae.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ibid.,          A. S. H. Lowe, Ibid.
From y through ip Cassiopeiae                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Esq.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ibid..
   across the face of Perseus,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ibid..          Mrs. E. J. Lowe Ibid.
   disappearing 3° E. of a Persei.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E. J. Lowe, Esq Ibid.
From a Cygni through Lacerta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ibid.,          Id               Ibid.
From A. through » Draconis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ibid.           Id               Ibid.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ibid            Id Ibid.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Wingerworth,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A Correspondent Derbyshire Courier,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Derbyshire.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 June 8, 1850.

From S.W. to N.E. ; lost behind                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Havre           Id.              Journal des Debats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Id.                  9th June, 1850.
     hills.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SeeApp. No. 21

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Explosion heard \ Rouen                            Ibid.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   min. after disap-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   pearance.

In S.E. nearly perpendicular                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Haverhill       W. W. Boreham, Letter to
   diappeared at alt. 10° or 12°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Esq.,r.R.A.S. Prof. Powell.
Nearly perpendicularly down
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bee>ton Railway E. J. Lowe, Esq, MS. list.
   inclining to E. fi'om half-way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Station, Not and Mrs. Lowe.
  bewteen x and 3 Antinoi to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tiuarham.
   2° E. of » Capricorni.

Down towards E. horizon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Oxford                           Communicated to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Prof. Powell.

From alt. between 50° and 55° At Boston "left a Grantham and at .T. W. Jeans, Esq. Communicated by

perpendicularly down for smoke behind,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Boston.                          Mr. Lowe.

about 25° ; direction from aud a crackling

8° or 10° N. of E. ; too much noise was heard;"

light to see stars.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             no smoke nor

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                noise at Gran-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tham.
                         ----
--104 REPORT 1850.

                                    APPENDIX,

Containing details from the original Records of Observations, commtmicated

              to Professor Powell, referred to in the foregoing Catalogue.

--No. 1. Note communicated by Lord Wrottesley to Prof. PoM-ell from the

Assistant at the Wrottesley Observatory.

                                                     " September 4, 1848.

" Standing with my back to the south, at the west end of the Observatory,

there came a flash of light from the south which completely illuminated the

shrubs and the gi'ound around me. I immediately turned round and there

saw a beautiful pale yellow streak, about half an hour west of the star

a Aquilae, the vertex of the streak being about the same altitude as that star,

and  in  length  about 25°,  perpendicular  to  the  horizon                                   I  saw  this  streak
                                                                                            ;

about 10% when it began gradually to dissolve (commencing at the vertex)

into a beautiful train of large sparks of a fiery red, and disappeared in about

S' after. On going into the Observatory to note the time, I found it exactly

gh 4.5m p_^j_ xne&n time. This must have been the train of a meteor, and from

the flash it emitted (which v^as equal to the most vivid flash of lightning I
ever saw), it must have been one of an extraordinary size. The night Avas

--beautifully clear, large dusky clouds very low in the S.W. horizon. R. P."

 --No. 2. From the Derbyshire Courier, August 25, 1849:

   " Meteor On Monday evening, August 20, 1849, about ten o'clock, a

splendid meteor was seen to the west of Chesterfield. It was about twice the
apparent magnitude and brilliancy of Venus, and moved slowly in an almost

horizontal line from north to south, leaving a train of small stars in its track
which speedily disajipeared. In a few moments afterwards a long dark cloud

marked its path"

--No. 3. M. CouLviER Gravier 071 Shooting Stars, ^c-- Comptes Rendus,

                                             1849, No. 7, p. 179.

   The number of meteors, as we have always remarked, has been very small
in the first half of the year ; but since the commencement of July, the num-
ber has progressively increased, and the maximum has been about the 10th

of August.

   The following shows the increase for the year, taking the observations for
the horary number at midnight:

         1849.
                                                      --

A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. 105

twenty-four days earlier, so that the 12th of November had only thirteen or

fourteen meteors for the horary number.

" This state of the phsenomena is not peculiar to 1849. Since 1841, and

especially since 1845, the maxima of August and November, as we\l as the

maxima of less importance in February and May, have always an ascending

and descending progress more or less marked and gradual ; these appearances

never being sudden, as is the case with those periodic returns which come at

fixed days and leave no trace behind of their appearance."

The meteors of October 15-17 are also mentioned by A. Von Humboldt,

Comptes Rendus, November 26, 1849. See Phil. Mag. January 1850, p. 75.

To which he adds the following interesting remarks :

" I think that many apparent anomalies are explained if we admit that the
--stream (of cosmical matter) is of a certain magnitude,
                                                          a variable magnitude
                                                                                                                                                       ;

and that the asteroids in the annular zone are unequally distanced and agglo-

merated. Have we not seen the comet of Biela divide into two comets since

December 19, 1845, each having its tail, advancing parallel at twenty minutes

distance from one another? Cosmical nebulae that have so little mass, such

as comets, fireballs and shooting stars, must be subject to undergo many

transformations in form, direction and velocity."

No. 4.-- Letter from W. W. Smyth, Esq., M.A., Mining Geologist to the

Geological Survey, to Professor Powell.

                                         " Holywell, Flintshire, Nov. 19, 1849.

   " On the 2nd of November I was walking westward along the hill of Gwy-

sanan, the residence of Mrs. Davies Cooke, north of Mold; the sun had just
sunk behind the mountains of the Clwydian range, which were in front of me,
and the sky was so light and brilliant that I could see no stars for some time

afterwards: it was ten minutes after five, when my eye was attracted by an

intensely bright white speck falling from a point about 45° above the hori-

zon in a north-westerly direction. As it fell its velocity appeared to decrease,
and when, after I had watched it through 30°, it disappeared near a light
cirrostratus cloud, I think as much as twenty seconds must have elapsed
from the moment of my first seeing it. Indeed, towards the conclusion of its
course it seemed to be almost floating, as one may see one of the coloured
lights of a rocket, almost stationary in the air. Its vivid brightness was so re-
markable, that I remained some minutes on the spot, actually trembling from
excitement, and expecting to hear a detonation or some sound indicative of
its not very distant fall. In this I was disappointed ; but shall be curious to
learn whether it happened to be observed by any one else.

                                                " Very truly yours,

                                                         " Warington W. Smyth."

   No. 5.--Letter from W. R. Grove, Esq., F.R.S. &c., to Prof. Powell.

 *****" "London, Nov. 17, 1849.
                            The following extract from a letter of a correspondent of
mine near Swansea may be interesting to you. He writes, ' Have you seen
or heard of a remarkable meteor that passed over the earth on Friday evening

--the 2nd of November? The following is a description of it: Time, half-

past five, evening ; direction from east to west, and to the north of the ob-
server at this place ; duration about eight seconds ; colour bright red ; size
about 6 inches diameter, with a tail 3 feet long ; the body appeared to diminish
as it went along.'

   " The place whence this was seen is twelve miles fi'om Swansea, in a direc-
106 REPORT 1850.

tion N.N.E. * * * * My correspondent (Mr. Hill of Swansea) * * * * says

it was considerably below the Polar star ; the weather was cloudy ; but he
concludes it was near the lowermost conspicuous stars in Ursa Major. It

appears his account was gathered from dift'erent observers.
                                                                             " Yours very truly,

                                                             "W' R. Grove."

   No. 6.--Letter from W. R. Birt, Esq. to Prof. Powell.

   My -- " Observatory, Old Deer Park, Richmond, Surrey, Dec. 5, 1849.

   " dear Sir, On the evening of my arrival here I observed a shooting

star, which in its features bore very materially on the stars h, Nos. 4 and 5 in

ray former communication*. I annex a copy of my original memorandum

made at the time.

  --" ' Nov. 2,1849, e"" 5'" by estimation. Observed a shooting star pass about

two-thirds of the distance between Saturn and y Pegasi ; nearest the star and
above Saturn the direction was nearly horizontal towards the south. I par-
ticularly observed that this star did not present the same brilliancy throughout

its course, being once or twice nkarly extinguished, but not entirely so, so that
the identity of the star ivas preserved. It disappeared some distance west of
y Pegasi. Colour and magnitude blue, small, and very variable in its

brilliancy.'

   " Dr. Lee has communicated to me the following very interesting observa-

tion of a shooting star, by Mr. Horton, his assistant. I give you it verbatim,

--as I received it :
 --" ' October 20th, 1849. Observed a very brilliant shooting star, which was

visible three or four seconds, almost due west, about half-way between the

\horizon and the zenith at 8*^ 30'" p.m. When first seen it appeared thus

it afterwards burst, and at that moment the whole appeared as follows

 --" In a memorandum added by Dr. Lee is the following remark: ' It was

about an hour preceding the star a Aquilae.'

   "I have been very unfortunate in observing these interesting bodies since

I have been here. On the 14th of November, in the evening, I looked occa-
sionally for them, but saw only two. My son, who was on the roof with me
at the same time, saw six. From all the information I have received, it ap-
pears that while they have not been abundant at the November epoch, the

character of periodicity has been maintained.

                                     " I have the honour to be, my dear Sir,

                       " Yours very respectfully,

" Rev. Prof. Powell."  " W. R. Birt."

  --No. 7. Extract from Mr. Lowe's MS. communication.
 --" Nov. 5th, 6^ 20"\ The meteor fell at a tolerable pace, leaving a thin

pencil of red light in the sky in the whole extent of its path, which was 50°

in len<'th. This pencil of light lasted visible five minutes, becoming gradu-

ally fainter, and altering from a straight line, in 2'" 30% to that of a series of

:--waves, thus  -.^'~s_/-^'~^'~-'-n-''\-^^'---''---/'^-/\>'"^ , and in another mi-

nute these became twice the width \_y'A,.,/'X,_/A._/''"N,./~V-/'^

The width of the line of light when first formed was=to that of Vega, but now,
from the apex of the one wave to that of the opposite wave, it was 35' (or

                                      * See Report, British Association, 1849, p. 50.
-- ----
                                                                                                    .

A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. 107

larger than the diameter of the sun). It begun to disappear from each end
of its path (i. e. when first and last seen), the middle remaining visible the

longest.

   " On this meteor, which seems to be the same observed by Mr. Jones and

Mr. Fasel, Mr. Glaisher makes the following remarks :

--'Jones. Altitude when first seen 13°          and in azimuth 68° E. of N.

                       ,, at explosion.. 60°             ,, 8° W. of S.
                                                         ,, 7° W. of N.
' Fasel-- ,, when first seen 30°                         ,, 5'^° W. of N.

                        ,, at explosion. . 38°

   " ' The path of the meteor was from E.N.E. to W.S.W., and contrary to the
order of the planetary motions. The intersections of azimuths at explosion
indicates the meteor to have been vertical over a spot fifteen miles from

Montgomery and N.E. of it. Its distance from the earth about eighty miles.'

(Glaisher Phil. Mag., May 1850.)"

   No. 8.--From the Bombay Times, Nov. 17th, 1849.

  A" beautiful uaeteor was seen at half-past six on Thursday evening (8th

inst.) rushing from west nearly due east. As seen from the Esplanade, it

appeared to disappear over Butcher's Island : it was in the constellation of
the Pleiades, then about 20° above the horizon. It was of a bright greenish

-- --white colour disc circular and perfectly well-defined about four times the

sizeandbrilliancy of the planet Venus when at its brightest. When near the end

of its career, it threw out a mass of red fragments or spark?, and left a train of

these behind it about 10° in length, visible for three or four seconds after the

disappearance of the meteor itself, which seemed to vanish at once, without
altering its form or size. The air at present is full of the smaller-sized
meteors, for which October and November are remarkable."

--No. 9. " About half-past nine the previous evening (Nov. 7th) one of the

most magnificent fireballs ever witnessed was observed rushing towards the

east. Seen from Mazagon, it seemed to burst over Elephanta, and descend in

a perfect stream of blazing fragments. All night long the air was filled with

shooting stars of lesser magnitude, but after one such as that alluded to, they

seemed scarcely worthy of attention." Ibid. Nov. H.
--A^^ Meteor at Asseerghur
                            beautiful meteor was seen at Afeseerghtir about

nine o'clock on the evenins^ of the 9th ult. It travelled rapidly from east to

west : the natives describe it to have been the size of a small water-ghurree,

from which we should infer that it must have appeared at least four times as

large as the planet Venus at her brightest. It lighted up the whole sky for

some seconds, as if the full moon had been shining. It burst with a loud ex-

plosion, the sound being heard over the whole neighbourhood like that of a

heavy gun at sea. B3 some it was supposed an explosion had occurred at

WeBerhampore
                                                               ;
by others, that a mass of rock had fallen.                                                             have not as yet

heard of any fragments having been picked up."

 --No. 10. Letter from Prof. Chevallier to Prof. Powell.
   My -- "Durham, Jan. 11, 1850.

   " dear Sir, With respect to the meteor seen here on the 19th of De-
cember last, the account which I have gathered from four intelligent persons,
one of them Mr. Carrington, the observer at Durham Observatory, is as

follows ;

   "· The meteor appeared at 5^ 15" Greenwich mean time, December 19th,
1849, in the N.W. by W. quarter, at an altitude of about 10°. The altitude
                                                                                     :

--108 REPORT 1850.

is estimated from the position of the meteor with reference to the star in the
tail of Ursa Major, the meteor appearing to have half the altitude of those

stars.'

   " Its size was estimated by Mr. Carrington as twice that of Mars, as now
seen in opposition, both in magnitude and brightness. Another person con-

sidered it to be six times larger than Jupiter.

   " Its motion was parallel to the horizon from N.W. by W. to about N.E.

its progress was quite steady and uniform, continuing for twenty or thirty

seconds of time.
   " Tiie bright head was followed by a tail, the length of which is estimated

variously. Mr. Carrington considers it to have been 20' or 25': the other
observers estimate it at from 6 to 10 diameters of the moon, or from 3° to 5°.
Before the meteor disappeared, its head broke up into three or four fragments,

which followed one another horizontally till the whole gradually disappeared.

No sound was noticed after the disappearance of the meteor.

   "I have written to several parts of Great Britain and Ireland, with a view
of comparing observations of the meteor made elsewhere; but I have not

heard of its being seen anywhere but at Edinburgh.

   " By a letter dated January 8th, from M. Piazzi Smyth, I find that it was
seen at Edinburgh by Mr, James Stirling, C.E., who perceived it pass across

the opening of a street, and has since measured the altitude of the part of the

house where the body disappeared. He found it about 8° 20', and is quite

sure it could not have been 9°.
    " Professor Forbes and Professor Kelland also saw it ; and Prof. Forbes

published an account of it in the 'Edinburgh Courant' of December 20.
   " The altitudes of the meteor, as seen at Durham and Edinburgh, are

sufficiently consistent on the supposition that the meteor had but very small

parallax; and Mr. P. Smyth informs me that the same conclusion follows

from several accounts which Prof. Forbes has collected from various pai'ts of

the country.

   " As you are the centre to which all information of this kind converges,

you Mill probably have already received intelligence of this meteor.

" About a quarter of an hour before its appearance (that is about 5 p.m.)

a bright falling star passed downwards vertically near the Pleiades.
                                                    " Believe me, yours very truly,

" Prof. B. Powell.  " Temple Chevallier.

 --" P.S. Since writing this, I have found a copy of the printed account,

which I enclose.

 --"'Brilliant Meteor seen at Diirham, ISiQ. In the evening of Decem-

ber 19, at 5^ 15"" mean Greenwich time, an unusually bright meteor was
seen at Durham, in the northern part of the sky. By a comparison of
three different accounts, it appears that the meteor was first observed in
the north-west by west quarter, and moved slowly in a horizontal direc-
tion from west to east, disappearing nearly north by east, thus moving
through 65° in about half a minute. Its altitude, obtained by referring
the meteor to the tail stars of the Great Bear, was about 10°, half the
altitude of those stars. The head was estimated by one observer, accustomed

to notice the heavens, to be twice the brightness and twice the apparent size
of Mars, as now seen in opposition ; and by another observer to be four times
as large and bright as Jupiter. The meteor had a tail nearly straight, which
became sensibly longer as the meteor advanced. The length «;f the tail was
estimated by one of the observers to be less than the diameter of the moon,

about 20' or 25' : another estimated it at six, and another at ten diameters
   A CATALOGUE OP OBSERVATIONS OP LUMINOUS METEORS. 109

of the moon. Such differences of impression are likely to arise in a case
where a sudden phenomenon talies place, under circumstances in which the
iudsement cannot be corrected by even rough measurement, or by subsequent
examination. It is probable that the tail of this meteor may have been at
least four or five diameters of the moon, or about 2° or 3 in length. Beiore
the meteor disappeared, the head broke up into three or four fragments,
which continued to follow one anotlier horizontally, and then the whole very
gradually disappeared. Tiiere was no sound heard as of any explosion. It

mwould be desirable to obtain accounts of this meteor as seen other places,

 and especially in places further north, with a view of determining its altitude.

          Account of a remarkable Meteor, seen December 19, 1849.
                              By Professor J. D. Forbes.

      [From the Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. ii. No. 39.]

On the evening of the 19th December 1849, whilst walking near the
southern part of Edinburgh, about fifteen minutes past five, Greenwich time
(as 1 afterwards estimated), I observed a meteor, fully brighter than Venus
at her average brilliancy, moving from W. towards N., parallel to the horizon,

elevated 15° above it, and followed by a distinct luminous train. This angle
was subsequently taken by estiraatioh by daylight, with the aid ol a theodo-
mlite ; and

the same
          the compass-bearing of the meteor,  when first seen, asceitained

          way, must have been 47° W. of N.     When it bore 29 E. of mag-

netic north, it was observed to have divided into two, the one part following
the other at some distance; and I soon after lost sight of it in the obscurity

of the smoke of the town. When it split, its altitude was estimated at 6 . It
thus described an arc of no less than 76°, in doing which it occupied, as 1

roughly estimated, about fifteen seconds, or possibly more.
Having sent a short notice of the appearance of the meteor to the Courant
newspaper, I received from many quarters accounts of its having been seen
under circumstances remarkably similar to those just described. I believe

that nearly forty communications on the subject have reached me from places

included between Longford, in the centre of Ireland, to near Bervie,m Kin-
cardineshire, a distance of above 300 miles, in a direction nearly N.E. and

S W., whilst in a perpendicular direction, or from N.W. to S.E., the range ot
observation has been comparatively small ; for I have received no information
from beyond Renfrew in the one direction, and Durham in the other, being
about 149 miles distant in a straight line. The meteor was seen at Longford,
in Ireland, 74 miles west of Dublin, but not in Dublin itself. It was seen at
Belfast, between Carlisle and Gretna at Stewarton in Ayrshire, at Johnstone,
at Paisley, Renfrew, and by many persons in Glasgow and the neighbour-
hood. It was also generally seen in Edinburgh, in East Lothian, near Mel-
rose, and at Durham, as already mentioned. Further north, I have received
accounts from Crail, St. Andrews, Dundee, Perth, and Johnshaven to the

north of Montrose.              communications  concur       ·                   ··  tuhe

   The greater number of these                               in  estimating

direction of the motion of the meteor to have been from S.W. to N.E.,
although, as might be expected, thev vary excessively as to its distance and
magnitude; being described by some persons as only 50 or 100 yards off,

and   as  large as the  moon; by others, as a ball of 9 inciies in diameter, or the
      of  a large egg.   One person only professes to have heard a sound. The
size
time during which it was seen was variously estimated. At Longford, by
Mr Curtis, 20 seconds ; at Glasgow, by Mr. Stevenson, at 20 seconds ; at
Johnstone, by Mr. Cunningham, 15 seconds; at Perth, 15 or 20 seconds;
                                                                       ;;

110 REPORT--1850.

at Durham, by Mr. Carrington, 30 seconds ; at St. Andrews, 15 seconds ac-

cording to one observer, and 1 8 to 21 seconds according to another; at

Johnshaven, ^ths of a minute. The liour of the appearance of the meteor,

in most of the descriptions, is stated at between 5^ 10" and 5^ 16'".

The arc of tiie horizon which it was seen to traverse depended, of course,

on the point where the meteor first caught the observer's eye. At Granton,

it was traced by Professor Kelland through 125° of azimuth ; at Perth, 130°
at St. Andrews, 74°; at Edinburgh, 76°; at Durham, 65° ; at Glasgow, from
60° to 70°. The division of the head or nucleus into several parts, and, first

of all (in most cases), into two, has been noticed with remarkably slight

variation ; consequently, the explosion of the meteor marks a well-determined
point in its path. The separation was specially noticed at Edinburgh, Gran-

ton, Glasgow, Renfrew, Melrose, Haddington, Johnshaven, Perth, Durham

and St. Andrews.

   In a ma,jority of cases a luminous train was observed ; and I am confident

that the existence of this train, which has been estimated from 2° to 3° long,

cannot be questioned. Dr. Adamson, however, especially remarked that no

train was to be seen at St. Andrews.

On revising the whole accounts, it does not appear that any of them

can be relied upon for ascertaining the position of the meteor in space,

except the observations of Mr. Carrington of the Durham Observatory ; of
Professor Kelland, Mr. Stirling and myself, at Edinburgh ; of Dr. Adamson
and anotlier observer, communicated by Professor Fischer of St. Andrews

of a young gentleman at Perth, communicated by Thomas Miller, Esq., Rec-

tor of the Perth Academy; and of A. D. Stevenson, Esq., and W. Gourlie,

MyEsq., jun., at Glasgow.  inquiries were chiefly directed to the two fol-

lowing points: Jii'st, the angular elevation of the meteor in the N.W. quarter

of the heavens, where it is admitted by all that its path appeared almost ho-

rizontal ; secondli/, to the bearing of the meteor at the instant of explosion.
   At Durham, Mr. Carrington saw the meteor first when the bearing was

true N.W., the altitude (by theodolite) was then 10°, or not exceeding 11°;
when it burst, it was due N. (true), and continued to move 10° or 12° further
before it disappeared. Professor Chevallier, who obligingly communicated

these results, states that the meteor appeared rather to rise as it approached

the north, but with a doubt. This supposition, however, appears inadmissible,

from the unanimity of the other accounts.

At Granton, near Edinburgh, Professor Kelland caught sight of the

meteor a little to the N. of the moon, and several diameters below it. This

corresponds, by after estimation, with a theodolite, to 75° W. of magnetic

N., and an altitude of 12°. Professor Kelland thinks that it rather rose after-

wards. It split into two at 20° E. of magnetic N., having then an altitude of

only 5° ; it continued for a considerable time bright, then began to fade, as
if by the effect of distance, and also to separate into several parts ; it was
finally lost sight of 50° E. of magnetic N. (this bearing is well-ascertained),
with an altitude estimated at only half a degree. The position and circum-

stances of these observations, made at an elevated station above the Frith of

Forth, were eminently favourable.
   Mr. J. Stirling, civil engineer, looking up North Hanover Street, Edin-

burgh, saw the meteor separate into two parts ; the bearing he afterwards

estimated at 25° E. of magnetic N. (the probable error not exceeding 1°),

and the altitude at 8° 30', certainly not exceeding 9°.

   I think we may conclude, that at Edinburgh the meteor attained a maxi-

mum elevation of 15° (that mentioned in the commencement of this paper),

since it no doubt rose after Professor Kelland first saw it to the S. of the true
                     --

A CATALOGUE OP OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. Ill

W., with an altitude of only 12°. The course of the meteor was evidently
such as to be nearest the spectator when in the true N.W. or W.N.W.

   The place of the meteor when it burst stands thus :

Kelland, N. 20° E. (mag.) Alt. 5°.

Stirling, N. 25° E.  Alt. 8° 30'.

Forbes, N. 29° E.    Alt. 6°.

   The average is almost 25° E. of N., or about 1° W. of the true meridian,
the variation being nearly 26°. The mean of the three observations of alti-

tude would be 6° 30' ; but admitting Mr. Stirling's to be entitled to the
greatest confidence, we may suppose it 7°, or possibly a little more.

   At St. Andrews, the meteor was seen by Dr. Adamson, when riding in a
northerly direction, on the Largo road. Professor Fischer was so kind as to

accompany him afterwards to the spot, and to reduce his observations Avith
all the accuracy of which they were capable. It was first noticed when bear-

ing 8|° W. of magnetic N., and disappeared at 42|^° E. of N. ; the altitude
was conjecturally stated as between 14° and 18^°, and it appeared to move

horizontally, but rather declining towards the N.

   After describing three-fourths of its course, it split into two parts, which

went on close together for a little, then brolie into four or five, became dull

red, and rapidly disappeared ; the separate pieces travelling on together until

the last.

    Another intelligent observer near St.Andrews, whose evidence was taken

by Mr. Fischer, first saw the meteor 29f° W. of magnetic N., and estimated
the point where the meteor burst at 44° E. of N.; but this last number coin-

cides so closely with Dr. Adamson's estimate of the point of final disappear-

ance, that it is perhaps allowable to suppose, that this second observer had
mixed up these two events in his description. Dr. Adamson's statement, that
one-fourth of the arc which he saw was described after the meteor had split,
would give an azimuth at that moment of almost 30° E. of N. magnetic, or
4° E. of N. true, as Mr. Fischer determined the magnetic declination to be
about 25° 46'. The altitude of the meteor, as seen by this observer, appears
not to have exceeded 15° (the same as at Edinburgh) ; which number we

shall therefore adopt.

   At Perth, the passage of the meteor was seen from the North Inch, by a
young gentleman of intelligence, whose observations were reduced to num-
bers by Mr. Miller, Rector of the Perth Academy, who was so good as to
accompany him to the spot, and take the angles with a theodolite. Its bear-
ing, when first seen, was 46° S. of W. true ; its angular altitude was at that
time only 3° 30'. This is by far the most southern azimuth which has been
observed. Its bearing, when it disappeared, was 6° W. of N., but it was then
lost in a cloud. If 1 understand right, it had by this time separated into
fragments. Its apparent altitude in tiie middle of its course was about 17° 30'.
These observations, extending over an arc of 130°, taken along with Professor
Kelland's, clearly demonstrate that the meteor appeared M-ith a very low alti-
tude in the S.W. quarter of the heavens, and disappeared in a similar way in
the N.N.E., attaining its greatest elevation about W.N.W. (true).

    At Glasgow the meteor was very generally and well seen. Mr. William
Gourlie, jun., saw it move fi-om S.W. to N.N.E., over an arc of 60° or 70°,
and divide into two, when it bore 40° E. of magnetic N. He estimates its
greatest elevation at S0°, and that it decreased to between 15° and 17°, or
even less, at tlie time of its separation : he adds, that he is not much ac-
customed to such observations. Mr. A.D. Stevenson, living in South Port-
land Street, Glasgow, saw the meteor moving along at a height just suf-
                                      --

112 REPORT 1850.

ficient to clear the chimney-tops, on the west side of the street; an elevation
which he afterwards estimated, as he states, with considerable accuracy at 28°.
I have received further and more minute accounts of the appearance of the
meteor from Mr. Stevenson, who has been most kind and intelligent in his

communications; and my friend Mr. James Peddie has verified the accuracy

of Mr. Stevenson's observations beyond the possibility of mistake. It ap-
pears that the meteor passed quite clear of a stack of chimneys on the oppo-
site side of the street, which would give it a well-defined minimum altitude
of 25° 41' ; but Mr. Stevenson is of opinion that it rose more than 2° higher,
or to not less than 28° (perhaps even to 28° 21'); when it was highest, its

bearing was 59^° W. of N. (magnetic), and it disappeared from his view when
it bore 40° 27' E. of magnetic N. It ivas then decidedly single. Now this bear-

ing coincides with that at which Mr. Gourlie observed it to become double;
and, consequently, the limit towards the N. of this event is severely defined.

   The following table contains the most definite of these observations, and

the azimuths are all reduced to the true meridian :
A CATALOGUE OP OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. 113

correct, the Perth observation is entirely wrong ; and the meteor could not
have risen about 6° above the horizon of Durham, instead of 10° or 11° as

estimated. I am unable in any degree to explain these conflicting results.
   3. The observations of Professor Kelland at Granton, and those at Perth,

through the great azimuths of 123° and 130°, described by the meteor with
such remarkable deliberation of motion, lead, when analysed, to the very
same results which presented themselves to the mind of the spectator intui-
tively; namely, that the motion must have been sensibly rectilinear, equable
and parallel to the horizon at Edinburgh. Assuming that the greatest alti-

tude at Edinburgh was 15°, and the bearing then N. 63° V/. (true), we may
calculate that the altitude should have been on this hypothesis, when first

seen by Professor Kelland, 11°47', instead of 12° as observed ; at explosion,
6° 59' (7° observed), and at its final disappearance 0° 47' (instead of 0° 30'
observed). Again, at Perth, the observed altitude, when first seen, was 3^°,

and the calculated altitude 5° 3', taking the maximum altitude at 17i°. The

coincidence is, on the whole, remarkable, though it would be rash to push it
to an extreme, as an error of some degrees may exist in the assumption of
the direction of the meteor's course. Some later observations, received from

Mr. Curtis at Longford, and a consideration of the effects of perspective at

Perth and Edinburgh, incline me to admit that the path might make an angle

3° or 4° greater with the meridian than I have above supposed. These con-
clusions are independent of the actual distance or parallax of the meteor;

which, as I have said, cannot be determined without further observations,
which I should be glad to receive from any quarter, but more particularly

from Ireland, and from the centre and N.W. of Scotland. If correct, they
entitle us to infer that the meteor in question was most probably a body mo-

ving in space, in a path little curved, and not revolving round the earth.

   No. 11.-- From the Bombay Times, March 13, 1850.
   " ' Palinurus,' at sea, February 21st, 1850.-- The following memorandum of

--meteors lately seen, I hope may prove interesting to you : Feb. 7th, latitude

24° 53' N., longitude 66° 16' E. at 7 p.m., a large meteor, about ^th the dia-

meter of the moon, appeared to the eastward, about 40° elevation, and vanished

to the north-eastward, about 25° elevation."

   No. \2.--Ibid.
   " February 10th, latitude 24° 18' N., longitude 66° 30' E., at 8-30 p.m., a
large meteor, at least ^th the diameter of the moon, appeared, elevated 8°
S.S.W., and disappeared again instantly about 2° to the southward. This

meteor displayed a most brilliant light, and had a clearly defined short tail,
not more than four times the diameter of its body in length."

 --No. 13 Meteor of February 11. The following details may be of interest

in addition to the particulars given in the table.

       [From the Derbyshire Courier.]

      -- " Southgate House, Feb. 14, 1850,

    " Sir, In looking over this morning's ' Times,' there appear two letters,

one dated from Oxford, the other from Lambeth, mentioning the appearance

-of a most extraordinary body in the heavens, which took place between ten

and eleven o'clock on Monday last, the eleventh inst. On the same evening,
Mr. Henry John B. Bowdon and myself were returning home from Mount St.
 Mary's, which place we left shortly after ten o'clock, and just before we arrived

 at home, it being a particularly dark night, the entire atmosphere of a sudden

1850.                                  1
                                                                                                   "

114 REPORT 1850.

became illuminated with the most brilliant light. Astonished at the cir-
cumstance, we all at the same instant looked out of the carriage window, and
beheld a most brilliant substance descending towards the ground. It ap-
peared not more than fiftj'^ or sixty yards from us. The head of the light
appeared of the most splendid and brilliant red colour, whilst the tail was of
a pale bluish tinge. It had veiy much the appearance of a sky-rocket, though
much larger and brighter. Just before reaching the earth it seemed to ex-
plode, though we could hear no noise. This took place about twenty minutes
or a quarter before eleven o'clock on Monday night.

    " If you think this curious appearance, which has shown itself at nearly
the same time in places so distant from each other, worthy of a place in your
columns, it is much at your service.

                                           " I remain, Sir, your obedient Servant,

                                                                    " Peter C. Maxwell."

  --No. 14. The following account is most remarkable with respect to the

mode of disappearance of the meteor.

                                                   [From the same Journal.]

   " Mr. Whitmore of Kennington Lane, Lambeth, says, ' On Monday night,

at about a quarter or ten minutes to eleven o'clock, a very beautiful shooting
meteor of dazzling appearance was visible in the heavens, taking, as it seemed

to me, a direction bearing west to east. The night in the early part of it had
been rainy, with a fair amount of wind, from the westvvard and southward
(as during the day), but at the time of the above luminous appearance it had
partially cleared off, and the stars were visible, with only a few light clouds,
which served materially to heighten the effect when illuminated. The course
the light described was a fine curve, commencing with a small feathery ap-
pearance, gradually expanding in width and radiance as it proceeded, and its
duration was of soxiie seconds. At first it occurred to me it was a trial rocket
of some description, as it dropped precisely as they do when near exploding,
but it afterwards lighted up still more brilliantly, and resumed its course with

 increased splendour, leaving in its track a long train of intense light. It ap-
 peared rounded or bulbed at its head or point of combustion, and went off to
 an elongated taper, as some of the comets have been represented. Its alti-
 tude I should judge was not great, as its edges were distinct, and one slight

wave in its progress was to me very discernible. As it brightened it displayed

 the most lovely colours, which could be distinctly traced to the radial colours

--produced by the sun at one period green, violet (deep), pale red, &c., and

their effects through the thin stratum of clouds which were in its path were
most gorgeous. Before vanishing it appeared to roll over, like to something
molten, and contracting all its light at once, suddenly disappeared. It was

perfectly silent, although my expectation was that from its extent and bril-

 liancy a report might possibly be produced.'

  --No. \5. " The following is from Manchester, which also differs from the
--others in some respects : In passing along Renshaw Street, Hulme, on Monday

 night, at ten to eleven o'clock, I saw the most singular phsenomena that I ever
 heard of, in the form of a meteor. I observed what appeared to be a bright
 star, situate about E. by S., when suddenly it fell straight downwards, leaving

--a stream of fire of the most beautiful colours crimson, purple and green. The

light was so great from it, that it cast my shadow along the ground, as clear

 as at noonday. It appeared to burst in the air like a rocket, and made a
noise like distant thunder, accompanied by a thick cloud all around the light.
--

A CATALOGUE OP OBSERVATIONS OP LUMINOUS METEORS. 115

Several parties who saw the light, but not the meteor, supposed that it was
caused by vivid sheet lightning, until I undeceived them."

 --No. 16. These appearances are further illustrated by the very graphic

description contained in the following letter to the author from Mr. F.

Barnard :

                                                               8 Cross Street, Islington, London, Feb. 12, 1850.

 --« Sir, Since the month of May 18-t8, when I sent you a short account of

a meteor I had seen, I have had no opportunity of repeating any similar ob-

servation until last night, when, in common with many others, 1 had the

--good fortune to see the phaenomenon of most extraordinary size and brilliancy.

The circumstances were as follows : At eighteen minutes to eleven, my sister

and self were walking in a southerly direction through Holloway, when we

were startled by a greenish white light that suddenly lit up the whole scene

in front of us. At first I thought it was lightning ; the quantity of light flung

round seemed equal to that from a vivid blaze of lightning, but it continued
with a slight glimmer. This was all conceived before I turned round and
beheld a large and intensely bright meteor traversing the sky, almost from

west to east, perhaps a trifle to north. The most remarkable feature besides

its light, was its duration and slowness. It appeared almost to struggle loith

-- --the atmosphere if it vms within our atmosphere ivith an undulatory motion,

just as the electric fluid is zigzaged by atmospheric resistance, so this meteor
appeared to be alternately impeded on this side and on that. It meandered,

it trickled through the sky ; and as it moved, gave aofl^' succession of balls or
sparks which stretched out in a tail of some length, and vanished as rapidly

as the nucleus proceeded. In fact, it might well have been mistaken for a

rocket, but that it was lofty, horizontal and silent.

" This was somewhat of its appearance, though it is difficult to form a de-

finite image of such an object. The time that it was visible was, I think,
about four, perhaps five seconds. I find that either itself or its light has been
seen by a great many ; indeed I suppose more have seen it than have not, and

from various parts of the metropolis. You cannot fail, I think, to hear of it

from numerous correspondents ; but from many accounts the trtith is ex-

tracted. So this comes from. Sir,

                                   " Yours very respectfully,

" To Rev, Baden Powell."                               " Frank Barnard."

--No. 17. Mr. Lowe has favoured me v»ith the following details (besides

those inserted in the Catalogue).

  =" February 11th, 10|^--Tail and all together size of ^ ; much brighter

than ([ ; colour yellow, with yellow light for tail, ex-
cepting round the edge of the tail, where was a purple

light. When it disappeared, it broke up like a rocket

into separate stars and almost instantly disappeared,

leaving a slight stain at the spot for about half a       I regret I did

*****second. The edge of meteor was well-defined.

not see it, though I watched until within a minute of its taking place ; but a

dense cloud rising rapidly, I left off obs^erving, unluckily too soon, as it oc-

curred before the cloud came over. The cloud discharged much snow. It

was seen in Nottingham by G. Allcock, jun., Esq., and at Beeston, by theRev.

J.Wolley."

 --No. 18. Mr. Glaisher has collected a large number of details of the ob-

servations made on this meteor. The following are a few particulars, both
                                                                                                     I2
116 REPORT 1850.

from that paper and other sources, bearing on the physical characters of the
meteor. [The numerals refer to those in Mr. Glaisher's paper.J

    (iii.) It had a train, besides which it threw off" sparks literallj'.
   (xx.) Before disappearance it emitted numerous sparks from the end of
the tail.
   (xxxv.) At first it was of the size of an ordinary meteor ; it increased as it
went on.
   (xxxvi.) The tail was conical from the head, throwing out sparks before
disappearance; it had a wavy motion.
    (xli.) Fireballs in profusion fell from the tail.
    (xliii.) It burst at alt. 30°, but did not disappear till it had descended to
25° ; at 2° or 3° above 30° it separated into six bodies, which spread very

little laterally.

    Mr. Glaisher thinks (p. 271) from the violence of the report that it must
have been the bursting of a solid body by expansion of an elastic fluid. Some
fragments may probably have fallen near Biggleswade (Bedfordshire). It
seems certain it must have come from regions beyond the influence of our
 vapours : this circumstance, its extreme velocity, and intensity of light, are
more conformable to the nature of a solid than a gaseous body.

    One of the most remarkable observations is that of Mr. Hind, who says,
(x.) " the appearance of its light was such, that in my idea no doubt can be
entertained but that it was of electrical origin ; it moved precisely in the
direction in wiiich the wind was blowing at the time."

  --No. 19. At Oxford, Mrs. Baden Powell described the appearance as of a

 small globe advancing, and rapidly expanding by three or four successive

--jerks or bursts, at each burst remaining stationary for an instant, and thus

 forming successively larger globes intensely bright and blue, all the while
 emitting a stream of sparks on each side, till the final globe was nearly as
 large as the moon, which dissipated into brilliant globules, shot off" in all
 directions, and appearing to fall. It was compared by another person present
 to an umbrella pushed onwards, and alternately opened and shut rapidly.

    The subjoined sketch gives an idea of this peculiar appearance, it being
 understood that the globes here represented were in reality seen in succession.

    This peculiarity bears a close resemblance to that represented in Mr.
 Wyatt's engraving. Also in the accounts collected by Mr. Glaisher several
of the observers allude to what was apparently the same appearance. Thus

A(xxvi.) " bar of light with sparks issuing on every side, advanced with

 a jerking motion."
    (vi.) After explosion it was followed by three globes in the same direction.
--

A CATALOGUE OP OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS, ll?

   (viii.) The Astronomer Royal saw a brilliant body, followed by two others
close behind it.

   (xxi.) " Like an enormous flaming umbrella opened and shut alternately."

   No. 20.--From the Bombay Times, March 13, 1850.
   " Surat, 7th March, 1850.-- I send you the following, believing it will in-
terest you. On Wednesday evening, 6th, at nine o'clock, a beautiful meteor
burst suddenly into sight in a quarter of the heavens to which my eye was at
the instant directed, viz. R.A. 15°, N. P.D. 20° (very nearly). It remained
in sight but a moment, and was in brilliancy, size and colour like Sirius ; and

its appearance and disappearance were quite startling from their suddenness.
It passed over about 5° of the heavens irom east to west, leaving behind it a
train of dull red sparks of the same length, strikingly resembling a comb, the
teeth pointing downwards towards the horizon. The train descended very
slowly, and the teeth, as it were, gradually shot out from each, and down-

wards, increasing in length as they approached the centre, until the train as-

sumed the form of the Roman letter V, the angle being composed of large

egg-shaped drops, like molten iron, and the intermediate space between the

lines forming the letter, filled with parallel vertical lines of sparks. This ap-

pearance gradually faded from the sight (without altering in shape), very like
the colour disappearing from a piece of heated iron as it cools. It had de-
scended about 5°, when it finally disappeared : it remained in sight full fifteen
seconds, I counted fifteen slowly, and did not begin to count till a second or

two after the disappearance of the meteor. If the accepted theory is correct,
perhaps I shall not be wrong in assuming that the meteor must have cut a
chord of an arc through the verge of our atmosphere, the outer surface being
fused and thrown off in its passage, the principal body continuing its course
through space beyond the limits of the atmosphere, the attraction of some
other body acting more powerfully upon it than that of the earth, which, by

the way, it is difficult to conceive. Ursa Minor."

--No. 21. From the Journal des Debats, June 1850.

 " On ecrit du Havre, le 6 juin :

' " Hier, entre neuf et dix heures du soir, un meteore lumineux a ete observe

dans le firmament au dessus de notre ville. II affectait la forme d'un globe de
feu du diametre de la lune dans son plein, mais brillait d'un eclat beaucoup plus

vif. Apres avoir suivi la direction du sud-ouest au nord-est, laissant apres
lui une trainee lumineuse d'une longueur de trente metres environ, dont la

clarte allait graduellement s'effa9ant, il a disparu, au bout de quelques mi-

nutes, derriere les hauteurs qui dominent la ville.

   " Le meme phenomene s'est produit presque simultanement a Rouen et au

Havre. Voici ce qu'on lit a ce sujet dans le 'Journal de Rouen :'

   " Hier soir, vers neuf heures un quart, un brilliant meteore a tout a coup

projete sur notre ville une viva lumiere, qui I'a entierement eclairee pendant

quelques secondes.

   " La journee, qui avait ete tres belle, pouvait cependant faire craindre un
orage, tant la chaleur etait forte et tant I'air ^tait rarefie. Chacun ressentait

cet alourdissement general de tout le corps, suite du pen de densite de I'at-

mosphere trop dilatee par un soleil ardent.

A" la fin du jour, quelques nuages parurent ^a et la ; bientot ils se reuni-
Arent vers le Boulingrin, mais pour se dissiper tres promptement.
                                                                   neuf

heures un quart, le ciel etait pur et I'obscurit^ assez pen sensible, lorsqu'un

globe de feu eclata sans bruit dans I'atmosphere. II semblait etre a la dis-

tance de terre qu'atteignent habituellement les fusees a etoiles.
--118 REPORT 1850.

   " Ce m^teore repandait une magnifique clarte, plus vive que celle du gaz

Ade I'eclairage, et d'une coloration s'approchant de la couleur aurore. peine

eut-il annonce sa presence, qu'il decrivit dans le ciel une courbe lumineuse
s'etendant de Test a I'ouest. Cette courbe se forma de la maniere suivante :

de la premiere boule de feu, grosse comme un ceuf, sortit une autre boule qui

se detaclia sous la forme d'une larnie ; de cette iarme, subitement arrondie, il
s'en detacha une seconde, de cette seconde une troisieme, et de la troisieme

une quatrieme ; puis, de ces sortes de larmes qui s'etaient successivement
6teintes a mesure qu'elies s'etaient engendrees, la derniere disparut, et la nuit
reprit son empire. Une demi-minute apres, un unique coup de tonnerre se
fit entendre. Rien autre chose n'est venu troubler I'atmosphere, qui toute

la nuit a ete des plus calmes,"

--No. 22. The following details have been communicated by Dr. Buist of

Bombay.

 --Meteoric Stone presented to the East India Company s Museum. The fol-

lowing is an authentic account of a meteoric stone which was lately brought
from India by Lieut.-Col. Penington, and presented to the Hon. E.I. Com-
pany, who have deposited it in their museum.

   Extract of a letter from Capt. G. Bird, first assistant in the Political De-

partment to Major-Gen. Sir D. Ochterlony, Bart., K.G., C.B., to Major

Penington.

My --"                                "Loodianah, 5th April, 1815.

dear Major,  myI lost no time, after  receipt of your letter, to take

the measures for obtaining the information you desire relative to the meteor-

olite which lately fell near the village of Dooralla. Accounts of this extra-
ordinary phaenomenon had spread over the whole of the Seikh country; and

for more than a month before your letter reached me, the account of its fall,
connected with a great number of wonders, had been reported to me, and

that the people from all the neighbouring villages had assembled at Dooralla
to pay their devotions to it, but now, after a very full inquiry, I feel quite
satisfied that you may rest confident in the accuracy of the following state-

ment. On the 18th of February last, about noon, some people who were at work

in a field about half a mile distant from the village of Dooralla, were suddenly
alarmed by the explosion of what they conceived to be a large cannon, * the

report being louder than that of any other gun they had ever heard,' which

report was succeeded by a rushing noise, like that of a cannon-ball in its

greatest force. When looking towards the quarter whence the noise pro-

ceeded, they perceived a large black body in the air, apparently moving

directly towards them, but passing with inconceivable velocity, buried itself in
the earth, at the distance of about sixty paces from the spot where they stood.

As soon as they could recover from the terror with which this terrific vision had

appalled them, they ran towards the village, where they found the people no less

terrified than themselves, who, though not having seen the stone, imagined

that a marauding party was approaching, and, as but too frequently happens,

would sack their village. VV'hen the brahmins of the village wex'e told what

had really happened, they determined to proceed, and were followed by all

the people to the spot where the stone fell, having with them instruments for

digging it out. On their arrival at the place, they found the surface broken

and the fresh earth and sand thrown about to a considerable distance, and at
the depth of rather more than five feet, in a soil of mingled sand and loam,

they found the stone which they cannot doubt was what actually fell, being
altogether unlike anything known in that part of the country. The brahmins,

taking immediate charge of the stone, conveyed it to the village, where they
                                ----          ;

A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OP LUMINOUS METEORS. 119

commenced a Poosa, and covering it with wreaths of flowers, set on foot a
subscription for the purpose of erecting a small temple over it, not doubting

from the respect paid to it by the Hindoos, to turn it to a profitable account.
As I said before, it fell on the 18th of February, about mid-day, in a field
near the village of Dooralla, which lies about lat. 308° 20', long. 76° 41',
within the territory belonging to the Pattialah Rajah, sixteen or seventeen
miles from Umballah and eighty from Loodianah. The day was very clear
and serene, and as usual at that season of the year, not a cloud was to be
seen, nor was there in the temperature of the air anything to engage their
attention ; the thermometer of course may be stated at about 68° in the shade.
The report was heard in all the circumjacent towns and villages, to the di-
stance of twenty coss, or twenty-five miles from Dooralla. The Pattialah
Rajah's Vakeel being in attendance here when your letter reached me, I de-

sired him to express my wish to the Rajah to have this stone, and as it

appears that he had been led to consider it rather as a messenger of ill omen,
he gave immediate orders for its conveyance to Loodianah, but with positive

injunctions that it should not approach Pattialah, his place of residence. It
arrived here yesterday, escorted by a party of brahmins and some Seikh horse.
It weighs rather more than twenty-five pounds, and is covered with a pellicle
thinner than a wafer, of a black sulphureous crust, though it emits no smell

of sulphur that I can discover; but, having been wreathed with flowers while

in possession of the brahmins, the odour originally emitted may by these be

concealed. It is an ill-shapen triangle, and from one of J;he corners a piece
has been broken off, either in its fall or by the instruments when taking it
out of the ground. This fracture discloses a view of the interior, in which

iron pyrites and nickel are distinctly visible. Since its arrival, all the brah-

mins in the neighbourhood have assembled at my tents to pay their adoration

to it, and no Hindoo ventures to approach but with closed hands in apparent
devotion, so awful a matter is it in their eyes. I shall avail myself of the
first escort that leaves Loodianah, to forward it to you." Original Commu-

nication.

An uncommon phaenomenon appeared on the evening of the 14th, be-

tween seven and eight o'clock, which has produced a curious sensation

Aamongst the inhabitants of this settlement.  meteoric globe of fire of about

the size of a full moon, when seen in the horizon, approached from the south-
east, and passed over the town in a north-west direction, at a height not much

above the tallest trees. It was followed by a rattling broken noise, somewhat
resembling that of thunder, produced, we suppose, by the bursting of the
ball, which took place at some distance from the town. The oldest people

in Malacca say they never witnessed such a thing before, and many, not
knowing its real nature, consider it a portentous omen for evil. Some very

sagely prophesy that there will be war ; others that rice will be dearer
and others again aver that the world will soon be at an end ; the Malays say

that it is an Antoo Api, or fire spirit, sent to destroy some wicked man's

house ; and others that it is the serpent of the sun which has got loose and

Weis going its peregrinations.  understand that a Chinaman, who had been

sickly for some time previously, was so terrified by the appearance, that he

sunk down in a fit and instantly expired. Malacca Obs., May 20.

A correspondent of the ' Englishman,' at Dinagepore, gives an account of

a fall of meteoric stones at that station. The fall occurred at noon, and was

accompanied by a rumbling noise, similar to that which precedes an earth-
quake, with this difference, that the noise was from above. Some of the

stones were of considerable size, the largest weighing about four pounds.

They were all much alike in appearance, with a thin black crust over them,
---- --                                      ----

--120 REPORT 1850.

as if they had been intensely heated. The sky was perfectly clear at the

time of the fall.

   No. 23. Meteoric Stone wliichfell near Agra on the 1th August, 1822.
At a late meeting of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, a large meteoric
stone was placed on the library table, with a particular account of its fall, in
the Persian language. This was translated by Dr. Wilkins. The stone fell
in the night of the 7th of August, 1822, near the village of Kadonah, in the
district of Agra. It descended with much noise as of cannon and of the
wind, awakening those who were asleep, and alarming a watchman who heard
it fall. On making a search in the morning the stone was found warm, and
with a little smoke arising from it. It is to be subjected to examination.

 --No. 24. Meteor of 3rd November 1825, observed at Calcutta. Colonel

Blacker's third communication gives an account of a singular meteor, having
the appearance of an elongated ball of fire, which he observed on the 3rd of
November, a little after sunset, when on the road between the custom-house
and the court-hall. Its colour was pale, for the daylight was still strong, and
its larger diameter appeared greater, and its smaller less than the semi-

diameter of the moon. Its direction was from east to west, its track nearly
horizontal, and altitude about thirty degrees. Col. B. regrets not having heard
of any other observation of this phasnonicnou at a greater distance, whereby
he might have estimated its absolute height. As, however, it did not appa-
rently move with the velocity of ordinary meteors, it was probably at a great
distance, and consequently of great size. So long as Col. Blacker beheld it,
which was for five or six seconds, its motion was steady, its light equable, and
its size and figure permanent. It latterly, however, left a train of sparks,
soon after which it disappeared suddenly, without the attendant circumstance
of any repoi't audible in Col. Blacker's situation. Col. Blacker concludes his
paper with some interesting observations on luminous meteors, and considers
them of perpetual occurrence, although daylight, clouds and misty weather,

so often exclude them from our view. Of their number no conception can
be formed by the unassisted eye, but some conjecture may be formed of their

extent from the fact mentioned by our author, that in using his astronomical
telescope he has often seen what are called falling stars, shooting through the
field of view, when they were not visible to the naked eye ; and when it is
considered that the glass only embraced one twenty-five thousandth part of
the celestial hemisphere, it will be apparent that these phajnomena must be

--infinitely numerous, in order to occur so frequently in so small a space. Cal-

cutta Government Gazette.

-- ANo. 25. Meteor of 22nd November 1825, observed at Calcutta.  re-

markable meteor was visible on Friday night S.W. of the comet and near it.

It appeared in shape at first like a ball of fire, which assumed the form of a

vividly brilliant comet. This continued beautifully and powerfully luminous

for some minutes, but gradually waxed fainter and fainter, until at length it

totally disappeared. India Gazette, Dec. 5.

 --]>q^o. 26. Meteors of 23rd June and 2^th July 1832, observed at Delhi and

Meerut. Delhi, 28th July 1832. An extraordinary large meteor, or rather

three balls of fire, at first arose out of the E.S.E. horizon on the 23rd of last
month, and after rising to the elevation of about fifteen degrees, joined into

one, forming a large ball of brilliant fire, nearly as big as a full moon in the me-
ridian, and passed over an arc of the heavens of about 115° before it vanished

in the W.N.W. The light was very brilliant. This took place about ten

o'clock at night, and I suppose but few persons witnessed it. India Gazette.
----                                            ----

A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. i-.121

 --No. 27. Another, almost equally big, passed over Meerut a few nights

ago, and disappeared with a brilliant and dazzling light in the W.N.W.

N.B. The first meteor passed over the city of Delhi, and its greatest altitude
was about 70°. It passed to the north of the Juma Musjid. India Gazette.

 --No. 28. Meteors of 18th November 1832, observed at Bulrampore and

Agra. The 'India Gazette' contains extracts from two letters, one from

Bulrampore, in the Jungle Mehauls, the other from'Agra, communicating

accounts of a very remarkable atmospherical phsenomenon.

                                                " Camp Bulrampore, 13tli Nov.

" During our march this morning the sky presented a most brilliant spec-

tacle. Innumerable meteors were flying in every direction, and some of them
the most beautiful I ever saw. They appeared to burst finer than the finest
sky rockets, leaving a long line of various-coloured light in the heavens be-
hind them, which remained several minutes and vanished gradually. I never
saw anything like it before, and I should think it not a common thing in
India, for I have travelled frequently at different hours of the night, and

never before witnessed a similar phsenomenon."

                                                " Agra, 18th November.

   " Some nights ago there was a most extraordinary appeai'ance in the hea-
vens. The sky was all one blaze, owing to the number of falling stars."

   The same phasnonienon was seen at the same time at the three presidencies.

   No. 29.-- Meteor of 18th 3Iarch 1833, observed at Madras.--'' On the even-
ing of the 18th inst., at 5^ 27TM mean time, a meteor of great brilliancy and
magnitude made its appearance towards the N.E., in the constellation Cor

Caroli, from whence, pursuing a north-westerly direction for about 3°, through

the constellation Hercules, it disappeared at an altitude of 35°. The time it
remained visible did not exceed two or three seconds. Listening attentively,

at about 6| minutes after the disappearance a report was distinctly heard,
which very evidently proceeded from the bursting of the meteor; the di-
stance resulting from this interval is in round numbers about 81 miles.

  "Madras Observatory, 20th Mar. 1833." "T. G. Taylor, H.C.'s Astronomer."

  --No. 30. Meteors of 10th September 1841, observed at Calcutta. About

two in the morning on Friday last, innumerable meteors of surprising beauty
were perceptible in the heavens. Vast myriads of shooting stars were seen

darting through the air in a S.S.W. direction, leaving a long and brilliant
train of light. The whole atmosphere was illuminated, and at one period the
light was so great, as to have enabled a person to read the smallest print with

the utmost facility. This magnificent spectacle was visible during a period

of ten or twelve minutes. Englishman, Sept. 1 3.

  --No. 31. Account of a luminous meteor seen at Charka, lat. 24° 06',

long. 81° 02', on the morning of the 11th April 1842, by Capt. Shortrede,
First Assistant G. T. Survey.

   A" little before four o'clock this morning I saw a meteor of a singular ap-

pearance, of which the following is an account:

   " I was lying awake outside my tent, and about a minute or two before had
closed my eyes, intending to have a short sleep before marching, when my
attention was roused by some brilliant light before me. On opening my eyes,
I saw a meteor having very much the appearance of a rocket : it was situated

in the constellation Scorpio, having its middle about 10° to the westward of
 Antares, and pointing towards the constellation Corvus, the lower star of
which was about 4° above the horizon. The meteor was about 10° or 20°
long, and equally bright throughcmt except at the upper end, where it was
:

--122 REPORT 1850-

rather faint. It continued in tiie same position and of the same brightness
for between two and three minutes as well as I could judge, and then gra-
dually became fainter and fainter, till it lost its brilliancy altogether ; and
as it began to fade, it began also to become crooked and to move towards
the west. It became gradually more crooked, and continued to fade till
it became like a thin smoke, and at last vanished away at about 3° or 4;°
from the place where I first saw it. I listened attentively, but heard no noise.
From the time I first saw it till its brilliancy ceased, was probably about five
minutes, and in about three minutes more it ceased to be any longer remark-
able. I was then at Charka, in lat. 24° 06' and long. 81° 20'."

" Dewra, 11th April, 1842."

--No. 32. An account of a remarkable aerolite which fell at the village of

Maniegaon, near Eidulabad in Khandeesh. Communicated, with a specimen,

to the Asiatic Society by Capt. James Abbott, B.A., late Resident, Nimaur.

   A chemical examination of the above aerolite, and remarks, by Henry
Piddington, Curator, Geological and Mineralogical Department of the Mu-

seum of Q^conomic Geology.
   At the meeting of October IS^^, Capt. Abbott communicated to the So-

ciety the following documents, with two small specimens of the aerolite.

Dum" Capt. J. Abbott, Artillery,    Dum, to the Secretary of the Asiatic

                                                    Society, Calcutta.

                                                               " Dum Dum, Sept. 16th, 1844.

--" Sir, In July 1843, I received at Mundlaisir, from the Komarder (or

native collector) at Asseer, a report of the fall, in that part of the country, of

a meteoric stone, together with a few grains, said to be particles of the same.

1 immediately despatched a karkoon to the spot, to ascertain the truth or
falsify of the statement, and to collect specimens of the supposed aerolite.

These accompany my letter. They differ so much from the structure of

every reputed aerolite I have previously met with, that I should be inclined

to doubt the veracity of the reporters, could I discover any other reason for

questioning it. I have never heard any other instance of an aerolite in that

neighbourhood. The fact is implicitly credited in the neighbourhood of

Eidulabad, where it is said to have occurred. These specimens appear to

me to resemble masses of friable rock of the quartz family which I have met

with in iMalwa. But it is evident that a mass of texture so loose could

never have borne unshattered the propelling agency of fire, nor has any vol-

cano existed within the memory of man in Nimaur or Mahiswah, nor, I

believe, in Khaundes, although fable declares Oojyne to have been buried

beneath a shower of mud, and Mahiswah to have been destroyed by the mis-

chievous malice of a demon. The depositions of the observers I have trans-

lated and appended. The spot was beyond, my district, or I would myself

have visited it. It is probable that the collector of Khaundes may have

reported it to the Bombay Society.

" This report, and the note upon granite in the Nerbudda, were prepared

many montlis ago, but restricted leisure and many concurring events, pre-

vented their being forwarded."      "J. Abbott, Capt. Artillery."

--Fall of a Meteoric Stone in Khaundes. Deposition taken by a karkoon,

despatched from Asseer by Capt. James Abbott, to collect information

   upon the subject.
   "Oonar, Puttail, and Ghubbahjee, Chowdry, of village Maniegaon, per-
gunnah Eidulabad, Tuppeh Sowdah, Illaquh Dliooliah in Khaundes, depose as

follows

   " Taken July 26th, 1843. On Mittee Asarr, Soodie Teei, Goraur ke din.
           -- --;

A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. 123

We were in our house. At lialf-past three o'clock p.m., whether from heaven

or elsewhere, a prodigious ball (ghybee golah) fell. The noise it made was

Wevery great, it might be heard twenty miles round.         heard it with our

own ears, and in fear and trembling ran outside to look, as running out we

found that it had fallen outside the village on the southern asjject, and that

in falling it had been shattered to pieces, some of which had been scattered

Wefar.     put our hands upon that which lay together; it felt cool; shortly-

after it became rather warm. When first we saw it, the pieces were black

after a day's interval the colour changed to blue, and now the fragments

are white.

   " Question. When the ball fell, was any flash perceptible, or was the heaven
darkened ? Who saw it fall ? How large was it ? And who heard the noise

at the distance of twenty miles ?

We" Answer.  sato nothing. When the ball fell, we heard the noise and ran

to see what had caused it. The spot on which it fell was hollowed by the
shock a span and a half in diameter, and three fingers' breadth in depth. The

ball was about the size of a kedgeree pot (ghurrah, i. e. about ten inches in

diameter) ; the people of Edulabad and of other parts heard the noise in
the clouds, at least so they say. The ball being shattered, people came and

carried away the pieces. The remainder was sent to the Sowdah Komardar,

and by him to Dhooliah. What remains I give you*.

" True and literal translation.                             " J. Abbott, Capt.,

" Mundlaisir, Angust 1843."                                 Pol. Asst., in Nimaur."

--"Note. Afew grains of this aerolitewere first sent me by letter from Asseer.

I despatched a karkoon immediately to the spot, to make inquiries and collect

as much of the fragments as possible, supposing that he would have cause

to believe the report well-founded. The greater part of what he collected

accompanies this report. It agrees exactly with the grains first sent me.

J. Abbott."
   At Capt. Abbott's suggestion, the collector of Khandeish, J. Bell, Esq.,

Bomb. C. S. was written to, and he has kindly forwarded us a few small frag'
ments more, with the following letter and deposition.

                " To W. W. Bell, Esq., Collector of Khandeish.

 --" Sir, With reference to your Mahratta Yad of the 5th ultimo, with en-

closure from the Secretary to the Asiatic Society of Bengal, requesting me to

transmit any information along with specimens procurable of an aerolite that

fell in the month of July 1843, in the vicinity of the village of Manegaumof

this talooka, I have the honour to transmit translation of a deposition given
before me, by a couple of individuals who were spectators of the fall of the

aerolite in question, along with five small specimens of the same, all that I

have been able to procure after much search ; these however I trust will be

suflScient to indicate the nature of the meteorolite.

"I beg to return your enclosure, and to remain. Sir, your most obedient

Servant,"                          " C. Inverakity, Acting 1st Assist. Col."

" Camp, Circuit at Rawere, Talooka Joada, Jan. 1st, 1845."

Translation of a deposition given in Mahratta, by Goba WuUud Nagojee
   Chowdrie, and Hunmunta ud Dama Naik Solie, inhabitants of the village

of Manegaum, pergunnah Edulabad, turaf Jaoda, of the Khandeish Collec-

torate, who were spectators of tiie fall of an aerolite in the vicinity of their

village, in the month of July ISiS.

" On the day the aerolite fell we were both seated, about three o'clock of

  ·* The supposed and the actual circumstances are in this expression oddly involved ; we
consider that the natives employed this language, and that the author of the letter gives their

literal words. Ed.
124 REPORT-- 1850.

the afternoon, on the outskirts of the village, in a shed belonging to Ranoo

Patel. There was at the time no rain, but heavy clouds towards the north-

ward ; there had been several claps of thunder for about two hours previously,
and some lightning. Suddenly, while we were seated in the shed, several

heavy claps of thunder occurred in quick succession, accompanied with

lightning, on which we both went out to look around us, when in the middle

of a heavy clap, we saw a stone fall to the ground in a slanting direction

from north to south, preceded by a flash of lightning. It fell about fifty

paces distant from us ; on going up to it we found that it had indented itself
some four or five inches in the ground ; it was broken in pieces, and as far

as we could judge, appeared to be about fifteen inches long and five in dia-

meter, of an oblong shape, somewhat similar to the chouthe grain measure;

it was of a black vitreous colour outside, and of a grayish yellow inside ; it

was then of a mouldy* texture, and hardened to the consistence of the pre-

sent specimens afterwards. Only one stone fell. No rain had fallen for

eight days previously, nor did it until four days after the fall of the stone. It

had been warm all day before, but not much more so than usual. From

midday until the time the stone fell (3 p.m.) it was very cloudy towards the

northward ; after its fall, the thunder ceased and the clouds cleared away.

No stone of a similar description had ever fallen near our village before.

The pieces of the stone were immediately after carried off by the country

people. Our village is situated on the banks of the small river the Poorna ;

there are no hills in its vicinity, the nearest being three coss (or six miles) ofl^".

The above is a true statement, dated at Rawere, talooka Jaoda, on the 17th

December, 184'4'.            (Signed) " Goba ud Nagojee Choworie.

                             " HUNMUNTA UD DaMA NaIK."

" True translation of the deposition given before me on the above date.

                             " C. J. Inverarity, Acting 1st Assist Col."

  --Chemical Examination. The specimens were referred to me for exa-

mination, of which this is my report.

The specimens are mainly composed of an earthy grayish white pul-

verulent mass, slightly tinged with a bluish gray in some parts. It is
excessively friable, and both crumbles and soils the fingers even when most

delicately handled. In the earthy mass are thickly imbedded light greenish

glassy particles of olivine, single and in nests, resembling green mica or

felspar; the appearance in some parts being almost that of an earthy variety

of lepidolite. On the side of one piece of Capt. Abbott's specimens is a
bright black crust, thickly but minutely mammillated. When this is touched

with the file, it leaves a rusty mark, but gives no metallic trace. This crust

is exceedingly thin and splinters off", and in one place a mass of the olivine

in it is melted to a green bead. It is too fragile, and our specimens too

small to attempt obtaining sparks from it. Two of Mr. Bell's fragments also

have small portions of crust yet adhering to them.

Internally, and by the magnifier, a few bright white metallic points are

discoverable, and in one or two places small nests of it : there are also a few

Weof a brown kind.      have one fragment of an aerolite which fell in 1808,

at Moradabad, which is pulverulent, but not so much so as the present spe-

cimen by a great deal.  The  present specimen  is  in  this  respect almost unique
                                                                                                                                                            ;

as the only one I now recollect to have read of as very pulverulent, is the

one from Benares, mentioned in the Philosophical Transactions.

   The aerolite of Moradabad is studded over with rusty specks from the

--* So in MSS. Perhaps muddy, i. e. soft, earthy texture, was meant ? H. P.

                                                                                                                                                               1
A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS METEORS. 125

oxidation of the iron. All our other aerolites are of a compact texture. I
may note here, that we now possess in our collection ten specimens, com-
prising six varieties of aerolites, and four of meteoric iron from Siberia,
Brazil and India. One of the Society's aerolites is also well entitled to be
called meteoric iron, as it consists mainly of that metal (and no doubt nickel)
rather than an aerolite, by which we usually designate the more earthy-

looking stones.

   The magnetism of the Kandes aerolite is nowhere apparent except at the
patch of pyrites (magnetic pyrites?) on the piece which has the crust, but
here it is strong and distinct.

   From its extreme friability I have not ventured to take its specific gravity,
which is about 4 or 4'5, 1 judge, for it might crumble to pieces in the water,
and is too rough and tender to admit of varnishing. Specific gravity how-
ever is an indication of no value in these heterogeneous compounds.

   The green crystals, when examined separately, eff'ect a somewhat rhom-
boidal or cubical form, but none are clearly defined. Their colour is a
bright, clear, and very light grass-green.

  List of Meteorolites in the Collection of the Asiatic Society, Jan. 1, 1845.

   1. Fell at Rloradabad, 1808, Capt. Herring. One piece of this is rather

friable, three pieces.

    2. Dr. Tytler's aerolite at Allahabad, three large pieces.

   3. Aerolite fell about 40 miles to the west of Umbala, between the Jumna
and Punja, 1822-23. Obtained by Capt. Murray; given by Mr. J. Bird to
Mr. Cracroft.

   4. Fell at Bitour and Shapoor, 75 miles N.W. of Allahabad, 30th No-
vember 1822.

   5. Fell at Mhow Ghazeepore, February 1827, R. Barlow.

   6. Fell at Manegaon in Khandeish, July 1843, Capt. J. Abbott, B.A., and
J. Bell, Esq., Bombay, C. S., Collector of Khandeish.

        Meteoric Iron, or Stones having a large proportion ofit.

1. Meteoric stone, containing iron and nickel, fell at Panganoor in 1811.

Mr. Ross of Cuddahpah.

2. Meteoric iron ; Siberia, Pallas.                                   Per

3. Meteoric iron ; Sergipe, Brazil, Mornay and Wollaston.

4. Lightning stone of Nepal ; not examined, but may be meteoric.

--Blowpipe Examination. The grass-green crystals above described.

se infusible, but take a rusty brown appearance, as of semi -fusion or oxidation

on the exterior, remaining still translucent. On platina ivire, with borax and

phosphate of soda, fuses at first in part only (a lump remaining), giving a

light clear olive glass ; adding more of the flux, it finally dissolves with various

shades of olive and grass-green according to the proportions of assay and

Aflux.  minute crystal in muriatic acid does not soften, gelatinise, or colour

it by several days' digestion. These are doubtless meteoric olivine.

The white friable part, taken as free as possible from the gray specks and

entirely so from the green crystals. In the forceps slightly oxidates to a rusty

appearance at the outer part, but does not fuse.

Onplatina wire and loith soda. Fuses to a dirty olive-coloured bead, which

in the reducing fiame gives metallic iron with some earthy residuum. With

nitrate of cobalt only a dull rusty colour. Hence the absence of alumina,

except perhaps in very minute proportion.

The metallic-looking vein was assayed in various manners for nickel, but

no trace of it could be elicited, the vein being apparently pure pyrites.
       ----

--126 REPORT 1850.

Nickel may nevertheless exist, though in small proportions, and we cannot
venture on consuming more of these precious fragments, since tlie fused crust,
the olivine, and the white matrix are chemical evidence enough of the me-

teoric origin of the stone.

   The whole of the dust which had collected in the paper being carefully
collected, was assayed both by the blowpipe and via humida for chromium,
but no traces were detected. As said of niciitl however above, so also of
this substance, it may exist in minute proportion, tliough not detectable in
such extremely small assays.

  --No. 33. On the 7th of September, about half-past six p.m., a large fireball

was seen at Poona to shoot from nearly north to south ; it then made a
sudden sweep, and jiroceeded nearly at right angles to its previous path.
After being visible for five or six seconds, it split into a number of large
fragments which rapidly descended towards the earth ; and these again broke
up into lesser fragments, till they appeared to descend in a shower of sparks.
Before the first bursting, the meteor was of exceeding brightness, of an in-
tense blue colour, and at the instant of explosion it changed into red ; it
seemed to light up the whole heavens, though the moon was siiining, so as
to render the lesser stars visible. The last meteor of the sort we remember

at Bombay was seen in the sky in the middle of October 1844. Now is

the season when a display of luminous meteors in all parts of the heavens
may be looked for, tiie earth appearing in August and November to track a
part of its orbit through which a current of these things rushes along.
Bombay Times, November 1, 1848.

 --No. 34. Meteor of 29th October 1848, observed at Poona and Bombay.

On Sunday evening, about seven o'clock, a magnificent fireball was seen to
shoot across the air from nearly west to east, when its horizontal motion

suddenly ceased, and it seemed to drop perpendicularly into the sea betwixt

--Mazagon and Sewree. At the time of its explosion for such we may take
--that of its change of direction to have been, its illuminating power was

equivalent to that of an ordinary -sized blue light ; it dazzled the eyes of those

near it and who looked at it directly ; and though the evening was at the

time perfectly dark, the most minute objects in the landscape were for ten or
fifteen minutes made visible by it. It appeared to become extinguished some
three or four hundred feet before touching the water. It left a long trail of
light behind it, which was visible for the space of nearly half a minute.

  --No. 35. Meteor ofTith July 1849, observed at Porebunder. Porebunder,

2nd August 1849. On the night of the 27th of July, about half-past eight
o'clock, a very bright meteor shot out from the northern sky. When first

seen, its elevation was about 70°, and it fell nearly perpendicularly. Its fall
was not very rapid, it being distinctly visible for about five seconds when it
burst, leaving a large train of bright red spots to mark its track. The light
was so bright as to attract the attention of persons whose faces were towards
the south. At the time of its appearance the weather was calm and cloudy,
a slight air now and then from the west, and scud flying rapidly from the

same point. An hour afterwards heavy rain set in, which has continued
almost without intermission ever since. The whole country in the neigh-
bourhood is under water. Several houses have fallen down in the town, but

no serious injury has accrued therefrom. Such a quantity of rain has not

fallen in the Zillah for the last five years.

  --No. 36. Meteor of l^th December 1849, observed near Shorapore. Camp
A CATALOGUE OP OBSERVATIONS OP LUMINOUS METEORS. 127

Bohnal, near Shorapore, December 14th. You are desirous of intelligence
of meteors, and therefore I mention that the night before last, about half-past
eleven (I had no watch with nie), I observed a very brilliant meteor pass ra-
pidly from the zenith, and fall in a south-west direction, exploding when
within about 20" of the horizon, in a shower of brilliant sparks ; I cannot
speak accurately as to its size, which appeared to increase as it descended,
but it was at least four times as large as Venus at her brightest, and gave out
light enough to dim the light of the stars in the direction of which it passed.
I have no doubt, if there had not been many torches burning near me at the
time, that its light would have been strong on the ground. I could hear no
noise on its explosion. The colour of the meteor was a greenish white.

 --No. 37. The following additional extracts from correspondence on me-

teors observed in India, and inserted in the Catalogue of 1849, have been
recently forwarded by Dr. Buist.

                                  Meteor of March 19, 1849.

                                                                                                      "Poona, 22nd March.

  --(1.) " Sir, None of the Bombay accounts sent you of the aerolite which

fell on the 19th are sufficiently explicit. Most of your correspondents must
have seen it crossing tlieir meridian ; can none of them estimate its angular

height at that moment ? I am not very well acquainted with your localities,

but the meteor would seem to have been north of you, and at no great ele-
vation. Supposing it to have had a meridian altitude of 20% and combining
this with the data we sent you two or three days ago, you will find that it
must have been about thirty miles high (perhaps ten when it burst), and taking

--its apparent diameter at 4', must have measured nearly 200 yards across an

enormous mass, sufficient to furnish, on exploding, a very large r-hower of
meteoric stones. It appeared to pass over about 30° of the heavens in some-
thing less than two seconds ; and this, at the distance at which it must have
been, if the data we have here assumed are anything near the truth, will give
a real velocity of thirty miles per second.

    " The theory of these bodies, which considers them as moving through
space, and becoming hot and luminous on entering our atmosphere, from the

--rapid compression of the air, would seem to be pretty consistent with all this.
    " P.S. I will just add a word or two concerning the probable errors of
these estimates. The height and velocity are certainly if anything under-
stated, while on the contrarj', the volume assigned is not unlikely to be con-
siderably in excess, since the apparent magnitude may have been partly an

--optical deception, or may have been that subtended not by the meteor

******itself, but by its luminous envelope."
(2.) " I saw it on the lyth, at about 6'30 p.m., away in the S.W., high up

in the heavens, falling with great velocity towards the earth, but directed to

the N.E. It was intensely brilliant, of a bluish white colour, like a Roman

Wecandle, bursting into a sparkling sliower of a dull red colour.  heard no

sound after it burst here, but at Aurungabad, some considerable time after-

wards, a sound of distant thunder was distinctly audible. Everybody differs

-- --as to the time; some minutes say three elapsed ; that will take us just

about to the region of fireballs, for assuming 1125 as the rate sound travels

per second, three times that will reach about to the crepuscular atmosphere,

the nursery of these meteoric bodies. At Aurungabad its course appeared

northward, passing over the heads of the good folks there, and bursting

--about twenty miles to the north of the station. W. H. B."

" Boldanah, 1st April, 1849."
                    ;

--128 REPORT 1850.

 --(3.) " Sir, On the evening of the 19th ult., between six and seven, I

observed the meteor alluded to in the Times oi 23rd and 26th March. I
wixs in latitude 21° 58' (by observation next day,) and longitude 76° (taken
from a map). The meteor was, as well as I can judge, S.W. by S. Ii was
very brilliant. The longitude I could not work out exactly, not having the

--necessary tables. L. H. E."

    " Mundlaisir, April 5th, 1849."

 --(4.) "Sir, Your correspondent of the 21st inst. desires information about

* a supposed meteor.' It may be gratifying to him to know, that we were
favoured, back here in the country, with one of whose personal identity we
could have no doubt. It appeared six miles east of Ahmednuggur, in the
vicinity of a hill known here by the name of ' Shaha Donger.' The fall of a
more splendid meteor I never had the pleasure to witness. Myself riding
eastward, its line of direction declined towards the same point, the meteor
appearing at right angles on my left. It first invited my attention by throw-
ing across my pathway a brilliant light, seeming for the instant to light up
the whole horizon. Instantly glancing to the north, the stranger appeared

in full view, a beautiful globe of fire, apparently sixty to eighty yards high,
and some three inches in diameter, with a long tail of bluish and red light.

At the height of twenty to twenty-five yards it burst, and fragments of a

brighter red were visible an instant longer."

    (5.) " Sir,--In your issue of Wednesday last I observe a correspondent
notices a meteor he had seen in Bombay about half-past six p.m., on the pre-
ceding Monday. As you appear anxious for further information on the sub-

ject, I send you the following, though I know not if it be worth much. On

the same evening, and about a quarter before seven (of our time), I saw from
hence a meteor, answering in so many respects that described by your cor-

respondent, as to leave no doubt on my mind but that it was the same as
attracted his attention. To my eye the meteor appeared in size rather less

than a man's fist; its brilliancy was excessive, and it was surrounded by a
colour more yellow I think than green. The flakes it threw off were very

--large, and strewed its path, so as to form a long and most luminous tail. I

note the following particulars : commencement of course at a height of
about 50° ; end of height 20° ; direction of height nearly perpendicular
direction from Asseer about S.S.W. If I mistake not, your correspondent
makes its direction from Bombay to have been about easterly : by a glance

--at a map I should therefore suppose the meteor would be vertical over some

spot between Jooneer and Kandahalla. A. W."

    " Asseerghur, March 26, 1839."

   (6.) " The proximity of the hill enabled me to determine its distance to

be within 300 yards, the meteor being distinctly visible after passing below
the summit. "The coincidence which will perhaps most interest your corre-

--spondent is the fact of its appearance at thirty-five minutes past six on Mon^

day evening (19th in»t.). W."

    "Ahmednuggur, March 24, 1849."

   A(7.) Mahabuleshwar correspondent says, the meteor seen there on the

19th ultimo, presented nearly the same appearance at Malcolm Peth as at
Bombay.

  --(8.) " Sir, The same appearance as that described by your correspondent

E. in your paper of the 21st, was observed by myself and others from this
                                                --

A CATALOGUE OF OBSERVATIONS OF LUMINOUS I\[ETEORS. 129

place on the evening of Monday tlie 19tli, about the same hour mentioned

--by him, and in a soutii-nesterly direction. W. R. M."

   "Fortress of Asseerghur, March 28, 1849."

  --(9.) " Sir, I suppose you have had enough of the meteor of the 19th

instant, but I cannot forbear writing to let you know that it was seen at
Ahmednuggur also at the time mentioned by the other observers. 1 was

driving, at the time, about a quarter of a mile distant on the west side of the

fort, Avhen I observed the meteor towards the N.E. It did not occur to me

that it was anything more than a rocket thrown up Irom tiic native town, and
I was sure it had fallen between myself and the fort. I have been much in-

terested in the accounts sent by your correspondents from such distant places
as Sholapoor and Surat, most of them supposing, as we did here, that it was

not very distant. Were proper measures taken for simultaneous observation
of such meteors at different places, it would be easy to ascertain by a little

calculation the height at which they begin to appear and at which they burst,

and the velocity with which they move, /fhe apparent velocity of this meteor
being so great, while at the same time it v as so distant, its real velocity must

have been great indeed, more nearly approaching that of electricity than that

--of any solid body whose velocity has hitherro been calculated. B."

   "Ahmednuggur, JIarch 31, 1849."

  --(10.) " Sir, The accounts received by you from different stations re-

garding the appearance and supposed course of the magnificent meteor of

Monday evening, the 19th instant, induce me to add my evidence, with the

view of assisting in the determination of the true course of the luminous ob-
ject. About 6| P.M. I happened to be seated in the open air, facing due
south, and the 'shades of evening' were fast closing over head, when I ob-

served a meteor, which, apparently commencing its course at a point bearing

about S.S.W. and about 30° above the horizon, darted in a Rightly descend-
ing line, and with different degrees of brilliancy, towards a point bearing about
S.S.E. and about 15° or 20° above the horizon ; and there burst without any
perceptible noise into spark-like fragments, flame-coloured, which immediately

disappeared. The colour of the meteor, when most brilliant, appeared to me
not unlike that of the ordinary 'blue light.' The observer at Aurungabad

(near which place the meteor appears to have burst) does not mention the
apparent length of the course of tlie luminous body. If this was not very

great, nor the apparent motion of the meteor very rapid, it seems to me not
improbable that the course of the meteor was seen at Aurungabad fore-

shortened as it were ; and, taking into consideration the various accounts, I

am disposed to think that a line drawn from the Malsej Ghaut (or a point

half-way between Nasik and Jooneer) in the direction of EUora, would

pretty well represent the course of the meteor ; and it is not unlikely that

--fragments of the aerolite may be yet found near the caves. H. W. B. B."

" Malligaum, March 30, 1849."

--AMeteor of April 4, 1849, observed at Delhi.  very brilliant meteor, of

a deep red colour, was observed at Delhi, on Wednesday evening, at a quarter

past seven. Its progress was extremely slow, from N.W. to S.E., and the

inclination small. It seemed to have become extinct for an instant, and then

assumed greater brilliancy before its final disappearance. The elevation at

which it was noticed cannot have been more than 28° or 30°. Delhi Ga-

zette, April 7.

 --Meteor of April 10, 1849, observed at Ahmednuggur. Ahmednuggur,

April 11, 1849 You may be interested to hear that another meteor was

seen here last night nearly about the same time, and in a similar direction,

1850.                                           K
--

130 REPORT 1850.

as the mcieor of the 19th ultimo. It was observed at a quarter before seven

o'clock, and was of a dark yellow colour. When first seen it was just below
Deneb in the Lion, and of course about due east from us; and having

fallen through an arc of the heavens of 20° or 30°, disappeared at an altitude
of 10° or 15°. Its apparent diameter was about the same as that of Venus at
present. I would also remark that the meteor of the 19th ultimo started
from near the same region of the heavens (perhaps more to the north, in the
vicinity of Berenice's hair), and having fallen nearly perpendicularly towards
the earth, burst at an altitude of 15° or 20°. Its light was a brilliant white
silvery light, and its apparent diameter, as observed here, was two or three

times that of Venus. I also observed three other meteors in the course of

last evening ; one about half-past seven o'clock seemed to commence in the
vicinity of the constellation Corvus, and after traversing an arc of 20° or more,

disappeared in the vicinity of the large star in the southern part of the ship,
about 20° west from the Southern Cross. Its motion was very slow, and it

-- --left a bright path behind it.
   Meteor of April 13, 1S4-9. " Sii", On opening your paper of this morning
I was astonished at not seeing any mention made of another very brilliant

meteor that burst last night. At about a quarter past nine o'clock last night,
a light all of a sudden, as brilliant as that of the moon, shone for a second or
two. Wondering from where this appeared, I looked round, and saw it just
as it was dv/indling away. The direction that it burst was south-east. This
is the tJiird meteor seen within three months."

   " Bombay, April 14, 1849."

A meteor of surpassing brilliancy was observed here on Friday evening,

13th inst., at about three minutes to nine o'clock. Our informant was walk-

ing in a westerly direction, when the atmosphere, which had been somewhat

dull and heavy, was suddenly illuminated by an intense light immediately

behind him; turning instantly round he perceived it emanated from a bril-

liant meteor of a bluish colour and about the size of an egg. It first appeared

due east, and proceeded towards the horizon in a southern direction. It was

in sight about three seconds, and was first seen at near 30° altitude, and be-

came lost to view at about 8°. Poona Chronicle, April 20.

 --Meteor of May 6, 18i9, observed at Kurrachee. Kurrachee, May 7, 1849.
--As you ask for notices regarding meteors, here is one for you. Yester-

day evening (May 6th), at 6'4<5, a meteor fell here. When first observed, it

was at an elevation of about 25° or 30°, and appeared to be falling from the

zenith to a point of the horizon a little to the eastward of north, where it

vanished at an elevation of about 5°, without any appearance of explosion,

and I should say that it fell below my horizon in a perfect state. I cannot

say that 1 savv it from the commencement of its course, as I was observing

something tlse at the moment intently when it attracted my notice at the

elevation above-mentioned, it had the appearance of a clear ball of fire, with

a slight green tinge, and was considerably larger than Venus when at her

brightest. Had it occurred an hour later, it would have presented a splendid

appearance ; but as the sun had oidy just set, it was still broad daylight. The

day had been hot and sultry, but at the time alluded to there was a cool breeze

from the N.W., with a clear sky.
-- AMeteor of June '2,5, 1849, observed at Kurrachee.
                                                       Correspondent gives

a somewhat more minute account of the meteor seen through Lower Scinde

on the 25th of .June than that extracted from the 'Kurrachee Advertiser' in

our last, or given I'rom the same source in our present issue. It was observed

by our friend about ten o'clock at night, just before it broke out. It seemed
                                        ----

A CATALOGUE OP OBSERVATIONS OP LUMINOUS METEORS. 131

to be proceeding from south to north, and appeared to explode about 60°

above the horizon. It broke into a multitude of bright red fragments, which

vanished from sight shortly after the explosion. About five minutes after

this a report was heard like that of a heavy piece or ordnance fii'ed at a di-

stance, and we have no doubt that this was the sound of the bursting meteor,

the fragments of which may yet be found. We hope our friends at Hydra-

bad and Sukkur will inform us whether it was seen by any of them. There

were no stars visible in the direction of its path at the time when it was first

seen, and no immediate means therefore of comparing it with any celestial

object; so brilliant was it that it filled the room with light. The following

--is a list of the meteors for 1849, witli the particulars of whose appearance

we have been favoured: 24th February, Madras; 19th March, the gi-eat

meteor seen off the sea-coast of Goozerat, at Bombay, Khandalla, Poona,

Ahmednuggur, Mundlaisir, Malligaum, Asserghur, Jaulnah, &c. ; 23rd
March, Bombay and Khandalla; 4th April, Delhi; 10th April, Ahmeduug-

gur, one large and two small meteors; 1 3th April, Bombay, Poona, and

Hingolee; 30th April, Poona; 2nd May, Bombay; 6th May, Kurrachee;

25th June, Kurrachee. The meteors of the 19th March and 25th June are

the only two that were heard to explode ; there is every reason to believe

that the former of these was burnt to ashes and fell to the ground in the

shape of dust. Tlie atmosphere all over the Saugor and Nerbudda territo-

ries was throughout the last week of March so filled with fine dust that the

sun could be looked at, especially at near noon, with tiie naked eye.

A most brilliant meteor appeared about half-past nine o'clock on the night

Weof the 25th instant.  did not ourselves see it, having been within doors,

but the light thrown out was plainly perceptible for some five or six seconds.

About fifty or sixty seconds after its disappearance, a report like that of a

distant heavy gun was distinctly heard. Kurrachee Advertiser, June 27.

--No. 38. The following interesting repiarks on periodic meteors are ex-

tracted from Prof. Silliman's Journal, vol. xxxi. p. 386:

For six years in succession there has been observed, on or about the 13th

of November of each year, a remarkable exhibition of shooting stars, which

has received the name of the " Meteoric Siiower."

In 1831 the phaenoraenon was observed in the State of Ohio*, and in the

Mediterranean, off the coast of Spain f. In 1832 the shower appeared in a
more imposing form, and was seen at Mocha, in Arabia;}:, in the middle of

the Atlantic Ocean §,  near  Orenburg,  in        Russia                           and  at Pernambuco,  in
                                                                              ||,

South America^. The magnificent meteoric shower of 1833 is too well

known to require the recital of any particulars. Of the recurrence of the

phaenomenon at the corresponding period in 1834 and in 1835, evidence has

been presented to the public in previous numbers of this journal. (See vols,

xxvii. pp. 339 and 417 ; xxix. 168.) I now feel authorized to assert, that
meteoric showers reappeared on the morning of the \Sth November 1836-

It has been supposed by some, that the appearance of an extraordinary

number of shooting-stars, at several anniversaries since the great phaenome-

non of November 1833, can be accounted for by the fact, that a general

expectation of such an event has been excited, and that many persons have

been on tlie watch for it. Having, however, been much in the habit of ob-

serving phaenomena of tliis kind, I can truly say, that those exhibitions of

shooting-stars which have for several years occurred on the 13th or 14th of

* Amer. Journal of Science, vol. xxviii. p. 419.  f Bibliotheque Universelle, Sept. 1835.
                                                  § Edin. New Phil. Journ. July 183G.
J Amer. Journ. xxvi. p. 136.
   Amer. Journ. xxvi. p. 349.                     ^ New York, America, Nov. 15, 1836.

 II                                                                    k2
132 REPORT--1850.

November, are characterized by several peculiarities, vhich clearly distinguish

them from ordinary shooting-stars. Such peculiarities are the following:--

1. The mimber of meteors, though exceedingly variable, is much greater

than usual, especially of the larger and brighter kinds.

2. An uncommonly large proportion leave luminous trains.

3. Tiie meteors, with few exceptions, all appear io proceedfrom a common

centre, the position of which has been uniformly in nearly the same point in

the heavens, viz. in some part of the constellation Leo.

4. The principal exhibition has at all times, and at all places, occurred

betv.een midnigiit and sunrise, and the maximttm from three to four o'clock.

In all these particulars, the meteoric showers of 1834, 1835 and 1836, hav«

resembled that of 1833 ; while no person, so far as I have heard, has observed

the same combination of circumstances on any other occasion within the same

period. I have not supposed it necessary, in order to establish the identity

of these later meteoric showers with that of 1833, that they should be of the

Asame magnitude with that.  sm.all eclipse I have considered a phaenome-

non of the same kind with a large one ; and, conformably to this analogy, I

have regarded an eclipse of the sun, first exhibiting itself as a slight indenta-

tion of the solar lindj, but increasing in magnitude at every recurrence, until

it ijecomcs total, and afterwards, at each return, but partially covering the

solar disc, until the moon passes quite clear of the sun, as affording no bad

illustration of what probably takes place in regard to these meteoric showers.

The fact that the Aurora Borealis appears unusually frequent and magnifi-

cent for a few successive years, and then for a long time is scarcely seen at

all, was proved by iMairan a hundred years ago*. There is much reason to

suspect a like periodical character in the phsenomenon in question, which

first arrested attention in 1831, became more remarkable in 1832, arrived at
its maximum in 1833, and has since grown less and less at each annual return.

Some seem to suppose tliat we are now warranted in expecting a similar ex-

hibition of meteors on the morning of every future anniversary; but this, I

think, is not to be expected. It is perhaps more probable, that its recurrence,

unless in a very diminished degree, will scarcely be witnessed again by the

present generation. The shower, however, at its late return, was more stri-

king than I had anticipated ; and it must be acknowledged to be adventurous

to enter the region of predication respecting the future exhibitions of a phee-

iiomenon, whose origin and whose laws we so imperfectly understand.

Accounts of observations before us show, that the meteoric shower was

seen in most of the Atlantic States, from Maine to South Carolina.

From these accounts compai'ed, we are led to conclude that the meteoric

showers increased in intensity from north to south, that of South Carolina

having been the most considerable of all, so far as accounts have reached us.

Does not the recurrence of this ])hBenomenon for six successive years, at

the same po'iod of the year, plainly show its connexion with the progress of

the earth in its orbit? and does not the fact that the greatest display occurs

everywhere in places differing widely in longitude at the same hour ofthe day,

as plainly indicate its connexion with the motion of the earth on its axis?

The supposition of a body in space, consisting of an immense collection of

meteors sti'etching across the earth's orbit obliquely, so that the earth passes

imder it in its annual progress, while places on its surface lying westward of

each otlier are successively brought, by the diurnal revolution, to the point

of nearest approach, will satisfy both these conditions.

   * Traitc Phys. et Hist, de I'Aurore Borcale. Par M. de Maiian. Memoirs of the Royal
Academy of Sciences for 1731.
         RESULTS OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIOXS.                         133

On the Stmcture and History of the British Annelida.
       By Thomas Williams, M.B., Sivansea.

At the meeting of the British Association, held at Swansea, I was appointed,
in conjunction witli Prof. E. Forbes and Thomas Bell, to collect into a report

the undigested materials relating to the organization and habits ol the British

Annelida, which may be distributed throughout the scientific periodicals oi
this country. To this most interesting department of natural history, a cur-
sory inquiry soon satisfied me, that the older English writers had contributed
little or nothing, and that, with the honourable exception of the papers pub-
lished from time to time byDr. Johnston of Berwick, in the 'Annals of Natural
History,' the subject on which a systematic and digested report was required
by the British Association constituted the least cultivated branch of the zoo-
logy of this country. It became evident, therefore, that a repovt, composed
                                                           be little worthy of the
only of such  scanty and insufl[icient materials,  would
Transactions  of the Association : I accordingly   turned  the whole ot my atten-

tion to the collection of new species, and to the elucidation of the anatomy
and physiology of the subject. It is already in my power to state to the As-
sociation, that I have made numerous additions to the list of British species,
and that on the subject of the organization of the known species, I have suc-
ceeded in elucidating the anatomy of the branchial, cucu ating           and ali-
mentary systems. To render the description of these parts intelligible,  it would

be necessary,   in this preliminary   report, to   introduce numerous diagrams,
which would    materially add to the   expenses   already incurred. I have, how-

ever, prepared a few of those original illustrations which will accompany he
finished report, and which are now presented to the Section through the

kindness of Prof. Edward Forbes.

Swansea, July 23, ISoO.

         of Meteorological Observations taken       at St.MichaeVsfrom    the
          \st of January 1840 to the ^\st of       December, 1849.
Results

                                      British Consulate, St. Michael's, May 1, 1850.

-IsSfImeeimanhrrtkeavvieSonetufgttofotbctrhioeownin-avy^mtelroheneduiaierrvedbdenlyttefttwooLttroieoireponkuorffetefoesetrOpenhmcnaaettyMamoo-rtbuCeiteocoortonlhtrotahdtnhtoeeeotltVf3hhireRhecdiete,sVih-1dirC8m,ce4oeee.tni-9esnbC.ouaorlarnhopsosalpmuovlaegleitticecaaaFrtartlislrcoTinaonev-benresosdcdfeearhtinvterhahdraeteeriFmgoiataonrysmnaah.nedlett,techriraeajs-nt-
                         I have the honour to be, sir.

                                      Your most obedient humble Servant,
                                                   Thomas Carkw Hunt.

John Phillips, Esq., Assistant General Secretary
       of the British Association for the Advancemenl of Science.

                         The Tables of Results follow on pp. 134. to 136.
134 REPORT 1850.
RESULTS OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIOiNS.  135
136                UEPORT 1850.

              o.:
.

CHEMICAL ACTION OF THE SOLAR RADIATIONS.          137

On the present State of our Knowledge of the Chemical Action of the
                  Solar Radiations. By Robert Hunt.

The present state of our knowledge of the phsenomena of chemical changes

produced by the influence of the solar radiations, is very imperfect. But
though we have scarcely advanced beyond the threshold of this new line of
research, we are enabled to contemplate a large number of strilving facts sur-
rounding the very entrance of this fresh field for experimental investigation.

    It was thought advisable to gather these facts, which have been hitherto
scattered through numerous Transactions of the learned societies and scien-
tific periodicals of these islands, of Europe and of America, into a Report, but
which should shov/ all that has hitherto been accomplished in this branch of

inquiry. This task having been committed to my hands by the British Asso-

ciation at the recommendation of the Committee of the Chemical Section, I

have now much pleasure in submitting the result of my labours to the con-

sideration of this Meeting.

    I find it necessary to state the progress of the investigation on those re-
markable phsenomena, of chemical changes produced by the sun's rays, for
the purpose of reviving a consideration of many very curious facts, which have

been recorded, but which, from the circumstance that the attention of men
of science was directed more earnestly into other channels, at Ihe time of

their publication, appeal' to have escaped attention. In stating, however, the

earlier researches, I shall be as brief as possible, since many of them stand
merely isolated facts which require new investigations to connect them with
the subject in the improved form which it now wears, under the more advan-
tageous lights which have been thrown upon it by the refinements of modern

science.

    "We find, from time to time, in the writings of the elder chemists, faint in-
dications that the changes produced by sunshine in many substances had not
entirely escaped their attention ; but it is not until the commencement of the
eighteenth century that we have an exact record of any observations of these
phsenomena.

    Petit in 1722 noticed that solutions of nitrate of potash and muriate of
ammonia crystallized more readily in the light than they did in darkness*.

    Scheele about 1777 appears to have been led to an examination of the con-
ditions under which nitrate of silver was blackened by solar influence ; and
with that refined system of research which distinguishes every inquiry of
this Swedish chemist, he employed the prismatic sjDectrum, and observed for
the first time, that the nitrate and chloride of silver were blackened by the
rays at the blue, or most refrangible end, while no change was detected by
him under the influence of the rays at the red or least refrangible end of the
spectrumf

    Senebier repeated these experiments, and he states that he found chloride
of silver darkened in the violet ray in fifteen seconds to a shade which required

the action of the red ray for twenty minutes J. He also experimented on the

influence of light in bleaching wax.
   In the Philosophical Transactions for 1798 will be found a memoir by Count

Rumford, entitled, 'An Inquiry concerning the Chemical Properties that have

* Sur la Vegetation des Sels. Mem. de Paris, 1722. In 1788, Chaptal published,

' Observations sur I'influence de I'air et de la lumiere dans la vegetation des sels.' Me-

moires de I'Acad. Roy. des Sc. de Toulouse, vol. iii. ; and in the Journal de Phys., vol.
xx.xiv. DizE in 1789. Dize deals with the same subject in a paper entitled, ' Sur la cris-

tallisation des sels par Taction de la lumiere.'

t Scheele, Traite de I'Air et du Feu.             J Senebier sur la Lumiere, vol. iii. p. 199
138 REPORT -- 1850.

been attributed to Light.' In this paper a number of experiments are brought

forward to prove that all the effects produced upon metallic solutions by bright

sunshine can be obtained by a prolonged exposure to a temperature of 210°

WeFahrenheit.  are now, however, in a position to show that the chemical

effects produced by rays of dark heat are of a very different character from

those usually attributed to light. Mr. Robert Harrup. in a communication to

Nicholson's Journal in 1802, refuted the experiment of Count Rumford, show-

ing that several salts of mercury were reduced by light alone, and not heat.

In 1801 Ritter of Jena* demonstrated the existence of rays beyond the

spectrum which have no luminous power, but which exhibited very active che-

mical agencies. Hitter stated that the red rays had the power of restoring

darkened muriate of silver to its original colour, and he infers therefore the

existence of two sets of invisible rays, the least refrangible favouring oxygena-

tion, while the most refrangible on the contrary deoxidize. Similar results to

these have since been obtained by Sir John Herschel, and more recently still

by M. Claudct. Bockman about the same time observed that the two ends

of the spectrum acted differently on phosphorus f.
   Desmortiers in 1801 published a paper in Gilbert's Annals, entitled ' Re-

cherches sur la Decoloration spontanee du Bleu de Prusse', subsequently

translated into Nicholson's Journal, in which he has mentioned the influences

of the solar rays in producing the change.

   About the same time Dr. WoUaston I examined the chemical action of the

rays of the spectrum, and arrived at nearly the same results as Ritter. He

states, " This and other effects usually attributed to light are not in fact

owing to any of the rays usually perceived."

Attention having been directed by Dr. Priestley in 1779 to the influence of

light on plants, numerous inquirers were started on this track, and the valuable

researches of Senebier, Ingenhousz, DeCandoUe, Saussure and Ritter§ were

the result. These are already too well known to require anything beyond

this incidental notice; but in ISOl Labillardiere communicated to the Phi-

lomathic Society his discovery that light was necessary to the development

of pores in plants, and subsequently we find Victor Michellotti of Turin, in a

paper, ' Experiments and Observations on the Vitality and Life of Germs||,'

stating " that light has a decided action on those germs which are exposed to

it, that this action is prejudicial to them, and it manifests its action by re-

tarding their expansion if the light be weak, or a reflected light ; or by the

total extinction of their life, if it be very intense, as that which comes directly      I

from the sun."
   M. Macaire Prinsep again states, " that sheltering leaves from the action

of light prevents their change of colour in the autumn ; that if the entire leaf

was placed in the dark, it fell off green ; if only a part, the rest of the paren-

chyma changed colour, and the covered portion retained its original colour^."

Those appear to be the more important researclies in connexion with this

particular section of the inquiry, until the correction of the statements of

Saussure were published by Dr. Daubeny, who satisfactorily proved that

* Nicholson's Journal, August 1804.           f Voigt's Maazgine, vol. iv.

X Philosophical Transactions, 1802, p. 379.
§ Senebier. Experiences sur I'Action de la Lumiere Solaire dans la Vegetation. Paris,

1788.

Ingenhousz. Experiences sur les Vcgetaux. Phil. Trans. 1782.

Decandolle. Memoires des Savans fitrangers, vol. i.

Saussure. Recherches Chimiques sur la Vegetation. Annales de Chimie, vol. 1.

Ritter. Geh'.en, Journ. der Chein., vol. vi.

   Journal de Physique, Ventose, an 9.

II

^ Memoires de ia Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de Geneve, torn, iv, p. 1.
                                                                                 ;

CHEMICAL ACTION OF THE SOLAR RADIATIONS.                                         139

Light, the luminous power as distinguished from the chemical power, was the
most active in producing the decomposition of carbonic acid by the leaves of

plants* ; and these results were confirmed by my own researches published in

the Reports of the British Associationt- Although these influences upon living
organisms are directly connected with the chemical influences of the solar
rays, the phsenomena being of a very complicated character, and requiring a
very enlarged series of researches, it is thought advisable to confine attention
mainly, in this Report, to the chemical changes produced upon disorganized

matter.

   In 1803 Wedgwood, who was assisted by Sir Humphry Davy in some part of
bis experiments, published in the 'Journal of the Royal Institution,' vol. i. 'An
account of a method of copying paintings upon glass, and of making profiles
by the agency of light upon the nitrate of silver.' In this communication
we have the earliest indications of the photographic processes which have

within a few years been brought to a great degree of perfection. " Nothing,"
says Davy, " but a method of preventing the unshaded parts of the delineation
from being coloured by exposure to the day, is wanting to render the process

as useful as it is elegant."

   An experiment on the dark rays of Ritter, by Dr. Young, included in his

Bakerian Lecture is a very important one. Dr. Young, after referring to the
                                                                                           :j:

experiments of Ritter and Wollaston, goes on to say, " In order to complete
the comparison of their properties (the chemical rays) with those of visible
light, I was desirous of examining the eff'ect of their reflection from a thin plate
of air, capable of producing the well-known rings of colours. For this pur-
pose I formed an image of the rings, by means of the .solar microscope, with
the apparatus which I have described in tlie Journals of the Royal Institution

and I threw this image on paper dipped in a solution of nitrate of silver,
placed at the distance of about nine inches from the microscope. In the
course of an hour, portions of three dark rings were very distinctly visible,
much smaller tlian the brightest rings of the coloured image, and coinciding
very nearly, in their dimensions, witli the rings of violet light, that appeared
upon the interposition of violet glass. I thought the dark rings were a little
smaller than the violet rings, but the diff^eixnce was not sufficiently great to
be accurately ascertained : it might be as much as -gL- or -^-^ of the diameters,
but not greater. It is the less surprising that the diff^erence should be so
small, as the dimensions of the coloured rings do not by any means vary at
the violet end of the spectrum so rapidly as at the red end. The experiment

in its present state is sufiiciezit to complete the analogy of the invisible with

the visible rays, and to show that they are equally liable to the general law,

which is the principal subject of this paper," tliat is, the interference of light.

   M. B. G. Sage, in the 'Journal de Physique, 1802,' mentions a fact ob-

served by him, that " the realgar which is sublimated at the Solfaterra under
the form of octahedral crystals, known under the name of ruby of arsenic,
effloresces by the light ;" and that ordinary native realgar from Japan changes

to orpiment by exposure to sunshine §,
    In 1806 Vogel exposed fat carefully protected from the influence of the air

to light, and found that it became in a short time of a yellow colour, and ac-

quired a high degree of rancidity. Vogel subsequently discovered that phos-
phorus and ammonia exposed to the sun's rays were rapidly converted into

phosphureted hydrogen, and a black powder, phosphuret of ammonia. He

* Philosophical Transactions, 1836.   t Report of Seventeenth Meeting, 1847, p. 17«

t Experiments and Calculations relative to Physical Optics, Phil. Traus., 1804.

§ Philosophical Magazine, vol. xiii.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;

140 REPOBT 1850.

also noticed that the red rays produced no change on a solution of corrosive
sublimate (bichloride of mercury) in ether, but that the blue rays rapidly de-
composed it*. Dr. Davy much more recently repeated a similar set of expe-

riments to those of Vogel. He found that corrosive sublimate was not
changed by exposure ; but that the Liquor Hydrarg. Oxymur. of the London

Pharmacopoeia quickly underwent decomposition in the sunshine, depositing
calomel.

   Seebeck in, and subsequently to 1810, made some important additions to
our knowledge of the influences of the solar radiations, the most striking of

his statements being the production of colour on chloride of silver ; the violet
rays rendering it brown, the blue producing a shade of blue, the yellow pre-
serving it M'hite, and the red constantly giving a red colour to that salt. Sir
Henry Englefield about the same time was enabled to show that the phos-
phorescence of Canton's phosphorus was greatly exalted by the blue rays.

   Dr. Wollaston's experiments on the tincture of gum guaiacum also tended

to prove the peculiar diiferences in the most and the least refrangible rays.
Cards moistened with this tincture acquired a green colour in the violet and
blue rays, and the original yellow colour was rapidly restored in the red rays.

   Gay Lussac and Thenard, being engaged in some investigations on chlorine,
on which elementary body Davy was at the same time experimenting, ob-
served that hydrogen and chlorine did not combine in the dark, but that they
combined with great rapidity, and often with exjjlosion, in the sunshine, and
slowly in diffused light. Seebeck collected chlorine over hot water, and com-

bining it with hydrogen, placed different portions of it in a yellowish red
bell glass and in a blue one. In the blue glass combination took place im-

mediately the mixture was exposed to daylight, but without explosion. The
mixture in the red glass was exposed for twenty minutes without any change ;
but it was found that the chlorine had undergone some alteration, probably a
similar one to that noticed by Dr. Draper, which I shall have shortly to
describe. If the gases were placed in a white glass and exposed to sunshine,
they exploded ; but if the gas had been previously exposed to the action of
the solar radiations in the yellow red glass, it combined with hydrogen in
the white glass in the brightest sunshine without any explosion.

    Berzelius noticed some peculiar conditions in the action of the solar rays
upon the salts of gold ; and Fischer pursued some i-esearches on the influence
of the prismatic rays on horn silver f.

   The most important series of researches however were those of Berard in
1812, which Avere examined and reported on by BerthoUet, Chaptal andBiot.
These philosophers write, " He (M. Berard) found that the chemical intensity
was greatest at the violet end of the spectrum, and that it extended, as Ritter

and Wollaston had observed, a little beyond that extremity. When he left

substances exposed for a certain time to the action of each ray, he observed
sensible effects, though with an intensity continually decreasing in the indigo

and blue rays. Hence we must consider it as extremely probable, that if he
had been able to employ reactions still more sensible he would have observed
analogous effects, but still more feeble, even in the other rays. To show
clearly the great disproportion which exists in this respect between the ener-
gies of different rays, M. Berard concentrated, by means of a lens, all that
part of the spectrum which extends from the green to the extreme violet
and he concentrated, by means of another lens, all that portion which extends
from the green to the extremity of the red. This last pencil formed a white

                          * Ann. de Chimie, vol. Ixxv. p. 225.
                          t Philosophical Magazine, vol. vii. Second Series, p. 462.
CHEMICAL ACTION OF THE SOLAR RADIATIONS.                  141

po{7it SO brilliant that the eyes were scarcely able to endure if ; yet the muriate

of silver remained exposed more than two hours to this brilliant point of light

without undergoing any sensible alteration. On the other hand, when exposed

to the other pencil, which was much less bright and less hot, it was blackened
in less than six minutes*." This is the earliest intimation we have of any
indication that the luminous and chemical powers may be due to dissimilar

--agencies. On this, the Commissioners remark : " If we wish to consider

solar light as composed of thi'ee distinct substances, one of which occasions

light, another heat, and the third chemical combinations ; it will follow that

each of these substances is separable by the prism into an infinity of different

modifications, like light itself; since we find by experiment, that each of

the three properties, chemical, colorific and calorific, is spread, though un-

equally, over a certain extent of the spectrum. Hence we must suppose, on

that hypothesis, that there exists three spectrums one above another ; namely

Wen calorific, a colorific and a chemical spectrum.  must likewise admit that

each of the substances which compose the three spectrums, and even each

molecule of unequal refrangibility which constitutes these substances, is en-

dowed, like the molecules of visible light, with the property of being polar-

ized by reflection, and of escaping from reflection in the same positions as

the luminous molecules, &c." Some other objections to M. Berard's views

are then urged. The experiment, already named, by Dr. Young on the che-

mical action of the dark rings, and analogous ones, to be yet noticed, by

M. Edmund Becquerel and Professor Miller, go to show, that whether the

chemical agency is due to the same principle which produces light or not, it

certainly obej's nearly all the same general laws.

It was stated by Arago and others, that M. Charles, an experimentalist of

some celebrity, had a process by which he was enabled to produce portraits

by the aid of light. He died however without disclosing his secret ; and even

the Abbe Moigno, always anxious to claim for France the honour of any

discovery, admits tliat Charles left "no authentic document to attest his dis-
covery ; " and he consequently gives to Wedgwood the merit of being the
originator of photography. M. Niepce, of Chalons on the Saone, communi-

cated to our Pvoyal Society, in 1827, an account of his experiments, upon

which it would appear he had been engaged since 1814. This memoir was

not printed by the Royal Society, owing to the circumstance that M. Niepce

refused to publish the secret of the process by which he produced the pictures

he then exhibited, some of which are now in the possession of Mr. Robert

Brown of the British Museum.

^. The discovery of Niepce appears to have been, that the luminous rays have the

property of solidifying several resinous substances, thus rendering the parts

which had been exposed less soluble than those which have been preserved in

shadow. He appears to have also observed, that resins thus changed by the

influence of sunshine returned to their original state when kept for a short time

Wein the dark.  have not however any exact statement of the researches of

Niepce, which appear to have been extensive, but devoted principally to the

production of what he called heliographic pictures. In 1829 Niepce associated

himself with Daguerre, to whom we owe the iodized silver plate and the disco-

very of that peculiar condition induced by the solar rays, which regulates the

deposit of mercurial vapour ; the distinguishing feature of the well-known Da-

guerreotype process. In addition to this, Niepce discovered that silver plates
could be rendered sensitive to solar agency by being washed " with a decoction

of the herb Shepherd's purse (Thlaspi Bursa-pastoris) , fumes of phosphorus, and

                * Annales de Chimie, vol. Ixxxv. p. 309.
--142 REPORT 1850.

particularly of sulphur, as acting on silver in the same way as iodine ; and that
caloric produced the same effect hy oxidizing the metal, _/or/rom this cause

proceeded in all these instances this extreme sensibility to light."

    Mr. Henry Fox Talbot commenced his experiments in photography in 1834;
and in 1839, about six montlis prior to the publication of Daguerre's process,
he published ' Some Account of the Art of Photogenic Drawing, or the pro-
cess by which natural objects may be made to delineate themselves without
the aid of the artist's pencil.' Mr. Talbot, pursuing his inquiries, discovered
his extremely sensitive process, the " calotype," which consists in exalting
the sensibility of iodide of silver hy the action of gallic acid.

    From the period of the announcement of the discovery of Daguerre in 1 839,
the inquiry into the phacnomena connected with the chemical action of the
solar radiations assumed a more inductive character ; and having no longer to
record isolated discoveries made at far distant intervals, the historical arrange-
ment will now be abandoned for a more philosophical examination of the

subject.

    All the observations which had been made on the influence of the prismatic
rays upon the salts of silver and other bodies, point to a very remarkable dif-
ference in the action of the several rays ; and this class of observations being

more completely carried out by living philosophers, among whom Sir John

Herschel demands the most distinguished notice, a still larger number of
curious facts were elicited.

    It is the peculiar habit of our minds to endeavour to explain new phseno-
mena by received theories, and thus, I fear too often, to create imaginary re-
semblances Avhere no real analogies exist. In this way it has, I think, been too

hastily decided that the varieties of action observed in the colorific rays of the
spectrum in relation to chemical change are due to varying undulations and to

the phsenomena of wave interferences. The amount of mathematical skill
which has been brought to bear on the wave theory of light, has placed it in
a most popular position ; but, without for one moment attempting an objec-
tion to any part of this theory as it explains luminous phsenomena, it cannot
be too strongly insisted on, for it is too often forgotten, that excepting Dr.
Young's experiment already quoted, no attempt has ever been made by any
mathematician to associate the chemical agency of the solar rays with the
 theory of luminous undulations. Speculations there have been, but all these
have been ventured on without any attempt at analysis. This is particularly
 mentioned to show that the entire subject remains open for examination, and
 that this examination should be prosecuted without reference to any precon-

 ceived hypotheses.

    Sir John Herschel* remarks on "the high probability at least that the
 chemical energy is distributed throughout the spectrum in such a way as to
 be by no means a mere function of the I'efrangibility, but to stand in relation
 to other physical qualities, both of the ray, and of the analysing medium, and
 that relation by no means the same as that which determines the absorptive
 action of the latter on the colorific rays."

     Without stopping to consider the question of the colours of the bands con-
 stituting the spectrum, it being perfectly indifferent to this subject whether
 we adopt the seven rays of unequal refrangibility of Sir Isaac Newton or the

--views arrived at by the refined researches of Sir David Brewster, which reduce

 the chromatic phsenomena to three, I shall at once pass to the chemical agency
 exercised along different lines of the spectrum. It is however necessary that

    * On the Chemical Action of the Uavs of the Solar Spectrum, &c. Philosophical Transac-

 tions, 1840, pt. 1.
CHEMICAL ACTION OP THE SOLAR RADIATIONS.                 143

we should regard the spectrum, from the extreme red ray at one end of the

spectrum to the lavender or gray ray at the other*, as representing the extent

of luminous power, which has its maximum in the yellow ray and its minima

at the outer limits of the extreme red and the lavender rays, since we have not

been enabled to trace any luminous effects beyond these points. It is conve-

nient to employ these coloured rays to mark points of action and of inaction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;

but it ajipears important that we should dispossess our minds of the idea that

chemical change, or the contrary, takes place by virtue of any function of a

particular coloured ray.

It had been already noticed by Berard, that the mean luminous rays, even

when condensed by a lens, produced no chemical change on chloride of silver.

Sir John Herschel was the first to observe that the rays at the red end of the

spectrum protected chloride of silver from that change which is induced even

beyond the spectrum by the diffused light which always accompanies the pris-

matic image ; that whereas papers prepared for photographic purposes were
darkened more or less over every other part ; over the space " on which the

full red of the spectrum had fallen, there was an appearance of whiteness, a

sort of white prolongation of, or appendage to, the dark photographic impres-

sion." It is thus proved that the red end of the spectrum is not inactive ; it

is not, that any sort of polai'ity exists in the spectrum : we have a positive

evidence, an action as energetic as that of the blue end of the spectrum, but

exerted in an opposite direction. If paper is blackened by exposure to the

violet end of the spectrum, or by the influence of diffused light, and subse-

quently exposed to the action of the red rays, it becomes of " a fuU and fiery

Ared" over the entire space upon which those rays fall.  similar result, but

not so decided, is produced by the radiations which permeate a ruby glass

coloured with oxide of gold.

It has lately been shown by M. Claudet that on the Daguerreotype plate

these red rays restored the sensibility of the iodized silver after it had been
acted upon by the more refrangible chemical raysf . The powerful action of

the red end of the spectrum was further proved by Sir John Herschel, who

employed two prisms and threw the red rays of one spectrum upon the
violet rays of another. " The blackening power of the more refrangible raj^s

   * It is important that tlie condition of the prismatic spectrum sliould be distinctly com-
prehended : for a complete examination of the subject I nmst refer to the Transactions of the
Royal Society of Edinburgh for 1822 ; and to Sir John Herschel's Treatise on Light, Ency-

clopasdia Metropolitana ; Sir Da^nd Brewster's Optics, Lardner's Cyclopaedia ; and numerous
memoirs in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. To state in brief the facts

--as presented to us, upon examining the Newtonian spectrum of seven colours red, orange,
--yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet, we must at once perceive that those seven are com-

--pounds of but three colours red, blue and yellow. By the combination of these all the

others can be produced, but not by any combination of the other rays. By examining the
spectrum with coloured media we can detect extensions of these priraaiy colo\ns, and fair
evidence is afforded that these colorific bands overlap eacli other. Now, if we look at the
spectrum through a cobalt blue glass, a colour unseen by the naked eye becomes visible, the
extreme red ray. This is evidently the result of a mixture of blue and red. By throwing
the spectrum upon turmeric paper a prolongation of the luminous portion beyond the violet
is seen, to which Sir John Herschel gave the name of the lavender ray. Thus nine instead
of seven bands present themselves. Now, if we examine all the conditions of these colours,
we shall find that the yellow ray blends with the blue, and produces green ; then, that the blue
becomes more and more decided, passing on to blackness in the indigo ; but that red reap-
pearing at that, the most refrangible end, produces by mixing with blue the violet, and yellow
blending with the violet produces the neutral lavender or gray ray. On the other side, yellow
mixing witli red produces orange, and then the red growing in intensity and purity, again
blends witli blue at the least refrangible end of the spectrum to produce the crimson ray or

extreme red.

   t Philosophical Magazine, 1850.
    --;

--144 REPORT 1850.

seemed to be suspended over all that portion on which the less refrangible fell,
and the shades of green and sombre blue which the latter would have im-
pressed on xchite paper, were produced on that portion, which, but for their
action, would have been merely blackened."

   It was, however, subsequently proved by the same excellent experimental-
ist, that if a paper, blackening under the influence of the red rays of the spec-
trum, was repeatedly drenched with the solution of the iodine salts, the black-
ening eventually gave way, and was succeeded by a very feeble degree of
bleaching. This bleaching appears to be distinctly due to thermic action, as
it can be jn-oduced to an equal degree by the influence of heat alone. The
action of the spectrum on this variety of paper may be divided into four

parts :

    1st, bleaching by the most refrangible rays ; 2ndly, blackening by the least
refrangible rays ; then, Srdly, bleaching by the same rays of low refrangibility
and, 4thly, an actual darkening to a pale brown, by the more active chemical

rays.

   If paper blackened by exposure is washed with a solution of iodide of po-
tassium and exposed to sunshine, it is rapidly bleached. This forms the basis
of a process for obtaining positive pictures which appears to have been noticed
nearly about the same time by Dr. Fyfe, Lassaigne and myself. Dr. Fyfe, I be-
lieve, being the first to publish his process. If, however, this paper is exposed
to the prismatic spectrum, it will, at the same time as it is bleaching under
the influence of the most refrangible rays, blacken under that of the least re-
frangible ; the iodine under the action of the chemical (actinic) rays com-
bining and forming an iodide of silver, while under the operation of the calo-
rific rays and others associated with them, an actual exaltation of the oxida-

tion of the silver salt results.

   Here we have evidence of two sets of rays of widelj' different refrangibility,
and consequently of dissimilar lengths of undulation, producing equally ener-
getic chemical changes, but of an opposite character. This might have been
predicated by what we already knew of the action of the red and blue ends of
the spectrum ; but the experiment mentioned by Sir John Herschel, in which,
under the combined influence of these two sets of rays acting upon one spot,
an eff^ect was produced which did not belong to either of them when separated,
could not have been expected, and has not been explained upon any of the

theories of light.

   A very interesting modification of the above phsenomena maj' be produced

by the use of coloured media. If an engraving is placed upon a piece of
darkened photographic paper Avashed over with a solution of iodide of potas-
sium, and it is then exposed to sunshine, a positive copy of the engi-aving, as
has been already explained, results. Now, if we place a piece of blue glass
over one portion, and a ruby glass over another, the bleaching process goes
on with great energy under the blue, and the blackening with equal intensitj'-
under the red ; and we obtain a positive and negative copy of the engraving
at the same time on the same piece of paper.

    It has been proved by the experiments of Sir J. Herschel that this black-
ening power is exerted by rays beyond the extreme red ray, where no lumi-
nous influence can be detected. This result is particularly shown ujjon papers
prepared with acetate of lead, chloride of platinum, and washed when under
the influence of the light with hydriodate of potash.

   When experimenting with photographic papers prepared with the tartrate

 of potash and soda (Rochelle salts). Sir John Herschel observed that a pro-
tected line presented itself on every side of the spectrum. " If the light was
CHEMICAL ACTION OF THE SOLAR RADIATIONS.              145

allowed to continue its action, there was observed to come on suddenly a new
and much more intense impression of darkness confined in length to the blue
and violet rays, and, what is most remarkable, confined in breadth to the mid-

dle of the sun's image, so far at least as to leave a border of a lead-coloured
spectrum, traceable not only round the clear and well-defined convexity of the
dark interior spectrum, at the least refrangible end, but also laterally along

both its edges."
   At the same time, ignorant of these refined researches of Sir John Herschel,

I observed similar results upon a Daguerreotype plate : the record of these

observations will be found in the Philosophical Magazine (vol. xvi. 3rd Series,
p. 2G7), the same number containing the abstract of the Memoir of Sir John

Herschel, read before the Royal Society, which first made me acquainted with
his observations. It was most distinctly stated that there was " a real differ-

ence between the chemical agencies of those rays which issue from the cen-
tral portion of the sun's disc, and those which emanating from its borders have
undergone the absorptive action of a much greater depth of its atmosphere."

Therefore the first observation of this is not due to M. Arago, who has only
very recently noticed the fact in his ' Memoirs on Photometry.' It must not,

however, from any evidence yet afforded us, be supposed that the peculiar
protecting influence of the extreme red ray, and the similar influences of the
lateral edges of the spectrum, are of precisely the same order. It would rather
appear that the least refrangible rays have a function arising from a combina-

tion of chemical and calorific power which is distinct from anything exhibited

by the other radiations.

  We have now to consider the remarkable fact, that nearly all bodies sus-

ceptible of receiving any impression from the ordinary red rays assume more

or less a red colour. This was noticed very early by Daguerre and Talbot,
and it has been confirmed by every subsequent experimentalist. The cause of
this production of colour is not very evident ; but -we must regard it as due

to the new molecular arrangement produced by the chemical changes effected
by these radiations. From time to time we hear of the productions of co-
loured images of prismatic spectra, and lately M. Edmund Becquerel has

created some sensation by exhibiting such images, and also copies of highly

coloured drawings.
   This is not a novelty in photographic phenomena. Herschel, in 1839,

obtained a coloured spectrum upon a paper prepared with two washes of a
solution of nitrate of silver and a wash of muriate of soda applied between each.
This was described as " coloured with sombre, but unequivocal tints imitating
those of the spectrum itself." In the same year I found that papers prepared
with muriate of hary tes and nitrate of silver, would, after having been allowed
tc darken, if placed under diflPerent coloured media, assume, to a certain extent,
t\.z ccictirs cf the rays permeating them. " After a week's exposure to dif-
fused light, it became bright red under the red glass, a dirty yellow under the
yellow, a dark green under the green, and a light olive under the blue=^."
Again, in 1844, I was fortunate enough to obtain very decided evidences of
colour upon papers prepared with the fluoride of potassium and nitrate of

silver f.

   M. Edmund Becquerel, investigating the conditions of the spectrum -with
particular reference to its influences on the Daguerreotype plate, was led to
regard the spectrum as consisting of two remarkable divisions, which he calls

rayons excitateurs and rayons continuateurs ; the least refrangible rays being

supposed to continue the action set up by the chemical or most refrangible

* Philosophical Transactions for 1840, pt. J, p. 43.  t Researches on Light, p. 106.
                          --

--146 REPORT 1850.

rays. For example, a Daguerreotype plate being impressed in the camera

with its dormant, invisible image, is placed under the influence of radiations

which are deprived of their actinism, and yet the image is slowly and steadily

developed. On this curious question the papers of M. Claudet should also
be consulted. M. E. Becquerel's classification of the effects observed, which

is as follows, is good :

1st series. Bodies exhibiting a physical modification without any change

in composition.

2nd series. Elements combined under solar influence.

3rd series. Combination destroyed in part or entirely by the influence of

solar rays.

If a careful examination is made of spectra chemically formed, it will

be found that scarcely one of those impressed upon papers prepared with

inorganic matter exhibit any influence over the space covered by the yel-

low ray ; that is, the most luminous portion of the prismatic spectrum pro-

duces no chemical change upon them. This is only a confirmation of the

observation of Berard previously mentioned. As the sensibility of the pho-
tographic preparation is increased, we find the resulting chemical impression

considerably lengthened : it is not only extended to a greater distance beyond

the utmost extent of the luminous image, but chemical change becomes evi-

--dent more nearly up to the centre of the yellow ray, the point of maximum

illuminating power. In no case however has any decided effect been observed

up to this point. I have been disposed to refer this to a power of light an-

tagonistic to that of chemical action. But it must not be disguised, that the

phoenomenon appears to be explicable also upon some view of interference,

although this is by no means reducible to any satisfactory condition in the

present state of our knowledge. It has been proved by experiments with

coloured media, which have been employed to analyse the prismatic spectrum,

that every luminous ray may he made to protect chloride of silver from chemical

change. Thus lines of blue, yellow and red rays, with their interblending

tints (after having been filtered by a glass stained with oxide of silver), have

been thrown upon highly sensitive photographic papers, which have been at

the same time under the influence of diffused light ; and it has been found,

that although every part of the paper, except that portion covered by the spec-

trum, has been deeply darkened, the whole of this line has been protected

Weand preserved perfectly white*.  have usually been accustomed to speak

of the chemical agency of the solar radiations, as belonging in their varieties

to some particular coloured ray. Thus the yellow ray has been regarded as

the least chemical, and the blue as the most energetically so. Evidence how-

ever has been afforded to show that the blue ray may be deprived of its

chemical power, and we shall i^resently see that some forms of chemical

change are in a peculiar manner determined hy the raj^s emanating from the

yellow band. Therefore, without in any way interfering with any theoiy of

luminous action, we can no longer regard the colour of a particular ray as

an indication of its power to produce chemical change. Colour is a peculiar

function of light, not directly connected with any chemical piiEenomena.

It becomes important to ascertain the effects of transparent media on these

chemical radiations. It was shown by Malagutti that certain colourless

transparent media possessed a power, in virtue of which the chemical action

of the rays permeating them was very frequently exalted f. This subject has
also been investigated by M. Biot and M. Edmund Becquerel, who have

    * British Association Reports, 1848, Swansea.  Lecture bv R. Hunt, Royal Institution,
Atheuncum, 1849, No. 1122, p. 438.

   f Annal, de Cliimie, vol. Ixxii. 5.
                                                                        .

CHEMICAL ACTION OF THE SOLAR RADIATIONS.                                                                                  147

equally remarked the differences produced on actinic power by colourless

screens.

   The exalting or depressing power of certain media was also particularly
examined by Sir John Herschel, who observed very early in the progress of
his inquiries, that if a piece of thin post-paper, merely washed with nitrate
of silver, was exposed to clear sunshine, partly covered by and strongly
pressed into contact with glass, and partly projecting beyond it, the portion
under the glass was very much more affected than the part exposed, it being
often blackened, in the same time, to a tone which would require at least three
times the exposure uncovered. In practice photographers have availed them-
selves of this, and it is usual to place the prepared paper in the camera behind

a plate of glass.

   The philosophy of this is ill understood : it has been thought to be due to
the circumstance, that the most transparent glass abstracts a portion of light,
and thus leaves the actinic power more free to act on the sensitive material.
The entire question demands a more attentive examination than it has hitherto
received. The peculiar action of coloured media is more accurately defined;
and as a knowledge of the influences exerted will have its value in guiding
new observers, the more decided and peculiar cases of obstruction to the ac-
tinic radiations must be given. It cannot however be too strongly impressed,
that every variety of glass or fluid media employed should be submitted to

prismatic examination, since the colour alone is not a guide to the quality of
the radiations permeating a particular medium.

    Supposing the effect of exposure of a standard photographic preparation to
the direct solar radiations in a given time to be represented by 100, the action
produced by the interposition of coloured media is relatively shown in the

other numbers. Although many specimens of blue glass show an exalting
effect, and consequently should be represented by a number in excess, it is
thought advisable to regard them as equal to unshaded exposure.

                                                              Glasses,

Exposure to unshaded sunshine                                                                                         + 100

Ruby glass coloured with oxide of gold which insulates perfectly                                                      -- 25

        the red rays

Brown red coloured with copper, which admits the permeation of
-- +all the rays below the orange, and a faint line of blue ....
                                                                                                                          30

Orange glass coloured with iron, cutting off the violet, indigo, and                                                  -- 10
        nearly all the blue rays

Lemon-yellow glass, probably coloured with iron, reducing the                                                         --8
       spectrum to three patches of blue, red and yellow                                                              --3

Yellow glass stained with oxide of silver                                                                             -f 74

--Green glass, a deep pure green produced by oxide of copper .

Blue glass, cobalt, obliterating all the mean luminous rays, and                                                      + 100

        exhibiting the extreme red in great purity

                                                                   Fluids.

-- --Red. Carmine dissolved in ammonia ; cutting off all the rays above

the red, except when in very thin layers it admits a small line of

the violet                                                                                                            --  20
--Orange yellow. Solution of bichromate of potash with a little sul-
                                                                                                                            7
phuric acid                                                   giving but a trace of the blue rays, all the least re-        5
                                                           ;
--frangible being well-defined
-- --Lemon yellow. Quadro-sulphuret of lime of Dalton; cutting off all

the prismatic rays above the inner limits of the blue

                                                                        L2
                                                                          :

148 REPORT-- 1850.

-- --Green. Muriate of copper and iron ; blue, green, yellow and orange

     +rays permeate freely                                                64

-- --Blue. Ammonia, sulphate of copper ; obliterating all the rays below
                                                                         + 100
the green

+When the mark is affixed to a number it indicates that the kind of

action detected is positive, or belongs to the so-called chemical rays (actinism);

--on the contrary, when is employed, the action detected belongs to that

class which is associated with the least refrangible rays, or is of a negative
order. Thus, when the ruby-glass is employed, the chloridated photographic

paper is very slowly changed to a red, as under the red rays ; but in the case
of the brown-red glass, an action, both positive and negative, is detected

the resulting colour is a gray ; but if the spectrum is passed through such a
medium, the impression is made at the two extremities of the spectrum -|- by

--the small portion of the blue ray which passes and by the ordinary red ray.

From these notices it will be seen to how large an extent we can succeed in

separating the phaenomena of the solar radiations from each other. Under
one set of conditions, we can command a large amount of light, which possesses
no positive chemical power ; while under another set, we can cut off nearly
all the light, and admit freely the full amount of the chemical rays (actinism).

   Again, it must be remembered that we can, as Melloni pointed out*, sei)a-
rate the luminous and calorific radiations very readily from each other. By

the use of a green glass stained with oxide of copper, for example, a very
large amount of the calorific rays are obstructed ; and I have found that a very
slight tint of green is quite sufficient to stop those radiations which have been
distinguished by Sir John Herschel as parathermic rays, and to which in all

probability the browning of the autumnal leaves is due. From a series of
experiments undertaken at the request of the Commissioners of Woods and
Forests, I was induced to advise that a glass, stained slightly green with the
oxide of copper, should be employed for glazing the Palm House in the Royal
Botanical Gardens at Kew. This advice was acted upon ; and as far as the
opportunities of observing enable us to form an opinion, nothing can be more

satisfactory f.

  A peculiar difference is found in the action of the solar spectrum on vege-

table colours. This branch of the inquiry has particularly engaged the atten-
tion of Sir John Herschel, and, notwithstanding the interesting nature of the

inquiry, it appears to have been pursued by but one other experimentalist,
Mrs. Somerviile.

It is proved that the chemical action of the solar rays upon all vegetable

juices is confined within the limits of the luminous radiations, no change
having been detected over those dark spaces which are purely chemical and

calorific.

   In the instance of gum guaiacum, it was observed by Dr. WoUaston, that

paper \yashed with its tincture was changed to a blue or green by the most

refrangible rays, and restored again to its original yellow colour by the least

refrangible, which he regarded as due to the heat of those rays. M. Biot
has shown that that portion of the resin soluble in water was not affected by
the sun's rays. These experiments have been confirmed by Herschel, who has

however proved, contrary to the opinion of Wollaston, that the return of the
colour was not due to heat alone ; since beyond the luminous rays, where the

calorific effect is at a maximum, no such change is produced. " Obscure

   * Bibliotheqiie Universelle de Geneve, No. 70, for October 1841.

  t On the Coloured Glass employed in glazing the New Palm House in the Royal Botanic

Garden at Kew (Report of the British Association for 1847).
                                          --

CHEMICAL ACTION OP THE SOLAR RADIATIONS.  149

terrestrial heat is shown to be capuhle of assisting and being: assisted in operatino-
this peculiar change, by those rays of the spectrum, whether luminous or
thermic, which occupy its red, yellow and green regions ; while on the other
hand it receives no such assistance from the purely thermic rays beyond the
spectrum, acting under precisely similar circumstances, and in an equal state of
condensation." The action of the solar rays is jjositive, that is to say, vege-
table colour is destroyed ; but in most cases it is susceptible of restoration by

--chemical agents. When vegetable colours have been removed bleached

by th» action of bleaching agents, they may be restored by the action of the

sun's rays. If exposed to the action of the prismatic spectrum, it will be

found that the restoration of colour is operated by rays complementary to those
which destroy it in the natural state of the paper; " the violet rays being the

most active, the blue almost equally so ; the green little, and the yellow, orange
and most refrangible red not at all*."

    Although the restoration of vegetable colours is occasioned by rays within
the limits of the luminous spectrum, it must be remembered that the green,

-- --yellow and orange rays those having the most illuminating power, are, in

nearly all cases, inactive. The effects would appear to be due to the com-
bined influences of the light and of the chemical agency, whatever it may be.
But even under this view a peculiar difficulty presents itself; we find for ex-
ample the blue rays, or the actinic power associated with that colour, destroy-

--ing a vegetable colour ; and then, having used a chemical agent, as sul-
--phurous acid to destroy that colour, it can be restored by the action of the

orange or red rays. The peculiar variations in the scale of action which we

find in almost every different substance exposed to solar influence, presents

the greatest difficulty to any theoretical view of the physical constitution of the

sunbeam.

   Mrs. Somerville has pointed out some very remarkable actions of the
spectrum on vegetable juices f. The colouring matters examined by this.
lady were derived from the

Pomegranate.          Scarlet Geranium.
Globe amaranthus.     Scarlet Balsam.
Plumbago auriculata.  Dahlia.

Beet root.            Scarlet Zinnia.
Rose Verbena.         "Walnut.

Nasturtium.           Fig.

These were sometimes employed pure, in other cases they were united with

common salt, some acid, or carbonate of soda. The differences produced were

singular, presenting, as in the case of the silver salts, a variation in the scale of

action in every case. The maximum amount of action was observed, however,

to lie between the yellow and the green rays, and seldom extending beyond the
blue ; showing that those radiations which exert the most energetic action on
metallic compounds have little or no influence on the products of the vegetable

Avorld. In nearly all cases a pecuhar effect was observed at the least refran-
gible end of the spectrum. Coloured spots were produced, which appear to
correspond to the rays named by Sir John Herschel, the Parathermic rays

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;

and at the same time, as the evidences of heat were clear from the drying of
the paper, it became apparent that some peculiar chemical change was being
induced. At present, however, there is nothing determined as to the real

agency producing this set of phsenomena. Allusion having been made more

    * Herschel, Philosophical Transactions, Part 2 for 1842, p. 192.

   t On the Action of the Rays of the Spectram on Vegetable Juices (Philosophical Trans-

actions, 1846, p. 111).
--150 BEPOET 1850.

than once to a set of rays acting in some respects like heat, and at the same
time exhibiting chemical power, it appears necessary that the mode of ascer-
taining the positions of the points of maximum calorific power should be de-

scribed.

    Paper being blackened or strongly coloured, is stretched on a fi-ame, so
placed that a well-defined luminous spectrum is thrown iipon its uncoloured
side. This is then washed over with alcohol or ether, and the points of greatest
heat are shown by the rapid evaporation which takes place. After a few
minutes a whitish spot begins to appear considerably below the red ray^which

increases in breadth until it equals that of the luminous spectrum, and in
length till it forms a long appendage exterior to the spectrum, and extends

moreover within it and beyond the mean yellow ray. By applying a second
wash of alcohol or aether, thermographic spots are produced still lower than
the first heat spot, which show a very remarkable and unexpected extension of
calorific radiations. The want of continuity in the calorific spectrum is its

most striking phaenomenon ; it consists of four distinct patches, extending to
a distance below the luminous rays equal to the whole length of the spectrum,
and a prolongation through the luminous rays up to the end of the violet rays.
The parathermic rays can scarcely be said to have a defined place amid the
calorific radiations, but they are usually most strongly manifested in the red
rays. In this part of the Report it appears likely to prove useful, if we give
a list which shall as correctly as possible exhibit most of those bodies which
have been shown to be susceptible of chemical change under the influence
of the solar radiations, distinguishing the date of observation as far as it can be
ascertained, and the name of the earliest observer. Although every care has
been taken in examining authorities, it is not improbable that some errors of

-- --dates will occur, but it is hoped they maj' be few and trivial, the date of

publication always being given as correctly as it can be ascertained.

Silver.                                   Ritter                                       1801
    Nitrate of                                                                         1802
             (photographically employed)  Wedgwood and Davy                            1839
             with organic matter                                                       1839
             with salts of lead           J. F. Herschel                               1777
    Chloride of
                                          J. F. Herschel

                                          C. W. Scheele

(photographically employed)               { SoT""^; ." .'          .'  '.              ITsl
darkened, and hydriodic salts                            .'                    '.

                                                         [ [[

                                          Fyfe, Lassaigne                              1839

Iodide of (photographically used)                                                  .'

                                          {njan^'^: .'                                 1^840
                                                         ! :! :! :     !! !
                                                                                       1841
with ferrocyanate of potash               Hunt                                         1841
                                                                                       1844
with gallic acid (Calotype)               Talbot                                       1844
                                                                                       1840
with protosulphate of iron (Ferrotype) Hunt                                            1842
                                                                                       1844
with iodide of iron (Catalysotype) . , Woods                                           1803

Bromide of                                Bayard                                       1839
                                                                                       1840
Fluoride of                               Channing                                     1844
                                                                                       1844
Fluorotype                                Hunt                                         1842

Oxide of                                  Davy

with ammonia                              Uncertain.

Phosphate of                              Fyfe
-- -- --Tartrate Urate Oxalate Borate, &c. . . Herschel

Benzoates of                              Hunt

P'ormiates of                             Do

Fulminates of                             Do
       CHEMICAL ACTION OF THE SOLAR RADIATIONS.                                                                           151

Silver Plate.                                                              Daguerre                                       il»qrqfqy
   With vapour of iodine (Daguerreotype). ...                              Goddard                                        1840
   With vapour of bromine                                                  Ciaudet . . . . :                              1840
   With chlorine and iodine                                                Niepce                                         1820
   With vapour of sulphur                                                  Niepce                                         18^0
   With vapour of phosphorus

Gold.                                                                      fRumford                                       1798
                                                                                                                          1840
Chloride of                                                                |Herschel          '                           1798

Etherlal solution of                                                       Rumford                                    -.  1844

Etherial solution of, with percyanide of po-                                                                              1844

· tassium                            ·· Hunt                                                                              i1c8l4o2

                                  ·                                                                                       1840
                                                                                                                          1840
Etherial solution of, with protocyanide of                                                                                1832
                                                                                                                          1840
potassium                                                                  Do                                             1844
                                                                                                                          1844
Chromate of                                                                ^°- ^ ' \
Plate of gold and iodine vapour                                            Goddard                                        1844
                                                                                                                          1843
Platinum.                                                                       Herschel                                  1843
    Chloride of                                                                 Herschel                                  1840
    Chloride of, in ether                                                       Herschel                                  1840
    Chloride of, with lime                                                       Herschel                                  1803
                                                                                                                           1806
    Iodide of                                                                   Hunt
    Bromide of .                                                               Do
    Percyanate of
                                                                           ··

Mercury.                                                                   Uncertain.

    Protoxide of                                                           Guibourt.
    Peroxide of
    Carbonate of                                                           Hunt
    Chromate of
    Deutiodide of                                                          Do
    Nitrate of                                                             Do
    Protonitrate of
    Chloride of                                                            Herschel
    Bichloride of
                                                                           Herschel

                                                                           BouUay
                                                                           Vogel

Iron.

Protosulphate of.

Persulphate of.

Ammonia citrate of.

Tartrate of.

Attention was first called to the very

* peculiar changes produced in the iron

        salts bv                                                                  Sir John Herschel. . . .                1845
                                                                                                                          1786
            ' \"''^,,"'.                                                   ·                                              1801
                                                                     ^, N                                                 1795
                                                                                fScheele                                  1844
Cyanic compounds of (Prussian blue)                                         . | Dgsmortiers                               1844
                                                                                                                          1844
Ferrocyanates of                                                           Fischer                                        1843

Iodide of                                                                  Hunt
Oxalate of                                                                 Do
                                                                           Do
Chromate of

Several of the above combined with mercury Herschel

Copper.                                                                    Hunt                                           1843
   Chromate of (Chromatype)                                                Do                                             1844
            dissolved in ammonia
                                                              .

--152 REPORT 1850.

Copper.                                 Hunt                     1844
    Sulphate of.                        Do                       1844
    Carbonate of                        Do                       1844
    Iodide of                                                    1841
    Copper-plate iodized                Talbot

Manganese.                              Frommherz                1824
   Permanganate of potash               Hunt                     1844
    Deutoxide and cyanate of potassium  Do                       1844

    Muriate of

Lead.                                   Davy                     1 802
    Oxide of (the puce-coloured)        Hunt                     1844
   Red lead and cyanide of potassium    Do                       1844
    Acetate of lead

Nickel.                                 ^Do                      1844
    Nitrate of                          }'
             with ferroprussiates
    Iodide of

Tin.                                    Uncertain.
    Purple of cassius

Cobalt                                  Hunt                     1844
                                        Sage                     1803
    Arsenic sulphuret of

    Arsenical salts of                  "^                       1844

Antimony                                    |
Bismuth
Cadmium                                  >Hunt
Rhodium
                                             j

                                        J

Chromium.

Bichromate of potash                    Mungo Ponton             1838

-with iodide of starch                  E. Becquerel             1840

Metallic chromates (Chromatype)         Hunt                     1843

Chlorine and Hydrogen                   Gay-Lussac & Thenard 1809

Chlorine (tithonized)                   Draper                   1842

. · and ether                           Cahours                  1810

Glass, manganese, reddened              Faraday                  1823

Cyanogen, solution of                   Pelouseand Richardson 1838

Methyle                                 Cahours                  1846

                                        r Petit                  1722

Crystallization of salts influenced by light< Chaptal            1788

                                        LDize                    1789

,,, ,                                   r Schulze                1727
P^^^P^"'""^                             JRitter                  1801

in nitrogen                             Beckman                  1 800

Phosphorus and ammonia                  Vogel                    1806

Nitric acid decomposed by light         Scheele                  1786

Fat matter                              Vogel                    1806

Development of pores in plants          Labillardiere            1801

Vitality of germs                       Michellotti              1803

Resinous bodies (Heliography)           Niepce                   1814
   Asphaltum                            Niepce                   1814
    Resin of oil of lavender            Niepce and Daguerre.     1830
   Guaiacum                             Wollaston                1803
                               . ..

           CHEMICAL ACTION OF THE SOLAR RADIATIONS.                                                                                                                                                         153

Resinous bodies (Heliography)

Bitumens all decomposed                     Daguerre                                                                                                                                                        1839
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1839
All residua of essential oils               Daguerre
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1842
Flowers, colours of, expressed, and spread                                                                                                                                                                  1791
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1646
upon paper                                  Herschel                                                                                                                                                        1646
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1768
Yellow wax bleached                         Senebier                                                                                                                                                        1840
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1839
                                            TLicetas                                                                                                                                                        1841
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1839
                                                                            Kircher

                                                                                                                                                                       j

Phosphorescent influences of solar rays . . < Canton

                                              Biot

                                            !

                                            [^E. Becquerel

Vegetation in stagnant water                Morren

Influence of light on electrical phaenomena . E. Becquerel

                 Magnetism induced hj Solar Rays.

             Affirmative.                                        Negative.
                                    Configliachi
Morichini                  1812-13                                                                                                                                                                          1813
Moscati                    1812-13  Firmas                                                                                                                                                                  1819
                           1812-13  Berard                                                                                                                                                                  1819
Grotlhuss                  1816     Seebeck                                                                                                                                                                 1829
                           1816     Riess and Moser                                                                                                                                                         1829
es..'pa                    1817     Berzelius                                                                                                                                                               1829
                           1826     Matteucci                                                                                                                                                               1829
Ridolfi                    1826     Kastner                                                                                                                                                                 1832
                           1826     Haser
Playfair                   1827
                           1829
Christie                   1829
                           1842
Baumgartner                1840

Somerville   :

Mark Watt

Barlocci

Zantedeschi

Moleyns

Knox, G. J. & T

   This array of names will show the exceeding degree of uncertainty which
hangs about the supposed magnetic results ; and, notwithstanding the ela-
borate experiments of Riess and Moser*, it does not appear safe, as they
require of us " to reject totally a discovery which for seventeen years has at

different times disturbed science."

         Memoirs, 8tc. embracing hifluences of Light on Organic Bodies.

Experiments upon the influence of light on plants. ...                                                                                                                    B. C. Meese.                      1775
Experiments on ditto                                                                                                                                                      Priestley ....
Experiments on vegetation                                                                                                                                                                                   1 779
                                                                                                                                                                                                  r         1782
Physico-chemical memoirs                                                                                                                                                  Ingenhousz <                      1784
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1786
                                                                                                                                                                                               t            1782
                                                                                                                                                                                                            t «qo
                                                                                                                                                                                                         f

                                                                                                                                                                          Senebier . . <

Observations on Ingenhousz's experiments                                                                                                                                  De la Ville . .                   1783
The effects of light on certain plants                                                                                                                                                                      1783
                                                                                                                                                                          Tessier
On the influence of light                                                                                                                                                 Berthollet                        1786

On vegetable nutrition                                                                                                                                                                                   f  179*^

                                                                                                                                                                          Hassenfratz <                      ,,_^

On the green colour of vegetables exposed to light. . . . Humboldt .                                                                                                                                        1792
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1799
Experiments on germination                                                                                                                                                Lefeboure .

             * Edinburgh Journal of Science, N. S. No. 4, p. 225.
            .

154 REPORT 1850.

Experiments relative to the influence of light on some

    vegetables                                                    DecandoUe . . 1 801
                                                                  Woodhouse . . 1801
On the vegetation of plants

Chemical researches on vegetation                                 Saussure .... 1803

Foxglove leaves in dry powder.

Hemlock ditto                                Ordinary observation has shovi^n
Henbane ditto
                                             that all these preparations lose
Aconite ditto
«J«ailoa|pj r.uo^oit, duiiitit.o^^           colour, and are much deteriorated
Ipecacuanha ditto
CascariUa bark ditto                      I j^ their medicinal values by ex-
Valerian root ditto                       '
Rhubarb root ditto                                                T ,^                ^
                                             pP"o's"u^r"e^  ^                   T-.-                \.-
                                                                  ^l'ig-^ht^-.  F^'i'r^s^t
                                                            ^t^o                            ^pa^^r^ticu-

                                             larly noticed in the Journal of

                                             the Pharmaceutical Society, 1 846.

Ginger root ditto

Uber Pflanzencrregbarkeit im AUgemeinen und Beson-

deren                                                             Ritter                    1808

Recherches sur la respiration des plantes exposees a la

lumiere du soleil                                                 Ruhland .... 1816

On the action of light on plants, and of plants upon the

atmosphere                                                        Daubeny .... 1836

On the action of light upon the colour of the river

sponge                                                            J. Hogg .... 1838

Experiments and observations on light which has per-

meated coloured media, and on the chemical action

of the solar spectrum                                             Hunt                      1840

Influence de la lumiere sur les i*acines                          Payer                     1843

On the action of yellow light in producing the green

colour, and indigo light the movements of plants . . P. Gardner . . 1844

On the influence of light on plants                               Hunt                      1844

Note on the decomposition of carbonic acid by the

leaves of plants under the influence of yellow light. . Draper                              1844

Influence des rayons solaires sur la vegetation                   Zantedeschi . . 1844

Ueber die Respiration der Pflanzenblatter                         Grischow .... 1845

Ueber die Nahrungsstofi"e, aus denen die Pflanzen in

Lichte das Sauerstoffgas ausscheiden                              C. H. Schultz 1845

Tendance de certaines racines a fuir ou rechercher la

lumiere                                                           Durand .... 1845

Quelques experiences sur la respiration des plantes . . Matteucci. . . . 1846

Reports of British Association                                    Hunt                      1846

Directions of plants as influenced by light                       Maccaire .... 1847

Report. Influences of the solar rays on the growth of

plants. British Association                                       Hunt                      1847

   As the last Report comprehends the principal points of interest in con-
nexion with the influences of the solar radiations on vitality, and we have
now aff^orded the means of referring to the inquiries of those numerous au-
thors who have examined this part of the subject, it is thought unnecessary

to dwell on this important subject in the present Report.
   From the extensive list which has been given, it will be seen that the action

--of the solar radiations, so far from being confined, as it was formerly thought

to be, to a few peculiar chemical compounds, which, existing in a state of
exceedinglj' nice equilibrium, were liable to have their affinity disturbed by

--the operation of any external force, is so extensive, that scarcely any body in
         CHEMICAL. ACTION OF THE SOLAR RADIATIONS.         155

nature, organic or inorganic, is independent of the solar influences, although

their scales of sensibility to them are widely different.

There are a few remarkable chemical facts recorded, which prove j'^et further

how very extensive is the operation of the actinic force, and point at the same

time to a line of inquiry, which is only now beginning to engage attention.

Dumas was the first to point out, that when crystallizable acetic acid

+ HOC^ H' O^  is exposed to sunshine in an atmosphere of dry chlorine, it is

gradually decomposed, and that an equal volume of chlorine completely takes

+ HOthe place of the hydrogen, a new acid composed of C 4 CI 3 3

(chloracetic acid) resulting*.

Auguste Cahours has shown that some very striking effects are pro-

duced by sunshine on the combination of chlorine and some ethers of the
methylic seriesf. " La preparation de I'oxalate et du formate de methylene

perchlores est des plus simples : il suffit, en effet, de placer ces produits bien

purs et bien sees dans des flagons remplis de chlore desseche, puis d'exposer
ces derniers a la radiation solaire directe. Dans les premiers moments, I'at-

taque est excessivement vive, mais elle se ralentit a mesure que la chlorura-

tion fait des progr^s ; on reconnait que I'operation est terminee, lorsque, apr^s
une exposition de plusieurs jours a un soleil assez vif, la teinte de I'atmo-

sphere du flagon ne s'affaiblit plus."

  At the meeting of the British Association at Cork, Dr. Draper of New York

communicated the very remarkable fact, that chlorine which has been exposed

to daylight or sunshine possesses qualities which are not possessed by chlo-

rine made and kept in the dark. It acquires from that exposure the property
of speedily uniting with hydrogen, under circumstances in which the combi-

nation with ordinary chlorine is effected with very great slowness. Dr. Draper

found that if a flask of chlorine and hydrogen was placed in an atmosphere

of chlorine, and then exposed to sunshine, no formation of hydrochloric

acid took place. The agent producing the combination had been stopped by
the yellow atmosphere of the chlorine surrounding the flash. It was now found

that if this chlorine which had stopped the chemical agent, was itself mixed

with hydrogen, it combined, under the influence of the weakest light, with an
energy which unsolarized chlorine did not exhibit. Hence Dr. Draper inferred,
" that those rays are absorbed by ponderable bodies, and that they become

latent after the manner of heat |." He also concludes, that the indigo rays are

the most active in effecting the formation of hydrochloric acid, and that the in-

digo rays are absorbed by the solarized chlorine. That remarkable changes do

take place under the influence of sunshine in elementary bodies is further shown

by the experiments of Berzelius on phosphorus §. This chemist has proved
that when phosphorus, dissolved in ether, oil, or hydrogen gas, is exposed to

sunshine, it undergoes a peculiar modification, and separates under the form
of red phosphorus ; and that in the Torricellian vacuum it sublimes in red

scales.

   I have also shown that a solution of protosulphate of iron in distilled
                                                                                                                                       1|

water, (freed of, and carefully kept from the air,) exposed to sunshine, acquires

a property of precipitating gold and silver from its solutions with much greater

rapidity than a similar solution kept in the dark. In the same paper I have
given some experiments, proving that with certain compounds precipitation

   * Sur les Tj^pes Chimiques, Ann. de Ch. et Ph. Ixxiii. 77.

   f Recherches relatives a Taction finale du chlore sur quelques ethers composes de la serie
methylique sous I'influence de la radiation solaire. Comptes Rendus, xxiii. 1070.

   J On Tithonized Chlorine. Philosophical Magazine, July 1844.

    § Traite, torn. i. 258.

      Contributions to Actino-Chemistry. Phil. Mag. 1845,

           II
156 REPORT-- 1850.

goes on much more rapidly in light than in darkness, and that peculiar

chemical changes take place in virtue of some solar force.

These phsenomena stand at present as isolated facts, and serve only to

show how extensive a field of inquiry is indicated, into which the experimen-
talist has scarcely ventured. I am not prepared at present to support the
view which I once entertained, in common with Dr. Draper and others, that

the results obtained afford evidence of the absorption of any solar radiation.

We know so little of the constitution of molecules, and of the peculiar powers

grouped under the name of molecular forces, and variously referred to as ca-

pillarity, endosmose, catalysis, allotropic and epipolic forces, that it is neces-

saiy to pause in our consideration of this intricate question.

The subject of this Report has been investigated with considerable caution

by M. Edmund Becquerel*. His conclusions in general do not widely differ

from those of the other investigators already named ; but from these and a

subsequent series of investigations on the dark lines of the chemical spectrum,

-- --M. Becquerel expresses his conviction that all chemical change is the result

of light luminous power. " Je ci'ois qu'on pent conclure de I'ensemble des

faits que j'ai reunis dans ce travail, que les phenomenes lumineux chimiques

et phosphorogeniques proviennent d'un seul et meme agent, dont Taction est

modifiee suivant la nature de la matiere sensible exposee a son influence et

la genre de modification dont cette substance est susceptible." The fact

noticed by E. Becquerel, and also by Professor Miller and Dr. Draper, that

the chemical spectrum has the same inactive or dark lines as the luminous

spectrum, has been thought by some to be conclusive as to the identity of

the chemical and luminous rays ; but although it certainly proves that the

agency in both cases obeys a similar law of motion, or is subject to the same

wave interference, it does not appear necessarily to follow that the two phse-

nomena, so broadly distinguished in their effects, are the result of a precisely

similar cause.

   It has been already stated that M. Edmund Becquerel distinguishes the

most chemically active rays as exciting rays, and the least refrangible rays of

the spectrum as continuing rays, since he finds that the chemical change

commenced by one set of rays is capable of being continued by the other set.
Shortly after this announcement, M. Gaudin found that the red, orange and

yellow rays not only continue the action on iodized plates, but that they de-

velope without mercury an image having the same appearance as that pro-

duced by mercurial vapour.

This class of phsenomena has been also investigated by M.Claudet, so M'ell

known for the success with which he has prosecuted Daguerreotype portrait-

uref. Tliis experimentalist states, as the result of his inquiries, that upon
silver plates, prepared simply with iodine, all the rays " have the property of

decomposing the iodide of silver in a longer or shorter time, as they have that

of producing the affinity for mercury on the bromo-iodide of silver ; with the
difference, that on the former compound the sei^arate actions of the several

rays continue each other, and that on the second compound these separate

Weactions destroy each other.  can understand, that in the first case, all

the rays are capable of operating the same decomposition ; and that in the
second, the aflSnity for mercury, when imparted by one ray, is destroyed by

another."

   The phEcnomena of phosphorescence have attracted much attention, and

   * Des EfFets produit sur les Corps par les Rayons Solaires. Ann. Ch. et Ph. vol. is. N. S.

p. 257.
   + Researches on the Theory of the principal Phaenomena of Photography in the Daguer-

reotj^ie Process. Phil. Mag. November 1849.
CHEMICAL ACTION OP THE SOLAR RADIATIONS.                                                                                    157

in many of the instances, that electricity is an active exciting agent appears

proved ; but in the phosphorescence, produced by the solar rays, we have

effects which can scarcely be referred so easily to electrical effect.

If sulphuret of calcium (Canton's phosphorus) or the sulphuret of barium

( the Bolognian stone) are exposed to sunshine they become luminous in the

dark. If a paper covered with either of these substances is rendered luminous

by exposure to sunshine, and is put under the influence of the solar spectrum,

two very dissimilar actions occur ; over that portion of the spectrum where
the chemical rays exert their maximum power the phosphorescence is greatly

increased, but that portion on which the least refrangible rays fall, is com-

pletely darkened. If the phosphorescent body is rendered luminous by the

action of the actinic radiations, this phosphorescence is immediately destroyed

by the momentary action of the calorific rays of the red spaces of the spec-

trum. This latter effect is not a mere formation of heat, since by the agency

of artificial heat we can increase the amount of phosphorescence which is

excited by the rays at the chemical end of the spectrum. Seebeck appears

to have been the first to notice this peculiar property of the red rays.

In 1839 Edmund Becquerel first directed attention to the electricity deve-

loped during the chemical action excited by solar agency. Plates of platina,

being placed in acidulated water, were connected with a delicate galvano-

meter ; and the needle, after the first disturbance having come to rest at zero,
the spectral radiations, commencing with the red, were thrown upon one of

the plates. Neither the red, orange, yellow or green rays produced any

action ; the blue and indigo induced a slight disturbance ; but the violet rays

and the dark rays beyond the violet gave very decided indications of action

by the deflections of the galvanometer. These experiments were repeated by

me with many modifications*. I never obtained any deflections of the gaU

vanometric needles by any rays below the green ; we must therefore conclude
that electro-chemical action is due to the most refrangible rays. At the York

meeting of the British Association I produced some experiments, showing

that certain electro-chemical decompositions which took place in the dark,

giving rise to delicate metallic precipitates, were entirely prevented by expo-

sure to sunshine. It is my intention to prosecute this line of inquiry with

all care at the earliest opportunity.

In Poggendorff's 'Annalen' for 1842, M. Ludv/ig Moser announced the

discovery of some very remarkable phssnomena which he attributed to light.

These are, " If a surface has been touched in any particular parts by any

body, it acquires the property of precipitating all vapours which adhere to it,

or which combine chemically with it, on these spots, differently to what it

does on the other untouched parts." Dr. Draper desci-ibed som.e similar

phaenomena in 1840. In three papers, whicli have been translated and

published in the ' Scientific Memoirs,' Moser has stated all the results which

he obtained                                                              the deductions  from  these were, that  light was  susceptible of
                                                                      :

becoming latent, and that it was continually being radiated as " invisible

light" from all bodies, different bodies giving off rays of different refrangibi-

lity. After a very searching examination of all the phsenomena, I arrived at

conclusions widely differing from those of Moser, and I was induced to refer

them all to the influence of calorific radiations f. M. Fizeau| states his

belief that the effects observed are the result of organic matter being trans-

ferred from one surface to another, and Professor Grove has expressed him-

self favourable to the same view. I believe, however, that invisible heat

* Researches on Light, by Robert Hunt, p. 213.                                                 J Comptes Rendus, Nov. 1842.
t On Thermography. Phil. Mag. Dec. 1842.
                                   --

158 KEPORT 1850.

radiation is capable of producing a sensible action on surfaces rendered per-
fectly free from organic matter. Those interested in this branch of inquiry
are referred to the ' Scientific Memoirs,' since the subject can scarcely be said

to belong to this Report.

   I have purposely avoided any special notice of the photographic processes

which have been discovered during the progress of the investigations we have

been considering. Herschel, Talbot, Woods, Fyfe, Ponton, the writer of this

Report,  and  others,  in our own  country,  have  introduced  new  processes                                                  and
                                                                                                                            ;

Dao-uerre, Becquerel, Lassaigne, Fizeau, Everard, Niepce, &c. on the continent
have enriched our store. Improvements in the Daguerreotype have been

effected by Goddard, Claudet and others, until they have brought the silver
Weplates to a state of sensil)ility which is almost marvelous.
                                                                    have recently

been surprised with an announcement, that by the agency of fluorine the pro-

cesses on paper are rendered instantaneous, particularly on the calotype variety.

In justice to myself, I must however claim to have pubhshed, in 1844*, a pro-

cess called by me " the Fluorotype," which corresponds with the process now

introduced in France, and which enabled me, with a non -achromatic meniscus

lens, to procure " good images in the camera in half a minute." If the differ-

ences between the lenses employed be taken into account, it will be found

that the result I then obtained was equal to that of which the discoverer of the

new process (?) now boasts.

   It will be evident that the question which assumes the most prominence

in our consideration of these remarkable phsenomena is that of the identity

or otherwise of light and actinism.

Fresnel has stated that the chemical eifects produced by the influence of

light are owing to a mechanical action exerted by the molecules of aether on
the atoms of bodies, so as to cause them to assume new states of equilibrium
dependent on the nature and on the velocity of the vibrations to which they

are subjected.

   Arago saysf, it is by no means proved that the photogenic modifications of
sensitive surfaces result from the action of solar light itself. These modifica-

tions are perhaps engendered by invisible radiations mixed with light properly

so called, proceeding with it, and being similarly refracted.
    These views fairly represent the condition in which ihe argument stands,

and a yet more extensive set of experiments appears to be necessary before
we can decide the question. It appears however important that we should
dismiss, as completely as possible, from our minds, all preconceived hypo-
theses. The phaenomena were all unknown when the theories of emission
and of undulation were framed and accepted in explanation of luminous effects ;
and it will only retard the discovery of the truth, if we prosecute our researches
over this new ground, with a determination to bend all our new facts to a
theory which was framed to explain totally dissimilar phsenomena.

   We may sum up the amount of our knowledge of the chemical influences

of the solar radiations as follows :

    1. The rays, having diff'erent illuminating or colorific powers^ exhibit

different degrees and kinds of chemical action.
   2. The most luminous rays exhibit the least chemical action upon all in-

organic matter. The least luminous and the non-luminous manifest very
powerful chemical action on the same substances.

   3. The most luminous rays influence all substances having an organic

origin, particularly exciting vital power.
    4. Thus, under modifications, chemical power is traced to every part of the

* Researches on Light, p. 106.                     t Comptes Rendus, 1843.
EXPERIMENTS ON SOME SPECIES OF FERNS.  159

prismatic spectrum ; but in some cases this action is positive, exciting ; in

others negative, depressing.

   5. Tlie most luminous rays are proved to prevent all chemical change upon
inorganic bodies exposed, at the same time, to the influence of the chemical

rays.

    6. Hence actinism, regarded at present merely as a phaenomenon differ-
ent from light, stands in direct antagonism to light.

    7. Heat radiations produce chemical change in virtue of some combined
action not yet understood.

    8. Actinism is necessary for the healthful germination of seed ; light is
required to excite the plant to decompose carbonic acid ; caloric is required
 in developing and carrying out the reproductive functions of the plant.

    9. Phosphorescence is due to actinism, and not to light.
    10. Electrical phsenomena are quickened by actinism, and retarded by light.
   Numerous other points ' of minor importance will present themselves on

studying the facts described. Without venturing to obtrude my own views,
I now leave the subject for that full investigation which it will, I trust, re-

ceive, as promising beyond all others to enlighten us on those curious phse-
nomena which appear to link together the organic and the inorganic worlds.

Dr. Daubeny reported that some little progress had been made by him
during the present season in the inquiry which was commenced last year, as
stated in the Reports of the British Association, vol. xviii. p. 56. The object

he last had in view was to ascertain whether such an addition to the amount
of carbonic acid in common air, as that which had been shown by the ex-
periments of the preceding year to be compatible with the health of ferns,
would tend to promote their growth and luxuriance in a greater degree, than
the proportion of the gas normally contained in the atmosphere did under

similar circumstances.

   He therefore had placed three species of ferns, viz. Pteris longifolin,

Pteris serrulata and Nephrodium molle, under a jar, the air of which vvas
impregnated with about five per cent, of carbonic acid gas, which amount was
kept up by occasional additions throughout the whole period during which
the experiments were continued ; whilst three other ferns of the same kinds
were kept under a similar jar containing common air without any such

addition.

    After the expiration of eleven weeks the two sets of ferns presented in
their general aspect no material difference, although whatever superiority
there might be, appeared to be on the side of the plants which had grown
in air containing only the normal amount of carbonic acid.

    In another set of experiments, however, in which two similar sets of ferns
were watered, the one with rain water, tlie other with water impregnated
with carbonic acid gas, those under the latter treatment appeared, after a
time, decidedly more vigorous than the former.
--160 REl'OBT 1850.

Tenth Report of a Committee, consisting of H. E. Strickland, Esq.,
   Prof. Daubeny, Prof. Henslow, and Prof. Lindley, appointed
   to continue their Experiments on the Growth and Vitality of

    Seeds.

The seeds which were collected in 1842 have been sown for the third time

this season, and tlie results are registered in the accompanying Table, and
also in the General Summary of the results of these experiments since IS^l,

which is annexed.
   Besides those named in the General Summary, there have been small

quantities of many kinds submitted to a single sowing ; but as in most cases
the probable age at which they ceased to germinate could not be traced,
they have been omitted. This observation applies more especially to those
registered in vol. xiii. pp. 96-99, vol. xv. pp. 22-24, and vol. xvi. p. 147, of
these Reports, where, by glancing at the numbers of each kind sown, it will
be seen, that a just result could not be arrived at from so slight a test. Those
kinds hoM'ever which germinated at any known period have been inserted,
merely to show that vitality had not altogether ceased at such ages.

   We are again indebted to Miss Molesworth of Cobham, Surrej', for many

packets of seeds from which we selected six kinds, being all that were avail-

able for our purpose ; the remaining kinds having been either already tested,
or, if new seeds, were in such small quantities, as would not admit of their
beino- distributed in conformity with the specified instructions.

    The seeds sent to Cambridge last year were not sown till the present sea-
son, the results of which have been received and i-egistered in the General

Summary.

Name and Date when gathered.   No.   No. of Seeds of each  Time of vegetating
                              sown.  Species which vege-          in days at

                                                tated at            Cam- Chis-

                                      Ox- Cam- Chis-                 bridge. wick.

                                     ford. bridge. wick.

                     1842.    100                          10
Aconitum Napellus              50                          20
Adonis autumnalis
Amaraiithus caudatus          100    74
Anagallis arvensis            100
BiiflFonia annua              100
                              100
Buphthalmum coidifolium.      100
Bupleurum rotundifoliura .    100
Coniiim maculatum
Cytisus Laburnum                50
Dipsacus laciniatus             50
                              100
Elslioltzia cristata          100
                                25
Erysimum Peroifskianum .        50
Helianthus indicus            100
Heracleum elegans             100
Hyoscyamus niger                50
Iberis umbellata                50
                              100
Iris sibirica                 100
                              100
Latbyrus heterophyllus ....     25
Leonurus Cardiaca             100
Malcolmia maritima            100
Malope graudiflora              50
Momordica Elaterium ....
Nepeta Cataria
Nicandra physaloides
Nigellanana
       ON THE VITALITY OF SEEDS.                                                     161

                                           No. of Seeds of each  Time of vegetating
                                           Species which vege-
                                                                        in days at
                                                     tated at
                                     No.
Name and Date when gathered.        sown.

                                           Ox- Cam- Chis- Ox- Cam- Chis-
                                           ford. bridge. wick ford. bridge, wick.

                            1842.     50   12  11                12
26. Orobus niger                    100                          12
27. Steaactis speciosa                     11  72 10
28. Tetragouolobus purpureus          25   48           17
29. Trigonella foenum-graecum         50   40
30. Tropaeoluni majus                 25   17
31. Cucurbita Pepo, var               15
32. Gilia achilleaefoiia            100
33. Capsicum                          25
34. Medicago maculata               100
35. Calandrinia speciosa            100
36. Callichroa platyglossa          100
37. Collomia coccinea               100
38. Coreopsis atrosanguinea         100
39. Cotoneaster rotundifolia          20
40. Crataegus macracantha             50
41. ,, punctata                       50
42. Cynoglossum glochidatum         100
43. Digitalis lutea                 100
44. Eutoca viscida                  100
45. Glauciuiu rubrum                100
46. Godetia Lindleyana              100
47. Gladiolus psittacinus           100
48. Impatiens glanduligera            50
49. Lupinus succuleiitus            100
50. Nolana atriplicifolia           100
51. Oxyura chrysanthemoides         100
52. Papaver arnoenum                100
53. Phacelia tanacetifolia          100
54. Potentilla nepalensis           100
55. Sphenogyne speciosa             100
56. Acacia pseud-acacia             100
57. Alstrcemeria pelegrina           20
58. Betula alba                     200
59. Carpinus Betula                 100
60. Catalpa cordifolia                50
61. Cercis canadensis                50
62. Cerinthe major                    50
63. Cichorium Endivia               150
64. Cobsea scandens
65. Cuphea procumbens                   6
66. Dolichos lignosus                50
67. Galinsogea trilobata             25
68. Ilex AquifoUa                   100
69. Juniperus communis              100
70. Liriodendron Tulipiferum        100
71. Loasa nitida                      50
72. Magnolia, sp                    100
73. Martynia proboscidea              15
74. Mesembryantberaum crystallinum    20
75. Mirabilis Jalapa                100
76. Morus nigra                       25
77. Ricinus communis                100
78. Rudbeckia amplexicaulis           15
79. Scorpiunis sulcatus             150
80. Tetragonia expansa                25
81. Ulex europsea                     15
82. Quercus Robur                   100
83. PhcenLx Dactylifera               10

                                        3

1850.
--162 REPORT 1850.

        Name and Date when gathered.
                          .. .                                                 . . ..  .

                                ON THE VITAIilTY OP SEEDS.                                      163

11. CoRYLACE^, continued                             15. Crucifer^, continued

Quercus Robur                   1845            30   52. Brassica oleracea                1844    40

                                1850    13 75                                             1849    nil.
                                                                                                  nil.
12. CUCURBITACE^.                               40                                        1850
                                                20                                                  4
Momordica Elaterium             1845            40   53. Diplotaxis tenuifolia            1846      6
                                1850             29                                               57
                                                90   54. Crarabe maritima ....            1847      2
Cucurbita Cucuzza               1846      2 50       55. Bunias orientalis ....           1849  165
                                        20 50                                             1850   30
       ,, di Spagna             1846    50 72
Green Egyptian Melon .          1846    11 20        56. Heliophila araboides....         1846    61
Marari                          1846    50 150
                                        11 15        57. Schizopetalon Walkeri            1848   52
                                          45
Mellone di Acqua                1846   37 45         16. Capparidace^.                           nil.
                                        19 45
    ,, di Pane Bianca           1846     5 300       58. Cleome spinosa                   1846    15
Valencian Melon                 1846
                                       nU.           17. Byttneriace^.                           nil.

Early Cantalupe Melon,. 1846           nil.          59. Hermannia, sp                    1844  127
                                                                                                  10
Melon from Lisbon               1846    99 450       18. Trop^olacejE.                           23
                                                                                                 50
Melon                           1846  236 600        60. Tropaeolum majus                 1845
                                        38 80                                                   281
Melon from Cassabak ..          1846                                                      1850    18
                                1846    nil.                                                        6
                                                                 ,, peregnnum             1848   17
Cucurbita, sp.                  1845    36 200       61. Limnanthes Uouglasii ..          1848      3
                                                                                                    2
                                1850    nil.               19. Malvace^.                          75

Bryonia dioica                  1847  170 600        62. Malope grandiflora               1845      2
                                      114 300                                                    30
13. Passiflorace^.                                                                        1850
                                        nil.                                                     94
Passiflora Herbertiana .        1842                 63. Kitaibelia vitifolia             1848   nU.
Tacsonia pinnatistipula         1842    11 100
                                      150 200        64. Lavatera trimestris              1848     4

14. VlOLACE^.                           71 300       65. Malva mauritiana .               1847   nil.
                                      178 300                 ,, moschata .               1846   nil.
Viola lutea                     1846                                                      1846   nil.
                                        nil.
15. Crucifer^.                                                                                   nil.
                                        66 300                                                   nil.
Matthiola annua                 1846   82 300                                             1844   nil.
                                                                                                 nil.
Cheiranthus, sp                 1846  195 300        66. Hibiscus, sp                     1844   nil.
Turritis retrofracta            1842    19 200
                                          1 100      67. Gossypium, sp                    1846   79
                                        15 100                                                      7
Arabis hirsuta                  1848    15 100       68. Sida, sp                         1844
                                                                                                nil.
    ,, lucida                   1842  323 450        20. TlLlACE^.                              nil.
Koniga maritima                 1846     4 300
                                                     69. Corchonis, sp                    1844   40
                                       nil.
Lunaria biennis                 1846                 70. Triumfetta, sp                   1844  nil.
                                      335 900                                                   nil.
Vesicaria grandiflora           1847   15 600        21. HYPERICACEJi:.
                                         5 300                                                  nU.
Iberis umbellata                1848   85 100        71. Hypericum hirsutum ..            1846  nU.
                                       11 150                                             1842
                                1845                            ,, Kalmianum
                                                           22. Magnoliace^.
                                1850

Biscutella erigerifolia         1846                 72. Magnolia, sp                     1845

Malcomia maritima ...           1845                                                      1850
                                1850
                                                     73. Liriodendron Tulipiferum 1845

Hesperis matronalis             1846                                                      1850

Erysimum Peroflfskianum 1845                         23. Ranunculace^s.

                                1850                 74. Clematis erecta                  1842

9. Lepidium sativum.            1844                 75. Thalictrum minus                 1849

                                1849                                                      1850

                                1850                 76. Anemone coronaria                1849

Ethionema saxatile              1848                                                      1850

Isatis tinctoria      ,         1848                 77. Adonis autumnalis                1845
                                1844
Brassica Napus                                                                            1850

                                1849                 78. Ranunculus caucasieus            1849

                                1850                                                      1850

                                1844                 79. Nigeila nana                     1845

                                1849                                                      1850

                                1850                 80. Aquilegia sibirica               1850

       Rapa oleifera            1846                 81. Helleborus foetidus              1847

       oleracea                 1844                 82. Delphinium intermedium. 1848

                                      * (In waxed cloth.)

                                                                                          M2
                                                                                                      ..               .

--164 REPORT 1850.

23. Rancnculace-e, conii nued                           33. PORTULACACE^, COtlH nued

32. Delphinium flexuosura            1842  nil.         107. Calandrinia grandiflora                                      1848                      nil.
                                           nil.
                                     1847                                                                                 1842                      39
                                                                                                                                                   nU.
                                sp.  1848    1 200                                                                        1847                    171
                                     1845  13 30)                                                                                                   18
83. Aconitum Napellus                                                                                     speciosa        1845
                                                                                                                                                   25
                                     1850  nil.                                                                           1850                         7

84. Paeonia, mixed vars.             1844               34. POLYGONACE.E.                                                                           nil.

                                     1849  nil.         108. Polygonum fagopyrum 1844                                                             162
                                                                                                                                                    13
                                     1850  nil.                                                                           1849
                                                                                                                                                    30
24. Papaverace.*.                                                                                                         1850
                                                                                                                                                    nil.
85. Argemone alba                    1847 159 300       109. Ruraex obtusifolium                                          1846
                                                                                                                                                    21
          ,, grandiflora             1848  nil.                         sp.                                               1846
. Papaver somniferura...             1846                                                                                                         178
                                           73 150       35. Nyctaginaceje.
                                                                                                                                                        1
,, orientale                         1842  nil.         110. Mirabilis Jalapa                                             1845
,, amccnum                           1845                                                                                                           nil.
                                     1850  47 300                                                                         1850                      nil.

                                           nil.         36. Phytolaccaceje.                                                                       171
                                                                                                                                                    14
87. Glaucium rubniin                 1845 47 300        111. Phytolacca decaudra .                                        1846
                                                                                                                                                  155
                                     1850  nil.               37. Amarantace^.
                                                                                                                                                    94
88. Eschscholtzia californica ... 184/ 124 600          112. Amaranthus caudatus                                          1845                   1112

89. Chrvseis crocea                  1842  4 100                                                                          1850                      22
                                                                                                                                                   nU.
                                     1847 10 nil.       38. Chenopodiace-e.
                                                                                                                                                    19
25. FCMARIACE.E.                                        113. Chenopodium Botrys .. 1848
                                                                                                                                                  113
90. Hypecoum procumbens              1842  nil.                                                                           1847                        2

                                     1842  nil.                                                           ,, Quinoa.. 1849                          85
                                                                                                                                           1850
91.Fumaria spicata                   1848  5 300                                                                                                     nil.
                                                                                                                                                        1
26. BERBERIDACE.a:.                                     114. Beta vulgaris                                                1848
                                                                                                                                                     nil.
92. Mahoiiia Aquifolia.              1842  nil.         39. Saururace.s:.                                                                            nil.

27. Anacardiacejl.                                      115. Saururus, sp                                                 1844                           1
                                                                                                                                                         1
93. Rhus, sp                         1844          50         40. Mesembryace.*.                                                                    nU.

      28. Xaxthoxylace^.                                116. Mesembryantheraum cry-                                                                   4

94. Ailantus glandulosa              1848          150  stallinum                                                         1845                           1

29. Linage.*.                                                                                                             18.50                    113
                                                                                                                                                     27
95. Linum perenne                    1848          100  41. Tetragoxiace.e.                                                                          38
                                                                                                                                                    24
,, usitatissimum .                   1846          200  117. Tetragonia expansa....                                       1845                       21
                                                                                                                                                       2
                                     1844          450                                                                    1850                       40
                                                                                                                                                     nU.
                                     1849          300  42. Proteace^.                                                                               22

                                     1850               118. Leucadendron, sp. ..                                         1844
                                                               43. Leguminos.^.
30. Balsaminace.e.

96. Balsamina hortensis ....         1846          150  119. Podalyria, sp                                                1844

97. Impatiens glanduligera.          1845          150  120. Pultensea, sp                                                1844

                                     1850          150  121. Lupinus succulentus                                          1845

31. Geraniace.^.                                                                                                          1850

98. Pelargonium, sp                  1844          62   ,, rivularis                                                      1842
                                                                                                                          1847
32. CARYOPHYLLACE.E.

99. BufFonia annua                   1845          300                                                    grandifobus     1842

                                     1850                                                                                 184

100. Dianthus barbatus .             1846          300                ,, polyphyllus                                      1842
                                                                      ,, lucidus                                          1847
,, chinensis .                       1846          150  122. Crotalaria, sp                                               1844

101. Saponaria annua                 1847          450

102. Gypsophila elegans.             1846          600  123. Aspalathus, sp                                               1844

                                     1842          500  124. Ulex europaea                                                1845

103. Silene quadridentata            1848          100                                                                    1850

,, pendnla                           1848          200  125. Spartium Scoparium                                           1848
,, inflata                           1846          150
                                                        126. Cytisus albus                                                1848
,, Armeria alba                      1848          100                                                                    1845
                                                                  ,, Laburnum ...                                         1850

104. Yiscaria oculata                1848          450  127. Tetragonolobus purpureus. 1845
                                     1844          100
105. Phamaceum, sp

33. PORTULACACE^.                                                                                                         1850

106. Talinum cihat um ...            1846 188 600       128. Trifolium repens                                             1844
              .. ,        .

                             ON THE VITALITY OF SEEDS.                             165

43 . Leguminos.«, contin ued.                   43. Leguminos.35, contin ued.

Trifolium giganticum .. 1846          38 100 146. iEschynomene, sp         1844        1

sp 1849                               nil. 147. Hallia, sp                 1844     14
                                                                                      3
                             1850     5 150 148. Hedysarum, sp             1844       9
                                                                                      2
Melilotus Cierulea           1846     149 300                   sp 1844
                                                                                       1
,, leucantha .. 1846                  60 100 149. Clitoria, sp             1844
                                                                                    47
,, macrorhiza . 1846                  36 100 150. Erythrina, sp            1844
                                                                                       1
                             1849     180 500 151. Phaseolus multiflorus   1844    nil.

                             1850     69 250                               1849     25
                                                                                    61
Trigonella foennm-graecum 1845        89 150                               1850     25

                             1850     nil.                  sp. 1844                  2
                                                                                    36
Medicago tnaculata           1845     71 300 152. Dolichos lignosus        1845
                                                                                      2
                             1850     113 300                              1850        1
                                                                                    86
Ononis angustifolia-         1842     1 100                                1844       4
                                                                                       1
Indigofera, sp               1844     28 175                sp. 1846                  4

Psoralea bituminosa          1849     46 100 153. Caesalpinia, sp          1844     nil.
                                                                                    nil.
                             1850     7 50 154. Cassia Canarina ..         1846
                                                                                      5
sp 1844                               107 200   " sp                       1844       4
                                                                                    30
Galega sibirica. . .         1846     9 110     ? ,, sp                    1846
                                                                                    nil.
    .. sp                    1844     16 100 155. Tamarindus, sp. ..       1844
Sutherlandia, sp.,           1844                                                   10
                                      5 100 156. Cercis canadensis         1845
                                                                                    nil.
Colntea, sp ,..              1844     1 75                                 1850
                                                                                      4
Pisum sativum...             1844     94 150 157. Gleditschia triacanthos  1848
                                                                                    nil.
                             1849     15 100 158. Mimosa, sp               1844
                                                                                      3
                                1850  nil. 1 59. Adenanthera, sp           1844
Fullard's German                                                                    nil.
                                                160. Acacia pseud-acacia .., 1845
                                                                                    52
Marrow Fat                   1846     44                                   1850
                                                                                    nil.
                             1846     100 150   44. POMACEJE.                       nil.
                                                                                    nil.
    .. sp                    1846     36 50 161. Cotoneaster rotundifolia. 1845     nil.
Ervum, sp. .                 1846
                                      90 100                               1850       3

Vicia sativa                 1844     87 150 162. Crataegus macracantha . 1845      45

                             1846     82 100                               1850     nil.

                             1849       8 100             punctata         1845        2
                                                                           1850        1
                                      nil.      ,,                                    9

                             1850                                                   nU.

                             1844     115 150*  45. ROSACE^E.                       nil.

,, lutea                     1846     27 100 163. Potentilla nepalensis    1845     nil.

i» »»                        1848     91 100                               1842    109
                             1848                                                   20
,, grandiflora.              1846     18 25                                1850     30

                                      70 150                    sp. 1842            nil.

141. Faba vulgaris ....      1844     71 75 164. Geum, sp.                 1842

                             1849     40 50                                1847

                             1850     14 25     46. Lythrace,«.

,, Augusta Beans             1846     24 50 165. Cuphea procurabens        1845

                             1846     30 30                                1850

                             1846     55        47. Rhamnace^ij:.
                             1846
Canada Beam                           42 50 166. Trichocephalum, sp.       1844

                             1846     16 16 167. Phylica, sp               1844
                             1848
142. Lathyrus annuus                  21 25 168. Cryptandra, sp            1844

,, sativus                   1848     66        48. AaUIKOLIACE^.

,, heterophyUus 1845                  105 150 169. Hex Aquifolium          1845

                             1850     63 150                               1850
                             1845     18 150
143. Orobus niger                               49. SOLANACE^.

                             1850     12 150 170. Petunia odorata          1848

144. Scorpiuras sulcatus     1845     22 75 171. Datura Stramonium         1844
                                                                           1850
                             1850

145. Coronilla, sp           1844     17 25                                1849

146. iBschynomene, sp.       1844     28 100                               1850

                                      * (In waxed cloth.)
166                     --REPORT 1850.

              Name.  Sown ^
. . ..                                                                       .

                             ON THE VITALITY OF SEEDS.                                            167

67. CoMPosiTJE, continued                       67. CoMPOSiTJE, continued

228. Buphthalmum cordifolium 1850     nil.      Cichoriura Endivia              1845              260
                                                                                                  139
229. Zinnia elegans          1848     nil.                                                  1850
                                                Tragopogon porrifoKum . . 1848                      32
,, multiflora                1846     37 450                                                      138

,, grandiflora               1848      2 300                                                1847    10
                                      55 450    Arnopogon Dalechampii.. 1848                        10
230. Rudbeckia amplexicaulis... 1845
                                                                                                    nil.
                             1850     nil.                                      1849
                                                                                                    32
231. Calliopsis tinctoria    1846     3 150                                     1850                73

232. Coreopsis atrosanguinea 1845     138 300 262. Scorzonera hispanica         1847                   1
                                                                                                   nil.
                             1850     nil.      263. Picris echioides           1848               nU.
                                                                                1844
,, Drummondii 1848                    nil. 264. Lactuca sativa                                      35
                                                                                                  196
233. Helianthus indicus      1845     68 75                                     1849
                                                                                                       1
                             1850     nil.                                      1850               nil.
                                                                                                   nO.
234. Bidens diversifolia     1846     124 450   Borkhausia foetida              1848               nil.

235. Tagetes patula          1848     20 200            ,, rubra                1846                   1
                                                68. ONAGRACEyE.
                             1848     nil.                                                          90

,, lucida                    1848     5 450     CEnothera tenella               1848               nil.

236. Gaillardia aristata     1848     nil.              ,, tetraptera           1850                15

237. Helenium Doiiglasii ... 1846     186 600           sp 1848                                    nil.
                                                                                                       1
238. Callichroa platyglossa... 1845   92 300                                    1842                   1

                             1850     nil. 1847                                                    nil.

239. Galinsogea trilobata . . 1845    100 300   Godetia Lindleyana              1845              256
                                                                                                  268
                             1850     nil.              if ft                   1850
                                                                                1842                   1
240. Sphenogyne speciosa ... 1845     75 300                     lepida
                                                                                                  112
                             1850     nil.                                      1847               52
                                                                                1842
241. Oxyura chrysanthemoides. 1845    67 300    Clarkia elegans                                    nil.

                             1850     nil.                                                  1847  160
                                      nil.      Eucharidinum concinnum 1848
                             1842                                                                  42
                                        1 225                                              1846
                             1847                                                                      1
                                                                                                   nil.
242. Madia splendens         1847      nil.     Lopezia racemosa                1848               nU.

243 Cladanthus arabicus      1846     175 600   69. Myrtace^.                                        2
                                                                                                     2
244. Lasthenia glabrata      1844     363 600   Eucalyptus, sp                  1844
                                       53 100                                                      nil.
                             1848               70. LOASACE^.                                      nil.

                             1844     270 600*  Loasa lateritia                 1846               67

,, califomica                1849       4 400       ,, nitida                   1845               nil.
                                                Bartonia aurea                  1850
                             1850     nil.                                      1846               65
                                                                                                     3
245. Chrysanthemum corona
                                                                                                       1
rium                         1848     122 450   71. Umbellifer^.                                   nil.

246. Athanasia, sp           1844     16 25     Petroselinum sativum            1844               84
                                                                                                     4
24 7. Ammobiuin alatum       1847     1 600                                     1849
                                                                                                   35
248. Senecio Doronicum . . .., 18S0   nil.                        >i     >f     1850                 2
249. Xeranthemum anauum . 1846                                                  1844
                                      64 600    Carum Carui                                        nil.

                             1848     nil. 1847                                                    47

250. Calendula maritima      1848     26 100                                    1849

,, officinaUs                1848      53 200                                   1850
                                      401 600
,, pluvialis                 1844               Slum Sisarum                    1847
                                       nil.
                             1849               Bupleurum rotundifolium 1845

                             1850     nil. 1850

251. Arctotis, sp            1844     48 100    CEnanthe Crocata                1846
252. Centaurea depressa      1846
253. Kentrophyllum tauricum  1848     49 300    iEthusa cynapiodes              1844
254. Carthamus tinctorius    1847
255. Onopordon tauricum      1846     11 25                                     1849

                                      44 300                                    1850

                                      22 150    Foeniculum dulce                1849

,, acanthium .. 1846                  40 100                                    1850

256. Arctium Lappa           1846     64 300    Ligusticum Levisticum .. 1844

257. Rhagadiolus stellatus   1849     34 100                                    1849

                             1850     31 50                                     1850

258. Catauanche ccerulea     1847     94 600 282. Angelica ArchangeUca .., 1846

                                      * (In open jar.)
168                 --REPORT 1850.

             Name.
                              ON THE ABORIGINAL TRIBES OF INDIA.                                                                              169

On the Aboriginal Tribes of India. By Major- General John Briggs,

     F.R.S., Vice-President of the Ethnological Society of London.

On the occasion of the meeting of this Association at Oxford, I was pressed
to read a paper on the Aboriginal tribes of India. At that period my in-

quiries were incomplete, and I was unable to trace them to any separate
stock, though it appeared clear they were in almost every respect distinct
from the mass of the population consisting of Hindus of the Bramanical per-

suasion. Since that period I have extended my researches, and have given

two or three lectures on the same subject at the meetings of the Ethnological

Society in London.

   The Hindus are universally acknowledged to be of that branch of the human
family denominated by Blumenbach Caucasian, and they believe they in-
vaded India from the north-west. They were at one time further adva'nced

in literature, in philosophy, in the science of mathematics, in anatomy, in

surgery, in medicine in all its branches, in legislation, and even in purity of

religious doctrines than their contemporaries in other regions of the globe.

    This description will be readily admitted if it can be shown that the Vedas,

or holy scriptures of this people, date, as is asserted, fourteen centuries before
our own
         sera                 and that the commentaries on                                                       a code of civil        and criminal law
                           ;

(of a more ancient date) were written about twenty-seven centuries ago. At

that period, it appears, from the latter work, that the Hindus had not yet pe-

netrated further south than the twenty-second parallel of north latitude,

beyond which (the work states) there tlien existed " extensive forests, in-

habited by a wild and impure race speaking barbarous tongues."

    Here we find an aboriginal race clearly alluded to, and subsequent in-

quiries and monumental remains prove that they were a numerous people,

having established forms of government though living in a very simple and

rude state of society.

  My investigations lead me to believe that these abnormal tribes, probably

of one common stock, had previously occupied the whole of the extensive re-
gion of India, in successive incursions made from some other remote country.
Though the religious tenets and civil institutions of these aborigines were

alike, yet two separate hordes subsisted by different means. The one ob-

tained their food by the chase, dwelling in or near the forests abounding
with game; the other occupying the open plains, subsisted on the milk of

their cattle (cows and buifaloes), and fed on the flesh of their flocks of
sheep.

   These two classes Avere eternally at war, and the same aversion and innate
hostility agamst each other exist at the present day. At the time the Hiudias
entered India both classes of this race appear to have been spread over the
whole surface of the country, under the several denominations of Minas,
Mers, Bhils, Dhiro Kolies, Mhars, Mangs or Mans, Beders, Dhers, Gowlies,
Carumba, Cherumars, Morawa, CoUary, PuUy, Pariah, Yenedy, Chenchv,
Barka, lallary.Gond, Kond, Sawara, Banderwa, Cheru, Bengy, Kooki,Garro,
Kassia, Hajin, Bhar, Dhanuk, Dhome, with many others of which I have not

sufficient details.

of  Among these tribes the    etymologist may without difficulty trace the names
    many of the territorial   divisions which have been assigned to several por-

tions of India by the Hindus.

              Kolwan,         from the Koles                                                                     Bhilwan and Bhilwara,  from   the Bhils ·
Mn/hraJr*-*r"a^shtra, by                                                                                      ;                               Desa, from
                                                                                                                                        Man
                              contraction Mharatta, from the Mhars ;
the Mans or Mangs; the city of Beder, from the Beders; Gondwara, from
the Gonds; Oria-Desa or Orissa, from the Orias ; Kolwan and Koliwara,
170 REPORT 1850.

from the Koles ; Bengala, from the Bengies ; Behar, from the Bhars ; Merwar
or Marwar, from the Mers ; as also the forts of Ajmere, Jessahnere, Com-
behnere, so called after chieftains of the Mer race, and Ahirwara from the

Ahirs.

   At what precise period the Hindu invasion from the west first occurred it
is impossible to say, but the geography of India indicates at once, that that

race necessarily came through Afghanistan and the Punjab, ere it turned the
borders of the Great Desert and penetrated in the direction of Dehli.

   One of the ancient Hindu works left to us, indicates that at a very remote
period a great war broke out between the Sovereign Princes of the Punjab
and those of the Plain, including Hastnapoor, since called Dehli, and the
latter people, aided by the Princes of Mathura and others, maintained on the

field of Panipeet a long and desperate conflict.
    There is every reason to believe that the Hindu race gradually overspread

the territory of Upper India east and west, between the Himalaya mountains
and the Great Desert, without penetrating to the south for many centuries ;
that it enslaved the aboriginal races as it subdued them, compelling them to
till their own lands as serfs, and took from the latter the whole produce,

except what was actually required as food for the tillers of the soil.
   The Hindu race introduced into India municipal institutions wherever they

formed townships. To each of these were attached a certain number of
families of the aboriginal tribes, as villains or praedial servants of the com-

munity. The Hindus brought with them also the Sanscrit language, not in
its present highly refined state, but as a colloquial tongue. Hence it comes
that the language of the aborigines has in many parts gradually disappeared.

   The historical as well as the religious works of the Hindus, of a compara-
tively modern date, together with monumental remains existing in sculptured
edifices and rock caves, all tend to show that no portion of the Peninsula of

India was subdued by them anterior to the fifth century of the Christian aera.
About that time it is supposed that the Peninsula became gradually over-
spread by the Bramanical race. They seem to have entered in two direc-
tions; the one from Guzerat, gradually extending over Khandeish and Berar
till they reached to the forests which fringe the banks of the river Wurda,
where it meets with the Godavery ; the other invasion, according to tradition,
occurred about the same time. It passed from the valley of the Ganges and
penetrated southward along the line of coast of the Bay of Bengal, keeping
within the range of mountains on the east and the Ocean, till after reaching
the embouchures of the Godavery and the Kistna, the invaders spread out
over the plain and proceeded southward. It has been assumed that about the
same period, the Bhudists, a peculiar sect of Hindus, reached the shores of
Ceylon and Southern India from the opposite coast, and thence proceeding
northward spread their religious doctrines among the aborigines. About
the ninth or tenth century the Bhudists and Bramans appear to have met
from opposite directions, which led to deadly conflicts, and ended in the
Bramans putting down the Bhudist tenets.

  We have historical proof that the island of Bombay was not subjugated

to the Hindu rule till the fourteenth century ; and that in the beginning of
the next century the Mahommedans found princes of the aboriginal race
occupying in force several strongholds not far from Poona. The town and
district of Sorapoor, lying between Hydrabad and the Western Mountains, is
still held by an aboriginal chief with a portion of his tribe ; and within the
memorv of man the kingdom of Mysore contained several principalities of
the Becier race. Further south, the Morawas and Collars obtained celebrity
in modern times by their adhesion to one or other of the European belligerent
--

ON THE ABORIGINAL TRIBES OF INDIA.  l7l

powers (France and England), and evinced fidelity and even devotion to the
cause of the party which each espoused. Further north we find the vast re-
gion of Gondwana still peopled almost entirely by the aboriginal race, which
extends throughout the hilly districts of Orissa in the direction of the valley
of the Ganges. The territory of Gondwana appears never to have been re-
duced to the condition of a Hindu state, but has preserved through successive
ages its institutions, its laws, and its religion intact.

   In the more northern part of India there are recorded instances of princi-
palities of the aboriginal tribes which have resisted with great resolution and
sometimes with success the efforts of the Hindus and Mahommedans to sub-
due them, but at present there is hardly one in existence which retains any-
thing like independence in the plains ; indeed there are not many of any im-
portance throughout all India, even in the hills.

   I have described the ancient Hindus as having attained, at a very remote
period, a high degree of perfection in literature and in science. They were
not less remarkable for their civil institutions. At whatever period they
settled in the northern regions of Upper India, there is no doubt that (in
common with the greater part of the Caucasian family, of which they must be
deemed a branch) they established throughout the territory they occupied,
municipal institutions in each village and township, by means of which, the
inhabitants managed their own aff"airs. Besides this peculiarity of govern-
ment, the Hindus adopted the practice of dividing their municipalities into
castes, which could neither eat together nor intermarry. These consisted of
four principal divisions, from each of which are minor ramifications.

    The four castes comprise,
    1st. The military, from which are sprung sovereigns and princes, as well

as warriors.

    2nd. The priesthood, derived entirely from Bramans.
   3rd. The mercantile and mechanical tribes or families.
   4th. The cultivator or landholder.
   As has been stated, these castes never intermarried, and thus kept themselves
free from any admixture with any other race.
   The Hindus burn their dead. They abstain from eating the flesh of
horned cattle, and from tasting ardent spirits. They believe in the transmi-
gration of souls, give themselves up wholly to the guidance of the Bramanical
priesthood, and are taught to worship their ancient heroes as demigods, who
are supposed to plead with the supreme God for those who in humility ask

in repentance.

    The aboriginal races, one and all, differ in every respect from the Hindus.
Their government is strictly patriarchal; all crimes are punished and disputes
settled by the award of the elders or heads of tribes assembled. They have no
prejudices against animal food of any kind, whether the animal be slaughtered,
 or die a natural death. They have no municipalities ; have no laws of caste :
they bury instead of burning their dead. They have no regular priests, but
 select them for the moment, as necessity requires, out of the lay body.
 These are chosen usually from those believed to possess the power of magic.
 They have no other knowledge of a future state than what they occasionally
 pick up from their intercourse with Hindus or with other people. Instead
 of offering up thankgivings with a grateful heart for all the blessings they
may enjoy, they confine their prayers to requests from the divinity to gratifj'
 their desires, supply their wants, and avert evil. For these purposes they
 ofi'er up bloody sacrifices. In those parts still unsubdued, such as a great
part of Gondwana and the contiguous tracts of Goomser and Bustar, and
in some portion of the country lying farther eastward among the Assam
--172 REPORT 1850.

Hills, they continue to make human sacrifices, a practice to which these races
have been prone, according to Hindu records, from the earliest ages.

    Their offerings are made to the god of the elements, of floods and of the
soil ; they propitiate the goddesses of contagious and epidemic diseases. They
also worship power in every shape to avert danger ; hence all beasts of
prey, such as tigers, bears and leopards, venomous serpents and other rep-
tiles; as also the elephant and the rhinoceros in a wild state.

    Their domestic habits and institutions have a strong affinity to those of
the great Tartar family ; they may serve as a specimen of the whole race.
They employ whipping as a remedy for tertian fever and ague, as practised
among tiie Turkish hordes in Persia ; and it is also adopted as a remedy for
violent insanity, for they consider persons so afflicted to be possessed of an

evil spirit, whom they thus endeavour to expel.
   In some parts both men and women bore their ears and wear heavy rings

to extend the lower lobe. Unlike the Hindu women, they wear no bodice
to support tlie breasts, instead of which, in many cases they gracefully throw
the end of a muslin cloth ten or twelve yards long, as it comes from the loom,
round the body, and which is tastefully arranged so as to cover the person.
Their weapons are the sword, the bow and arrow, the javelin, and almost
universally a bill-hook, which is worn in a belt over the right hip.

   The virtues of this race consist in dauntless courage, fidelity and loyalty to
their superiors and chiefs, and probity towards those with whom they may
have entered into engagements. They have great regard to truth, and ex-
ercise hospitality, and are generous in their dealings with each other, as well

as with strangers.

    In Rajputana such is the consideration they obtain from the Hindu princes,
that the latter submit to the form of being placed on the throne by an

aboriginal chieftain, from whom each receives on his succession a recogni-

tion of his sovereignty by the impression of a spot of blood fresh drawn from
the foot of one of the ancient race.

    This act ensures devotion and loyalty ; these are never withheld unless in
case of some acts of wanton oppression on the part of the sovereign, which
calls forth resistance and open war. Such are the virtues of the aboriginal

tribes.

   Among their vices may be reckoned drunkenness on all occasions of do-
mestic or national festivity. Those who dwell in the forests and mountains

chiefly subsist (where they can succeed) by plundering or levying tribute on
the inhabitants in the open plains, on the plea of the latter having dispossessed
them of their native soil. In their pursuit of this object they seldom commit
murder, if it can be avoided; but they sometimes practise cruelty on their
prisoners in order to extort confessions of concealed wealth, or to deprive
them of the means of escape in the absence of guards, which is effected in
the latter case by burning the soles of the feet and the palms of the hands of

their captives.

   Captain Newbold of the Madras army, who has written on the Chenchies
of the Nalla Malla or Black Mountains, represents those he saw as having
long bushy hair, thick lips, high cheek bones, and small but piercing eyes.
Sir Richard Jenkins and Colonel Agnew confirm this description in speaking
of theGonds; and I believe no instance will be found of those residing entirely
on the hills having the aquiline nose or the delicacy of feature of the Cauca-

sian family. In this respect they partake rather of the Tartar or Thibetan
physiognomy than of the Hindu.

    The remote period of their settlement in India, and the possibility of an
occasional intermixture with the Hindus, may in some cases have somewhat
                                    --

                                .

                  ON THE ABORIGINAL TRIBES OF INDIA.           173

changed their physiognomy from that of their ancestors, so as to render it
doubtful whether or not they are derived from that branch of the human

family, though in their habits and institutions they certainly bear a strong

affinity to the Tartar branch.

   It remains now to say something of their language. It is not disputed
that when the Hindus came to India from the westward, they brought with
them that language now recognised as Indo-Germanic, and Avhich pervades

almost all the spoken languages of Europe, extending from the banks of the

Ganges westward to the shores of the Atlantic.

There is the strongest reason to believe that the Hindus occupied the con-

tinent of India, north of 22 degrees of north latitude, for twenty centuries in
succession before they invaded the south. Hence our ablest Oriental phi-

lologists have divided the various dialects in India into two classes called

the Northern and the Southern groups, viz. the Hindi, Bhirji, Guzeratti,

Mharatti, Bengali and Oria, constitute the northern group, which consists of

six languages; and the Gondi, Telugu or Telingi, Canari and Tamili, con-

stitute the southern group, which consists of four languages.

Each of these may be subdivided into local dialects, differing from each

other as much, and even more so than those of portions of the same countries

in Europe ; but it is not my intention to enter here upon an examination of

these dialects.

   In the languages of the northern group (especially the Hindi), Sir William

Jones and Mr. T. H. Colebrooke after much pains found that nearly nine-

tenths of the words have a Sanscrit origin. This great abundance of Sanscrit

diminishes as we proceed southwards ; and the language at the extreme point
of the Peninsula, and that spoken on the Niigherry hills, scarcely contains any

Sanscrit words at all but those of science and abstract metaphysical terms.

   The Rev. Dr. Stevenson of Bombay, one of the closest investigators of the
Hindu institutions and languages, and who is well-versed both in the San-

scrit and in the vernacular tongues of the South, has discovered in the

Mharatti (which is apparently a Sanscrit dialect) numerous words belonging

to the southern group. For the purpose of these inquiries he consulted the

following dictionaries compiled by Europeans, viz.

1. Dr. Hunter's Hindu               published in 1808

2. Campbell's Telugu or Teliugi.                    ,,  1821
3. Marshrcan's Bengali                              ,,  1828
4.. Cloughs's Cingali(of Ceylon)..                  ,,  1830

5. Molesworth's Mhratti                             ,, 1831
6. Reeves's Canari                                  ,, 1832
7. Rolter's Tamili                                  ,, ] 83*

8. Guzeratti Vocabulary

Dr. Stevenson carefully compared all these dictionaries one with another;

and he made out tables placing words of similar sound and meaning in juxta-

position, by M'hich he traced several hundred vocables to be identical, though

the nations using them are at the present day unknown to each other, and

living hundreds of miles apart; but not one of these identical words was of

Sanscrit origin.

   To Dr. Reinhold Rost of Berlin I am deeply indebted for the aid which
he has aff'orded me in my philological investigations, from his accurate know-
ledge of the Sanscrit and some of the languages of Southern India. He ad-

mits the propriety of classing the languages of India into the northern and

southern groups, and allows that the former contain a very large proportion

of Sanscrit words with a certain admixture of words of the southern group.

He remarks that the palatial sounds of the letters r, d,j) t are confined to
174 REPORT 1850.

India, and cannot, as stated by Dr. Stevenson, be pronounced without diffi-

culty by any but by a native of the province in which the language containing

them is spoken. These sounds are unknown in Sanscrit.

  He is disposed to think that the Sanscrit of the languages spoken in the

northern group owes its present grammatical construction to the gradual

adoption of the forms of speecii of the abnormal nations, this construction

being universal throughout India, even among tiie Hill tribes, and so different

from the rules of Sanscrit construction, that it is impossible to conceive the

one to be derived from the other. The similarity of words and formation of

sentences in the language of the Todas on the Nilgirry Hills, and that of the

Gonds on the Nerbudda, is very remarkable; and it is stated on good autho-

rity that some American missionaries who had long resided in Mysore could

understand and make tliemselves understood when they spoke the Canarese

language among the Gonds at Amarkantak. The identitj' of the Gond lan-

guage with those of the South of India has been proved by myself in com-

paring 350 words of Gondi, Telingi, Mharatti, Marwari, and Guzeratti to-

gether, and of these scarcely one word occurs that is not coniraon to one

or more of those languages.

   The peculiarity of construction of all these languages diffei'ing from the

--Sanscrit, consists, 1st. In the termination and in the conjugation of the verbs.

2nd. In the preposition of the Sanscrit, and the languages derived from it,

becoming in India a postposition. 3rd. In the several meanings of the plural;

--Webeing inclusive and exclusive, such as. including the person spoken to
--and the speaker that is You and I, only ; while another plural form signifies

We ourselves, only and not you. 4th. Different words are used as adjectives,

in their application to animate and inanimate objects. 5th. The passive voice

of verbs is formed by auxiliaries, such as to suffer, to fall, to get, to take, to

eat. 6th. In the languages of India each sentence is divided into two parts,

viz. the subject and the verb ; the latter is invariably placed at the end of

the sentence. In the same way, remarks Dr. Rost, the affirmative branch of

a sentence is preceded by the negative ; the eff"ect by the cause ; the infer-

--ence by the reason, and the consequence by the condition, all of which in-

dicates a radical form and construction essentially different from the Sanscrit.

Dr. Stevenson winds up his dissertation on this subject by arriving at the

same conclusion, viz. " that Bramanical influence has modified grammatical

structure, and introduced into the northern group of Indian languages some

affixes for those in former use, especially in the inflexion of nouns, need not

be denied, but the general structure of all of them has remained unaff'ected.

There is as little analogy in the construction of a Hindu or Mharatti sentence

to the syntax of the Sanscrit, as there is in that of an English or French

sentence to that of the Latin."

The next question, then, is to consider to what great class these Indian

Welanguages belong.  are naturally disposed to place them in the position

indicated by the physiology of the people, and in support of this conclusion

we have the following testimony. The peculiarity of the plural which has

been pointed out belongs to the Manchou and Mongolian tongues, and also to
the Malayan, an offset of the same family. " The peculiarity of str>icture of

the Indian languages belongs equally," says Dr. Rost, "to those of Northern

Asia. Of this the position of the pronoun affords proof; also the same use

of an affix to supply the place of the inflexions in the Sanscrit and its deri-

vatives the Greek and Latin. The Mongolians and the Indians use special

personal pronouns to denote respect ; they also use a distinct relative parti-

ciple in lieu of a relative pronoun.
   " In short," observes Dr. Rost, "the same rigorous structure of sentences
       ";

       ON THE ABORIGINAL TRIBES OP INDIA.                                l75

pervades the whole class of Indian languages and those of Upper Asia, and
which cannot be better explained than it has been by Gablenz in his ' Gram-

raaire Mandchou,' p. 276. ' On y place toutes les expressions modificatives

avant celles auxqucUes elles s'appliquent ; ainsi I'adjectif avant le substantif;
le regi avant le mot qu'il regit ; le regime direct et indirect avant le verbe

I'expression modificative avant I'expression modifiee ; la proposition incidente,

conditionelle, circonstantiale, hypothetique, et causale avant la proposition

principale.'

   Almost all these peculiarities diflPering from the Sanscrit construction are
participated in by the languages of Thibet and Burma, which Dr. Rost con-
siders to be the connecting link between the languages throughout India and

the Chinese.
   In confirmation of the opinions of Rost and Gablenz, I find Professor

Westergard of Copenhagen, in writing to a friend in London so late as Sep-
tember 1846, observes, " I never entertained any doubt of these [the Indian]
languages being of Scythian descent, a term which I adopt from Rask for the
stock of languages usually called Tartar, and which I prefer as a more general
name to be adopted in speaking of the Fins, the Mongols, and the Deckan or
southern languages of India." Professor Rask, alluded to by Professor
Westergard, who passed some years in the South of India, was an excellent

--Sanscrit scholar, and was also well acquainted with the Tamili, writes in

like manner : " I am of opinion, that not only are many words of the
southern group of languages (in India) common to those of Upper Asia, but

that the construction of the whole of them differs essentially from the San-

scrit, and is based on the languages of Northern Asia."
   The supposition, that all the aborigines are derived from the stock of

Northern Asia, meets with strong additional confirmation when we find a

very prevalent opinion to that effect confirmed by tradition, as in the ancient
poems of Chand and others of the bards of Rajputana, who describe the

Gujers and the Jats as of the Tacshac or Scythian race, in common with the
Gackers since converted to Mahomraedism, which are spoken of as the
bravest of the opponents of Mahmud of Ghizny, in the tenth and eleventh
century, in the Punjab, and on the banks of the Indus. When the remote

--period of the Hindu invasion is considered, which cannot bj'^ any possibility

be less than thirty-two centuries ago, when there are so many proofs from
tradition and history that they found India peopled by races of hunters and

--herdsmen, when we find these races still existing in every part of India, and

living in a state of prsedial slavery in towns as a portion of each village com-

--munity, and in the hills claiming the right of the soil though dispossessed of it,
   we cannot fail to recognise the fact of their being a wholly distinct people

from the Hindus. To establish with any degree of certainty, however, their

origin, may well be deemed a diflScult task. In my endeavour to do so, I

have, I think, shown that the whole of those who have been described as

aborigines must belong to one great family ; that they in many respects re-

semble the character of the great Scythian horde ; that they are also found to

partakeof the featuresof the same race, and that all the Indian languages differ-

ing in construction from the Sanscrit (the language of the Hindus), assimilate

not only in grammatical form, but also in words with the Tartar tongue.

While writing this paper I have met with a singular coincidence of lan-

guage and physiological character in the remarks of Dr. James Bird, the

President of the Bombay branch of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great

Britain and Ireland. That gentleman read some time since a paper before

the Ethnological Society, on the affinity of the language of the Gonds, the

purest of all the aborigines of India, and the mountaineers east of the Hima-

1850.                                      N
--176 REPORT 1850.

laya chain, giving rise to the Ganges and to the Bramaputra river, and which
are denominated Bhutia. Of these Dr. Bird remarks, the connexion of this
race with the Nomadic Tartar tribes possessing the central region of Upper
Asia may perhaps account for that mixture of Sabeism wliich prevails in the
relio'ious worship of the Gouds, and is characteristic of tlie superstitious
system of belief existing among the ^Mongolian tribes. Mr. Bradley, who has
taken some pains on this subject, traces also a close connexion between the lan-
guage of the Gonds and that of the Burmas, called by Mr. IMarsden Oraug
6e«o?fas,signifying literally the aboriginesof the Malayan or Malacca peninsula.

  --The result of all my inquiries ou tlie several aboriginal tribes of India

leads me to the following conclusions : First, that they are of a stock essen-

tially differing in almost every character of a race from the Caucasian Hindu.

That the whole have a common origin ; and though they may have come, as

they probably did at different times, both from the east and from the north,
they are all derived from the same great Tartar horde, and undoubtedly in-
habited India anterior to the invnsion of that ancient and venerable people
the Hindus. The latter, proceeding eastward from Persia, extended over the
barbarous nations of India, and introduced their laws, their civil institutions,
and their language, at the same time enslaving the aborigines wherever they
settled. The exclusive rules of caste forbade the intermixture of the two
races, and this circumstance alone suffices to account for the separation
having continued to exist for so lengthened a period.

    While the Hindu branch of the Caucasian family proceeded eastward,
other portions of the same race spread themselves westward and became the
progenitors of the present European race. They subjected those they sub-
dued to the yoke of slavery as serfs of the soil ; they brought with them the
Sanscrit or Indo-Germanic tongue, and to them Europe owes the introduction
 of that system of municipal administration which is the only true foundation
 of free institutions and constitutional government.

Report concerning the Observatory of the British Association at Kew,
   from September 12, 1849 to July 31, 1850. By Francis Ronalds,
    Esq., F.R.S., Honorary Superintendent.

At the conclusion of my last Report (for 184-8-49), various proposals were

made for the prosecution of new experiments and observations, and for the
continuance of others already instituted at Kew : and the General Committee
of the British Association, at the Birmingham meeting in September 1849,
resolved that "Sir John Herschel having reported that the Meteorological
Observations made at Kew are peculiarly valuable, and likely to produce the
most important results, the sum of £250 be voted for the continuance of that
establishment for the ensuing year," &c.*

    Endeavours have accordinjily been made, not only to cause this sum, added
 to about £50, the residue of the former year's grant, to go as far as possible
 toward the attainment of the principal objects contemplated, but, at the same
time, to promote the views of Her Majesty's Government in the establishment
 of a convenient and exact system of self-registering magnetical and other
 meteorological instruments in the colonial observatories under the superin-
 tendence of our highly distinguished Honorary Secretary Colonel Sabine.

     * Vide Report for 1849, p. xx. The olservations here alluded to were principally those
 on atmospheric electricity.
                        ON THE KEW OBSERVATORY.                                               l77

It would be seen (on reference to some of the following details) that

several of the proposed experiments have resulted in the construction of a

new magnetograph ; in considerable improvements upon others ; in an im-

provement upon the barometrograph ; in a convenient method of producing

engraved copies of photographic curves, &c., procured by the self-register-

ing  instruments ;  in  a  few minor contrivances, &c. of other  kinds                        and
                                                                                           ;

finally, in an attempt to institute a series of observations on the frequency

of atmospheric electricity, intended as preliminary to the formation of a

system, and an apparatus which should permit the self-registration of this

species of observations.

   In the Kew Report for ISiS-i*, p. 141, are tabulated a very few of my
observations on the subject of frequency made at Kew in that year ; and the

apparatus then employed, consisting of two atmospheric conductors, is shortly

described. I believe that they were the first experiments of the kind whicJEi

have been published since Beccaria's extremely interesting observations at
Turin about 1750 (which were effected by means of apparatus having very
imperfect insulating power), and I think that the above-named apparatus, of
two conductors, <S:c., is somewhat better suited to the purpose than one rod

which I now employ ; but the funds and localities at Kew do not at present

permit the use of the former. These ieyf experiments, however, taken in

conjunction with Beccaria's, with my own old experiments (at Highbury

Terrace, and at Hammersmith, Upper Mall, not published), and with what

little has been done at Kew this year, have tended to increase in my estima-

tion the importance of carrying out such researches effectively. Their

results may form a link in the chain of phaenomena connecting the static
with the dynamic electricity of the atmosphere ; for it is only when frequency

is great that galvanometers manifest a current. If atmospheric electricity
exerts a7iy agency on animal life, &c., is it not this condition (of frequency)

which has prime influence ?
   These considerations, joined to the circumstance of frequency having been

already in some measure a subject of inquiry at the Royal Greenwich, and
even at the Bombay Observatories (with apparatus of the kind which I use),
naturally create very great regret that the indisposition of the observer who

was engaged at Kew during a part of this year, caused the series of observa-

tions on frequency to be so limited as it will be found to have been.

  We shall, I trust, fully compensate for the deficiency under Mr. Welsh's

able exertions next year.

 --I now proceed, as usual, to matters regarding ^first, the Building, Instru-

ments, &c., of the Observatory ; secondly, to some remarks concerning ob-
servations; and thirdly, to an account of what has been done in the way of

experiment since the last general meeting of the Association.

                    I. The Building, Instruments, &c.

   The exterior of the premises has required very little repair. The addi-

tion of a rail, &c. has been made to the former arrangements on the Dome

for the greater security and convenience of the observer whilst attaching the

lantern to the top of the principal conductor.

In the interior, some painting, plastering, papering, &c. have been executed

A(in the basement).        few book-shelves have 'been added to those in the

North Hall, for the reception of books presented to the Association, and for

the stock of the Association's Reports, &c.

  A small upper apartment has been appropriated to the mechanic or pho-

tographist as a sleeping-room.

     The South Upper Room (or laboratory) has been supplied with a good

lathe, turning tools, various chucks and necessary appendages ; also with a

                                                                    n2
           --

--178 REPORT 1850.
                                                                                                                                                                              ,

vice-bench, &c., in order to render it efficient for experimental purposes, and
to avoid tlie great delay and expense occasioned by having to send to London
for many articles which can be constructed here.

   The Principal Conductor on, and in, the Dome is in an efficient state, but
should be dismounted and cleansed, &c. The slight inclination spoken of in

ray last Report lias been remedied.

   The Volta- Electrometers in the Dome have been repaired.
   The Galvanometer (Goujon's) appears to have lost a little in sensibility,

the needles being no longer perfectly astatic.
    Tiie Discharger, the Gold-leaf Electroscope, the Distinguisher, and the

three Niyht-registering Electrometers are etfective.

    Tlie pair of portable Volta Electrometers, and the Peltiers or rather

Ermans Electrometer, are in working order.
    The Electrograph (at tlie central window of the upper south room) has

 been somewhat damaged by a violent storm. It is intended to repair it, re-
move it to tlie dome, and connect it with the principal conductor there after
 the preliminary observations on frequency have been accomplished.

    The Wind- Vane has been restored.
    The Rain and Vapour- Gauge, and the Balance Anemometer, have been
properly examined and adjusted at the requisite intervals.
    The Standard Thermometer, and the Wet-Btdb Hygrometer, have been
 removed from their position at the north window of the Quadrant Room,
 and mounted on a thermometer stand.
    The Ordinary Barometer has been (again) compared with the Royal

 Society's Instrument.

     The Kreil's Barometrograph has been repaired, and a few curves have
 been drawn by it.

    The Photo-Barometrograph has been removed from the Transit Room to

 the Quadrant Room, and has had a little alteration made in it for the purpose
 of rendering it applicable to either the Daguerreotype or the Talbotype pro-
 cesses. It still requires further alterations and improvements.

     The Declination Mugnetograph (in the Transit Room), described in the
 Phil. Trans, part 1 for 184'7, has had some alterations made in it similar to
 those made in the Photo-Barometrograph.

   A Horizontal-Force Magnetograph has been added to our collection, from

 apparatus sent fromW'ooIwich, with my photographic self-registering arrange-
 ments. This instrument is in most respects similar to that described in my

 last Report, and sent to Toronto ; the differences will be alluded to and easily
 understood when the experiments, &c. for the construction of the vertical-
 force instrument sent to Toronto are described below.

     Also some apparatus of an improved kind, used in the Daguerreotyjie

 process.

    An instrument for dividing right lines (necessary for the scales, &c. of all

 self-registering instruments), and a new kind of compasses or dividers, will be
 described under the head of " Experiments," as they are not yet considered
 to be complete.

     The Storm-clock is in proper working order, and greatly facilitates obser-
 vations on frequency. [As it is applicable extensively to meteorological, and
 even some astronomical observations, it should perhaps have the more general
  appellation oi" Observer s Clock."']

    The description of this instrument in our Journal for ISM-4-5 not having
 been printed, the following short account of it may not perhaps be deemed

  unnecessary :

    A (in Plate III. fig. 1) is a strong deal table firmly secured upon the stage

 in the Electrical Observatory. B is an inclined writing-board solidly attached
;-vs.-i*»i
Mr. Ronald's Report.--To face p. 179.

           FREaUENCY PAPER. No. 1.
            May 12. 17" l/TM P 650

     . 12-5

   . 17-5 P

     . 25
     . 27-5
     . 30

     . 35
     . 37-5
5
      . 42-5
     . 45
      . 47"5
      . 50

      · 55
      · 57-5
      , 62-5

      . 65

XO

, tJ7'5          11"' 15'

                           Cirro cumuli in zenith.

· ti7-5

              P
                         --

ON THE KEW OBSERVATORY.      179

to A, and C is the clock-case, rf' is the long pendulum within C, and rf* its
very heavy bob. d^ is a lever which enters C through a slit, and whose ful-
crum is at 6?* : a spring (not shown) forces the nearest end of d^ upwards
when it is not stopped in the horizontal position, d^ is a little stop fixed

upon rf3. c?6 js a rod attached, by a pivot, through a slit to d^, and passing
through a hole in a piece of wood (not shown) attaciied to A. This part of
the instrument is so constructed, that when the clock is not in motion d" is in
a higher position than that shown, and the extremity of the then inclined pen-
dulum </' is placed by the observer against its nearest side, preventing vibra-
tion ; but when it is to be set in motion, d^ is brought into the position shown
by depressing the handle at the top of cZ". d^ is a gut-line proceeding from
the barrel of the clock contained in C, passing over B, round a pulley at an
angle of A, and sustaining a weight, d^, which gives motion to the clock-work.

    d^ is another line sustaining the winding-up weight, d'''\ which line passes

round another pulley (unseen) under B, and entering C is attached to and

winds round the barrel of the clock in the contrary direction to d^.
   The continuity of rf^ is interrupted by a small steel wire, upon which turns,

or hangs freely, a little pointed brass plate rf'*, pressing very lightly on B.

   When the clock is at rest f/''* is adjusted to the upper part of a " Frequency

Paper" fixed (by drawing pins) upon B, and the whole is ready for use.

When an observation is to be commenced, the time (by our chronometer) is

written exactly opposite to the point of the index c?'* (which has been placed at
the top of the paper by pulling down the weight c?"^); the conductor is then
discharged, and thependulum started (by pressingdownrfs)at the same moment.

   As the charge of the conductor advanctis towards irs former intensity (or
any other approximative maximum intensity), marks are made opposite to the

index from time to time at convenient intervals ; and the various tensions are

noted down at those intervals near the marks until a maximum has been
arrived at by estimation (i. e. when no increase of tension seems to be going
on, or when a decrease has actually begun). The observation now ceases,

and the fiducial edge of a scale, accurately divided into spaces corresponding
with the rate of our chronometer, is applied to the above-mentioned first and

last marks or "notes of tension," and occasionally to other of the marks. Or, in
order to estimate as accurately as possible by these means the time of a maxi-

mum, the observation is carried on even beyond the apparent first maximum.

  A copy of one of the "Frequency Papers" is annexed which has been

employed for procuring the " Frequency Observation of Atmospheric Elec-

tricity," where it may be seen that on May 12th, 17'' 17', the charge of the
conductor was positive and =65 divisions of the Electrometer, and that the

Frequency (at about 11 minutes afterwards) was =11' 15" (the charge had

increased to 67*5 divisions).

   The remaining apparatus and instruments of various kinds belonging to

the Association, or on loan to it, do not seem to require particular notice
here. They are carefully preserved.

                                         II. Observations.

   The only observations (or experiments) worth notice here, on the fre-

quency of atmospheric electricity which have been made at Kew this year

(by means of apparatus particularly described in the Society's Reports for

184!3-4'4), commenced on the 12th of May and terminated on the 1st of

June. The plan of procedure adopted was intended as merely preliminary,
and in order to arrive at certain data for choosing the preferable mode of

instituting a regular series of such observations (self-registering or ordinary).

   The instructions given to the observer were as follow :
   " The pillar lamp, and the lamp of the lantern belonging to the electrical
180 REPORT 1850.

apparatus in the Electrical Observatory having been filled with good olive
oil, and provided with wicks of the usual uniform size, which have not been
used more than three or four days, to be at sunrise of every day, excepting
Sundays and Wednesdays, lighted and placed in their usual positions for

observations.

    " At one hour after sunrise, or as near to that time as possible, an obser-

vation of the barometer, its attached thermometer, the standard thermometer,
the wet-bulb hygrometer, the balance anemometer, and the wind-vane, to-
gether with remarks on the state of the sky, to be made and entered in the
appropriate columns and page of the printed form headed ' Electro- Meteoro-
logical Observations,' &c., noting also the time of these observations, &c.
having been commenced.

   " As soon as possible after these entries have been effected, a note of the
kind and tension of electricity to be made and recorded, with the time, on a
paper, called a ^Frequency Paper^ and immediately afterwards the principal
conductor to be discharged suddenly and allowed to assume a new charge.

   A" series of notes of tetision, with the times, to be then commenced for

the purpose of ascertaining (as nearly as the conditions below stated and
other circumstances will permit) the length of time which may elapse between
the moment of allowing the new charge to commence and the moment of

that new charge arriving at a maximum tension. These notes of tension and
times to be also set down upon the above-named frequency paper (or papers),

together with any variation in the kind (positive or negative) of charge which

may have occurred.
   " The primary observation of kind and tension to be copied into the

columns headed ' kind ' and ' periodical ebservations ' respectively ; and the

length of time which may elapse (as above) for obtaining a maximum ten-

sion, in the column headed 'frequency' of the above-mentioned printed
form or journal.

   " If a maximum tension should occur at any time after the expiration of
half an hour, and within one hour, from the moment of allowing the above-
mentioned new charge to commence, then fresh observations of the baro-

meter and of the above-named other meteorological instruments, with remarks
on the state of the sky, to be made as nearly as possible at the time of the
maximum. This second set of observations of the barometer, &c. to be
also entered in the printed form as before, with the times of these observa-
tions having been commenced.

   " If a maximum tension should not occur before the lapse of one hour
after the moment of allowing the above-mentioned new charge to commence,

the series of notes of tension (which serve for endeavouring to attain the
frequency observation correctly) to be discontinued ; and the circumstance
to be noted in the ' frequency paper' and the printed form as above.

   " The lamps of the electrical apparatus to be kept burning and ready for
observations from tlie time of being lighted until one hour after sunset. The
charcoal stove (Joyce's) to be lighted and kept burning whenever the hygro-
meter indicates a damp state of the atmosphere, in order to preserve a suflS-
cient insulating power in the distinguisher, &c.

   " At one hour after meridian, or as near to that time as possible, and at
sunset, the frequency observation, accompanied by observations of the baro-
meter and other above-mentioned meteorological instruments, and remarks

on the state of the sky, to be repeated. An observation of the rain and

vapour-gauge to be also made at sunset (only), and the whole to be entered
as before. The rain and vapour-gauge to be set at or near to this time.

   " The frequency papers, the electro-meteorological journal, and the chro-
nometer, to be kept usually ou a table at the south end of the Transit Room.
            ON THE KEW OBSERVATORY.                               181

   " The mode of procedure here spoken of is chiefly applicable to serene
weather, including fogs, mists, &c. If rain or snow, impending or more

distant clouds, or sudden changes from a positive to a negative state of charge

should occasion difficulties or impossibilities of observing frequency, these
circumstances to be noted in the electro-meteorological journal and frequency

paper."

            III. Experiments.

   The first subject of consideration, as respects instrumental experiments,
after the last annual meeting, was a better mode of mounting the standard

thermometer and wet-bulb hygrometer.
   In October, a revolving stand, on the Greenwich plan, was erected at the

north entrance of the building ; but objections exist to this, and in fact to all
" thermometer-stands" hitherto invented. Either the sun or the wind has

injurious influences, which it should seem are hardly to be got rid of. I trust,
however, the method will be improved under the suggestions of Col. Sykes.

   In November 1849 some work and preparations were executed here for

the vertical-force magnetograph {vide &Plates I. II.), alluded to in my last

Report as being in an advanced state for the Toronto Observatory. In De-
cember some principal parts of it arrived from Mr. Ross and Mr. Newman,

and its completion was proceeded with.

  A successful attempt to improve this sort of apparatus was that of fitting

a sliding plate to the frame containing the Daguerreotype plate, in such
manner that it completely excluded light from the latter, whilst it was not
in its place in the instrument, but allowed the focus to act upon it when
properly placed there. This contrivance (a modification of one commonly

practised by photographists) precludes entirely the necessity of operating
upon the plate or paper in a dark room before the mercurializing part of the

operation is performed.

   An improvement in the mouth-piece permits a much greater facility and

accuracy of adjustment in the breadth of the slit than had been before
attained', a matter of some importance, when the delicate and rapid changes

Aof the magnet's position are required to be registered. chain was substituted

for a gut-line for suspending the sliding-frame, which somewhat improves

the accuracy of the magnetic curve produced on the contained metallic plate

Aor paper.  little frame, containing ground glass, was added, in order to
Asave time and trouble in examining the image of the slit in the shield.

screen, placed temporarily in the place of the fixed shield, was used with

advantage for dividing the aberration of the lenses between the central and

the outer parts of the range of the said image. This screen was provided

with a series of slits, in lieu of the one sUt only of the fixed usual shield.

An improvement applicable to this and all photo-registering instruments of

similar construction was adopted, consisting in a sliding shutter, which, by a
simple, small, rotatory movement, given by the fingers to an arbor passing
through the clock-plates, is opened in order to expose the Daguerreotype
plate to the focus of light, and at the same moment to set the clock in mo-

tion, and vice versa.

   In order that the new arrangements may be clearly comprehended, and

trouble saved in recurring to former descriptions, it will be convenient to

place the whole apparatus before the eye as finally constructed.

                     Description of the Vertical-Force Magnetograph.

    Similar lettersjefer to similar or analogous parts ingthe figures of this Ih-
strument, as well as of the horizontal-force magnetograph described at page 80
of the British Association's Report for 1849.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;

--182 REPORT 1850.

   The figures 1 and 2 of Plate I. are drawn to one-eighth of the real size
fio'ures 3, 4, 5 and 6, to one-fourth of the size. Tlie figures of Plate II. to

one-quarter of the real size.

  %V, figs. 1 and Plate II., is the magnet box (in section), of mahogany, not

coatedj'as before, with gold paper, provided with a squared tube, T, of cast

brass, which opens into A.

  A is the camera box (of mahogany).

    a' is the usual solid brass casting, forming (in part) one of the ends of

A.

   B is a fifteen-inch magnet belonging to a vertical-force balance magneto-

meter of Dr. Lloyd's construction.
   i-, a piece screwed upon the upper edge of B.
   6\ a pair of very light, sliding brass tubes attached to If; and capable of

vertical adjustment (for length).
   6^, a weight adjustable on a screw attached to the lower edge of B, for

poising ¥, &c. properly.
   6', the moveable shield, composed of very light sheet-brass, flat, and having

its upper edge curved to a radius of 12 inches, and attached to b"^. It has a
very narrow slit at the centre of its upper edge.

   O is a diaphragm plate, whose aperture is about an inch long (horizontally),

and a quarter of an inch wide ; it is supported by two angular plates (as o^)
restino- upon X, and attached (with means of adjustment) to g^ by screws

passtng through slits.

  Oo\ the fixed shield attached to by means of a little bolt, washers and

nut, 0-. It is capable of adjustments for horizontality, height, &c. At about
three-eio-hths of an inch from its centre is a slit, somewhat larger than the
slit in &'. The lower edge of this shield stands at about a twentieth of an
inch lower than the upper edge of 6', and at about the same quantity from

its interior plane.

   C is the shutter apparatus.
   c' is a plate screwed upon A, and having an aperture about equal to and
corresponding with an aperture and little plate of glass in A. It is provided

with grooved pieces, between which slides freely c'-.
   c^ is a plate having an aperture (c^) equal to that of c' and A, but cor-

responding with the latter only when it has slid into its lowest position.
   c* is a small line attached at one end to c-, passed over a pulley, c^ under

another pulley, c", and fixed to a lever, c? (fig. 7, Plate I.), within the clock
case K, which lever is attached to the apparatus used for stopping and start-
ing the clock (vide k% Plate IL of the Report of the British Association for

18i9).

  AThe object of this arrangement (C, &c.) is to admit light into at the

moment of starting the clock, and to exclude light therefrom at the moment

of stopping it.

  D (Plate I. fig. 1) is a modification of Count llumford's polyflame lamp,

having three flat wicks and rack-work to raise them.
   d\ its high, squared copper chimney, with a narrow glass plate opposite to

the best part of the flame.

   E (Plate II. fig. 1 ) is the mouth-piece, in section, consisting of two angular

pieces and of two little plates attached to them, forming the lips and aper-
ture e', which aperture can be diminished or increased at pleasure, with great

and requisite accuracy ; for,
   ,e^ is a plate screwed upon a}.

  V e^ (fig. 3) are two screws, which, freely sliding through e« and screwing

into the upper portion of E, are employed to elevate that portion.
    e* is another screw, screwing through e'^ and pressing occasionally upon
                       ON THE KEW OBSERVATORY.                           183

the upper portion of E. This is employed to move it downwards (when the

mouth is to be more nearly closed e^ e^ must, of course, be released before e*

is screwed downwards, and vice versa).

  A narrow vertical slit is cut in the lower lips of E, as shown in fig. 3, and

a horizontal aperture of about 3 inches long, and about a quarter of an inch

broad, (not shown) is cut through a' for the passage of light to c'.

   F is the slider-case for receiving the sliding-frame,

  f-, a perfectly true ruler of brass attached vertically to «' by means of
three screws passing through it, through three little pillars and through three

oblong slits in a', &c., which admit of its vertical adjustment.

 H/^ is a roller spring attached to a', and acting upon laterally, pressing

it gently againsty"-.

Hf^ is a pair of similar springs acting upon  in front, and pressing a plate

belonging to it (to be presently described) against E.

G is the lens tube containing two groups of achromatic lenses (by Ross),

and of curvature specially adapted to the purpose. The range of the image

of the slit in the moveable shield is four times greater than the range of the

slit itself (vide fig, 2. Plate I.).

g^ is apparatus of sliding plates, &c., for support and due centring of G.

g'^ is apparatus of stud, pinion, milled-headed key, &c., for moving the

rod g^ which is attached to the stud at g*, and serves for adjustment to

focus (of G).

  H is the sliding-frame suspended in F. h* is a door closed by means of

three little turn buckles, h^. Upon its interior side are fixed three springs,

h', for retaining the Daguerreotype plate ?/ (or a glass plate, if Talbotype
paper is used) in its proper place.

h" are the three friction rollers.

h^, a hook with a little peg in it, which attaches it to a clock chain,

A^ is a brass plate capable of sliding freely in a groove in H.

HWhen both h'' and     rest on the bottom of E, /t" covers entirely y (of

course not touching it); and the height of /«^ is such that when placed in F

properly its upper edge always stands at about one-twentieth of an inch below

Hthe opening of the mouth at E, as shown by the dotted line ; but when is
V ¥drawn upward (carrying with it and leaving still resting on the bottom

Vof E), portions of ai'e successively exposed to the action of light passing

Gfrom the lamp (or daylight) through the slit in 6', the lenses in and the

aperture e'.

At the upper end of h* a narrow aperture and a piece of finely ground

glass is placed opposite to it and above 7/, for the purpose of receiving the
image (before the clock is started), and the microscope,/^ (fig, 1, Plate L),

is used in examining the image on the ground glass for focus and colour.

   I is the pulley on the hour-arbor (or barrel arbor) of the time-piece. Its

Hdiameter is somewhat less than i inches. It moves upwards at the rate

of an inch per hour: but a pulley of half that diameter may be substituted

for it, and the time-scale thus diminished to half an inch p6r hour if required.

  Hi' is the clock chain by which is suspended from I ; and

   i^ is a counterpoise to H, &c.

  K (fig. 1. Plate I.) is the time-piece,

   A^ (fig, 7.) is the back view of the lever and fork, &c, above mentioned,

attached to an arbor passing through the clock plates, and furnished with a
milled-headed nut (not shown in front), and by a spring and detent, k, by
means of which the fork can be made to stop or to release the pendulum at
any given second,

  KK' is the frame supporting & F {vide Plate I. of former Report).

k^, brass tubular braces.
--184 REPORT 1850.

   &P" Ps (fig. 1. Plate 1.), are stone pillars whose common centres are in

the mean magnetic meridian (about).

  Q Q are two of four brass tubular columns.

   q' and q- are screws and nuts which enter and clamp those four columns to
two marble slabs.

  R is the lower slab of black marble resting on P'*.

   fi j.« are bolts and nuts which firmly secure the magnet support upon R.
    S is the support of and apparatus for raising and lowering the magnet of
Dr. Lloj'd's construction, but without the cross wires, &c.
    s\ the base.

    s°, four leveling screws.

    5*, pieces carrying the agate pallets.
   s^, frame-work moveable by means of a key, &c., for raising the magnet
off from its pallets.

  VT, a squared brass tube passing through into A.
  X is the upper black marble slab carrying A, G, a', K', &c.*

   Some minor improvements have been made in the apparatus used for the
preparation, Sec. of the Daguerreotype plates, viz. on the polishing board,
Plate I. fig. S ; the buifs, fig. 4 ; the coating boxes, fig. 5 ; and the burning-

offand fixing stand, fig. 6.
                                         The Polishing Board.

  A (fig. 3. Plate I.) is the mahogany board.

   a' a' are screws which attached it to a firm table.

  B is a piece of mahogany attached to A by means of two screws.

   b^ 6' are the two screws which pass through it and screw into A.

   b- b- are two pins fixed firmly in B but sliding stiffly in A.

  Ab^ is a rim (or edging) of thin sheet brass attached to and projecting

upwards a little less than the thickness of a photo-plate.
    b* is a similar edging of sheet brass attached to B.
   The surfaces of ^' and b* are always in exactly the same plane, and the

photo-plate may be firmly held between them by using the screws i' 6'.

                                                 The Buffs.

  A (fig. 4.) is a deal board 1 inch thick in the middle and f inch at each

end. Its lower surface is bellied (in the manner of a large file), and covered
first with flannel and then with thick plush cotton velvet. It is rubbed across
the plate. Its handle («') is glued and screwed firmly upon it.

                                          The Coating Boxes.

  A (fig. 5.) is the deal box.

    a' a' are the usual openings in its sides.
   a^ is the door which carries the usual mirror (on its interior face).

   a' a^ are strips of mahogany with screws and washers which fix them upon

the edges of A but allow them to be approached towards, or withdrawn
from each other a little, in order that any sliding-frame, as H, may fit exactly

between them.
    a* is a little projecting piece to support the glass plate below mentioned.

   B is the glass cistern fitted into A, and containing crystals of iodine, distri-

buted on the bottom.

   i' is the glass plate cover of B resting on its upper edges and projecting

beyond A.

  H is the sliding-frame containing the photographic plate (or paper) and

   * This vertical -force magnetograph was shipped for Toronto on the 23rd of March, and
Captain Lefroy, the Director of the Royal Observatory of Toronto, has acknowledged the
arrival of it as well as of the horizontal-force magnetograph. I understand that he has
mounted and successfully worked this latter instrument.
ON THE KEW OBSERVATORY.  185

¥its sliding plate (vide fig. 1. Plate II.), with a little handle for withdraw-

ing it in order to expose the photo-plate to the action of the iodine, &c.

                            The Burning-off and Fixing Stand.

  A (fig, 6.) is a heavy mahogany board.
  Aa', a milled-headed screw passing through and projecting (about half

an inch) below it.
   a* cS two little brass feet projecting (about the same quantity) below.

   B is another heavy mahogany board.

    6', another screw similar to a' and pressing on A.
    5*, one of two feet similar to a^ a-, also resting on A.

   C C, two tubular pillars fixed upon B.
   c' c', two wires attached perpendicularly to caps on C C, which caps can

turn on their axes.

  V is a photo-plate resting on c' c'.

    The axes of a^ a"- are in a plane perpendicular to the plane of the axes of
i^ b"^. This stand allows of much more rapid adjustment for horizontality
than the usual stand having three adjusting screws.

   About the end of the month of February last, I think, Sir John Herschel
proposed a very ingenious method of procuring surfaces in relief (as in wood
engravings) on gelatine paper, which should exactly coincide with impressions
procured on the gelatine by photographic means, in order that they might be
employed in printing.

   On hearing of this, I suggested to Colonel Sabine the expediency of en-

graving gelatine paper as if it were actually copper, with the figures of the
magnetic and other curves on our Daguerreotype plates, by using the gela-
tine as tracing-paper commonly is used for the purpose of copying drawings,
&c., and also of employing such engraved gelatine as copper plates are em-
ployed for printing any required number of copies of such magnetic and

other curves.

   The experiment succeeded on the first trial.
    Specimens are preserved in our Journal of gelatine paper thus engraved,
and of declination, horizontal force, and barometric curves as printed from

the gelatine.

    The ordinate board has been slightly modified to render it useful in this

process.

    The method of Sir John Herschel, however, will certainly be found far
preferable to this, when chemical difficulties have been conquered, as I sin-
cerely hope they will be.

  --In order to correct certain errors of the clock's rate errors arising from
--expansion, &c., it has been found necessary sometimes to divide the time-

scale belonging to the curves produced into equal parts. An instrument,

correct in principle at least, and which I hope to render an accurate and
generally applicable mathematical instrument, has been experimented upon-

    Its principle of action is that of a well-known instrument called the " Lazy-
back," and will be instantly understood by reference to Plate III. figs. 2 and 3
(the perpendicular rods &ie Jixed to the lower joints, but slide through the
 upper ones).

    It is evident that the points of this instrument cannot be brought very
 close to each other : if, therefore, minute divisions of a scale are required,

the first large division may be subdivided by means of a pair of parallel
dividers (figs. 4 and 5), which, it may be readily seen, is an instrument
constructed on similar principles to the above, but allowing the points to
touch each other. The first large division having been so subdivided, the
192 REPORT-- 1850.

first instrument (figs. 2 and 3) may be evidently so applied as to divide with
accuracy, facility and dispatch, each of the other large divisions into the same

subdivisions " without stepping."

    In the early part of the year many experiments were made on electrotyped
and other kinds of plates. It was found that the former were preferable.

    About the end of April Mr. Ross's portion of the horizontal-force magneto-
graph already alluded to arrived, and claimed our attention and labours. It
was placed on the corbels in the Quadrant Room, which had been occupied

by its predecessor the vertical-force magnetograph sent to Toronto. No

material variation was introduced differing from those already described re-
lative to the vertical-force instrument, excepting such as were required for
its special object. It was so arranged, that it might be, with very slight
variations, used either for a declination or horizontal-force magnet. Ihe
gold-paper covering of the magnet-case is dispensed with, yet this magnet
seems to be as quietly disposed as the former horizontal-force instrument.
Increased diligence has been used for promoting accuracy, &c.

    In concluding this Report, I will only allude slightly to a little correspond-

ence which I have had M'ith gentlemen who seem obligingly disposed to
second my views as to the establishment of electrical observatories, both in
this country and in distant parts of the globe, and have proposed to them a
portable modification of mine at Kew, which would, I believe, be found
efficient in promoting a more extensive range of inquiry into the interesting
subject of Atmospheric Electricity.

Report on the Investigation of British Marhie Zoology by means of
   the Dredge. Pax-t I. The Infra-littoral Distribution of Marine In-

vertebrata on the Southern, Western, and Northern Coasts of Great

Britain. By Edward Forbes, F.R.S., Professor of Botany in

King's College, London, and Palceontologist of the Geological Survey
of the United Kingdom.

At the Meeting of the British Association at Birmingham in 1839, a Com-

mittee was appointed for the investigation of the Marine Zoology of the

British seas, by means of the dredge ; and at the joint recommendation of
the Natural History and Geological Sections, a sum of money was granted

towards its expenses. Ever since that time the Committee has been annually
reappointed, with grants of various amounts placed at its disposal. At each

meeting, a provisional report, stating the nature and success of the researches

Aconducted during the interval, has been presented.  considerable mass of

valuable materials having been collected, it is now proposed in this Report to

present the results in connexion, in such a form as may be useful to science.

The extent and value of the data will sufficiently prove the expediency of

the researches.

   For some years past much attention has been paid to marine zoology by
the naturalists of Europe and America. Among the inhabitants of the sea,
are many creatures whose organization is as attractive to the physiologist as

the singularity of their shapes to the students of external conformation.

Many of them were apparent anomalies in their respective classes, and of
doubtful position in the animal series. To throw light on the general history

of animal tissues, and on the various modifications of vital organs, to fill up
gaps in the scale of being as known to zoologists, to ascertain whether in the

depths of the ocean there are not still remaining the analogues and homologues

of apparently lost species, and the representatives of unknown or conjectural
                                                                                                                               --

                                                          ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                                           193

types, it was most desirable that a more searching investigation should be
conducted into the number, kinds, and distribution of the inhabitants of the

ocean. No single tract had been scientifically explored, and the dredger was
in most instances a distinct person from the naturalist by whom he was em-

ployed.

   The chief purpose for which the dredge had been employed on our coast,
was for the procuring of specimens of shells of the Mollusca. Consequently
our knowledge of the extent of the marine molluscous fauna of Britain, and
of the distribution of the testaceous species in our seas, was much in advance
of that of other departments of marine zoology ; but even this could be but
partially depended on. It was formerly too much the aim of British natu-
ralists and collectors, to endeavour to swell the catalogue of British animals,
the former, from a mistaken patriotism, the latter not always with such dis-

interested motives; consequently the catalogues of our fauna, especially of the
marine mollusca, became enriched by numerous species, very doubtful natives

of our coasts. Some of these did not excite surprise, their true distribution
being then unknown : others led to hopes of the finding in our seas species
of a far more southern type than really inhabit them ; and all went to
destroy the authority of our lists, and to confound the calculations of the in-

vestigators of the laws of geographical distribution, and of the relations of
living animals to fossil. The only hope of purging catalogues so vitiated,
and at the same time of extending them in those departments to which but
little attention had been directed, lay in the establishment of a new series of
researches more rigidly precise than had ever before been attempted, and set
on foot solely with regard to the determination of the true state of our sub-
marine fauna.

   It was for this object mainly the "Dredging" Committee was formed.
Their first act was to print blank formulas, in which the information obtained
might be registered at the time and place where procured. Each form con-
sists of a ruled sheet, with a heading for the registration of particulars of
date of the operation, of the locality/ where conducted, of the depth of the sea
in the place where the dredge was sunk, of the distaiice from the shore at
which the observation was made, of the ground, i. e. the nature of the sea
bottom in the place examined, and of the region under which the portion of
the sea-bed explored might be classed. Below the heading are ranged the
names of the species procured, opposite cclu!r,ns stating the number of living
individuals taken, the number of dead specimens, and any observations which
might be suggested by the condition of the specimens, or the manner in which
they were associated together.

   A great mass of these papers has now been accumulated, and are in the

possession of the reporter. The time has come when they can be tabulated
 and reduced to an uniform language with advantage to science. Until very
 lately this could not have been done. British marine invertebrate zoology
has advanced with gigantic strides since the year the Committee was esta-
 blished. Within the last ten years, the nomenclature and characterization of
 the species of British Mollusca, Crustacea, Echinodermata, Acalephce, and
Zoophyta, have undergone complete and thorough revision. Much has been
 done too among the Annellidous tribes*. Indeed, at the present moment no

--*_The following works are used as text-books for these reports: Yarrell's History of

British Fishes ; Forbes and Hanley's History of British Mollusca ; Bell's Histor>- of British

Crustacea ; Baird's Monograph of British Entomostraca ; Forbes's History of British Echi-

nodermata                                       Forbes's  Monograph  of  British  Medusae ;  Johnston's  History  of  British  Zoo-
                                             ;

phytes, 2nd Edition ; Johnston's History of British Sponges. All these works, with the ex-

1850.                                                                                                                 o
194 REPORT 1850.

marine fauna in the world has been investigated with anything like the care
 devoted to that of the British seas.

    Nevertheless much remains to be done. All parts of the British and Irish
shores have been more or less explored, but not all in an equally systematic
manner. On the eastern coasts, the registration of the depths of marine
animals has been carefully attended to by Mr. Alder, Lieut. Thomas, R.N.,
Mr. Albany Hancock, Mr. Howse, and Mr. King ; whilst Dr. Johnston, Sir
John Dalyell, Dr. Fleming, Mr. Bean, Mr. Embleton, Professors Goodsir and
Macgillivray, the late lamented Dr. J. Reid, and many other able observers,
have devoted themselves to the examination of the marine invertebrata.
From the north-eastern coast of Scotland, many valuable dredging papers
have been filled up by Mr. MacAndrevv, and a considerable accumulation of

valuable data for tabulating the depths of the Testacea in the southern part

of the German ocean, were accumulated by the late Capt. Owen Stanley, R.N.,
and are in possession of the reporter. Around the shores of Ireland, a valu-
able mass of data has been collected by Mr. W. Thompson of Belfast, Dr.
Robert Ball, Mr. Patterson, Professors Harvey, AUman, and McCoy, Mr.
Hyndman, Dr. Farran, Mr. Humphreys, and Mr. Warren, all Irish natural-
ists, and added to by Mr. Barlee, Mr. Jeffreys, Mr. Hassell, Mr. MacAndrew,

and myself. Both from the eastern coasts of Britain, and the whole range
of the Irish coast, more well-filled tabulated forms are still wanting ; conse-
quently I have thought it advisable in the first instance to report on the re-
sults of dredging on the western, southern and northern shores of Great
Britain, from which data have been collected very fully and systematically,
and more than 140 forms of " Dredging papers " fully filled up. With one
exception (by Mr. Hyndman), these have been recorded on the spot at the

time of the operation, by Mr. MacAndrew and myself, jointly or separately.
Numerous isolated records of depths of particular species within this area

are embodied in the following tables from the observations of Mr. Jeffreys,
Mr. Smith of Jordan Hill, Mr. Barlee, Mr. Alder, Mr. Hanley, Mr. Clark of
Bath, and Captain Otter, R.N. ; and for the Orkney Isles, a most valuable
record of depths has been drawn up by Lieut. Thomas, R.N., during his
survey of those islands. The obligations of science to the officers engaged
in the Hydrographical Survey of the British seas cannot be too strongly ex-

pressed.

   In order to reduce the contents of these papers, and to embody the isolated
observations in a useful form, I have tabulated the data in two series of
tables. One includes all the depths at which the species of testaceous MoUusca
and Radiata were taken during these operations, the species themselves being
ranged in systematic order. The nature of the ground upon which they were
found is in every registered case recorded, and also whether the individuals
were taken alive or dead.

    In a second series of tables, all the fully-registered dredging forms are
tabulated and analysed, with a record of the year of observation, the
distance from shore, the depth, the nature of the sea-bed, the number of
species of Univalve testacea taken alive and dead, the same of Bivalve testa-
cea, and the number of Echinodermata, a statement of the species taken
most abundantly, of the rare forms found, and of any peculiarities in the
assemblage of creatures observed in the particular locality.

ception of the first, have been published since the Meeting of the British Association at
Birmingham in 1839, and much of their most valuable materials have been collected in con-
sequence of the researches set on foot at that meeting.
ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.      195

    The above sets of tables ooncern mainly the Testacea and Eehinodermata.

A statement of the results of the search for plants and for animals of other

classes and orders is given in a less formal manner in supplementary para-

graphs.

    To show the range of the several species of Testacea and Eehinodermata
as perfectly as possible, the lists of English and Scottish species are drawn
up separately. Each are moreover grouped under provinces, these provinces

being not merely sections of the coast chosen for convenience, but areas pre-
senting peculiar zoological features of their own, dependent on causes which
are briefly discussed in the general observations oflFered in the latter part of

this Report.

   The English provinces which have contributed materials to this Report are

--five: 1st, the coasts of Hants and Dorset; 2nd, the coasts of Cornwall and

Devon ; 3rd, South Wales and the British Channel ; 4th, North Wales and
the neighbouring sea ; and 5th, the sea around the Isle of Man.

  --The Scottish provinces (western and northern) are also five: 1st, the

Clyde region ; 2nd, the Inner Hebrides ; yrd, the Outer Hebrides and the
sea off Sutherlandshire ; 4th, the Orkney Islands; and 3th, the Zetland

Islands.

   As all these provinces, English and Scotch, have been personally explored
by myself, I am enabled, in tabulating the contents of the dredging papers
and the isolated observations on depth embodied in the list of species, to
judge with greater accuracy than I otherwise could have done of the value
and bearing of the data, and to venture with greater confidence on the general
considerations which follow.

   The reader must bear in mind constantly that the object of the following
papers and tables is not to give a complete enumeration of the animals in-

habiting each province, but to present an authentic series of accurate obser-
vations on the distribution of such species as can only be procured by the aid

of the dredge.

                            o2
--196 iiEPORT 1850.

           6C

         C
         o

        ?&

           &c
          <1
i"
--198 REPORT 1850.
                           ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.  199

imeria hians  Nu- parva

                  arities

              a,
--200 REPORT 1850.

  o

  xn

  o

     05
           ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                                        201

^Sb'

                                             f--t          »o ,^ u^
                                           ·-              rH "-^ r-H

                                                        I

               (M  '-''  "^  -,
               Ej        CO
                   <M

               "^ (M CO

           ss                                                          s ·&

                                                           ^J ^ M so

           Trt 00 J^H r-J                                  I a>S^
                          iDM S) Silo S)1

_^__H^__H                                                  2.3
                                                            §a

                                                           1^ HOOH
202 BEPdiiT--1850.

   s
                                   ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                                                            203

0-5 1-12  0-30  > 5-50  5-20 5-50     ?      7-30  15-50  5-30? 5-30            5-30  5-30  5-20  5-20  10-40 5-30 5-30
                                                                      lit.-7
                                   0^7 0-10
--204 REPORT 1850.

Range.            10-30  15-50  5-30  5-30  0-20 1-15  1-12  1-40  0-30  5-30  5-50  0-30 0-30  2-50  3-30
        fathoms.
                                                    ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                                            205

                      0-20?                         500-30  5-50  5-30  5-30  1-30 3-30  >0-30  0-10? 5-20?                    10-30
                                                                                                                    5-50
3-30 1-30  0-20 0-20         0-20  5-20 0-30  0-30
206                                  --REPORT 1850.
           :n "C « 5

                      o O· irt       I
                      M Q: CO IN 1^   (
                       o o o »'=^
                                     <
                      -.             (

                      M· CO Cv)

                                         as                     sa                           C So

                          700
                                     «n
                                               ;::;

                                                                                                               a-s

                                                     N,^ (N 0^

                                                                                 O N< (N "?                    CO *

afc  s '& g       S   «                                         £ S C3 ft.       .ai     S g es                     a^

     ?!                                                         S -2 'S ?         OS <s  §5"3 e -S
              a c3                                              ·s^ :3 a                                  ft.
                                                     ==                          3a
     ^gasa                                           =3  P'rs                    s§
                                                         313 a
     -l=i-oi  a   a2  aa                                        H H« oa) »-.             Gag
                                                                          tw tg
              cs
                                                   ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                                                           207

                                                   Eb t^  s60 -^       ri  to

                                                                  fc-

                     *,-1   : <M

                            :                             00 12
                                                I

                              00

                     ^xs

                     ^T" 1

                                                                                                                           IN (M (N CM

*
              l-H (

                     a        " a io                                       ra

                            :

                        * :2                                                      * rt                                     ::
                                                                                                                        I
                     &i

                     *r-1

                            : eg                                           00 in

                                       o»c oin o o                         7^2

22
s
208 REPORT 1850.
                        ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                                                        209

5-25  0-30  2-15  0-30  0-30  20-30  10-50  5-50  .'    5-30  5-50  50 8-30  0-30            15-30 20-50
                                                                                       ?-40
                                                  5-30
210                         REPORT 1850.

                        a.
     ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.  211

tS

u

o

02

ftp

^
--212 REPORT 1850

  to

 s

K
                        ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.  213

          Getty.  E.F.
man&

M'A.&
214
                               o«                                                         2

                                  ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                                                                               215

                                                   «

                                  11^              > ao «i                                  2-g<      2§«sso- .-g                       a^-1-5 s.s
                                                   =.2 s ,,-                              ZM 3O                 J3.S-,                  III III
                                                                                   ir.f^                                                ^c 'C '? ^o
                                                                                              c 3!a   60 3W
            "g                            .2                  = ·;                                                                  j^

                         c -.2 B  3 1-3                                                               ° = .-, .

                                  = 2^                                                                S «3o

c5 S

                                  S M* C " S O^                                    3"S    ·aS2> n aJJl 5                                 .g ^ o 2 3
                                                                                   «·§
                   " i(^c                                   a'ga                          .S20^.=2I5             |s s                   ;rgi
                                  S "^S So S s                                     l-g
            u-, 5a » S -E S 2                                                             Shop                  22-?

            S i" o. c g 3 S                                                               "131                  C,3 i
                                                                                          I Is.
            s2sr".f.»                                                                     5£§o

            o" Sah'SS--M^  n   £  ,,-,3 =          -oI* a     s8i .g                                  5      ·  SSu ':»3-<«.            --3fl -a 60
                                                                                                      g
                           bo                                                                             c     fL,,£ 60                ..'53 ° a'o
                                                                                                      c^  o
                                                                                                                «o5                     - = «-=aS
            H 3 o «2s "                                                                               g
                                                              a i"£S                                            5 «;«
                                                                                                      oo                                §  5J3h^biS
            C3D H>  *-»  c -- O   3 ·- Sa          =oS"»3                                             "","      .2-- -
                         og'g.g                    _M j: '2                                                                             =
                    =                                                                                 "e

                                  usfo£         .               S'£2                                  s« a5|
                                                   £&."§g^>'!S;
                                              c

            "·3 .5 == 3 B M                                                        33     =ss'S ts                                      .323BS60
                                                                                   u9     5 Bm m"*
                                  " o » g c.g 2'^ 3                                       5£ag                                          ass <u?
                                                                                                                                        ^< 3t3 ff-3
                                  =.«-;;.£ 3'sSs>> rt G> " eg 13 y G                      ·5.2reH-S =
                                                                                                                                        o b'S S.3.S
                                  IIIS .5 S ^
                                  S                                                                                                     ie^2°'»-B-
                                                   0-5 o 2 = I sl'l                .-Sc
                                                                        ,,-.S«<i:                                                       &Sc Eel's

       S(N

<o
--216 REPORT 1850.

                  o1n3 2S S3=S .52 5 §og< II

                                                        ·S.SSS

                  ^-5  ^ao, s-
                                oCO
                  Is

                                      5515.3 oj

                                     ! £ cO
                                    .g = 1 a. o B

                                            o!^ 2rt ao-

                          S3"
                  s"^

        ·B^Bouap
         -ouiqoa

X

·qidaa
ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.  217
218 REPORT 1850.
                   ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOI^OGY.                                             219

E.2 3 <1.S                             >.J3                        XJ 3                    Zm as
                                                                     .A                    S" « - =
s-gs as                                oa
                                                                2c                         ga^ g
lis ?l                      13 "!~                                                         >f aS
 < o o -so                  =MM                        ·33 "
  5 2 «"
                            3=S                        o-
o.3g'g5§c ^3.2Sao
^><o "In                    «G.2Hi-§w                  ·sgg
gill -^-S"
§3 = '« 2"«                 3 It                        "O 3

                            «'S'3
                            ,5 j; oi b «

                   H "«     « > « '0.2>
                               5= s;aa

                   -S    3  ie a                                                           "lis .

                   33       -=                                                             C 3 .2 gjM
                   '3-°                                                                    <"« ra C C
                            S ^ K·tj S* -^ <u
                   05 0-55  a . "^cZ.a                 C « pH g g*              «
                   ^£ oS    =lt;|Q.:
                   5u 5«ij  5 Sock's t.                0.11 .Ogs                p
                            gg'S'SsaS
                                                       o^^ ^j rt ^ >            ^^

                                                   gs

                                           Cfl to      o3

o» "               oto ;^
                   M * 00
«S
                                       a^ «*j
a "^

*r-l

                                                                                awts S3
                                                                                N 2 9 (/2

                                                   5 ..^g^ ."I          C8 3 O      'a'f "giM ^.S

                                                      '^ "^ "S "^3 ^ o          _^ o

                                                   M MO
--220 REPORT 1850.
                          ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                     221

15-80  0-20  2-50  2-100  2-50  1-20 ht. 0-15 0-12  0-50  15-90  20-100       15-100?
      222  REPORT 1850.

1
                        ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                                                223

1-20  0-18              10-40 0-15  lit.  15-70  7-60  30-100  0-80  0-15? 0-50  0-10 15-40 0-15  0-5

            0-12  0-50
                     '                                2

224                              REPORT 1850.

     IS 525

     &: &:

     ^ ^"" ifS  '--

     ^^                                                  t&

                        e ^s

     ^ o * o o'-' lo '        ,
     -S --1-1 (M IM <>J CO
     ^ o o "(N i-i >n lo
     rt .;2 ,_ rt c^ cv)

                                               M<" a        H&

                                      t-          =>     si

                                               I         8 S;

                                 1:3  as

                                 £a   3 4)
                                 aa   >^
                                  33  a.
                                      3 ca

                                 ga·c-c
                                          0<!
                                   ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.           22:
                     "^
                                                               ^2

                                                               O O'^
                                                                    lO 1-1
                                                               r-H C>) lO I

                       *S

                     E ^-S

                                            o   Q  o   Q  o   2* ** **

                                            CO     CO     CO                                 aJ3 '-'

                                                                                 =.:^=^po

sten                         ..
              leata
                           isima eleg fulv

                     s
226                   --REPORT 1850.                                              ;

                 §00                               2^

                                          C fe)'

                                            oo       (
                                            ^<^^
                                          « s=.1 J.

                              ^ G 'A  f:

                                                        c fe^S

§2<                   i3 « 2

O<                    5 '5 £
   ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.  227

!
228      REPORT 1850.
      «
ox BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.  229
--830 REPORT 1850.
                                            ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                                                        231
                                                                                    w 2^ ^ 2

                                        ^a                         .fl-S

                                                  S J)

                                                                                              i^s

    :3 "                                    2! >                                2i

&a                                                                                                                      a -s

M                                                                         a -3  «o  «   ^o3

                    _cr< ;S                                               3 -a  u3  aa
                                    .^

             1^

                     §s

                                                                                « 4)    ·
                                                                                          -;
232
              ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                    233

o ocT: '·'''              o ^: t^ CO 15  o

:=;'.Oino'«o: 00          · F-<

0=5 [i

60 . a                          &jB

                                                     :<»rt

"e

              «·-C rt CO        ^CO --

                                             ®in "S
                                             *;2 <M
                                             ^ M CO

                          ·S B
234 REPORT 1850.
ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.  235
236 REPORT 1850.
   ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.  237

^
238                                          --REPORT 1850.

     So

     O ^H

     5
                         I

                            'oog

                            5-co ire

                                      'B fc        'S^S ft'S. StSfe

                                                   ^I l-H I--I  ^-^ ?0

                                             12 I

                                                                tbS     SbS

     g2,

                                             CO .--

                                                       11
                                                                 So
ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.  239
240                                  --REPORT 1850.                                 s a 7. r..

        goo                                           an

                                                                             ss                 I ^. ^.

                                                                                    ^ ^ ^ P= Eb-S

                                             ^ S>ra >n rt "5                     o

      .      e^       .    ·   Cs    s ". a
                               to ^
   ^         ^- -3  "    ^                                                                       a si
                                                              sa
                         ^rt

   d CO COi-*^           i-'^

s

                                                                                    ^ =«fe 'S '53
                                                                                    =^ >- .2 -5          3

                                                                                    s 3 3 g 2 o ©"S s s e<

                                                                                    3 3 SOO^J=.£ .S-.S* C
       -- ----

       ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.     241

                   Record of Classes and Tribes partially observed.

   The enumeration of species in each dredging paper is complete so far as
the Testaceous MoUusca are concerned, and usually, also, the Echinodermata.
Other tribes of animals, as well as plants, in consequence, in most cases, of the
impossibilitj' of determining all the species at the time, and partly from the
great amount of labour required to register completely the tribes above
noted, did not receive the same degree of attention. In most instances they
were, however, carefully collected ; and in the works of Bell and Johnston
especially, many records of depths and localities will be found which were
derived from specimens collected and transmitted to those eminent naturalists

during the course of these researches. In the majority of the dredging
papers, there are, however, memoranda of various extent, noting the more
remarkable instances of every tribe found, and often their comparative

abundance. These I shall now proceed to abstract.

                                   MoUusca Nudibranchiata.

   The small number of these beautiful creatures recorded in the dredging
papers is not to be attributed to their having been unobserved, but rather
to their absence from the ground usually examined. The majority of species

--inhabited the shallower parts of the Laminarian zone, and very numerous

forms are littoral hence living without the region assigned for this inquiry.
In the magnificent work of Alder and Hancock on the British Nudibranchia,

published by the Ray Society, the distribution and localities of this tribe have
been most carefully attended to.

    Those noted in the papers are,
       Melibcea coronata, Dorset, in 15-20 f. s. gr.
               fragilis, Isle of Man, 20-25 sh. Cornwall, 25 sh. s. Dorset,
              20-25 s.
        Tritonia, sp., Dorset, in 15-20 gr.
               Hombergi, Isle of Man, in 25 sh.
              plebeia, Isle of Man, in 28 sh.
       EolidicB, Isle of Man, in 18-25 f. Clyde, in 20 f. Zetland, in 7 f.
       Polycera, Hebrides, in 4-5 f.

       Idalia, Zetland, in 35 f. s.

                                      MoUusca Cephalopoda.
   Cephalopods are difficult to take with the dredge on account of the
rapidity of their motions. The following instances are recorded :

       Sepiola, 15-20 f. gr. and 40 m. Hebrides; and its spawn, in 25 s. s.
                 Cornwall.

       Octopus, 30 f. gr. Hebrides, and 25 f. sh. Isle of Man.

       MoUusca Ascidia.

These are rarely recorded in detail, because the difficulty of determining

the species in the present state of our knowledge of the tribe is very great.
Such records however as are given are important :

Cynthia microcosmus is recorded from 10 f. s. m. and 25 f. st. s. in
        the Hebrides.

        echinata, from 50 f. m. in the Hebrides, and 80 f. sand in Zet-
       land, where it also occurs among weed in 7 f.
       , a new species from 30 f. gr. Croulin Island.

        aggregata, from 7-12 f. st. gr. Dartmouth.

        tesseUata and morus, Devon, in 20-25 f. Localities for other
       members of this genus may be found in the ' British MoUusca,'
       vol. i. part 1 and 2.

1850.                              R
                                                                         Q

--242 REPORT 1850.

Ascidia grossularia, Devon, in 12 f. Clyde, in 30 gr, 40 m. He-

brides, in 20 gr.          Hebrides,       25  gr.  ra.  and,  ^^  gr.
                                                               30
pnmum, Devon, 20-25 f.
. intestinalis, Dorset, in 15-20 gr. Hebrides, in 30-4-0 sh. Ork-

neys, in 7 w.                                  T1        o  /M^aTn,  ·   115c -11 8
 commwiis, Dorset, in 7 w. and 15-20 gr.
                                               Isle                  in

m. Clyde, in 30 gr. Hebrides, in 15 w., 25 gr. n., 30 gr., 30-40

sb., 50 m.

scabra ?, Dorset, in 15-20 gr.
vitrea, Clyde, in 30 gr. Hebrides, in 30-40 sh., 25 gr. m. Ork-

neys, in 35-40 sh.
 rosea, Hebrides, in 30 gr. Zetlands, in 4-7 w.

        m«j;j«, Orkneys, in 7-18 weed.         mZ^etl, andjs, . o2^0 s., 4,r0> gr.,
3Iolgula tubtdaris, Clyde, in 9 and 18 m.

60 and 80 m. s. Hebrides also.

           oculata.

Pelonaia glabra, in 9 m. Clyde.
Syntethys hebridicus, 30 f. Croulin Island.

Compound Ascidians in all depths of the Laminarian zone, rarely lower.

              Mollusca Bryozoa.

   So many of the specimens of these curious pseudo-zoophytes procured
dhiusrimnogstthevsaeluraebsleear'cHheisstuoerryeoftrBarnistmiisthteZdootpohyDtre.s,J'ohtnhsattotnhefofrepwubmleimcaotriaonndian
made in the dredging papers of the more striking species at the ime ot
capture, can give but little insight into their distribution. The following
notes of depth may serve as contributions to future histories ot them.

       Diastopora obelia, 14 f. st. Anglesey ; 40 f. Clyde district.

        Tubulipora patina, 20, 27 f. Cornwall ; 50 f. gr. Zetland.

truncata, 50, 80 f. st. Zetland.                                     ,, ^, >

serpens, 15-20 gr. Dorset ; 20-25 and 27 sh. Cornwall. Clyde,

40. Zetland, 7 w., 50 gr.

         hispida, Clyde, 40.

Idmonea atlantica, Zetland, 50 gr., 80 s.

Ptistulipora proboscidea, Zetland, 50 gr.

        defiexa, Cornwall, 20-25 sh. s.

Alecto major, Clyde, 40.
Crisia, sp., Dorset, 12 s. gr., 15-20 gr. Anglesey, 14 st., 30 gr. Clyde,

       40. Zetland, 50 gr.
Hiiypothoa, sp., Cornwall, 20-25 sh. s. Anglesey, 14 st. Zetland, 40

       gr., 50 21'.
 Cellepora pumicosa, Dorset, 15-20 gr. Devon, 20-25 gr. s. Corn-

       vall, 20-25 sh. s. Anglesey, 7 st., 30 gr. Isle of Man, 18 n., 25
        sh. Clyde, 40 sh. Hebrides, 10 s. m., 28 gr. s. Zetland, 50 gr.
         ramulosa, Dorset, 25 gr. Clvde, 40 sh. Zetland, 50 gr., 80 m. s.
         skenei, Dorset, 18-20 gr. Cornwall, 20-25 sh. s. Zetland, 25

sh., 80 m. s.                                                        rZ,etl, andJs,
  cervicomis, Hebrides, 15-20 st., 25 gr. n., 30 st.

       50 <^r.
Lepralia, sp., Dorset, 15-2:) gr. Devon, 12 s. gr. Cornwall, 20-25

       sh., 27 s. Devon, 20-25 gr. s. Isle of Man, 15-18 n. &c.

Flustra foliacea, Dorset, 15-20 gr., 25 gr. Anglesey, 12 st., 30 gr.
       Isle of Man, 15-18 n. Clyde, 40 st. Hebrides, 15-20 st. Zet-

land, 50 gr.
ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                                                                 243

Flustra truncata ?, Dorset, 1.5-20 gr. Devon, 7-12 st. gr. Clyde, 40
       sh. Hebrides, 20 gr., S5 gr., 15-20 st. Orkneys, 35-40 st.
        avicularis ?, Dorset, 15-20 gr.

        Murrayana, Hebrides, 15-20 st. Zetland, 50 gr.
· coriacea, Isle of Man, 25 sh.

Membranipora pilosa, 7 gr.

Escharafoliacea, Dorset, 15-20 gr. Cornwall, 20-25, 27 sh.

bidentatu, Cornwall, 20-25 sh.

Retepora Beaniana, Hebrides, 50 m. Zetlands, 50 gr., 70 s., 80 sh.

iiahcornanafarcimioides, Dorset, 15-20 gr. Devon, 12 st. Devon
20-25 gr.s. Cornwall, 20-25. Isle of Man, 25 sh. Clyde, 40 sh!
       Hebrides, 15-20 s. Outer Hebrides, 20 m. s.
Alcyomdmm, Dorset, 12 s. gr. Anglesey, 20.                             Zetlands, 50 er.
                                                                      Orkneys, 35-40 s.

Zetlands, 20 s.

Sertularia lendigera, Dorset, 7 m. Anglesev, 7 sh. s., 12 st.
Beania mirabilis, Cornwall, 20-28.

                                       CTttStdCBCl

In Professor Bell's ' History of British Crustacea,' numerous localities
derived from the dredging
                           expeditions which furnished the matter                           for this
Keport are inserted. And   in the volume of the British Association
                                                                                           Reports
tor the Meeting at Southampton in 1846, there is an abstract of a
by Professor Bell, in the Natural History Section, containing an          paper read
                                                                          account of
the Crustacea procured by Mr. MacAndrew and the reporter durin.- their
A kwvoyages. These need not be here repeated.
                                                                      notes of localities con-
tained in the papers themselves, may, however, be indicated with advantage
atenorhynchus phalangium, Anglesey, 7-9^-12 gr. s. Dorset, 12 m
15-20 gr. Hebrides, 15 m. Isle of Man, 25 sh.                                                       '

Inachiis Dorsettensis, Dorset, 7 m., 12 m., 15-20 gr.                 Ang6leseJv'          7-12
       gr. Isle of Man, 25 sh.
                                                                                            '

Pi^a tetraodon or Gibbsii, Isle of Man, 25 sh.
Hyas araneus, Dorset, 12 m.

      · coarctatus, Isle of Man, 28 sh.                               Isle of Man, 25 st.  Loch
Eurynome aspera, Dorset, 21 ra., 1 5-20 gr.

       ryne.

^melaPilumnus hirtellus, Dorset, 7 w., 15-20 gr. Isle of Man, 18, 25 sh.
              denticulata ?, Dorset, 12 m., 15-20 gr. Cornwall, 25 sh.
                   ^'"''^*' ^^"^^ ^^' ^°TM^^^' 20-25 sh. Isle of Man,
         25"sh^^"

Pinnotheres, Isle of Man, 18, 25 sh., &c.                                 Anglesey,
J^balm sp., Dorset 12 m., 15-20 gr. Devon, 10 s., 27 s.                        ^^

       12 s. Isle of Man, 25 sh. Mull, 25 st. m.
^lecyclus heterodon, Cornwall, 20-28 n.
Pagurus Forbesii ?, Dorset, 20-25.

· lavis'i, Dorset, 20-25.

        Prideauxii, Clyde, 25, 30. Isle of Man, 25.

wwaflln,l2^0^-r2.5^s^hf. l'D'e"v^on',  ^' ^^'  ^2 S'- ^^''^^          15-20 gr.      Corn.
                                                Orkneys, 5-8.                      50 gr.,
                                        27 s.                           Shetland,

Porcelhnahnffieornis, Dorset, 7-12 s., 15-20 gr.                      Anglesey, 7, 12 g^r.
Cralathea strtffosa, Dorset, 20 n.

rCa:lZo'cJar't^s''M^a'c'Afnld'r^e"w^,r^L-o^c^h^F'j-ne,Co1r0n0waml.l,  20-28 sh. Zetland,   50 ^gr.
                                                                      Mull, 30 mud.
CroTiffon vulgaris, Anglesea, 7 w.

Pandalus annulicomis, Dorset, 7'w., 15-20 gr. Anglesey 7.

                                                                      r2
--244 REPORT 1850.

        Arcturus, sp., Hebrides, 15 ra.
       Pycnogonum, large species, Zetlands, 50 gr.
        Cypridina AlacAndrei, Hebrides, 70 f.

                Brenda, Zetland, 80 f.

                                                               Cirripedes.

    Until Mr. Darwin's researches on the Cirripedes be published, there can
be no certainty in the determination of the species of this difficult group.
The leading forms, however, are usually noted in the dredging papers.

       Balanus scoticus, Anglesey, 25 gr. Isle of Man, 25 sh. Clyde, 15 gr.
       Bcdanus sulcaUis, Dorset, 7 w,, 12. Cornwall, 28 sh. Milford, 8 w.

              Anglesey, 9i, 12 gr. Isle of Man, 18 n., 28 sh. Clyde District,
               15 gr., i50 gr., 20 sh. Zetlands, 25 st. Hebrides, 10 s. m., 15-20
               St., 15 sh., 25 gr. s., 30, 35 gr., 90 st. Outer Hebrides, 18 s. gr.,
               15-20 gr.
        Clitia verruca, Dorset, 15-20 gr. Devon, 7-12 s. gr. Anglesey, 30
               gr. Isle of Man, 25 st. Hebrides, 15 w., 15-20 w. gr., 25 gr. s.,
               90 gr. s. Zetlands, 50 gr.
      Adna anglica, Cornwall, 12 gr., 25 sh. s.
       Scalpellum vulgare, Dorset, 15-20 gr. Cornwall, 27. Devon, 20-25.
               Isle of Man, 25 sh.

                                                        Annelida.
    This department of tlie British Fauna is the one requiring most elucidation.

The researches of Dr. Johnston have done much, and those of Dr. Williams
promise much ; but until we have some available manual of species, the pro-
gress will not be sufficient to bring it up to a level with the other sections of
British marine zoology. The entries of worms in the dredging papers are,
except for the more striking species, only occasional.

        Michelia trilineata, Clyde dist. 20 st. Hebrides, 25 gr. n.
       Planaria rosea, Anglesey, 12 gr. Zetland, 60 s., 80 m. s.

                , sp., Dorset, 12 m.
       Pontobdella muricata, Isle of Man, 28 sh.
        Trophonia Goodsiri, Zetlands, 7 w.
       Pectinaria helgica, Anglesey, 7 w. Clyde, 30 gr., 50 m. Hebrides,

               90 gr. s. Stornoway, 18 s. m. Zetland, 50 gr., 80 m. s., 80 s.
                  (large species), Hebrides, 15 ra.
        Sabellaria alveolata, Anglesey, 12 s., 14 gr., 25, 30. Hebrides, 8 s.
               Clyde district, 15, 20 sh,"
        Terebella conchilega, Cornwall, 20-25 sh. Devon, 20-25 s. Hebrides,
                15 w. Zetlands, 50 gr.
       · compressa, Cornwall, 20-25. Devon, 20-25 s. Zetlands, 50 gr.
               60 s., 80 m. s.
                 (convoluted sp.), Hebrides, 12-14 st. m.
        Pomatoceros Iricuspis, Dorset, 7 w., 15-20 gr. Devon, 20-25 s., 27
              s. Anglesej', 12 st., 14 s., 20 gr., ^5 gr. Isle of Man, 28 sh.
               Clyde district, 5-10 n., 20 sh. Hebrides, 15 w., 25 s. gr., 18 n.,
               30-40 sh., 90 gr. Zetland, 50 gr., 60 gr., 70 s.
        J5'2(pow?a<?<s, sp., Dorset, 7 w., 15-20 gr. Cornwall, 27. Devon, 25-27.
               Clyde district, 30 gr., 20 sh. Hebrides, 15 w%, 15-20 s., 25 gr. s.,
               90 gr. Zetlands, 50 gr., 60 s., 70 s.
        Serpula vermicidaria, and tubidaria, Dorset, 15-20 gr. Anglesey, 25
               gr., 12 s. Isle of Man, 25 sh. Clyde district, 5-10 n., 18 m., 20
              St., 30 gr. Hebrides, 30-40 sh., 28 s., 15 m., 18 n., 90 gr. Zet-
               lands, 50 gr.
        Spirorbis, Dorset, 15-20 gr. &c.
             ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                             245

Placostegus vitreus, Clyde district, 30 gr., 40 st. Hebrides, 15-20 st.,
       25 St., 25 gr. m., 30 st., 30-iO sh., 90 gr. Zetlands, 50 st.

Filograna implexa. Isle of Man, 28 sli. Hebrides, 25 gr. m. Zet-
       lands, 80 s.

Ditrupa subulata, Zetland, 50 gr., 60 s.
Onuphis tubicola, Clyde, 20 sh. Stornoway, 1 8 gr. Zetlands, 50 gr.

       60 s., 80 m. s.
Siphostoma? (Lancelet-like worm), Clyde district, 9 m., 6 m., 60 m.

       Zetlands, 50 gr.
Aphrodite aculeata. Isle of Man, 18 n. Hebrides, 15 w.

        histrix ?, Dorset, 12 m. South Wales, 10 ni. Isle of Man, 25 sh.
       , sp., Hebrides, 15 w., 25 gr. m.

Polynoe, sp., Anglesey, 12 s. Dorset, 7 w. Clyde, 50 m.

             Zoophyta.

   This department is in the same position as some of the preceding, so far
as our lists are concerned, but the accumulation of authentic localities in Dr.
Johnston's History is such as fully to remedy any deficiencies. In the sup-
plement of that work, a most valuable paper on the distribution of Zoophytes
in depth, on the north and east coasts of Britain, by Lieut. Thomas, R.N.,
should be consulted and taken in connection with the following record of

localities.

Hydractinia echinata, South Wales, 10 gr.      Anglesey, 12 s. gr.  Isle
       of Man, 25 sh.

Eudendrium rameum, Clyde, 20 sh.

Tubularia indivisa, Dorset, 15-20 gr. Clyde, 40 st., 7 m. Hebrides,
      30 m., 40 m. Zetlands, 50 gr.

         larynx, Anglesey, 12.
Corymorpha nutans, Orkneys, 10 f. Zetlands.
Halecium lialecinum, Dorset, 15-20 gr.

Sertulariapolyzonias, Anglesey, 12 gr. Devon, 7-12 gr. Clyde, 40 sh.
        rosacea, Dorset, 15-20 gr. Hebrides, 90 gr. s., 15, 20 gr. m.
      Zetlands, 50 gr.

             pinaster, Clyde district, 40 sh.

              abietina, Devon, 10-12 gr. Anglesej', 12 f. gr. Clyde, 40 sh.
             Hebrides, 12-14 s. m., 15-20 st. Orkneys, 35-40 sh. Zetlands,
             50 gr.

        argentea, Dorset, 1.5-20 gr. Anglesev, 7 gr., 12 s., 20 gr., 20 ra.,
      30 gr. Isle of Man, 25 sh. Zetlands, "80 s.

        cupressina, Dorset, 15-20 gr. Devon, 7-12 m. s.
Thuiaria articulata, Clyde, 40 sh. Isle of Man, 25 sh.
Antennularia antennina, Dorset, 15-20 gr. Cornwall, 27 st. Devon,

       20-25 s.

       ramosa, Anglesey, 12 gr. Isle of Man, 15-18 n., 25 sh. Clyde,
       40 sh. Hebrides, 25 s. st., 25 gr. m., 20 gr., 15-20 gr. m. Stor-
       noway, 18 n. Zetlands, 50 gr.
Plumularia falcata, Devon, 7-12 st. Anglesey, 7 s. s., 12, 14 st., 20
       gr. Clyde, 40 sh. Zetlands, 50 gr., SO m. s.

        cristata, Hebrides, 10 m., 20 gr., 15-20 sh., 30 gr. Dorset, 15-20
       gr. Cornwall, 20-25. Devon, 27 s.

        catherina, Clyde, 40 sh. Isle of Man, 25 sh.

        myriophyllum, Cornwall, 20-25 sh. Dorset, 15-20 gr. Isle of
       Man, 25 sh. Clyde, 40 sh. Hebrides, 12-14 st. m., 15 m., 15-20
       sh., 90 gr.

Lamnedea, sp., Dorset, 15-20 gr.
--246 REPORT 1850.

Campanularia volubilis ?, Dorset, 15-20 n. Clyde, 4-0 eh.

verticillata, Clyde, 15 m.      Isle of Man, 25 sh.  Hebrides, 25
dumosa, Devon, 20-25 sh.

       sh. Zetlands, 50 gr.
Pennatula phosphorea, Clyde, 9 m. Hebrides, 15 m. Zetlands, 80 m. s.
Virgularia mirabilis, Clyde, 9 m. Zetlands, 70-80 s. Hebrides, 28 m.
Pavonaria quadrangularis, Hebrides, 12-14' st. m., 15 m., 20-30 m.

Gorgonia verrucosa^ Cornwall, 20-25 sh.

pinnata, Hebrides, 30 st.

Alci/onium digitatnm^DoTset, 15-20 gr., 21 sh. Depon, 7-124. Corn-
      wall, 20-25 sh. Anglesey, 12 gr. Isle of Man, 18 n., 25 sh.

       Clyde, 30 gr, Hebrides, 25 st.
Sarcodich/on catenate, Clyde, 20 st. Hebrides, 20 st, 15-20 sh., 25

gr. n., 25 st., 20-30 st.

agglomerata (new), Hebrides, 30 st.

Turbinolia miUetiana, Cornwall, 20-28.

Caryophyllia Smithii, Cornwall, 20-25 sh., 27 gr. Hebrides, 7 s., 10

s., 25 gr. s., 40 gr., 30 st. Outer Hebrides, 18 n., 15-20 gr.

Zetlands, 50 gr., 70-80 s.

Zoanthus Couchii, Dorset, 15-20 gr. Cornwall, 20-25 st. Devon,

20-25 gr. Outer Hebrides, 18 n.

Capnea sanguinea, 18 n. Isle of Man.
Adamsia maculata, Anglesey, 12 gr. Isle of Man, 15-18 n., 25 sh.

Hebrides, 15-20 st. Outer Hebrides, 25 s.

Actinea vermicularis, Zetlands, 50, 80 sh.

crassicomis, Anglesey, 16 st., 20 m. Isle of Man, 18 n.

bellis, Isle of Man, 18 n.

dianthus, Anglesey, 12 s. gr.

other species, Anglesey, 7 s. Dorset, 7 ni.

Iluanthos scoticus, Clyde region, 4 m.

Lticemaria fascicularis, Zetlands, 4-7 w.

Amorphozoa.

Halichondria oculata, Dorset, 7 w.

cervicornis, Zetland, 80 st.

infundibuliformis, Clyde district, 40 st.

ventilabrum, Hebrides, 30, 40 st.
sttberea, Dorset, 15-20 gr. Isle of Man. 25 sh. Hebrides, 10 s. m.

 Jicus, Isle of Man, 25 sh.
> hispida, Cornwall, 20-25 sh.

Cliona celata, Anglesey, 12 s. South Wales, 12 gr. Isle of Man, 18,
       25 St. Hebrides, 1 8 n. and ra.

 Spongia pulchella, Isle of Man, 25 st.                      Anglesey,
 Grantia ciliata, Devon, 7-12 m. st. Cornwall, 20-25 st.      Zetlands,

        9i gr. Isle of Man, 15-18 n. Hebrides, 25 gr. s. ?
        50 gr.
Duseidea fragilis, Isle of Man, 25 sh.

                            Plants.

The greater part of these dredgings are beyond the region of the majority

of algae. Between and 10 fathoms, numerous fuci were taken, olivaceous

species prevailing in the lesser depths, red ones in the greater. Delesseria

and Desmarestia are the genera of which species were met with at most

Aconsiderable depths, i.e. at 15 and 18 fathoms (Hebrides).  straggling

Jjamifiaria was once taken as deep as 18 fathoms in the Zetlands. Beyond
ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.  24/

15 fathoms, and between that depth and 20 fathoms, we have the region of
NuUipora. Below 20 fathoms, unless it be an occasional straggling Nullipora,
no decided algae were met with.

  --Traces of Vertebrata and land animals. Had we no other evidence of the

inhabitants of the sea than that afforded by the contents of the dredge, we
might be tempted to infer a great rarity, almost amounting to an absence, of

vertebrate marine animals within our area. Possibly such an inference
would be quite as warrantable as the negative conclusions assumed from

comparable observations by many palaeontologists and geologists, who some-

times go so far as to infer an entire absence of terrestrial creatures during
some of the more ancient geological epochs, because no traces of them can
be found in sedimentary strata of marine origin, and announce the laws
which regulated the order of creation of animated beings accordingly.
During the 145 detailed observations which form the bases of this Report,
fishes were taken by the dredge not half-a-dozen times, and in three instances
the fish taken was one of the rarest and most curious of British vertebrata,
the Amphioxus lanceolatus. Although always carefully looked for and noted,
the bones of fishes were never observed among the contents of the dredge
above three times, and in two of those instances (at a depth of 4-0 and 50

fathoms mud in the western coast of Scotland) the remains consisted of

otolites only, reminding us of similar relics in the crag of the east of

England. Of terrestrial vertebrata I have never seen a trace ; and though
no small number of the human race have diffused their bodies over our sea-
bed, no human bone has occurred to me in dredging ; when very near shore
and in the immediate neighbourhood of a town, broken bottles and old shoes

have strewn the sea-bed, affording unquestionable evidence of the presence of

man on the neighbouring shores. Doubtless by dredging close to towns, in
harbours and in estuaries, like the Mersey, where there are great cities on the
banks, numerous relics of such a description, as well as the bones of animals,

might be taken, but immediate proximity to towns is avoided by the dredger.

   On one occasion, recorded in the dredging papers from the Anglesey
coast, the shell of a common snail (Helix aspersa) was dredged at some

distance from shore in the entrance of the Menai Straits. It was covered
by Balani and SerpulcB, and inhabited by a hermit crab. Naturalists
familiar with the active movements of the Paguri, can readily conceive to
what a distance a land shell may be transported under such circumstances,
and at length become imbedded along with the remains of creatures of very

different origin and habits.

 --Fossil remains taken in the dredge. In no instance have we taken the re-

mains of fossil vertebrata when dredging on the western shores of Britain,
but many times have met with fossil testacea. These are of the pleistocene
epoch, and often it requires a practised eye to distinguish between them and
the dead shells of existing moUusca associated with them ; indeed there are
some species, as Astarte crebricostata, Natica grcenlandica, Panopcea nor-
vegica, Tellina proxima and Scalaria granlandica enumerated in the pre-
ceding pages, which, whilst from various considerations we hold the weight

of evidence to be in favour of their presence as living species in our seas, are
yet under suspicion, and are not admitted by all British conchologists. In

several localities among the Hebrides, especially in the Kyles of Bute, and in
the sea between Raza and Applecross, quantities of pleistocene fossils may
be dredged ; at the former place, Panopcea norvegica is common, as pointed
out by Mr. Smith ; and in the latter there occur numerous fossil valves of
Pecten islandicus and danicus, the large sulcated variety of Saxicava nigosOy
Astarte elliptical Leda truncata and oblonga, and very lately Leda thracice-
--248 REPORT 1850.

formis : of these, Pecten danicus and Astarte elliptica are living inhabitants
of the Scottish seas, the latter in places still abundant, the former very rarelj'
taken alive, though the dead shells occur in such vast quantities, that we
 cannot but regard it as a species which has lived on since the glacial epoch,
 though gradually becoming reduced in numbers, and now very nearly ex-
 tinct. These shells often occur at considerable depths, and almost always
 on a bottom of dark pleistocene sand. Pecten islandicus is enumerated in
 Hebridian and Zetland dredging papers from depths of 30, 40, 50 and 90
 fathoms. That this remarkable species is extinct in our seas we can scarcely
 doubt, but I have good reasons for surmising that its extinction has taken place
 at a period considerably later than that of several of its glacial companions.
 The colours of this Pecten, as well as of some other pleistocene fossils, are
 beautifully preserved, and the general aspect of the shells is very deceptive.

      Occasionally, fossils of older date, but in such a condition of petrifaction
 as can lead to no mistake respecting their origin, are brought up in the

 dredge. Thus Mr. Mac Andrew has dredged the loose joints of Liassic pen-
 tacrinites off the Shiant Islands, and we have seen Oolitic testacea dredged in

 the sound between Scalpa and Raza.

                                General Considerations.

   --Numerical distribution of species in depth. Of the species of Testaceous

  MoUusca enumerated in the preceding tables, I have assigned a range to 188
  in the Scottish, and 183 in the English sections. Of the 188 Scottish sub-
  Kttoral species, whose i-ange in depth I venture to state, 96 are Gasteropo-
  dous Testacea, and 92 Acephala. Of these, 17 univalves and 11 bivalves
  inhabit the region between low-water mark and 15 fathoms, i. e. the Lanii-
  narian zone ; 8 univalves and 7 bivalves extend their range from within the
  Laminarian zone to a depth between 1 5 and 30 fathoms ; 26 univalves and
  11 bivalves from the Laminarian zone to between 30 and 60 fathoms ; and
  25 univalves and 53 bivalves, from the Laminarian zone to a depth between
  60 and 100 fathoms : 3 univalves and 4 bivalves are confined in their range
  between 15 and 30 fathoms, i. e. to the Coralline zone ; 1 univalve to between
  30 and 60 fathoms; 4 univalves and 1 bivalve to between 30 and 100
  fathoms; and 1 univalve and 1 bivalve to between 60 and 100 fathoms.

     Of the 183 in the English tables, 19 univalves and as many bivalves are

  from the Laminarian zone only ; 45 univalves and 46 bivalves range from
  some point within the Laminarian zone to between 20 and 30 fathoms ; 16
  univalves and 28 bivalves extend their range from the same region to between
  30 and 60 fathoms.

       It is evident that the capacity of bivalves to enjoy a great bathymetrical

  range exceeds considerably that of univalves. This power of enduring many
  conditions of depth, implies the power of adapting themselves to varying cir-
   cumstances, which cannot be supposed to exist without considerable varia-
  tion in the features of the individuals of such wide-ranging species. The

   rules which should guide us in determining the selection of diagnostic cha-
   racters from the shells of Acephalous mollusks, must consequently be less
   strict than those which should determine our selection of characters for the
   majority of Gasteropoda, and in the determination of fossil species this should
  constantly be borne in mind. The difi'erence of power to range presented
   by univalves as compared with bivalves, has a further important bearing on
   palaeontological inquiries, for it would indicate the probability of our not
   unfrequently finding geological formations connected together by the fossils

   of the one class of mollusca, whilst those of the other are altogether distinct,
  even in strata proximate in time. It is possible also, that by a careful de-
                 ----                                            ----

                 ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                            249

termination of the relative proportions of bivalves to univalves in ancient

sea-beds, all mineral indications of the nature of the sea-bed being at the

same time noted, we may get at an additional clue to the determination of

the depth of the ancient sea in which such animals lived.

The distribution of the sub-littoral forms of testacea, as shown by our

dredging papers, may be illustrated by the following examples :

Certain species are common to the Laminarian, Coralline and Deep-sea

Coral Zones, as

Psammobia ferroensis.            Turritella communis.

Syndosmya intermedia.            Cerithium reticulatum.

Venus striatula.                 Natica Alderi.

Venus cassina.                   Natica montacuti.

Venus ovata.                     Nassa incrassata,

Venus fasciata.                  Aporrhais pes-pelecani.

Cardium suecicum.                Buccinum undatum.

Cardium fasciatum.               Fusus antiquus.

Lucina borealis.                 Fusus gracilis.

Lucina flexuosa.                 Trophon Barvicense.

Kellia suborbicularis.           Clavatula linearis.

Crenellae.                       Trichotropis borealis.

Nuculse.                         Eulima distorta.

Pinna ingens.                    Eulima subulata.

Pecten similis.

Some of them, under rare circumstances, as in a few localities (Skye and the
lochs of Ross-shire) in the West Highlands, are found occasionally living at

low-water. I have before called attention to this fact, and to the circum-

stance that on the neighbouring shore in such localities the alpine plants

descend from the mountains and are distributed along the water's edge. I

am strongly impressed with the suspicion that this curious phasnomenon, so

far as I have observed it, always seen in connexion with the neighbourhood

of outliers of the glacial submarine fauna, has a relation, as yet unexplained,

with the history of the changes in the configuration and elevation of land at

the close of the glacial epoch.

Certain species are common to Laminarian and Coralline Zones, and in*

differently inhabit both, as

Cypraea europaea.                Tellina donacina.

Natica helicoides.               Lucinopsis undata.

Eulima polita.                   Lepton squamosum.

Velutina laevigata.              Lima hians.

Mactra elliptica.                Lima Loscombi.

Artemis exoleta.                 Modiola modiolus.

Artemis lincta.                  Ostrea edulis.

Circe minima.                    Pecten varius.

Certain species commence their range in the Coralline Zone, as

Rissoa abyssicola.               Cerithium metula.

Pleurotoma teres.                Trochus alabastrum.

Cemoria noachina.                Fusus islandicus.

Propilidium fulvum.              Neaera costellata.

Pilidium ancyloides.             Neaera abbreviata.

Nucula tenuis.                   Leda pygmaea.

Area raridentata.

And it is curious to observe that all these are members of the Scandinavian

fauna.

A^ few species appear to be confined to the region of deep-sea corals ; as Apor-
                                                                                         --

--250 REPORT 1850.

rhais pes-carbonis, Poranvja granulata, Tellina proximo, probably Terebra-

tula cra7iium, and a few Echinoderms and Zoophytes.

Certain species which enjoy a great vertical range in the north, extending

through the second, third, and in part the fourth regions of depth, are in the

south found only within limited tracts of deep-sea, as

                                                                Cardium suecicum.        Syndosmya intermedia.

                                                                Nucula polii.            Terebratula Caput-serpentis.

Pecten fuci.                                                                             Scalaria Trevelyana?.

These species are essentially members of the boreal or glacial fauna, and

their presence in the south is dependent, if my views be correct, on the

former spread of the glacial sea, and the preservation of its inhabitants at the

existing epoch in many isolated and distant localities, where they live usually

at considerable depths in the midst of, and mixed up with an assemblage of

creatures of a Celtic and often a much more southern character.

  --Hoiv far the nature of the sea-bottom determines the number and diff'usion of

species. In the preceding tables, the nature of the sea-bed is expressed by-

letters representing the several mineral characters of the bottom, whether

sand, sandy mud, mud, rock, stones, gravel, nmddy gravel, shelly, shell-sand,

or nullipore                                                    the last kind of bottom  being that commonly called " coral " in
                                                             ;

the charts of the European seas.

Now, though our evidence certainly goes to show that the range of species

in depth and distance from shore is often considerably extended by a con-

tinuity, whether vertical or horizontal, of the same kind of ground, yet as-

suredly ground alone will not determine the extension of any species ; for

otherwise we should have the stone- and gravel-inhabiting species of the Lit-

toral zone carried in many places into the Laminarian and Coralline zones, and

the peculiar inhabitants of the muddy and sandy tracts in the Laminarian

zone carried far into the depths of the sea, since in very many places these

kinds of sea-bed range without interruption from shallows to great depths.

But this is not the case ; no continuity of mud, for instance, enables Scrobi-

cularia to live beyond its bounds, or the characteristic i?mo« of the gravelly

parts of the Laminarian zone to extend themselves into the deep sea.

The conditions of the sea-bottom which are most favourable to variety of

species may best be illustrated by referring to those dredging papers in which

the number of species of either univalve or bivalve testacea taken alive ex-

ceeded ten. In the southernmost of the districts within the area under con-

sideration, out of eighteen papers ten come under this category. Three of

these belong to the Laminarian zone, five to the Coralline region, and two to

the upper region of deep-sea corals. The three first-mentioned are all from

a muddy and stony or gravelly bottom with weed, and within two miles of

the shore ; their number of univalves exceeds that of bivalves ; in all three

the number of living univalves is very high, being 15 and above; and in

two of them the numbers of living bivalves are respectively 10 and 19, and of

dead 9 and \.9.. Of the five papers from the Coralline zone, four are within

three miles from the shore ; three of these are from bottoms more or less

stony and gravelly, in one instance mingled with nullipore; and one is from

a floor of shell sand. They are also very prolific ; one in dead and living

univalves, one in dead and living bivalves, and two equally so in bivalves

and univalves. The fifth of these coralline papers is from a depth of 30

fathoms and under, and a bottom of sand and gravel at a distance of 11 miles

from shore ; it exhibits a great preponderance of bivalves, and an equal

number of species taken dead and alive. The two deep-sea papers are from

a depth of 50 fathoms, on a sandy bottom, 60 miles from land ; they scarcely

come under the head of prolific papers, since few living species were taken,
          ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                         251

though many dead, the number of dead univalves predominating in the one

instance, and of dead bivalves in the other, respectively 17 and 20, both high

numbers.

Twenty-six papers from the Irish sea relate to a sufficiently limited range

in depth to admit of a similar inquiry. Of these, eight included more than
10 species of univalves and bivalves, or both. Two are from the Laminarian

zone, and within 2 miles from shore ; in the one instance, where the bottom

was gravelly and stony, univalves prevail, and those alive ; in the other, where
it was sandy, bivalves prevail, and those mostly dead. The remaining five

papers are from the Coralline zone ; in three of them, where the bottom was
a scallop bank several miles from shore, the number of both bivalves and

univalves taken alive was very considerable, reaching in one instance respec-

tively to 21 and 27. In one, from a nullipore bottom one mile from shore,

univalves prevail, but bivalves are also abundant. In one, on a gravelly and

stony bottom near shore, bivalves prevail (the numbers being 24- living and

25 dead), but univalves are also plentiful.

   Among sixty-four dredging papers from the Clyde district and the He-

brides, twenty-two exhibit numbers either of bivalves or univalves above 10;

of these three come within the Laminarian division, and one from depths very

close to shore ; in two of these the number of species of living univalves pre-

vails ; in one, of the bivalves. From the upper part of the Coralline zone
there are eleven papers, in six of which the bivalves prevail, all from muddy

or sandy bottoms, sometimes mixed with stones, close to shore ; in two, uni-

valves prevail over bivalves, in gravelly and stony bottoms near shore ; and

in two, the numbers are nearly equal on stony and mixed bottoms near to

shore. From depths between 40 and 60 fathoms, there are six prolific papers,

all richer in bivalves than in univalves, and all from sandy, gravelly or muddy

Abeds, varying from two to ten miles from shore.  bottom of gravel and

sand in 90 fathoms, close to shore, is richest in bivalves.

Of thirty papers from the Zetlands, sixteen are rich in species ; one only

is from the Laminarian zone, on a sandy bottom, especially rich in living bi-

valves (30), and having many (15) univalves also. Of two, from the upper

part of the Coralline zone close to shore, one, with a nullipore and stony

bottom, is richest in univalves ; the other, from a shelly bed, in bivalves. Of

the thirteen remaining papers from depths between 40 and 100 fathoms, eight

present considerable numbers of both univalves and bivalves, and in five (all

from depths below 60 fathoms) bivalves prevail. The numbers of species of

bivalves are high in the depths at a considerable (30 to 100 miles) distance
from shore. The bivalves are also predominant at these great depths on more

or less muddy bottoms, and at the farther distances ; the univalves most
numerous alive where the bottom is more or less stony.

  --Gregarious and prolific species. Many of our littoral moUusca, as the

shore-living species of Littorina, Purpura, Trochus, Cardium, Donax,

Scrobicularia, Mya, Pholas, &c., are truly gregarious, and the individuals of

each are constantly found assembled together in considerable numbers. This

is not so commonly the habit among sub-littoral species ; among them, how-
ever, there are some habitually gregarious (as Ostrea edulis, Pecten opercu-

laris, Corbula fiucleus, Syndosmya alba, Pectuncidus glycimeris, Modiola

modiolus, and Turritella terebra ; and among radiata, Ophiura rosula,
Uraster rubem, Comatula europcea. Echinus sphcera), though with this dif-
ference as compared with most littoral gregarious forms, that whereas the

individuals of the latter are always assembled together, the sub-littoral species
are gregarious in some zones of depth, and under certain conditions of sea-

bottom, whilst they are at the same time diflFused in small numbers, or evea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;;

--252 REPORT 1850.

as solitary individuals in situations where the conditions do not seem so

favourable to fecundity. Many species also, not at all gregarious in the true

sense of the word, having a very wide range in depth, are not equally pro-

lific throughout that range, but are developed in much greater numbers in
one region than in another, or in different parts of the same region accord-

ing to the conditions of the sea-bed. Cliniatal differences also have a con-
siderable effect in determining the prolific or non-prolific character of a

species, and this may be observed clearly, even in such a limited area as that
under review. Hence, when we state of many species that they are diffused

throughout all the provinces of that area, it is not to be understood that they
are equally abundant, so far as their individuals are concerned in all. Thus,
for example, Dentalium entalis is distributed throughout the British seas ; but,
whilst it is so abundant as to be almost gregarious in the northern provinces,

it becomes scarce and solitary in the southern. Many examples of this may

be seen by consulting the analysis of dredging papers in the preceding tables,
and afterwards comparing them with the tables of enumeration of localities
of species.

    In the Littoral region, as mentioned already, the species of Littorina, Tro-

chus. Patella and Purpura are most abundant, and among bivalves, Mytilus
edulis, Cardium edule and Kellia rubra. These, with many other animals,
and with peculiar marine plants, which it is not the province of this Report
to enumerate, give a character to the sea-belt between tide-mark*.

    In the Laminarian region, extending from low- water mark to 15 fathoms or
thereabouts, LacuncB and RissocB are abundant. The species observed to be
most prolific within this region during the dredging researches on the English
shores, were Rissoa parva and interriipta ; in Laminarian shallows. Lacuna
puteolus, Rissoa labiosa and Phasianella pulliis, where Zostera prevailed
Trochus cinereus, Magus and Ziziphinus, Acmcea virginea, Modiola modiolus,
Nucula nucleus on muddy gravelly bottoms; Turritella, Corbula nucleus^
Syndosmya alba, Dentalium tarentinum, Ophiocoina rosula in sandy and
muddy places ; Solen pellucidus and Mactra subtruncata where sand pre-
vailed ; Chiton asellus everywhere where shells or stones were present
Echinus miliaris on many bottoms ; Ascidia and Crustacea everywhere.

   On the Scottish shores in like depths, most of the above-named forms

(except the Rissoa labiosa, Phasianella, Lacuna and Dentalium tarentinum)
were equally prolific, whilst others seldom observed in great numbers in the
south became very plentiful, as Dentalium entalis, Lucina Jlexuosa, Lima
Mans, Venus striatula, Ophiocoma chiagii ; and in places, Cardium pygmceum,
 Crenella decussata and Bulla akera.

    Between 15 and 25 fathoms in the upper part of the Coralline zone, Tro-
chus ziziphinus and tumidus. Chiton asellus, Acmtea virginea, Nassa reticU'
lata, Turritella, Venus ovata and V. fasciata, Pecten opercularis, Modiola
modiolus, Crenellce, Pectuncubis, Nucula nucleus, abound in individuals on
the English shores. The same species, with the addition of Astarte sulcata
and A. elliptica, Syndosmya intermedia, Lima subauricidata, Leda caudata,
 Cardium fasciatum and Lucina sinuata, mark the same region in the Scottish
seas. In both north and soai\i Echinus sphcera and Ophiocoma are very pro-

 lific in this belt.

    Between 25 and 40 fathoms, in the middle and lower sections of the
 Coralline region, the species observed most prolific in individuals on the
 English coast were few, comprehending Solen pellucidus, Pecten varius,
 Modiola modiolus and Dentalium tarentinum.

      * For a tabulated view of the subdivisions and inhabitants of this zone, see the first
 volume of the Memoirs of the Geological Survey of Great Britain.
ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.  253

   On the Scottish coast this region is remarkable for prolific and peculiar

species. Great numbers of Brachiopoda {Terebratula Caput-serpentis, and
Crania norvegica) are found in gravelly and stony places. Dentalium en-
talis, Nucula nucleus, Astarte sulcata, Leda caudata, and (in places) L. pyg-
mcea, Mactra elliptica and Modiola modiolus, are all very prolific.

    Between 40 and 60 fathoms, on the verge of the region of deep-sea corals,
we have too little experience on the English coast to judge. Cardium sue-
cicutn, however, essentially a northern form, was noted as abundant at a depth
of 50 fathoms between Cornwall and Ireland.

    In the Scottish seas between these depths, besides most of the species noted

as prolific in the last region, we find Nucula tenuis, Cardium suecicum, Nu-
cida decussata (locally) and Venus fasciata abundant ; also Turritella in
places. Below that depth, Leda caudata, Syndosmya intermedia, Venus
ovata and striatula (var.), Lucina spinifera, Dentalium entalis, Turritella,
Ditrupa and Echinus norvegicus, liave been taken in considerable numbers
in several Scottish localities. Widely diff"used species of Turritella, Denta-

lium, Modiola, Nucula, Vemis and Astarte, appear to be most prolific through-

out the range of their distribution.

  --Generic and subgeneric groups confined to particular zones in depth. In

the Littoral and Laminarian zones, we find all the species of certain well-
marked natural groups assembled, but very few, if any, of those which are
distributed in the regions of corallines and of deep-sea corals are peculiar,
the s])ecies of moUusks in the lower zones especially, being members of
genera which have representatives in the Laminarian or in both Littoral and
Laminarian zones. Within the two higher zones we find all the British
species of Patella, Purpura, Littorina, Otina, Cmiovulus, Truncatella, Ca-
lyptrea. Lacuna (except L. aassior), Aplysia, Scrobicularia and Danax.
Almost, though not entirely confined to them, are also the genera Phasianella,
Mya, Lutraria, Mytilus, Pholas and Cytherea. Some important genera,
such as Rissoa, Chiton, Trochus, Mactra, Venus, Bulla and Cardium, are
mainly developed in the Laminarian zone. In the genus Patella we have one
section, that of Patella proper, confined to the Littoral zone, and another,
Patina, confined to the Laminarian zone. The subgenus Hydrobia o{ Rissoa
is almost wholly littoral. Very rarely do we find instances of a species
strictly littoral descending far into the Laminarian zone or below it; on the
west coast of Anglesey Purpura lapillus was dredged in 10 fathoms, and
three specimens taken at that depth were remarkable for the development
and perfection of the crenulated laminas of growth on the surface of the

shell. Rissoa Barleii of JeflPreys appears to be a variety of the littoral

Rissoa ulvce, descending below its usual level. More frequently do we find
mollusks and radiata of the Laminarian zone and the upper part of the region

of Corallines ascending into the littoral belt. This is especially the case in
certain localities on the Hebrides, as in Skye and on the west coast of Ar-
gyleshire ; and very generally is it to be observed, as the registrar pointed out
to the Natural History Section in 1836, in the immediate neighbourhood of
those localities where alpine plants, such as Silene acaulis &c., are found
abundantly near the water's edge.

   Certain genera, such as Necera, Crania, Pilidium, Cemoria and Propilidium,
have, so far as the area under review is concerned, a range in depth entirely
confined to the Coralline region and that of deep-sea corals. But elsewhere
species of these genera ascend into the Laminarian, and possibly some of them
into the Littoral zones, so that great stress cannot be laid upon their distri-
bution as genera indicative of depth. Very important, however, are the

facts stated with regard to the Laminarian and Littoral genera ; and the geolo-
--254 REPORT 1850.

gist will do well to bear in mind that entire well-marked generic groups of
testacea are confined to, and indicate with certainty, the space between tide-

--marks and the sea-bed to a depth of about \5 fathoms beloiv low-water mark.

' Relation of colour to distribution. Althougli the extent and depth of our

seas scarcely afford sufficient data for illustrating the influence of light in the

colouring of marine animals, yet some facts bearing on this subject may be

gathered from the papers before us.- In the horizontal diffusion of species,

several, as some of the Trochi and Veiieridce, exhibit a distinct influence of

light upon the brightness of their hues, in the south, as compared with the

dull aspect of specimens from the north, and this in individuals of the same

species. It is easy for the practised conchologist to distinguish specimens of

most painted shells, gathered on the southern coasts of England, from those

Wetaken on other parts of our shores.  have evidence also of the distinct

effect of depth in the defacing of the hues of the same species, when it has a

great bathymetrical range. Thus the examples of Venus striatula, Venus

ovata and Turritella terebra (all having a range from the Laminarian zone to

the deepest recesses of the British seas), taken alive at a depth of 100

fathoms off tiie Zetland Isles by Mr. MacAndrew, were colourless ; whilst

those from more moderate and shallow depths are almost always conspicu-

ously coloured. Between 60 and 80 fathoms in the Scottish seas, dirty white,

dull red, yellow or brown, rarely broken into stripes or bands, are the pre-

vailing hues of the testacea ; though at ,50 fathoms, shells painted in patterns

and vividly coloured (as Natica Alderi and Clavatula purpurea), exhibit their

hues unimpaired. At the same lime it must not be forgotten that the vividly

Apainted animal of the coral Caryophyllia thrives at a depth of 80 fathoms.

curious phaenomenon apparently connected with depth is the blindness of the

crustacean Calocaris.

  --Condition of the exuvice of marine invertebrata taken in the dredge. In the

great majority of instances and places, the dead shells of mollusca are taken

nearly entire, or, in the case of the bivalves, with the valves disunited but

not broken. This applies especially to all localities of a considerable depth,

and where strong currents are not in action. Very near the shore, broken

shells are not uncommon ; and in current-ways, even at the depth of 30
fathoms, the bottom may be composed in great part of triturated shells.

Lieut. Thomas, R.N., observes, when communicating his lists of Testacea

dredged around the Orkney Islands, that " between Fair Island and the

Orkneys, the bottom near the latter islands is either rocky or composed of

large pieces of Modiola modiolus or Pectunculus glycimeris. I make no

doubt," he remarks, " that these are broken by some large species of Crus-

tacea (?) ; their freshness of fracture is astonishing, as if the creature feeding

had been disturbed at his meal." Among bivalves, besides those mentioned,

the shells of Thracia, Cyprina, Isocardia, and the larger species of Cardium

are most frequently found broken ; among univalves, those of Succinum and
JFusus. Some few bivalves are frequently dredged dead, yet with their

valves united ; such are Ltccina radula, the Necerce, Mactra elliptica, Psam-

mobice, Venus ovata and striatula, Tapes virginea, Tellina donadna, Thracia

phaseolina, Lucinopsis, Nucula pygnicea. Salens, Syndosmyce and Pectunculus

pilosus, this last open and gaping. The monomyarious bivalves are often

found dead in quantities, but almost always with valves disunited ; and this
may be said of the great majority of dimyarious bivalves also. Echinoderms

fall to pieces when dead, or if taken entire have lost their spines.

 --Phcenomena of tJie horizontal distribution of species on the western shores

of Great Britain. In the older accounts of British marine animals, the phrase
" from Devon to Zetland " was frequently given as marking their range, and
                               ----

            ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY,                 255

the natural inference from such statement was that such species were uni-
versally diffused through our seas. The researches embodied in this Report,

however, put beyond question the fact that there are marked peculiarities in

the distribution of British marine animals, and that though there are nume-

rous species common to the whole area, there are also numerous species

Wepeculiar to parts of that area.   have clear evidence of more elements

than one contributing to the composition of our submarine population, of

a southern element, derived from the Lusitanian provinces of the European

seas, of a northern element introduced from the Scandinavian seas, of a Celtic
element having its centre within our own region, of an oceanic element ma-

nifested by the floating Gasteropoda and the Pteropoda that reach our

shores, and of an arctic element due to causes which were in action
before the British Isles had assumed their present conformation *. The

following statements, founded mainly on the data contained in the prece-

ding tables, will serv6 to illustrate the phajnomeua, so far as this Report is

concerned.

   The northern and southern provinces of the western coast of Great Britain

--may be distinguished hy certain Mollusea of the Littoral Zone. Thus, in the

extreme south, along the shores of the English Channel, we find Truncatella

truncatula, and there only. Trochus lineatus commences its range to the

west of Portland Island, and is found around the coasts of Devon, Cornwall

and the Bristol Channel, until it ceases in Cardigan Bay or a little higher

up; a similar cessation of its diffusion taking place on the opposite shores of

Ireland. Acmcea testudinalis, on the other hand, appears in the Orkneys

(its presence in the Zetlands is doubtful), and ranges through the Hebrides

and the Clyde region until it reaches the northern shores of Ireland and the

northern coast of the Isle of Man ; but it is not found on coasts southwards

of those points. Chiton marmoreus ceases sooner; Littorina petrcea is

abundant in the British Channel, and equally plentiful in the Hebrides, but

rare in the central part of the Irish sea. All the other Littorince, Chiton

marginatus, Rissoa parva and cingillus, Patella vulgata, Trochus cinerarius.

Purpura lapillus, Skenea planorbis, Mytilus edulis and Kellia rubra, are
common throughout the area, even as they are all round the shores of the

British Isles. Trochus umbilicatus is equally abundant throughout the area,

whilst on the other hand it is entirely absent from the eastern coast of

Britain.

   The differetices between the northern and southern provinces are equally

-- --shown by the sublittoral testacea. These are evident, 1st, in the presence of

a number of species in the south which are not found in the north, and vice
versa ; and 2nd, in the greater frequency of the individuals and localities of
certain species as we proceed from south to north, and vice versa ; thus

   1. The following testacea are confined to the extreme south ; they are all

Spanish or Mediterranean species :

            Trochus striatus.       Pholas parva.

            Trochus exiguus.        Ervilia castanea.

            Ghemnitzia fenestrata.  Cardium rusticum.
            Volva patula.           Crenella rhombea.

            Pholadidea papyracea.

2. The following species are peculiarly southern, but more general than

the former; they are also species of the Mediterranean and Lusitanian

type :--

  * See the Memoir on the British Fauna and Flora, in the first volume of the Memoirs of

the Geological Survey.
----                                                --

--256 REPORT 1850.

Dentalium tarentinuin.                    Modiola barbata.
Emarginula rosea.                         Area lactea.

Adeorbis subcarinatus.                    Cytherea chione.

Calyptrsea sinensis.                      Cardium aculeatum.

Scalaria clathratulus.                    Diplodonta rotundata.

Nassa varicosa.                           Venus verrucosa.

Cliemnitzia scalaris.                     Gastrocliaena modiolina.

3. The following species increase in frequency of occurrence as we proceed

from uorth to south :                     Cerithiopsis tubercularls.
                    Chiton fascicularis.

Trochus granulatus.                       Clavatula rufa.

Rissoa crenulata.                                  Modiola tulipa.

Scalaria clathrus.                        Mactra subtruncata.

Cerithium adversum.                       Pecten varius.

   4. On the other hand, a greater number of species become more frequent

in proceeding from south to north, showing thereby the more powerful in-

fluence of the Scandinavian element in our fauna :

Dentalium entalis.                                 Tapes puUastra.

Chiton cancellatus.                       Cyprina islandica.

Emarginula MuUeri.                                 Astarte danmoniensis.

Trochus millegranus.                               Astarte compressa.

Lacuna crassior.                                   Lucina borealis.

Cheranitzia fulvocincta.                  Lucina flexuosa.

Eulimella MacAndrei.                               Modiola vulgaris.

Natica Montagui.                                   Leda caudata.

Fusus gracilis.                                    Lima subauriculata.

Trophon Bamfium.                                   Pecten tigrinus.

                    Bela turricula.

  m5. The power of the Scandinavian element is still more strongly shown

--the number and character of species, which are peculiarly northern:

Chiton Hanleyi.                                    Bulla akera ?.

Acmsea testudinalis.                               BuUaea quadrata.

Propilidium ancyloide.                             BuUaea scabra.

Scissurella crispata.                              Pecten danicus.

Chemnitzia rufescens.                              Pecten striatus ?.

Natica grcenlandica.                               Crenella decussata.

Velutina plicatilis.                               Crenella nigra.

Trichotropis borealis.                             Pecten niveus.

Trophon Barvicense.                                Astarte elliptica.

Bela decussata.                                    Astarte crebricostata.

Mangelia brachystonia.                             Lucina ferruginosa.

Mangelia Boothii.                                  Poromya anatinoides.

Bulla hyalina.                                     Neaera costellata.

Bulla Cranchii.                                    Nesera abbreviata.

To which may be added certain species found in the southern part of the

British seas only in a few isolated patches, spaces which I regard as " glacial

outliers," as                                      Nucula decussata.
                    Pilidium fulvum.               Nucula tenuis.
                                                   Leda pygmaea.
                   Emarginula crassa.              Nesera cuspidata.
                                                   Syndosmya intermedia.
                    Rissoa abyssicola.             Cardium suecicum.
                     Scalaria Trevelyana.
                     Terebratula Caput-serpentis,
                    Crania norvegica.

Area raridentata.
                                                    ----

                     ox BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                          257

6. There are also a number of species confined to the extreme north ; as

Trochus alabastrum.           Natica helicoides.    Astarte arctica.
Cerithium metula.             Fusus albus.          Tellina proxima.
Aporrhais pes-carbonis.       Fusus decemcostatus.  Terebratula cranium.

Scalaria grcenlandica.                              <'t-:*'

A7. few, of which Rissoa vitrea, Isocardia cor and Ostrea ^diMs'sxe ex-

amples, are very local in various degrees of abundance, the cause of their

localization being obscure.

8. Certain species are more or less common at both ends of the area under

exploration, though very rare or not found at all in the Irish sea ; they can,

most of them, however, be tracked making their way northwards along the

western coast of Ireland.    Marginella Isevis.     Cardium pygmgeum.
                                                    Lucina spinifera.
    Rissoa costata.          Psammobia costulata.   Pinna pectinata.
    Rissoa zetlandica.       Diodonta fragilis.     Area tetragona.
    Cerithium reticulatum.   Tapes decussata.       Pecten similis.
   Mangelia teres.           Circe minima.
   Mangelia costata.
    Mangelia attenuata.

   9. Not a few species appear to be equally diffused everywhere throughout
our area ; of these, there may be cited as examples,

Chiton asellus.              Mangelia linearis.     Tellina crassa.

Acmaea virginea.             Cypraea europaea.      Tellina donacina.

Ti'ochus cinerarius.         Crenella discrepans.   Syndosmya alba.

Trochns tumidus.             Crenella marmorata.    Mactra elliptica.

Trochus ziziphinus.          Pectunculus glycimeris. Tapes virginea.

Rissoa parva.                Nucula nucleus.        Venus ovata.

Rissoa striata.              Lima hians.            Venus fasciata.

Turritella terebra.          Lima Loscombi.         Venus cassina.

Aporrhais pes-pelecani. Pecten maximus.             Venus striatula.

Natica Alderi.               Pecten pusio.          Artemis exoleta.

Buccinum undatum.            Pecten opercularis.    Artemis lincta.

Fusus antiquus.              Solen pellucidus.      Cardium fasciatura.

   Trophon muricatum. Psammobia ferroensis. Kellia suborbicularis.

 --Tlie harder Echinodermata exhibit similar phmnomena of distribution.

Thus, Cidaris histrix, Echinus norvegicus. Echinus neglectus and Euryale

verrucosa, are peculiarly and extreme northern species, and all of Scandina-

vian origin.

    Erissus lyrifer (which occurs also in glacial outliers in the south), Ophio-
coma filifortnis, Comatula petasus, Goniaster Templetoni (i. e. pulvillus), and

=Uraster rosea ( Cribella rosea), are peculiarly northern.

   Echinus Flemingii is northern and southern, but deficient in the interval.

   Echinus sphcera and Echinus miliaris, with many of our starfishes, are

general throughout the area.

Echinus Melo and the extra-limital Echinus lividus are peculiarly southern.

Similar peculiarities of distribution are shown by the soft Echinoderms,

by the soft Mollusca and by the Zoophytes.

   Numerical comparisons of the Testacea and hard Echinodermata inhabit-

--ing the regions explored, with the total number of British species. In the fol-

lowing table, one of the striking features is the small number of testacea and

hard echinoderms inhabiting tlie British seas, which do not live upon the

western shores of Great Britain ; such as are beyond their limits, are either

of excessively southern and scarcely British character, as Haliotis tuberculata,

1850.                                                             s
--258 REPORT 1850.

Jeffreysia opalina, JRissoa lactea and Murex corallinus ; or oceanic forms of

lanthina, Hyalcea and Spirialis ; or species probablj' of arctic origin, ex-

tending only to our north-eastern coasts, as Fusus norvegicus and Turtoni,

Ncdica Kingii, Hypothyris psittacea and Goniaster equestris. The number

Aof doubtful or not sufficiently investigated forms is also very small.    con-

siderable number of genera have no, or few, representative members in the

Scottish and English columns of western sublittoral species ; these are either
extra-limital, as Hyalcea, Haliotis and Hypothyris ; or excessively rare in
our seas, as Avicula, Stylifer, Cidaris and Astrophyton ; or oceanic, as lan-

thina and Spirialis ; or wholly or mainly littoral, as Liltorina, Otina, Cono-
vulus, Truncatella, Jeffreysia, Skenea (proper), Patella, Pleurobranchus,
Teredo, Xylophaga, Petricola, Venerupis, Ceratisolen, Turtonia, Galeomma,
Mytilus, Asterina. In Odostomia we have a genus which is not fairly re-

presented on account of the excessively critical character of its species. Five

genera of Gasteropoda, three of Lamellibranchiate acephala, three of Pallio-

branchiate acephala, and three of hard Echinodermata, all having members

in the Scottish portion of the regions explored, are without representatives in

the English western and southern provinces. On the other hand, seven

genera of Gasteropoda and eight of Lamellibranchiate acephala having

English representatives, are altogether wanting on the western and northern

coasts of Scotland. All our brachiopods found within the area explored are

Scottish species ; the number of nionomyarious Lamellibranchiata is slightly

in favour of Scotland over England, which, however, shows a considerable

majority of dimyaria. The proportion of Gasteropoda in the Scottish seas

is, however, so great, that the total number of testacea is in favour of the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '

north. This is to be attributed partly to the greater variety of depths and

ground, and partly to the presence in the north of isolated colonies of arctic

forms which swell the ranks of the inhabitants of those regions to beyond

their natural proportions.

   This table shows the total number of species of each genus of British tes-
tacea and hard Echinodermata, compared with the number of species recorded

in the following tables of depths ; the Scottish and English regions of the
areas to which this Report is devoted, having the number of their species

dredged in separate columns. In order to facilitate the comparison, and to

show cause for the diiferences between the latter or district columns and the
first or general enumeration, columns showing the number of species normally

living in the Littoral andLaminarian zones, of obscure forms said to live within

the area explored, and of British species found only beyond the limits of

these areas, are inserted between. I have added for general comparison a

column showing the number of species identical with existing British forms,

myof which we find fossil remains in the later British tertiaries, taking  data

from the valuable monographs by Mi". Searles Wood. In two other columns,

I have inserted in the one the total number of Scandinavian species of each

genus in the British list, irrespective of identity, founding the list on Loven's
researches; and in the other, the total number in like manner of Mediterra-

nean species, founding tiie list on the works of Phillippi, on my iEgean lists,
and on the dredging papers of Mr. MacAndrew. These two columns, when

compared with the others, will afford not a few indications of the respective

influences of the northern and southern elements in the British marine fauna.

The numbers of the Scandinavian Echinodermata are taken from the excel-

lent memoir by Duben and Koren.
                  ON BRITISH MARINE Z0OI..OGY.  259

British genera.
--260 REPORT 1850.

British genera.

   Test. Mollosca.  1
Lamellibranchiata.
Pinna
Lima
Pecten
Ostrea
Anomia
 Palliobranchiata.
Hypothyris

Terebratula
Megathyris
Crania

       Pteropoda.
Hyatea

Spirialis

     Gasteropoda.
Chiton

Patella

Acmaia
Pilidium
Propilidium
Dentalium

Pileopsis
Calyptrsea
Fissurella
Puncturella
Emarginula
Haliotis
Trochus
Phasianella
Adeorbis
 Scissurella
lanthina
 Littorina

Lacuna
Rissoa

 Jeffrej'sia
 Siienea

Skenea?
 Turritella
Coecum
Aporrhais
 Cerithium
 Scalaria
 Aclis

 Stylifer

 Eulima
 Chemnitzia
Odostomia
 Eulimella
 Truncatella
 Otina
 Natica
 Lamellaria
 Velutina
 Cerithiopsis
 Trichotropis
                    ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.  261

British genera.
                                                                             ;

--262 REPORT 1850.

across the eastern channel, ancient but not anterior to the existing population

of the British seas, we may ascribe some of the peculiarities of our southern-

most marine fauna, especially the presence there of southern forms of mol-

lusks, inhabitants of the Littoral or Laminarian zones, and u ndoubtedly colonists

from a more southern assemblage, such as we now see in the Channel Islands.

The inhabitants of greater depths taken off the Cornish coast at considerable

distances from shore, we have seen to be species of a different climatal

character, boreal instead of southern ; and when the distribution of animals

--on the Nymph Bank and off the southernmost coast of Ireland shall have been

more fully explored, we shall find at least, so the facts already made known

--indicate that there is a large tract of considerable depth in the southern

part of St. George's Channel, of the great deep-sea fishing-grounds, charac-

terized by this boreal fauna, bearing a close relationship with the extinct

fauna of the northern drift of the south-eastern districts of Ireland and parts

Aof the coast of Wales.  great part of the Irish sea is very shallow, rarely

sufficiently deep to affect the character of its fauna parts of its floor, as be-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

tween the Isle of Man and Lancashire, barely emerging from the Coralline

zone, and its deepest portions of any extent scarcely infringing on the region

of deep-sea corals. Between the Isle of Man and the Mull of Galloway, it is

true, there is the deep and narrow ravine, 150 fathoms in its deepest part,

discovered by Captain Beechey and dredged by him. But the results of his

valuable research, carefully investigated by a most able naturalist, Mr. W.

Thompson of Belfast, have shown that we have no fauna in that limited

gulf at all corresponding to its depth, and that its contents are normally inha-

bitants of shallower regions. For this reason, the absence of the assemblage

of subarctic or boreal species met with in all the older British submarine

areas of considerable depth, and the curious interruption in the distribution

of the smaller terrestrial quadrupeds which occurs in this quarter, reaching,

as many of them do, the extreme parts of the south of Scotland, yet not in-

habiting the nearest portions of Ireland opposite or any part of that island, I

am induced to hazard the conjecture, that the great ravine in question dates

its origin from a period later than the close of the glacial epoch, yet before

that of the general spread of the greater part of the Germanic fauna and flora

--over these islands of that part which, from causes varying in different spe-

cies of animals and plants, was the more tardy in its progress. In the regions

of the Clyde and along the inner Hebrides we have a great variety of depths

but the pbeenomenon most striking is the great depth of many of the lochs,

often of considerable dimensions, whilst the entrances to them are exceedingly

shallow ; and in some cases the seas without them for a considerable distance
are very shallow also. The fauna of these isolated deeps is very different

from that of the Gallovegian ravine, for in the former we find assembled and

imprisoned creatures which are characteristic of very deep regions of the

sea, and which are mainly of a marked Scandinavian character. Sometimes,

as in the neighbourhood of the Croulin iislands, between Skye and the Ross-

shire coast, we find a deep area of the sea thronged with Scandinavian spe-

cies, living on the remains of the ancient glacial sea-bed and mingled with

the exuviae of their extinct ancestors, and of other creatures, now wholly ex-

tinguished within our seas, of an equally boreal or even arctic complexion.

We have to sail a long way from the islands before we eome to the edge of

the permanently 100- fathom line, which, as we go northwards, must be

sought for considerably to the west of St. Kilda and north of the desolate

rocks of Sulisker and Rona. Around the Zetland Isles is the region in which

the British explorer has the best opportunity of inquiring into the features of

the fauna of the greater abysses of our seas, though of these depths we can

scarcely claim more than the 100-fathom region as coming within the com-
        ON BRITISH MARINE ZOOLOGY.                                   263

pass of British natural history. The soundings for a degree and a half north
of Unst do not reach 300 fathoms ; and from the Naze of Norway to the
coast of Scotland there is a line of soundings not reaching to 100 fathoms,
quite sufficient, as may be seen from an examination of the tables here
given, to keep up a considerable communication and interchange with the

Scandinavian marine fauna.
   That the diffusion of Lusitanian forms along our southern shores and for

some distance up St. George's Channel is due to the action of southern cur-
rents and their climatal influenee, must be evident to any person who will

compare the range of those species with the course and extension of Rennell's
current, which, striking towards our shores from the coast of Spain, im-

pinges on our south-western English provinces and diifuses its influence over
an area exactly corresponding with the extension of our marine creatures of
southern types. The extension, more or less powerful in different years, of
the Gulf-stream towards the Irish coast, and the combined influence of it
and its branch-current already mentioned, affects an area extending from our
south-western English province round the western coast of Ireland and im-

pinging on the western shores of Scotland in its northern portion, sufficient

to account for the curious curve of distribution taken by those animals
which range in that line almost from Devon to Zetland, but are rare or
absent in the central portions of the Irish sea. The setting-in of the arctic
current from the centre will account for the transmission to our northern

shores of numerous Scandinavian forms. But no action of currents, as at
present maintained, can account for the isolated patches and imprisoned

assemblages of glacial animals to which I have more than once alluded ia
this Report. To account for them we must trace the physical conformation

of the British seas in an epoch anterior to the present, and by doing so, shall
find that the causes similar to those now in action differently disposed, will

give us a clear insight into the origin of these phaenomena. I have elsewhere

theorized fully on this subject*, and have only to add, that all subsequent

researches, a great mass of which is embodied in this Report, go in the

--Astrongest manner to confirm the views I had ventured to advance.
Desiderata within this area.  great deal may yet be done for the ex-

ploration of the part of the British seas which has furnished the subject of this

Report. Although little that is new, if anything, can be expected from the

coasts of Hants, Sussex and Kent, yet it would be satisfactory to have a
well-filled series of dredging papers relating to those counties. The central

portion of the English channel and its entrance have yet to be systematically

explored, and the depths of the Cornish coast and around the Scilly Isles

should be sedulously examined. Off the entrance of the Bristol channel are

isolated, or nearly so, patches of 60 fathoms and thereabouts which require

to be carefully explored. The deeper portions of the Irish sea should be

Alooked to more minutely.     more difficult task, and one which can be

hardly hoped for fulfilment without the help of a steam-vessel and continued
calm weather, is the dredging of the deeps ofl" the Hebrides in the open

ocean. Much of the deep sea area around the Zetlands is sure to reward the
explorer. The lochs of Sutherlandshire have not as yet been systematically
examined. And lastly, though I fear the consummation, however devoutly

wished for, is not likely soon to be effected, a series of dredgings between
the Zetland and the Faroe Isles, where the greatest depth is under 700 fathoms,
would throw more light on the natural history of the North Atlantic and on

marine zoology generally, than any investigation that has yet been under-

taken.

        * Memoirs of Geological Survey, vol. i.
--264 REPORT 1850.

Notes on the Distribution and Range in depth of Mollusca and other
   Marine Animals observed on the coasts of Spain, Portugal, Barbary,

   Malta, and Southern Italy in 1849. By Robert MacAndrew,

    Esq., F.L.S.

List of Species of INIoUusca obtained in Vigo Bay during the first week of
                         April and the last week of August 184^9.
             .. .                                                                                                                           ;

ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.                                                                                 265

                                      Depth. Ground. Living at Fre-
                                                                                            quency.

Lucina spinifera var                           mud      10 to 12 f.          local                   smooth, cream or buff-colour.
Moutacuta bidentata                            mud        4 fath.            rare,                   in dead shells of Tapes virginea.
Kellia suborbicularis                          mud        8 fath.            freq.
Lepton squamosum
Galeomma Tiirtoni                     8 fath.  sand                          rare                    valves.           [shells.
Kellia ? (genus uncertain)                                                   V. r.
                                               mud      10 fath.             rare                    one specimen in mud with dead
Mytilus Galloprovincialis ?                    mud      5 fath.
          edulis?                                                                                    of same genus, perhaps species,

Modiola tulipa                                                                                       as a shell, procured alive un-
Crenella marmorata
                                               rocks littoral abun. der stones in Faro Harbour.
          costulata
Nucula nucleus                                 rocks littoral abuu. entrance of the bay.

          radiata                              mud 12 fath. rare,
          nitida
Area tetragona                                          12 fath. rare in Ascidiae.

   -- lactea                           shore     mud 5 to 25 f.               V. r.                  one valve.
                                      8 fath.    mud 20 to 25 f              freq.
Pectunculus glycimeris ...                       mud 20 to 25 f.             rare,                   valves,
Avicula tarentina                                                            freq.
                                               nul.&gr.                      rare
Pecten maximus
                                      8 fath. nul.&gr,                       rare valves.
-- opercularis
          varius                               nul.&gr. 8 to 12 f. rare,
          obsoletus .
          distortus . . .                        mud 8 fath. rare one living, several dead on the
            similis
           fuci                                sand      8 fath.              freq.                     shore, where they were proba.
Ostrea edulis ....                             sand     8 to 20 f.           not f.                     bly brought by the Seine nets.
                                               sand                          not f.
                     var. parasitica           sand      8 fath.                                     small.
                                                                              rare
Anomia ephippium                      8 fath.                                                        valves.
         pateUiformis
                                                      rocky 6 fath.          local.
Crania anomala                                                               rare valves,
Chiton rufus                          20 fath. mud

           fascicularis               15 fath. sand                          rare valves.
         marginatus
           asellus                                      low water                                    abundant in shallow water near
            Isevis
           cancellatus                                                                               the head of the bay, and ex-
Patella vulgaris
          pellucida                                                                                  cellent quality,

Acmaea virginea                                            low water         freq.                   covering rocks near head of the
Emarginula rosea                                                             rare.                       bay, small.
                                               &s. gr. 10 fath.               V. r.
Fissurella reticulata                          &s. gr, 10 fath.              abun.                                                [trance of bay.
                                                                             freq.                   dredged one specimen near en-
Calyptrsea sinensis                                     25 fath.             freq.                   creeping on the shore and at-
Bullaeaaperta                                                                freq.
                                                             1, w. to 12 f.  rare,                      tached to dead shells, &c.
          scabra                                                             rare,                      some came up with the chain
Bulla hydatis                                  s. &m, 8 fath.
                                                                                                        every time we got under way.
          akera                                &s. m.     littoral
                                               &s. m.
- cylindrica ...                               &s. m,   8 to 12 f.
           lignaria                                     8 to 12 f.
          umbilicata ...                                8 to 12 f.
          truncata
 Aplysia depilans . .                                   littoral abun.
 Rissoa ulva;
                                                        8 fath. freq. on fucus.
           vincta
           costata                             sand 8 fath. freq. large,

-^-- costulata                                 sand 8 to 12 f. freq. not large,

           labiosa                                      8 to 12 f. rare small,
           interrupta?
                                                        8 to 12 f. rare small.

                                      4 fath.  shells   1. w. to 20 f.        v.f.
                                                          4 fath.            freq.
                                               mud                           rare.
                                               mud      sh. to 4 f.           V. a.
                                               mud        4 fath.            freq.
                                               mud

                                               sand     8 fath.              freq.
                                                        10 fath.
                                               mud                           V. r. one specimen.
                                      4 fath.  mud
                                      4 fath.  mud                           local,
                                                                             local.

                                               sand l.w.to8f.                                        extremely abundant on the

                                      4 fath.  mud                           local. shore.
                                      4 fath.
                                      4 fath.           low water local.
                                      4 fath.
                                      4 fath.                                rare.

                                                                             V. r.

                                                                             freq,

                                                        4 fath. local.
                           ..

--266 REPORT 1850.

                               Depth. Ground, Living at Fre-
                                                                                     quency,

Rissoa striata                                    low water freq.
          pellucida
         parva                 4 fath.                         rare,

                                                  4 fath       rare,

calathiscus                    4iFath.            8 fath.         rare,
cimex ?                        4 fath.                         f. but 1
lactea
                                                                  rare,

violacea ?                     shore                            rare.

Alvania albella                8 fath.                                   one specimen (lost).

Odostomia of 2 or 3 species              &m.s. 8 to 12 f.      local,
                                                                rare,
Skenea ?                       4 fath.                         freq.

Chemnitzia elegantissima 4 to 12 f. sand

            scalaris            8 fath.  sand       8 fath.     V. r.                         only one specimen,
           fulvocincta          4 fath.  sand                   V. r,                         only two specimens,
           fenestrata           8 fath.            10 fath.     V. r.                         only two specimens,
           indistincta ?        8 fath.  mud      10 to 15 f.   V. r.                         only two specimens,
                               8 fath.   mud       6 to 10 f.   V. r.                         a fragment, large.
---- scalaris                                                   V. r.
               new?             shore    sand                  rare,                          one, dead and imperfect.
Eulima polita                            sand                  rare,                          smaU.
                                shore    sand                  freq.                          one, young.
          subulata              shore    sand                                                 animal a bright orange colour.
Natica Alderi                  4 fath.   sand                   rare                          fragment.

           nionilifera ?       8 fath.   sand       8 fath.     rare                          fragment.
Velutina lasvigata                       sand
Tornatella fasciata                      sand       8 fath.    few.                           extremely abundant, in large
Lamellaria perspicua .                                                                           groups brought in by fishing
Haiiotis tuberculatus ..                          8 & 12f      one.                               nets.

Scalaria communis                                 shore        freq,                          one, living,
         Turtoni                                               freq.                          one, living.
                                         mud                                                  minute, depressed, bicarinated
          clathratulus
Vermetus semisurrectus                            shore

    (Serpula tubularia)                  &s. ra. 5 to 12 f.
          triqueter
        Mullen                           &ms. 5 to 12 f.

Solarium luteura                          mud 20 fath.
        stramineum                        mud 8 fath.
                                          mud

Trochus umbilicatus            shore                            freq.                         {qy. young of preceding ?).
                                                                freq.
---- tumidus                             sand     8 to 12 f.   abuu.
           striatus                      saud     8 to 12 f.    V. a.
         exiguus                                               rare,
        Montagui                         null,     8 fath.      freq.
        magus                                      15 fath,
                                         sand       7 fath.
                                         sand

Laugieri                       12 fath. sand                   V. r.

cinerarius                               sand 10 fath. freq. on fucus.

ziziphinus                               rocky 8 fath. freq.

crassus                                           shore.

                                         sand     10 fath.     freq. on fucus {qy. vars. of T. cinera-

Adeorbis subcarinatus          4 fath.   mud                   rare,                          rius).
Phasianella pulla               shore
Lacuna puteolus ?                                 &8 f.  sh.   local.

                                                                         one dead specimen.

Littorina littoreus                               littoral fi-eq.

rudis                                             Uttoral freq.

littoralis                                        littoral freq.

saxatilis?                                        littoral freq.

Turritella tricostalis ..                sand     8 to 12 f. abun.
          terebra
                                         mud      12 to 25 f.            more rare than preceding ; very
Cerithium reticulatum                    mud
                                                  4 fath.                                     produced.

        perversum               4 fath.           8 fath.      rare,
Pleurotoma atteuuatum                                          freq.
                               6 to 10 f. mud                  freq.
         costatum                            mud

lineare                                  sand 8 fath. freq.

elegans                        8 fath. sand                              one specimen.
brachystomum . . .
                               12 fath. mud                    freq.
ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.  267
                                                             --

--268 REPORT 1850.

Tellina serrata.            Solarium stramineum.
Mesodesnia donacilla.
Lutraria rugosa.            Trochus Laugieri.

Cardium papillosum, var,    Turritella tricostalis.
Lucina digitalis.
                            Fusus contrarius*.
         (genus unknown).
Mytilus galloprovincialis.  Pleurotoma maravigni.
Chiton ruf'us*.
                            Murex Edwardsii.
               , new ?*.
                                      cristatus?.
Fissurella gibba.
Rissoa violacea?.           Triton variegatum.
Cheiunitzia (new)*.
Solarium luteum.            corrugatum.

                            Ringuicula auriculata.

                            Buccinum                (new ?)*.

                            Dentalium quadrangulare.

                                        (new?)*.

   The shell which I have designated above under the name of Fusus contra-
rius I believe to be distinct from the reversed var. of F. antiquus.

   Of the species not British, at least twenty have been found in the Medi-
terranean ; the exceptions are marked * in the list, and of these two, viz.
Fusus contrarius and Buccinum, new species (which may be a var. of B. mo-
destum), I look upon as doubtful.

   The subjoined list contains thirty species found at Vigo, and not known to
inhabit the Mediterranean. Six of them may be considered doubtful, viz.
Fusus contrarius and Buccinum (new?), for the reasons already mentioned

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;

Natica monilifera and Lacuna puteolus, because they are in the Vigo list
upon the faith of single, old, dead and imperfect specimens ; Natica Alderi
and Pecten obsoletus, because possibly identical with N. Marochiensis of
authors, and a Pecten procured at Gibraltar.

   The twenty-nine species procured at Vigo, but not in the Mediterranean,
all inhabit the British seas except six or seven (marked * in the list), Fusus

contrarius being doubtful.

Donax anatinus.             Natica monilifera ?.
Mactra truncata.
Tapes puUastra.             Alderi.
Kellia? (genus unknown)*.
                            Velutina laevigata.
Pecten obsoletus.
Chiton rufus*.              Trochus tumidus.

          marginatus.                  cinerarius.

            asellus.        Lacuna puteolus ?.

                , new?*.    Littorina littoreus.

Patella pellucida.          rudis.
Rissoa ulvae.
                            saxatilis.
           pellucida.
           vincta.          Fusus contrarius*.

            striata.                  (carinated).

Chemnitzia, new?*.          ----Purpura lapillus.
                            Buccinum               (new?)*.

                            Dentalium -. (new*).

   From the foregoing lists, it appears that the marine fauna of Vigo, as
regards Mollusca, is more nearly related to that of the British Isles than to
that of the division in which it is situated, the Lusitanian.

   The only land shells I met with in the neighbourhood of Vigo, are,

Helix aspersa.              Helix nemoralis.
           caperata.                 barbula.

        r cellaria.                 I revoluta.
                        .. .                           I                                   :

           ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.                                          269

    I attempted to dredge off the Berlings bearing E.S.E. 8 or ] miles, but
could obtain no bottom Avith 200 fathoms' line.

Species obtained by dredging off Cascaes Bay, south of the rock of Lisbon
                         bottom hard sand, depth 15 to 20 fathoms.

Corbula nucleus.                                          Bulla cylindrica.

Solen ensis.                                              Odostomia conoidea.

Solecurtus legumen.                                       Chemnitzia fulvocincta.

Syndosmya alba.                                           --Eulima subulata 7 or 8 living.

Artemis lincta.                                           Nassa varicosa.

Venus striatula.                                          --Cymba olla 2 living (gy. most

Cardium aculeatum Cyoung).                                     noi'thern locality?).

Pinna              (fragment).

Patella pellucida {qy. southern
    limit of range ?).

                                Dredging Paper No. 1.

               Date, 5th of April, 1849.
               Locality, Cape St. Mary's, South Coast of Portugal.
               Depth, 15 to 30 fathoms.
               Distance from shore, about 1^ mile.
               Ground, coarse sand, mud.
               Region,

Species obtained.             Number Number of dead'      Species obtained.         Number Number of dead]
                              of living
                                         specimens. Ij                              of living specimens
                              specms                                                 specms

Serpula filograna             , 1 group                   Venus verrucosa.                 fragment.

Ditrupa subulata or co-                                              striatula      abun.  fragment,
                                                                                        1
arctata                       innum.                      fasciata ....                        valve.

Dentalium quadrangu-                                      casnia                               valve,
                                                                                               valve,
--lare                        8,                          Circe minuta                         valve.
     tarentinum                      5                    Cardium edule
                                                                                                     1
Pholas dactylus                          a fragment.      laevigatum                           valves,
                                                                                               valves,
Corbula nucleus               "i                          papillosum, var....                  valves,
                                                                                                valve,
Pandora rostrata                         valves.          fasciatum                             valve.

Thracia phaseoUna                        1 valve. Cardita trapezia                         num. valves

Solen siliqua                            a fragment. Lucina lactea                              valves.
                                                                                                valves.
pellucidus                                                spinifera                             valves.
                                                                                             fragment.
Solecurtus candidus .                    fragments.       digitalis
                                                                                                valves,
antiquatus                               a valve,         divaricata                            valves,
                                                                                                valves.
Lutraria?                                frag, of 1 or 2 Diplodonta rotundata..
                                                                                                    2
                                         species,         Mytilus afer ?                            2
                                                                                                    3
Psammobia tellinella                     valves           Modiola

ferroensis                               valves,          Nucula nitida

Diodonta fragilis                        1 valve.         radiata

Tellina distorta                                 1        Leda emarginata
                                                          Area tetragona
   -- crassa                             4 valves.
   -- planata                            2 valves.           -- lactea
   -- COStiB                             2 valves.
                                                          Pectunculus glycimeris

Donax trunculus                          valves.          Pinna ingens ?

politus                                  num. valves. Pecten maximus.

Syndosmya alba                           num. vidves.     opercularis

Ervillia castanea                        num. valves,     varius

Mactra stuitorum . .                     fragment                 polymorplms
         subtruncata .                         2          Emarginula fissura ....,

Cytherea chione                          1 FissureUa gibba

venetiana                                valve.           Calyptrsea sinensis ....
270                        --REPORT 1850.

        Species obtained.
ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.                                     271

Mytilus galloprovincialis*.                 --Trochus Laugieri* on Zostera.
         minutus.
                                                --canaliculatus* on Zostera.
Modiola barbata.
                                                   , var. ?
           tulipa.
                                                   , var.?
Crenella marmorata*.
                                            Turbo rugosa.
--Lithodomus caudigerus* in stones
                                            Turritella sulcata.
    found in Asturias, but not at Cadiz
    or in the Mediterranean.                Cerithium vulgatum.

--Arcalactea* abundantunder stones.         reticulatum.
    --tetragona* one under stones.
                                            perversum.
--Pectunculus glycimeris abundant
                                            Murex corallinus*.
   valves, used by fishermen instead
                                            truncatus*.
    of lead.
                                            Brandaris*.
Lima scabrella ?.
Pecten maximus.                             erinaceus*.

--«-- varius.                               Edwardsii*.

Ostrea edulis.                              Triton variegatum*.

----Chiton marginatus ? ?*                  corrugatum.
            fascicularis*.
                                                   cutaceum.
Patella vulgaris*.
Siphonaria concinna*.                       Chenopus pes-pelecani.

Fissurella graeca.                          Purpura hgeniastoma.
Bulla striata.
Natica intricata*.                          --Cassis saburon ? two, dead.

           Guilleminii.                     Nassa reticulata.
Sigaretus haliotoideus (of Lam.).
Littorina neritoides.                       macula.

--Phasianella intermedia on Zostera.        Columbella rustica.
--Rissoa labiosa on Zostera.
                                            Mitra  (yellow, large).
            lactea.
                                            --Cymba olla picked up abundantly
Chemnitzia elegantissima.
                                            from bottom of a narrow channel
--fTrochus crassus?*, var. pale colour
                                            at low water.
 -- --(Qy. is it met with further south?).
                                            --Cyprsea Europaea*.
-- umbilicatus* on Zostera.
                                            Conus mediterraneus abundant on
    --striatus* on Zostera.                    muddy banks.

                                            Serpula triqueter, &c.

                                            --Balanus* on stones.

                                            , two species*^upon fishermen's

                                            cork.

   It will be noticed, that of the foregoing list, there are only TrocJiUS umbi-
licatus and crassus (doubtful), and perhaps Chiton marginatus (a doubtful
determination), British species not found in the Mediterranean.

   Dredged at San Lucar de Barameda (mouth of the Guadalquivir), 12th,
21st, and 22nd of April, locality not favourable for dredging ; bad enough for
anchorage on account of the strong tide and freshwater coming down after

--the heavy rains sandy shore. The most abundant species were Mactra

stvltorum, ordinary variety, and one pure white in about equal plenty ; Tel-

Una costce not uncommon ; valves of Lutraria rugosa small. Numerous com-
mon South European species.

   Between the bar of San Lucar and Cadiz I made use of the dredge at
various points, in 8 to above 20 fathoms, and found the bottom to be black

epidermis furnished with minute tufts of hair arranged in rows, diverging from the limbs,

giving it the appearance of being striated.

   N.B. I have formerly found dead and worn specimens on the shore of Asturias, when I
supposed it to be Bomia complanata. I procured the same, or an allied species, smaller,
dead, from mud in Vigo.

   t Poatibly a variety of T. articulatus, or intermediate between the two species.
                   .

--272 REPORT 1850.

mud, with hardly any shells except Nucula nitida and Turritella terehra.
Between Cadiz and Cape Trafalgar, I met with better success (see dredging
papers No. 2 and No. 8).

              Dredging Paper No. 2.

Date, 23rd of April, 1849.
Locality, between Cadiz and Cape Trafalgar.
Depth, 30 fathoms.
Distance from shore, 8 to 10 miles.
Ground, sand and gravel.
Resion,

                            Number Number of

Species obtained.           of living  dead

                            specmns. specimens.

Gastrochaena cuneiformis      1 or 2                      in the root of the coral {qy. Oculina ?).
Saxicava arctica                                           minute.
Corbula nucleus             several.
Pandora obtusa                      1  &1 valves,
Solecurtus antiquus
Psammobia ferroensis        2 young.      valves.

--Tellina serrata                         valves.

Syndosmya alba                         2 valves.
         intermedia?                   1 valve,
                                        several,
ErviUia castanea                        valves.
Mactra subtruncata                      1 valve.
Tapes virginea
Cytherea venetiana                      valves.
Venus verrucosa
                                        1 valve.
   -- fasciata                          1 valve.
   -- ovata
                                           valve.
Circe minuta
Astarte incrassata ?                   &1 valve.
Cardiiim echinatura .,,...
                                          valve.
        roseum .'
       minimum                            valve.
Lucina radula
                                       num. valves.
-- digitalis
        - spinifera                         1 valve.
Diplodonta rotundata.
                                       num. valves.
Modiola vestita
Nucula nitida                               1 valve.
Leda emarginata                             1 valve.
Area lactea                             fragments.
                                        fragments.
          obliqua                        fragments.
          antiquata ?                    fragments.
          tetragona
                                                2
Lima fragilis
Pecten maximus                         several.       allied to vitrea ?
                                           3
         op ercularis       several          1
           varius
         polymorphus . . .             several.
FissureUa grseca ? ....                     1
Calyptraea sinensis ....
Vermetus
Bulla cylindrica
          truncata
Rissoa Montagui

Odostomia conoidea
          acuta
              ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.                                                   273

Species obtained.                 Number     Number of                         Observations.
                                                 dead
                                  of living
                                  specmns.   specimens.

 Euliraa polita                   several,                       very slender oblique undulated ribs.
           subulata               several,
                                              1 broken.
Chemnitzia elegantissitna ..
           rufa                                         1
                new?                                    1
                new (rosea)
          fulvocincta ?                      2 opercula.

Scalaria communis                               several.
Trochus ziziphiniis                                    1
                                                        1
          millegranus                                  1
Turbo rugosus
Turritella terebra                              several.

           tricostalis                              1 banded, black and yellow.

Cerithium reticulatum
         perversuni

Fusus corneus (Lin.)
Pleurotoma gracilis

       brachy stomum

         reticulatum var. spino-

   sum
      , new sp

Buccinum modestum                 1          several.
                                                  2
minus                             1
                                             several,
Nassa reticulata                  1          several,
                                             several,
macula                            several    several,
                                             several.
Ringuicula auriculata             several
                                                             on Caryophyllia.
Dentalium quadrangulare ... several

Ditrupa subulata                  several

Balanus                           1

Adna anglica                      1

Numerous Zoophytes, a large

red coral, Occulina.

                         Dredging Paper No. 8.

          Date, 26th of July, 1849.
        Locality, 8 miles north and west of Cape Trafalgar.
         Depth, 15 fathoms.
         Distance from shore, 5 miles.
         Ground, coarse sand with broken shells.
          Region,

Species obtained.
274                                 REPORT 1850.

                 Species obtained.
ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.  275

Species of Mollusca obtained at Gibraltar end of April and beginning of

                                       May 1849.
                       ..

--276 REPORT 1850.

                             Depth.                             Fre-
                                          Living at

                                                             quency.

Astarte incrassata                        30 to 40 f. local very distinct from preceding,grooved

                                                                      only towards the umbo,

      , var. .'..                         30 to 40 f. local sulca; more numerous, closer, and

                                                                      extending to the margin, smaller,

                                          30 fath. rare smaller than preceding, radiated.

triangularis                              7 to 8 f local large and fine.

Artemis exoleta                           shore local (Med.).

lincta                       shore        6 fath. local,

Cardium erinaceum            8 fath.                   local large.

      , var. (wliite) ...                              local from fisherman.

tuberculatum                 shore                     freq. (Med.).

      , var., white ... shore                          rare (Med.).
                                                       rare (Med.).
aculeatum              :     shore

l.Tvigatum                                8 to 12 f. local,

papillosum                                20 to 40 f. local.

punctulatum ?                             30 fath      V. r.
minimum                                   30 fath      V. r.

papillosum, var                           20 to 40 f rare.

Cardita sulcata                           sh.to lOf. V. a.

squamosa (aculeata,

Ph.)                                      15 to 45 f. freq.

calyculata                   shore                     valve,

Lucina lactea                             8 fath. local,

spinifera                                 15 to 25 f. rare,

digitalis                                 4 to 30 f. freq.

Diplodonta rotuudata                      4 to 8 f. freq.

Lepton squamosum             shore                     valve,

Bornia corbuloides           shore                     freq.
         complanata          shore
                                                       rare two or three valves.

Mytilus galloprovincialis.. shore                      freq.

Modiola harbata              shore                     local,

tulipa                                    10 to 25 f. rare,

vestita                      12 to 45 f. 20 to 40 f. local.

Crenella marmorata                        10 fath

           costiilata         shore                               valves,
                             40 fath.                  rare valves.
        rhombea

Nucula nucleus                            6 to 20 f. freq.

nitida                                    12 to 40 f. freq.
polii                                     30 to 45 {. local,

radiata                                   30 to 45 f. freq.

Leda emarginata                           4 to 12 f. local,

striata                                   30 to 40 f freq.

Area?                                       20 fath.   rare small, living ; resembles A.fuaca.
                                          20 to 12 f.
         lactea                           30 to 45 f.  local,
         antiquata
                                                       local numerous valves, few living.

          raridentata                     45 fath,      V. r.         three specimens.
         tetragona                        30 fath,      V. r.         one specimen, small.
Pectunciilus glycimeris ...               30 fath,     rare           small, one very large valve on shore.
          pilosus                         8 fath.      local          mud.

Avicula tarentina ..         shore                         1
Pinna squamosa               shore
                                                       local fragments at various depths.

Lima fragilis                15 fath.                  locar valves.

tenera                       10 fath.                  local valves.
subauriculata ..
                                          35 fath. rare one living, small, several fragments.

scabrella .'                 shore                     local valves.

Pecten maxim us              sh.to 40 f. 4 to 25 f. freq.
                                             20 to 40 f. local small.
          opercularis

varius                                    8 fath. freq.

distortus                    15 to 45 f.   8 fath.     local.
polymorphus .                              6 fath.
gibbus                                    25 fath.             common on shore.
obsoletus .'                              30 fath.              one, living, numerous valves.

                                                                   one, living.
ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.  277
--278 REPORT 1850.

                                                         Depth.
                                                  --

                      .

ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.                                                        279

                           Depth.                            Fre-
                                       Living at quency.

Ilanella gigantea          shore                        local      of Mediterranean.
Triton variegatum          shore                        local      of Mediterranean and bay.
                           shore                        local      of Mediterranean.
-- nodiferum               shore                        local      bay.

-- cutaceum                            8 fath. local.

         corrugatum                    8 to 15 f. local.
Chenopus pes-pelecani
Cassis sulcosa             shore                        rare.
Nassa mutabilis
                                       8 fath.          freq.
          neritoides                   8 fath.          freq. small variety.
          incrassata
           reticulata                  8 fath. freq.
          varicosa
                                       4 to 12 f. freq.
Buccinum minus
       minimum                         8 fath. freq.

           variabilis      OtolO         8 fath.        freq.
         corniculum                    4 to 10 f.       freq.
                                                        freq.
        granum
          scriptum                     littoral         freq.
Columbella rustica                                      rare.
                                       10 fath.
Ringuicula auriculata ,..
Mitra ebenus                           8 fath. freq.

          columbellaria                littoral freq.

Cymba oUa                    8 fath.                    two.
                           10 to 25 f.                  local.
Erato tevis                                             freq.
Marginella clandestina                        8 fath.
                                           8 to 30 f.   local.
          miliacea            shore
Ovula spelta                                            local Mediterranean.

Cyprsea pyrum              8 to 20 f.                   rare.

          europaea                     15 to 40 f. freq.
Conus mediterraneus ..
 Spirula Peronii                         8 fath. freq.
Dentalium tarentinura
                                       8 to 10 f. rare on Gorgonia.
          quadrangulare .
 Ditrupa subulata          shore                        rare.

               , new?                  8 fath. local.

 Anatifa Isevis                        littoral freq.
            striata
                               shore                    freq.      some of the smaller specimens finely
            fascicularis                    8 to 40 f.  rare          striated longitudinally with a
 Balani.                                    8 to 20 f.  freq.
                                                        rare.         waved appearance.
                           30 to 45 f.                  local      small, transparent, not much arcu-
                                           15 to 40 f.  local.
                                               shore                  ated, narrow end grooved fore and

                                                        rare.      aft.

                                                        rare.

Echinus esculentus, abun-
    dant.

Lluydia fragilissima
Asterias, &c.

Few species of land-shells on the rock ; the prevailing are

Helix pisana.                          Helix lactea, var. Hispanica.
           virgata.                    Bulimus acutus.
--280 REPORT 1850.

List of Shells procured at Malaga from 6th to 11th of May 1849, with the

   addition of some species obtained in same locality on a former occasion.

                                                                 Fre-
                                          Living at queacy.

Dentalium fissura, or ru-        shore    4 fath. local all the specimens have (upon close

bescens.                         shore                               examination)a very narrovr fissure.
                                 shore                locaL
tarentinuni                      shore    8 to 30 f.  rare valves,

Pholas dactyliis                 shore
                                 shore
Candida                          shore                rare valves,
                                 shore
parva                            shore                rare             valves.
                                                      freq.
Corbula nucleus                  shore    4 to 30 f.  freq.
                                 shore    4 to 8 f.
Pandora rostrata                 shore
                                 shore
Thracia phaseolina               shore                local,
                                 shore
Solan ensis                   I  shore    4 to 8 f. freq.
         vagina                  shore
                                 shore                local,
                                 shore
Solecurtus legumen .             shore    4 fath. freq.

antiquus                         shore    4 fath. local,
                                 shore
Psamraobia ferroensis.           shore                local,
                                 shore                freq. in the harbour.
Diodonta fragilis                4 fath.
                                 shore
Scrobicularia piperata.                               local,
                                 shore
Tellina costfe                   shore                local,
                                 shore
---- (new)                       shore                local some resemblance to T. costce, but
                                 shore                freq. larger and with more colour.
- pulchella
          tenuis                 shore                freq.
                                 shore
depressa                         shore                freq.
                                 shore
distorta                                              local,
                                 shore
punicea                                               local,
                                 shore
planata                                               local,
                                 shore
Syndosmya alba                   shore    4 fath.     abun.
                                          shore        freq.
Donax trunculus                           shore        freq.           1 sold for the table and much
                                          shore        freq.           J esteemed ; obtained by men wa-
venustus                                               freq.
                                                                             ding with nets, as shrimps in
Mesodesiua donacilla ...
                                                                             England.
Lutraria elliptica

oblonga                                               local.

rugosa                                                1 valve

--Mactra subtruucata ....                 4 fath. freq.

Tapes Beudantii                                       local,
         geographica
                                                      local,

Cytherea venetiana                        4 to 12 f.  local,
                                           4 fath.
chione                                      4 fath.    freq.
                                           35 fath.
Venus gallina                                         abuu. procured extensively for food.
                                                       freq.
striatula

fasciata                                  4 to 12 f.  freq.
                                          4 to 12 f.  freq.
ovata                      ,               35 fath.
                                          4 to 12 f.
                  , new.'                                              large, closely laminated.
Circe minima

Artemis lincta             ,              4 fath.
Cardiuni aculeatum
                                          4 to 8 f.

tuberculatum                              4 to 8 f.

edule

fasciatum                                  4 to 8 f.

Cardita calyculata                          littoral  abun. rocks,
                                            littoral  abun. harbour.
Lucina lactea                                         abun.
                                           4 to 8 f.  local large and fine.
Pectuuculus violascens                     35 fath.
                                          4 to 30 f.   freq.
Nuculapolii                ^               4 to 8 f.
                                           35 fath.   local,
nucleus
                                            littoral   rare two fine groups.
Leda emarginata                            4 fath.
                                           4 to 8 f.   rare,
Avicula tarentina          ,               4 to 8 f.
                                                      abun. rocks, the common species.
Chama gryphoides
                                                      rare,
Mytilus afer
                                                       freq.
Crenella costulata                                     freq.

Pecten yarius

Ostrea edulis
                     ..,

           ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.                                   281

                                                                     Fre-
                                               Iiiving at quency.

Anomia ephippium and var.

electrina                           shore       4 to 8 f.   freq.
                                    shore
Hyalaea tricornis                              littoral     rare.
                                      to 8 £.   littoral
Chiton fascicularis                             littoral    freq.
                                    shore
Patella, species uncertain          shore       littoral    freq.
                                    shore          to 8 f.
Siphonaria concinaa                                         freq.
                                    30 fath.     4 fath.
Emarginula elongata                  shore                  local.
                                     shore       4 fath.
Fissurella rosea                     shore       4 fath.    local.
                                     shore      35 fath.
Calyptraea sinensis                  shore      35 fath.    abun.
                                     shore      35 fath.
Sigaretus haliotideus                shore       4 fath.    one.
                                     shore
Bullaea aperta                       shore      4 to 8 f.   freq.
                                     shore
Truncatella Montagui                 shore      35 fath.    rare.
                                                 4 fath.
Rissoa monodonta                     shore       4 fath.    abun. on Zostera.
                                                 4 fath.    freq. on Zostera.
labiosa                              shore       4 fath.
                                                4 to 8 f.
, new sp. ?                          shore       4 fath.    rare resembling R. abyssicola, but di-

Odostomia conoidea               ,   shore       littoral   local.         stinct.
                                     shore       littoral
Chetnnitzia elegantissinia           shore       littoral   local.
                                     shore       littoral
Neritina viridis                 ,  30 fath,     littoral   local on Zostera.
Natica sordida                                   littoral
                                     shore       4 fath.    one.

                                                 littoral   freq.
                                                 littoral
Guilleminii                                                 freq.
                                               12 to 35 f.
intricata                    ,                              local.
                                                 4 fath.
Tornatella fasciata                                         local.
                                                 4 fath.
lanthina nitens                                  2 to 4 f.  rare.
                                                 2 to 4 f.
Scalaria communis                                4 fath.    local.

          pseudoscalaris ..                      4 fath.    local.
Vermetus gigas                                   4 fath.
                                                 4 to 8 f.  local.

                 , gy. corneus?                             local.
Solarium stramineum ..
                                                            rare.

Trochus ziziphinus                                          rare on Avicula, minute, flat, bicarinated.

           striatus                                         local.

        magus                                                        extremely abundant on Zostera.

          Laugieri                                          freq.
          conulus, var. .                                   freq.
          granulatiis ....                                  local small.
           tessellatus ....                                 rare,
          Richardii                                         local,
          divaricatus ....                                  freq.
          articulatus . . .                                 freq.
            Vieillotti                                      freq.
          fragaroides . . .
                                                            local,
Phasianella pulla                                           freq.
Littori naneritoides                                        freq.
                                                            local,
           petraea                                          rare,
         tigrina (D'Orbigny)
Turritella tricostalis                                      abun.
          terebra
Cerithium vulgatum                                          local.
          reticulatum
         perversum                                                     a fragment.
Cancellaria cancellata                                      freq.
Pleurotoma bracliystomum                                    freq.
                                                            freq.
         ginnannianum ..                                    rare,
         attenuatum                                         freq.
         Jsevigatum                                         local,
Triton variegatum                                           local,
Cassis sulcosa                                              local,
Murex trunculus                                             local,
          brandaris                                         local,
          erinaceus                                         local,
                                                            freq.
                                                            freq.
                                                             freq.
..

--282 REPORT 1850.

                                                              Fre-
                                      Living at quency.

Nassa mutabilis                       4 to 8 f.   freq.
          neritoides
         macula             shore     4 to 8 f.   local.
           reticulata                 4 to 8 f.
                            shore     4 to 8 f.   freq.
I varicosa                  shore     littoral
PoUia maculosa              shore      4 fath.    freq.

Buccinum minus             2 to 8 f.   4 fath.    freq.
                             shore    4 to 8 f.
            variabilis       shore                freq.             rocks.
                             shore     littoral   v. a.             on Zostera.
          corniculum         shore                freq.
        granum               shore      littoral
         modestum?           shore                freq.
Columbella rustica ....                 littoral
 Ringuicula auriculata                            freq.
 Mitra ebeneus
                                                  local two varieties.
Cymba olla                                        abun.
 Cyprsea pyrum
                                                  freq.
           europaea
 Conus mediterraneus                              local.
 Spirula Peronii
 Anatifa fascicularis . .                         local.

             striatus                             local.

  Balani.                                         freq.

                                                  freq.

                                                  freq.

                                                           numerous valves.

                                                  local.

Large Asterias, abundant
Comatula, abundant.
ZoanthusCouchii uponAvi-

     cula.

   Sea-bottom mud, to a distance of 5 or 6 miles from land.

  A small shrimp-formed crustacean, claws short and broad, emits a sharp

snapping noise when taken in the fingers and even after it is in spirits.
The species not uncommon in most of the ports I visited in the Mediter-

ranean.

   On the 1^2th of May, between Malaga and Carthagena, attempted twice

to dredge, but obtained no bottom with 350 fathoms line.

                                    Carthagena, 1 4th to 16th of Maj'.
                               .

ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.                                                           283

                                          Dead at                              Fre-
                                                         lAviiig at quency

Tapes florida                                     shore                     local (small),
Cytherea venetiana                                       30 fath. rare,
                                  s. & m.
   -- chione
                                  sand                   7 fath. local small.
Venus gallina
         ovata                            shore                        freq.
                                                                       freq.
           fasciata               &s. m.                 30 fath.      local,
                                  &s. m.                 30 fath.      local,
Circe minima                      &s. m.                 30 fath.
Lttcinopsis undata ....
Cardium laevigatum ...              sand 7 fath.                         rare one specimen,
                                                         30 fath. rare young.
        exiguum                   s. & m
         papillosum
         echinatum                 weed                  5 fath.       local,
Cardita trapezia                                         30 fath.      local.
                                  &s. m,
          sulcata
Lucinalactea                      weed                   5 fath.       one.

           spinifera                      shore                        freq.
         pecten
          divaricata                                     7 fath.       one large.
Diplodonta rotundata.
                                          shore                                  freq.
Kellia corbuloides ....
Modiola tulipa                    mud                    30 to 40 f. local.

          petagnae                        shore                        local.
Mytilus minimus
Nucula nucleus                    weed    5 fath.        5 to 40 f. local small.
                                  weed
           nitida                                                             local.

            polii                 weed                   5 to 8 f. local very convex, yellow or buff.
                                                                              local.
Leda emarginata                                  shore

            striata               weed                   7 fath. local.

Area                                      shore                        local.
Pecten gibbus
                                          shore                                 freq.
          hyalinus
            striatus .'           m&s.                   10 to 40 f. freq.
         polymorphus ....
          pes-febs?               sand                   10 fath. local.
Spondylus gaederopus.
                                    raud                 30 to 40 f.   local.                                                   [a fusca.
Anomia epMppium ....                                                   local.           same as at Gibraltar, resembling
Chiton marmoreus ....              mud                      7 fath.    local.           valves.
                                                                       valve
           siculus                s. & m                 30 to 40 f.   local
 Patella                          s. & m
 Fissurella rosea                 m&s.    40 fath,
                                          40 fath.
          gibba
 Calyptraea sinensis              weed                   5 fath.       one.
Crepidula unguiformis
 Bulla striata                    sand                   8 fath.       one.

           Cranchii                 sand   6 to 8 f.     5 to 10 f,    local            valves.
          truncata ....'.                  40 fath.      5 to 10 f.                     fragment.
         acuminata                & m1.   etolOf.        5 to 10 f.    local            valves.
          umbilicata              m&s.    6 to 10 f.     5 to 10 f.     freq.
                                                                       rare,            same as at Gibraltar, elongated,
               , new spec. ?        & m.    shore                       one
                                  s. & m                                one             small.
           striatula ? Forbes     &s. m,                               local            smaU.
 Auricula bidentata .' . .
 Rissoa monodonta?                s. & m

        · parva                           shore                        local,
           acuta
          purpurea                &s. m.   shore         5 to 10 f.    local,
           Bruguieri                                     30 to 40 f.   abun.
           granulata ....           &m     shore                       one.
                                          30 fath.                     one.
 ----'-- calathiscus ....           &m,                                rare,
         Montagui ....
        new ?                     &s. m.
    and some othens.
                                                         30 to 40 f. local,

                                                30 fath                one.

                                  & ms. 30 to 40 f.                    rare,            subcylindrical, thin, pellucid,
                                                                       local                broad, extremity contracted,
                                              30 to 40 f. 30 to 40 f.  local,
                                              30 to 40 f.               oue.               giving the appearance of Cu-

                                                  shore

                                          shore          5 fath. local,                 vieria.

                                          shore          5 fath.       local,
                                                                       local,
                                          &sh. 5 f.

                                          shore                        local.

                                          10 fath.                     V. r.

                                          shore                        freq.

                                          shore                        freq.

                                          shore                        freq.

                                          30 fath.                     one.
                         .

284                                                                                                                     REPORT -- 1850.

                                                                                                                        Dead at  Living at Fre-
                                                                                                                                                    quency.

Odostomia                        &'s. m.                                                                                         30 to 40 f.   rare,         small.
                                 s. & m                                                                                                        rare.
----Eulima polita                &s. in.                                                                                         !30to40f.      V. r.
          distorta               &S. 111.                                                                                          30 fath.    rare,
         subulata                &s. ni.                                                                                           30 fath.    rare,
Natica inacilenta....                                                                                                                          rare
                                   & ni.                                                                                         I             rare,
           intricata             s. & m.
         Alderi                                                                                                                  130 to 40 f.
                                                                                                                                   40 fath.

                                                                                                                                 !30to40f.

Scalaria crenata ....                                                                                                   shore                  one.

pseudoscalaris                                                                                                          shore                  rare,

Neritina viridis ....            weed                                                                                   shore    5 fath. abun.

Vermetus semisurrectus

    (Serpula)                    sand                                                                                            30 fath.      local.
Vermetus gigas .,                sand                                                                                            30 fath.      local.

          cancellatus ?          sand                                                                                            30 fath.      local.
Trochus striatus ..              sand                                                                                            4 fath.       freq.

Phasianella puUa                 weed                                                                                            4 fath.       rare.
                                                                                                                                 4 fath.       local.

intermedia ?                     weed                                                                                            4 fath. local.

Littorina petraea                                                                                                       shore                   freq.
Turritella tricostalis                                                                                                                         local.
                            ..   &s. m.                                                                                          30 fath.      local.
         terebra                 s. & m                                                                                          30 fath.

Cerithium reticulatum            weed                                                                                            4 fath.       freq.

          pei-versum ....         weed 4 fath.                                                                                                        local.
Fusus muricatus ..,.
                                 s. & m                                                                                          30 fath. rare two specimens.

coralliDus ....                                                                                                                  8 fath. local.

corneus, Lin.                    sand                                                                                            8 fath. local.

Pleurotoma gracile               sand 130 to 40 f.                                                                                             rare.

laevigatum ....                  sand                                                                                   8 fath                 rare.
purpureum ....                                                                                                          8 fath                 local.
ginnannianum                     sand                                                                                                          local.
brachystomura,                                                                                                                   10 to 40 f.
                                                                                         I

                                 mud

                            and

about 3 others                   mud                                                                                             30 to 40 f. local,

Nassa neritoides                 sand                                                                                            8 fath.       freq.
Buccinum minimum .,              sand                                                                                            8 fath.       local,
Ringuicula auriculata .                                                                                                          40 fath.      local,
                                 mud

Erato laevis                     sand                                                                                            8 fath. local,

Marginella clandestina s.&m.!                                                                                                    30 to 40 f. freq.

miliacea                         sand                                                                                               8 fath.    local,
                                                                                                                                   8 fath.     local,
--Dentalium tareutinum                                                                                               j             5 fath.     local,
                                                                                                                                 30 to 40 f.   local species
                                 sand                                                                                             40 fath.
                                                                                                                                                          one.
- fissura or rubescens . mud                                                                                                                                                        (fissured),
                                                                                                                                                                               at Gibraltar
Ditrupa                          &s. m.                                                                                                                              obtained

Brissus lyrifer                  mud

Starfish                         sand                                                                                            10 fath.
                                                                                                                                 40 fath.
A fragment of Pavonaria..                                                                                                                              mud.

          Bay of Algiers, 18th to 21st of May ; bottom sand and mud.
ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.                                                       285

                                                              Fre-
                                 Dead at     Living at
                                                                 quency,

Solecurtus antiquus ....         35 fath.                     rare valves,
                                                 10 fath.     local small.
Psammobia ferroensis..                                        local,
                                 lOfath.                      local,
          costulata                                8 fath.     freq.
Tellina pulchella                                  10 fath.    freq.
                                                  10 fath.     rare,
         donacina                                10 fath.     local,
           distorta                                           local,
          balaustiua              shore                       rare very narrow and pointed.
         punicea                  shore                        freq.
         depressa                                             local,
Syndosmya, sp                                  20 to 30 f.    local,
Donax trunculus                   shore                        freq.
         venustus                 shore                        freq.
          politus                                             local,
Mactra stultorum                                    8 fath.
         subtruncata                               shore       one.
Tapes virginea                                     6 fath.    local,
                                                  10 fath.    local,
                   nitens?       10 fath.                      freq.
         Budantii                 6 fath.                     local,
           florida                6 fath.                      rare white, striated.
Cytherea chione                  6 to 8 f.                     freq.
         venetiana                               35 fath.
                                                 35 fath.     freq. mud.
              , var. ? or new ?                     shore                sold in market.
Venus gallina                                   30 fath.
                                                   6 fath.     freq.
           striatula                             6 to 35 f.    freq.
          verrucosa                              6 to 35 f.    freq.
           fasciata                               6 to 8 f.    freq.
          ovata                                    6 to 8 f.   rare valves.
Artemis exoleta                  35 fath.                     local,
           lincta                  shore
Astarte incrassata                                25 fath.    local mud.
                                  8 fath.
Cardium tuberculatum                             6 to 10 f.   local valves.
                                                  35 fath.    local,
            ciliare                                           local.
                                 6 to 8 f.   35 fath.
         echinatum               6 to 8 f.   35 fath.          I'are.
         exiguum                                              rare,
         papillosum              35 fath.    6 to 8 f.        local,
            Isevigatum (sulca-   8 to 6 f.   6 to 8 f.
   tum?)                          shore                        rare valve.
Lucina digitalis                                              local,
         pecten                  6 to 8 f.   35 fath.         local one large.
           radula.'                                            rare valves.
          lactea                  shore        shore          local valves.
          divaricata             6 to 10 f.  6 to 8 f.         freq.
           bipartita                         35 fath.
Cardita trapezia                             6 to 8 f.        local,
          calyculata                         6 to 8 f.        rare,
         squamosa (aculeata,                 6 to 8 f.
                                             35 fath.         freq. very large and fine.
     Phil.)                                  6 to 10 f.
                                             35 fath.         freq.
Chama gryphoides                                              freq.
                                             6 to 10 f.       local,
Mylilus galloprovincialis ...                35 fath.         local,
Modiola barbata                              35 fath.         freq.
                                                              freq.
           vestita                                            freq. valves,
                                                              local valves.
--^Nucula nucleus                                             local,
           nitida                                             local.
          radiata
            polii                                                      one or two valves.

Leda emarginata

            striata

Area noe
          barbata
           lactea
         tetragona
          obliqua
                         .. ..                         .

286 REPORT 1850.

                                Dead at                             Fre-
                                             Living at quency,

Pectunculus glycimeris                       35 fath.                     small.

          violascens              shore      6to8f.       V. a.
Pinna                            6 to 8 f.   35 fath.                fragments.
                                  shore
Lima squamosa                     shore                   local valves.
                                6 to 10 f.                local valves.
          scabrella              35 fath.                 local valves.
         tenera                  35 fath.                 local valves.
            fragilis                                      rare valves.
          subauriculata          35 fath.                 local.
                                 35 fath.                 local valves,
Pecten maxim us                  35 fath.                 local valves,
      - polymorphus              35 fath.                  V. r. valves,
                                 35 fath.                  freq. valves,
            similis              35 fath.                  freq. valves,
            pes-felis             35 fath.                local valves.
           varius                                         local.
          gibbus
           distortus
           opercularis

         byalinus               6 to 8 f.    6 to 8 f.    rare.
          sulcatus                           6 to 8 f     rare.
Spondylus gaederopus..          35 fath.                  local valves.
Ostrea edulis                   35 fath.     6 to 10 f.
                                                                     in the market.
Anomia ephippium
Chiton                                                    local.
                                                          rare valves, white,
                                                           rare.

Patella                          shore                    freq.
Umbrella mediterranea           8 fath.                   V. r. a fragment.
Emarginula elongata .           35 fath.
Fissurella gibba                35 fath.                  local.
                                6 fath.
          rosea?                                          local.

                                                          local.

Haliotis tuberculatus .         6 fath.                   rare.
Capulus Ungaricus               35 fath.
Calyptrsea sinensis             6 to 10 f.                rare.

Crepidula unguiformis                        shore        abun.
                                             6 fath.                in a dead Cassis.
                                             35 fath.
BuUeea aperta                                6 fath.      freq.
                                             6 fath.
         punctata               6 fath.      35 fath.     rare.           animal resembling B. aperta ; sheU
                                             35 fath.                        and gizzard small and totally dif-
             , new                                        one
                                                                               ferent.
Bulla striata                                             rare.
                                                          rare.
Cranchii

    truncata                                              local.

-- acuminata                    35 fath                   V. r.

Rissoa acuta                    6 to 10 f.                local.

-- cimex                        6 to 10 f.                local.

-- Montagui                     6 to 10 f.                local.

-- labiosa                      6 to 10 f.                local.

-- Macandreae, Hanley,

                                35 fath.                  V. r. a fragment,

Odostomia conoidea ?               10 fath.               rare large.
                                                          local.
                                I                         rare.
                                                          rare.
Chemnitzia elegantissima .35 & 10 f.                       rare.

scalaris                          35 fath.

                                |

indistincta ?                   35 fath.

Eulimella acicula               35 fath.

Natica millepunctata vai-.                                freq. in the market.
   maculosa                                               rare.

                                8 fath.

         Alderi                  8 fath.     8 fath.      local.
Neritina viridis ....            8 fath.                  local.
Tornatella fasciata .            8 fath.     35 fath.
                                 35 fath.                  rare.
Scalaria communis .             8 to 10 f.   littoral      rare.
         lameUosa? ....          35 fath.                  rare.
                                 35 fath.                 local.
Trochus crenulatus                                         local.
          ziziphinus                                       rare.
          dubius
                                                                                                                          |
           tessellatus . . .
                                                           freq. large.
ON SOUTH-EUROPE.\N MARINK INVERTEBRATA.  287
                                                                      .

--288 REPORT 1850.

Mactra stuUorum.                    --Cardium edule, var. shore of the
Tapes florida ?
Donax trunculus.                        lake, small, wide, thin.
Scrobicularia tenuis -shore of the
                                                 --? shore of the bay,
    lake.
                                        strong, triangular, fewer ribs (22),

                                       and other common littoral species.

                   In Tunis Bay 25 fathoms, mud.

Corbula rosea? small, thin, pellucid, Cerithium fuscatum (living).

    numerous.                       Trochus articulatus (living).

--Cytherea venetiana small.         tessellatus (living).

--Area noe valves.                  Helix pisanaf.                          ^
                                    --Glandina foHicula largef.
--Area antiquata ? valves large.                                                                     · alive.

Bulla striata.                      --Bulimus decoUatus largef.

Natica olia.                        Clausilia papyraceaf
                                    Helix melanostomaf. 1 , ,
    --millepunctata banded var,

Nassa neritea.                                          naticoidesf.     J
Erato laevis.
                   Dredging Paper No. 3.

Date, 29th of May, 1849.
Locality, north-east of the Island of Zembretta, mouth of Gulf of Tunis.

Depth, 3.5 fathoms.
Distance, 1|- to 2 miles from the island.
Ground, sand and gravel with occasional rocks.

Species obtained.
                   ..

ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBUATA.                                                     289

Species obtained.               No. of living No. of dead
                                 specimens specimens.

Venus fasciata                  several

            striatula           2 young,
          ovata
                                several.
Cardium papillosum
          fasciatum             4 several.
          laevigatum
        minimum                 1

Cardita trapezia .>             2 young.
           corbis
                                2
Nucula nucleus .
          radiata                         1 small, white.

Leda e margin ata.                                       valves,

           striata              numerous numerous, the most abundant species, most dead.
                                numerous numerous,
Area tetragona .
          lactea                5 numerous.

Pectunculus glycimeris                    valves
           lineatus .'
                                few.
Diplodonta apicalis .' . .
Modiola tulipa                  1 young.                                                                        [wide.
Crenella rhombea                     4    1 valve resembling antiquata, but short and

   -- marmorata                               1 valve reticulated.
                                2 young.
Avicula tarentina
                                1
Lima fragilis
                                2 valves.
   -- subauriculata
                                 1 several val,
Pecten Jacobaeus                20 valves.

 -- varius                      "2"       1 valve.
 -- opercularis                                            minute.
 -- distortus (pusio)
 -- similis                     1 small                    attached to a yellow Gorgonia.
 -- obsoletus or striatus ?. .
 -- polymorph us                1 valves,

         gibbus                 2 valves,

Chama gryphoides                                 valves.
Anomia ephippium                2 small.

Terebratula detruncata          6 small.
Ghiton lasvis
Haliotis tuberculatus ?         1 valves,
Emarginula elongata
                                1 valves.
   -- capuliformis
                                          1 valve,         valves,
Fissurella grseca                         several          valves.
Calyptraea sinensis                       several
Crepidula unguiformis
                                                            small.
   -- fornicata                           several.

BuUsea aperta                                              1
          scabra ?
                                                   2
Bulla hydatis
         truncata                                        1
         Cranchii
          cylindrica                             2 one large, one small,

Rissoa calathiscus                                     1
         cimex                                     2
        Montagui .
         acuta                  1 small, on operculum of Murex bran-
         Desmarestii
          Bruguieii .              1      several mall.
          labiosa ....
         purpurea                 4           2
                                few.          4
Odostomia conoidea                          few.
                                            few.
                                            few.
                                             few.

                                                1
                                                1
                                             few.
                                                1

                                          3 or 4
290 REPORT 1850.

Species obtained.               No. of living No. of dead              Observations.
                                 specimens. specimens.

Odostomia conoidea                                         polished like Eulima.
Chemnitzia elegantissiraa
                                          several.
           pallida                              1
           scalaris
           gracilis ?           several          2
          indistincta?          several          1 small, white,
                                                 2 young.
Eulima nitida                               several,
          subulata                          several.
                                                  1
Eulimella acicula ?
Tornatella pusilla ?                      &1 frag.
Natica millepunctata
                                                 2
          macilenta                              1 coronated.
          Alderi                               few.
           Gtiilleminii                        few.
Scalaria clatliratulus                         few.
          lamellosa
                                                    1
Vermetus triqueter         ,
          semisurrectus    ,                     1 very pellacid.
         glomeratus?       ,                       1
         corneus?                                2
                                                 8
Mitra columbellaria                         several.
                                                 2
Trochus Montagui                                 6 species obtained larger at Malta.
        crenulatus and exiguus                    1 small.
         sanguineus                               1 small.
                                          numerous numerous young.
          canaliculatus
           graniilatus          several.                   small.
Turbo rugosus
Turritella terebra                  6
           tricostalis              3
Cerithium vulgatum, var.
          per\'ersum                          3
         reticulatum
                                          several,
Fusus coraUinus                           several          qy. whether var. of preceding .'
                                          several.
Pleurotoma maravignae                                      species at Gibraltar.
         rude ?                                2           small.
                                              3
          lineare                              2
                                               2
          reticulatum, var. spino-
                                               2           fragments.
   sum                                         2
                                               2
         crispatum                        several.
                                               3
           teres
                                                1
        brachystomum                      several.
          septangulare
         pui-pureum                             1
         attenuatum                       several,
   and some not identified.               several.
Buccinum minus
       minimum                                   1

Ifarginella secalina                      several.
          miliacea
                                                 1
          clandestina
Ringuicula auriculata
Erato la;vis
Cypraea pulex

Some minute shells not ident ified.
Adna anglica

Various Zoophytes, Sponges, &c.
ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBEATA.              291

   30th of May. Becalmed between Cape Bon and the island of Pantellaria,
captured fifteen turtles; obtained from them two specimens of Coronula and

several groups of Anatifa Icevis ; also several specimens of a species of crab.

  A fish (Remora ?) attached to bottom of the vessel near the bow, 18 inches

under water. In form something like a dog fish, about 12 inches long: at-
tempted to catcii it from the boat, but it innnediately let go its hold and
dived, leaving a black mark upon the copper where it had adhered.

    Obtained in the tow-net a specimen of a small Hyalasa, several of Atlanta,
of Creseis spinigera, and two other species. N.B. I found after sunset to
be the most favourable time for catching Pteropoda, &c.

    Several Velellae ; a turtle was seen to eat one.
   31st of May. Calm, 6 to 8 miles from Pantellaria, attempted to dredge,
but got no bottom with 360 fathoms.
    1st of June. Calm, near Pantellaria ; not being able to get bottom from the
vessel, went ofi" in the boat, about 200 yards from shore ; obtained bottom in
50 fathoms, shoaling rapidly to 35 fathoms. For species obtained see Dred-
ging Paper No. 4'.

              Dredging Paper No. 4.

Date, Istof June, 184.9.
Locality, south side of the Island of Pantellaria.
Depth, 35 to 50 fathoms (steep).
Distance from shore, a furlong.
Ground, gravel, sand and nuUipore.
Region,

Species obtained.
                                .

--292 REPORT 185C.

Species obtained.               No. of living No. of dead
                                 specimens specimens.

lArcabarbata                          2 valves.

-- tetragona                                   2 valves.

-- lactea                  ···                 2 valves.

Pectunculns glycimeris                2 valves,                            beautiful  spoon-shaped
                                      fragments transparent,
I
                                               valves.     processes.
 Pinna muricata ?

Lima subauriculata                             valves.

jpecten maximus                                valves.
     -- distortus (pusio)

          polymorphus                          valves.

--I                                            valves.
            striatus?
                                               valve.
    -- testae
    -- gibbus                                  valves.
    -- siniilis
                                               valves.

 Anomia ephippium

--I
            patelliformis

 Terebiatula cuneata ..

--I
           detruncata

--Chiton Isevis                                            species at Gibraltar,
                                                           minute.
I

            siculus

Lottia virginea                                several.
Emarginula capuliformis ....                   several

          elongata                                  2
Fissurella costaria or graeca
                                                    1
          gibba
Crepidula fornicata                               2

          ungulina                                  1
Pileopsis un gai-icus                            few.
Bulla hj'datis                                   few.

        · truncata                                 2
 Rissoa granulata                                few.
                                                 few.
           Bruguieri                             few
                                                 few
            calathiscus                          few.

           lactea?                                   1
                                               several.
Odostomia conoidea                                            not identified.
Euliraa distorta                                    3
Chemnitzia elegantissima ..                                short, banded,
                                               several     minute,
          or Cerithiuni                         several    minute,
                                                           small.
         new ?                                         1
                                                     4     I
                         ,

Natica, new?
Trocbus Montagui

          comilus

           creuulatus

          exiguus

Turbo rugosus                                        few.

AcUs ascaris ?                             1   &1 several minute,
                                      several
Turritella terebra                                                minute,
                                          2                      young.
tricostalis                                 1
                                      several     several.
Cerithium vnlgatura, var. .                                       young,

reticulatinn

Murex Edwardsii

cristatus                                                  young.

Fusus muricatus
Pleurotoma brachystomum

lineare

striolatum                         >

Buccinum variabile.
    ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.  293

Species obtained.
--

--294 REPORT 185Q.

               Species obtained.    No. of living No. of dead                   Observations.
                                     specimens specimens.
Pecten gibbns
         poiyraorphus                                         valves,
                                                               valves.
           testae
           similis                                valves.
            sulcatiis
                                              &1 1 valve.
Auoiuia patelliformis
Pileopsis hungaricus                          1

----Bulla lignaria                            1
          Cranchii                            2
          hydatis
           striatula?                         4
Rissoa Bruguieri
                                              1
          carinata (costata) ..
         acuta, var                           .3
         Desmarestii
                                              2
Natica macileuta                              5 longer, destitute of ribs, one very large.
Eulima polita                                 3
                                              4 like cimex, but minute.
           distorta
Cheiunitzia varicosa                          1

          elegantissima                       1
          indistincta ?
                                              4 imperfect.
EuUmella acicula?                             4
Trochus tenuis or dubius                      2
                                              3
        magus
        Montagui                           1  1
                                    several.
                                                     1
                                       few    several,
                                              several.
                                           1
Turritella terebra                                                      small.
           tricostalis
                                              several.
Cerithium ^'^llgatum, var.                    2 white.
         reticulatum

Fusus muricatus

                                                                        species at Gibraltar.

Pleurotoma nanum                 ,
                       .
         secalinum
Mure.\ tetrapterus
Chenopus pes-pelecani
Buccinum
Mitra ebeneus

Ringuicula auriculata                              2                    bright orange colour, banded, small,
Marginalia secalina                                4
                                              several.                  striated.
          clandestina                              2
Cyprsea pulex                            3
Cidaris histrix                     several
Zoophytes.
Algae.                 ,

    In the harbour of Malta, where I was from the 3rd to the 7th of June, I
procured from a sandy bottom, depth 6 to 12 and 15 fathoms, the following

species :

Dentalium tarentinum.                            Venerupis irus.
          dentalis of Phillippi.                 Corbula nucleus.
          fissura or rubescens.
                                                 --Thracia phaseolina?
Gastrochaena cuneiformis.
Petricola lithophaga.                            Psammobia vespertina ? small.

                                                 --Tellina distorta frequent.
ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.                              295

Tellina serrata.                        Rissoa monodonta?

          balaustina.                   Trochus crenulatus.
                                                  granulatus.
    --crassa one small valve.
                                                  canaliculatus.
Syndosmya alba.                                   fragaroides.
                                                   divaricatus.
Artemis lincta.                                    Jussieui.
Venus verrucosa.                                    Vieillotti.

---- fasciata.                                   magus.
        . ovata.
Cytherea chione.                        Littorina petrsea.

venetiana.                              Turbo rugosus.

Circe minuta.                           Phasianella pulla.
                                                    vieuxii.
--Cardium ciliare mud.                            intermedia.

Cardita sulcata.                        --Cerithium vulgare large.

calyculata.                                       reticulatum.
                                        Fusus Syracusanus.
trapezia.
                                                  muricatus.
corbis (dead).                                    corneus.
                                                  elegans.
Lucina pecten.                          Pleurotoma attenuatum.
                                                  glnnannianuiu.
divaricata.                                       secalinum.
                                                 rude ?
lactea.                                            lineare ?

spinifera.                                           .Gerviliii.

Diplodonta apicalis ?                            purpureum.
                                                  laevigatum.
rotundata.                                      , &c. &c.
                                        Murex Edwardsii.
Mytilus minimus.
                                                   costatus.
Modiola barbata.                        Cassidaria Tyrrhena.

Pinna squamosa.                         Dolium galea.
                                        PoUia maculosa.
Nucula nucleus.                         Nassa neritea.

           nitida.                                macula.

Cbama gryphoides (frequent).            Buccinum variabile.
Lima squamosa.                                  minimum.

scabrella ?                                       minus.
                                                  prismaticum.
          tenera.                       Columbella rustica.
                                        Mitra ebeneus.
--Pecten Jacobaeus alive.
                                                     Savigiiii.
    --polymorphus valves.
    --hyalinus valves.                  Marginella miliacea.
                                        Ringuicula auriculata.
---- --sulcatus valves.                 Cypraea pulex.
                                        Conus mediterraueus.
    --glaber valves.

distortus, var. pusio.

           varius.

--Chiton polii above water mark.

--Fissurella rosea? above watermark.

          gibbus.              cup  of

--Lottia? small white: qy.

    Acasta ?
Vermetus gigas, and others.

Neritina viridis.

Natica millepunctata.

intricata.

Rissoa labiosa.

Montagui.

cimex.

acuta.

purpurea.
                       .

--296 REPORT 1850.

   Observed several species alive on the shore (rocks) above water mark,
such as Chiton polii, Fissnrella rosea, Murex Edtvardsii, &c.

                  Syracuse and Catania, 8th to l^th of June, sand.

                                 Dead at Living at Fre-
                                                                         quency,

Solen pellucidus                 40 to 50 f.  40 fath.      rare two very small specimens,
Nesera cuspidata                   8 fath.     8 fath.      rare valves.
Pandora rostrata                              8 fath.
Lyonsia striata..                                           local.
Tellina punicea
                                                                      one specimen.

                                                            freq.

serrata                          30 fath.                   rare,

distorta                                      12 fath. local,

          tenuis                 shore                      freq.
                                                            local,
Donax venustus                                 shore        freq.
Venus fasciata                                8 fath.

         ovata                                8 to 40 f.    freq.
Circe minuta                                  12 fath.      freq.
Cardium echinatum                                           local,
                                 8 fath.

         papillosum                           40 fath. local,
Cardita trapezium .
                                 sh.tolOf.                  freq.

corbis                           12 fath.                   rare,
                                 12 fath.                   rare,
Diplodonta apicalis..                                       rare.
                                 8 fath
Montacuta bidentata                           8 fath.
                                               shore
Galeomma Turtoni              1                                                   one specimen, young, in a stone.
                                               shore
Modiola barbata                                shore

Lithodomus dactylus or li-

   thophagus                  j                             freq. in stones, &c.
Mytilus minimus                                             freq.

           galloprovincialis                      shore     freq.
Nucula nucleus                                 8 to 12 f.   freq.
                                              20 to 30 f.   local,
          radiata                              40 fath.     rare,
           polii                                8 fath.     freq.

Leda eraarginata

           striata                            30 to 45 f.    freq.
                                              30 to 45 f.
Area tetrap-ona                40 fath.                     local.
                              20 to 40 f.
Lima suborbicularis                                                   one specimen, strongly reticulated.
                                                   shore    rare valves.
          scabrella ?         20 to 40 f. 30 fath.          two in a stone.
Pecten opercularis ..
                                                  10 fath.  rare,
Anomia aculeata                                40 fath.     rare.
Terebratula cuneata           30 to 45 f.
                                                                      one specimen in situ.
         detruncata                                shore
Chiton siculus                                              local.
                                                            freq.

cajetanus                                     shore freq.

fascicularis                                  shore freq.

                                              8 fath. freq.

Patella athletica ? ...                       shore local.

Calyptra2a sinensis ...                         80 to 30 f  freq.
Eraarginula elongata             12 fath.                   local.
Bulla umbilicata                 8 to 30 f.                 rare.
                                 30 fath.                    V. r.
        acuminata                 8 fath.                   local.
Rissoa Desmarestii ...            8 fath.                   freq.
                                  8 fath.                   freq.
        cimex
        Montagui

                                 8 fath.                    rare.

Odostomia conoidea                            12 fath.       rare.
Eulima polita                                 30 fath.       rare.
Chemnitzia elegantissima                                    local.
                                 8 to 30 f.

indistiucta?                     30 fath.                   rare.

                                 30 fath.                           a fragment.

Neritina viiidis                 8 fath.                    local.
                       .

              ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.                                   297

                                                                    Fre-
                                              Living at

                                                                 quency.

Natica raillepunctata             8 fath.                    local,
                                                             local,
oUa                                           6 to 12 f.     local,
                                                             local,
intricata                                     12 fath.       local.
                                                              V. r. small, coronated.
marochiensis (Alderi)                         12 fath.       local,
                                                             local,
Guilleminii                       8 fath.                    local,
                                                             freq.
Scalaria                          40 fath.                   freq.
                                                             freq.
Vermetus cancellatus                          8 fath.        freq.
                                                             local,
Trochus fanulum                               8 fath.        local,
                                                             local,
crenulatus                        8 fath.                    local,
                                                             local small.
canaliculatus                     6 fath.
                                                              one large, smooth.
divaricatus                                   shore
                                                             local,
fragaroides                                   shore          freq.
                                                             freq.
articulatus                                   shore          local,

gi'anulatus                                   8 to 10 f.      one young.

Vieillotti                        8 to 10 f.                 rare,
                                                             freq.
Jussieui                          8 to 10 f.                 local,
conulus, var                                       10 fath.  rare,
                                                             rare.
                                              10 fath.
                                                              rare,
              (var. of T. ca-                                freq.
                                                              freq.
naliculatus ?)                    8 fath.                    loc^.
                                                             local,
Phasianella vieuxii                           8 to 10 f.     abun.
Cerithiuin vulgatum                             shore        freq.
                                                             local,
reticulatum                       8 fath.                    rare,
                                                             freq.
perversum                         8 fath.                    freq.
                                                             freq.
Fusus corneus                                 8 fath.        local,
                                                             abun.
rostratus ?                                   30 fath.       local,
                                                             local,
corallinus                                    30 fath.       local,
                                                             local,
Pleurotoma reticulatum ... 6 fath.                           local,
                                                              freq.
purpureum                         6 fath.                    local.

rude                                          20 fath.

          Smithii or striolatum,  8 fath.

   &c. &c. &c                                 shore
Murex Edwardsii

cristatiis                                    shore

Triton reticulatum                8 fath.

Chenopus pes-pelecani . . 8 fath. 10 fath.

Pollia maculosa                               shore

Nassa macula                                  8 to 10 f.

mutabilis                                     8 to 10 {.

                                  10 fath.

Buccinum corniculum                           shore

variabile                         shore

D'Orbignii                                    shore

          scriptura                           6 to 10 f.
Columbella rustica                              shore

Mitra lutescens                   10 fath.

ebeneus                                       8 to 10 f

Ringuicula auriculata                         30 fath.

Erato laevis                                  12 fath.

Marginalia secalina                           20 fath.

          clandestiua                         30 fath.
Conus mediterraneus
                                  8 fath.

  A remarkable large annelid, 15 to 18 inches in length and about an inch

across the back.

   No land shells worthy of note.

   Ditrupa subulata ? alive in great abundance off Catania in 25 fathoms,

sand.
298 REPORT 1850.

Port of Messina, 16th of .June, 40 fathoms, sand and gravel.

--Tellina serrata living, one small.  Nassa reticulata.

Montacuta bidentata.                  macula.

Astarte incrassata.                   prismatica.

   18th of June attempted to dredge in the Faro of Messina, but could get

no bottom in consequence of the strong current.
   20th of June caught a shark 9 feet in length, after it had afforded us a

fine opportunitv of watching and admiring its movements in the water. The
stomach contained a sea fowl, heads, legs, &c. of fowls thrown overboard some

hours previously, a small canvas rag, several cuttle-fish beaks, a quantity of

feathers, &c.

Bay
ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                299

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Fre-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Living at quency.

Rissoa Destnarestii                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8 fath.    10 fath.    local,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,             10 fath.    local,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30 fath.   10 fath.    local,
Eulimella acicula....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10 fath.    local,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10 fath.   30 fath.    rare,
Odostomia conoidea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10 fath.   10 fath.    rare,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10 fath.               local,
Chemnitzia elegantissima ?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8 fath.    local,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10 fath.    local,
Natica olla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10 fath.    local,
         macilenta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30 fath.    local,
          Alderi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10 fath.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30 fath.    rare coronated, same as at Syracuse.
Scalaria                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30 fath.
Vermetus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12 fath.    local,
Tornatella pusilla ? ....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10 fath.     one.
Turritella?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8 fath.
Fusus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8 fath.     one minute.
Pleurotoma elegans....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10 to 30 f.  local minute, species at Gibraltar.

         attenuatum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8 to 10 f.   local,
         ginnannianum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10 to 30 f.  local,
        brachystomum .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                local,
         naniim ..._                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10 fath.    local,
        purpureum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10 fath.    local,
           sp.?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       local,
Nassa varicosa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        local,
Ringuicula auriculata.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 freq.
Dentalium dentalis ? .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                local,
          tarentinum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  local ten ribs.
Ditrupa subulata.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     local.

                        Dredging Paper No. 6.

    Date, 4th of July, 1849.
   Locality, Gulf of Cagliari, south-east of Colombo Point.
   Depth, 20 to 25 fathoms.
   Distance from shore, a to 4 miles.
    Ground, sand and gravel.
    Region,

Species obtained.
.

300 REPORT 1850.

Species obtained.       No. of living No. of dead
                         specimens. specimens.

Cj'therea cliione                  1 young      valve.
         venetiaua                            1 minute.
                                           1
Venus fasciata
         ovata                                valves.

Artemis exoleta                               1
Astarte incrassata ...
                                                   1
--Cardium laevigatum                          valves.

-- exiguum, van ?                                        large.

       minimum                                valves.
                                              valves.
         papillosum
Cardita sulcata                                    1

          trapezia                                       young.
Lucina spinifera
                                              valves.
          lactea .'                           valves.
                                              valves.
Chama gryphoides . .
Modiola barbata                                    1

          tulipa
Nucula nucleus

          radiata

Leda emarginata ....

            striata

Area tetragona

Pectunculus glycimeris ? ...                   1 valve.
Pinna                                                             small.
Lima subauriculata
Pecten Jacobaeus                              fi-agment.
                                              fragment,
        polymorphus                           fragment.

           similis                               valves.
          opercularis                            valves.
         hyalinus                                valves.
          sulcatus                               valves.
Terebratula detruncata                           valves.
Crepidula fornicata
         unguiformis                                   1
Calyptrsea sinensis
                                               2
BuUsea aperta
Bulla umbilicata ?                              1
                                                1
           striatula ?                          1
                                                1
         acuminata                               1
          truncata
          hydatis                               2
         obtusa or mamillata .
Rissoa violacea                                  1
          calathiscus                            1
          scabra .'                             1
Odostomia conoidea                            few.
          iiiterstincta (Flem.) .                1
Chemnitzia fulvocincta ....
          pallida ? or varicosa .     1                           small.

---- gracilis .'                   few.                 1
          elegantissima ?          few.                1
Natica Alderi or marochiensis
                                              fragment.
          macilenta
           raillepunctata
Scalaria communis
Vermetus gigas
           triqueter
          glomeratus
Trochus conulus
          crenulatus
        magus
    ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRAfA.  301

Species obtained.
. . .. .

302 REPORT 1850.

                                                                     Fre-
                                              Living at

                                                                 quency,

 Plicatiila                                   shore rare upon Spondylus.

 Chiton siculus                               shore  local.
 PateUa
 Fissurella reticulata            shore              local small.

          rosea                   30 fath.           local.
 Calyptraea ^·ulgaris
 Haliotis tuberculata?            8 fath.            local.
 Bullaea aperta
Rissoa ciJathiscus                8sh.        8 to 20 f. fireq.
                                                            rare lof small size, much used in shell
         Montagui
          coronata (costata ?)                8 fath local. work.
Neritina viridis
Natica millepunctata              8 to lb f.         local.
Scalaria communis
Trochus crenulatus                B to 10 f.         local.
          exiguus
                                  8 to 10 f.         rare.
           canaliculatus, var. ?
           Jussieui               8 to 10 f.         local.
          Richardii
                                  8 to 10 f,         local.
         fanulum
Phasianella pulla . . .           8 fath             local.

          Vieuxii                 i to 10 f.         freq.
Cerithium perversum.
Fusus corallinus                  3 to 10 f.         freq.

Pleurotoma attenuatura.           8 to 10 f.         loc^.
           liueare
         multilineatum ? . . .    8 to 10 f.         local.

Murex Edwardsii .                 8 fath.            freq.

          erinaceus . . .         i to 10 f.         rare carinated, obtained silnilat i& Malta.
Triton reticulatum.                8 fath.           rare.
Nassa neritea
                                              8 fath. freq. fine and large.
        macula
                                              8 fath. local.
          reticulata ....
                                  8 fath.            local.
Buccinum corniculum
         scriptum                 8 fath.                           local.

          d'Orbignii                          8 to 20 f. local.
          variabile
Columbella rustica                            8 fath. local.
Ringuicula auriculata.
Marginella miliacea .             8 fath.     20 fath. local species at Gibraltar.
Cypisea pulex
Conus mediterraneus .                                              rare.

                                              8 fath. local.

                                  8 fath.            local.

                                  8 fath.            local.

                                              shore  freq.

                                              shore, &c- freq.

                                  8 fath.            rare.

                                  8 fath.            freq.

                                              8 to 10 f. freq.

                                              8 fath. freq.

                                  8 fath.            rare small.

                                              shore  freq.

                                              8 fath. local.

                                              shore  local.

                                  8 fath.            local.

                                              shore  freq.

                                  30 fath.           local.

                                  10 fath.           local.

                                  shore              local.

                                  shore              freq.

   Most of the preceding were obtained in the harbour, but a few outside,                            I
where the bottom was a very white sand, covered with Zostera to the depth
of above 20 fathoms ; beyond which, in 25 to 35 fathoms, I obtained several
specimens of Spatangus purpuretis (with Montacuta substriata), also nume-
rous examples of Turbinolia milletiana, dead, of smaller size than the

Cornish specimens.

  A small schooner is constantly employed in taking shell-fish for sale at

Algiers, where they are retailed in the market, the vessel returning when all
is sold for a fresh supply. The assortment appeared to consist of oysters,
Spondi/lus gcederopus, Area noe, Lithodomus lithophagus, Venus verrucosa,

&c.
                                                  .

ON SOUTH-EUROPEAN MARINE INVERTEBRATA.                                          303

                                  Dredging P.aper No. 7-

Date, 12th of July, 1849.
Locality, off Conijera (one of the smaller Balearic Islands), near Cabrera.
Depth, 40 fathoms.
Distance from shore, 2 miles.
Ground, very white sand and nuUipore with abundance of sea-weed and coral.
Region, coralline.

Species obtained.                                    No. of living No. of dead
                                                      specimens, specimens.

Pandora rostrata                                         valves,
                                                     afragment.
Solen ensis                                          fragments.
Solemya mediterranea
Psammobia costulata...                               &2 valves.
                                                     &2 valves.
Tellina distorta ?      ...
                        ...                                             a small valve,
Syndosmya tenuis ?                                                      young.
Mactra subtruncata                                       valves,
Cytherea chione                                       fragments.

         venetiana      i.i                          &1 valves.
Venus casina .'                                      &1 valves.

fasciata                                                     2

         ovata          ..,                                     1
Circe minuta                                          fragments,
Cardium laBvigatum                             ,
                                                                         rose colour, convex.
-- papillosum                                                  1
   -- erinaceum
                                                     &1 valves.
roseum ?                ,
minimum                                                                  attached to nuUipore.
                                                                         attached to nuUipore.
Lucina or Diplodonta ..                                    valve,
                                                      fragment,
Kellia suborbicularis                                     valve,
                                                         valve half an inch long.
Crenella marmorata                                        valve,
                                                         valves,
Area tetragona                                           valves,
                                                         valves.
barbata
                                                        1 valve.
Pectunculus glycimeris ..
                                                                       pale reddish colour, very different from
          violascens                                                          ordinary,

Lima squamosa                                                              small.

subauriculata                                                           resembles C. fulvocincta, pink colour.

fragilis                                                               smaU.

Pecten Jacobaeus                                                        young.

polymorphus

opercularis

varius

similis

           striatus

Anemia ephippium
Chiton marmoreus ?

           fascicularis ?

Umbrella mediterranea .
Emarginula elongata

Calyptraea vulgaris

BuUa hydatis

           striatula ?
Chemnitzia

Odostoraia conoidea

Natica macilenta

Guilleminii

Alderi or marochiensis

millepunctata

Sigaretus perspicuus

Tornatella fasciata
Vermetus gigas ?

         glomeratus
Tror.hus magus
304                                    --REPORT 1850.

                 Species obtained.  |no. ofliring
                                      specimens.

                                     !
           ON FRESHWATER POLYZOA.                                    305

On the Present State of our Knowledge of the Freshwater Polyzoa.
          By Professor Allman, M.D., F.R.C.S.I., M.R.I.A.

 The discovery by Trembley* of a compound polypoid animal, which he
 found in the year 174-1 in the freshwaters near La Haye, and to which he
 gave the name of " Polype a Panache," followed almost immediately by the
 detection of the same animal in England by Bakerf, who described it under
 the name of ' Beliflower animal," constitutes an interesting epoch in the

 history of zoology.

    The " Polype a Panache" was nearly a century afterwards rediscovered by
M. Duniortier, and described by this naturalist under the name o( Lophopus
crystallinus in an elaborate and important memoir published in the Bul-
letins de I'Acad. de BruxellesJ. The Lophopus crystallinus presents a fine
typical example of those polypoid molluscous animals, which, long confounded
with the genuine polypes, were at last distinguished by the nearly simultaneous
labours of Grant, Edwards and Thompson, and elevated into a distinct class
under the names of Polyzoa, Thompson §, and Bryozoa, Ehrenberg||.
Thompson's name has the priority over that of Ehrenberg, and is perhaps
even more expressive than that proposed by the celebrated zoologist of
Berlin ; justice to its author therefore requires its adoption, and in the present
Report I shall employ it instead of the more generally used tliough m'ore recent
name oi Bryozoa.

    The Polyzoa constitute a class whose marine representatives are very nu-
merous, and which has also examples of great elegance and interest in the
still and running waters of the land. It is with these freshwater forms that

the present Report is to be occupied.
    The discovery of the " Polype a Panache" {Lophopus crystallinus) is the

first recorded instance of the detection of a freshwater Polyzoon. This little
animal had been carefully examined by Trembley and Baker, and both these
naturalists, in the account they have left us of its structure, have shown them-
selves acute and faithful observers. It is singular that though Trembley and
Baker had pointed out all the essential characters of polyzoal structure in
Lophopus, the significance of their discovery should have remained unre-
cognized for nearly a century, and that it was not till a similar type in certain
marine polypoid animals arrested the attention of naturalists, that the import-
ance of this type and its true bearing on systematic zoology began to be

appreciated.

   The discovery of Lophopus was followed within a few years by that oj
Plumutella, Cristatella and Alcyonella ; but these genera were iraperfectl
distinguished from one another, and our knowledge of their anatomy remaine

Afor many years exactly as it had been left by Trembley and Baker.

length Raspail^, in 1828, published a very elaborate paper on Alcyonella-
Elaborate, however, as is this memoii*, copiously furnished as it is with well-
executed figures, it tells us very little of value ; in correctness of anatomical
detail it falls far behind the accounts left us by Trembley and Baker ; and
though Raspail's attempt to unite Plumatella repens with Alcyonellafungosa**

* Trembley, Mem. pour I'Hist. des Polypes d'eau douce, Mem. III.

t Baker, Employment for the Microscope, part 2. chap. x.

J Dumortier, Recherches sur I'Anat. et Phvsiol. des Polypes comp. d'eau douce, Bui. de

I'Acad. Roy. de Bruxelles, 1835.

§ Zoological Researches, No. 1, 1830.     Symbols Physica;, 1831.

                                       II

^ Raspail, Hist. Nat. de rAlcyonelle fluviatile, Mem. de la Soc. d'Hist. Nat. de Paris,

torn. iv.

** The Alcyonella stagnorum of Lamarck was originally described by Pallas under the name

of Alcyonella fimgosa, iu a memoir published in the Novi Commentarii Academice Pefropo-

1850.                                                             X
                                                                                                                                                    .

306 REPORT 1850.

may admit of some defence, the union of all the other known species with

this same form must be considered a retrograde step, which, were it not so

obviously false, might have materially retarded further progress in this de-

partment of zoology. As it was, however, Raspail's memoir gave a stimulus

to inquiry, and a number of investigators now applied themselves to the sub-

ject with zeal and with a success which might have been expected from the

advanced state of general zoology, and from the increased means of research

which improved microscopes had placed in the hands of naturalists.

Among those who now most materially advanced our knowledge of the

freshwater Polyzoa, must be especially mentioned JMM. Gervais, Dumortier

and Van Beneden. To Gervais we are indebted for the first complete zoo-

graphic view of the subject, the determination and diagnosis of the genera

and their systematic distribution*, while Dumortier and Van Beneden have

both contributed most important information on the anatomical structure of

certain species. Van Beneden moreover has given us a complete memoir

on the whole of the species inhabiting the freshwaters of Belgium t, a memoir,

which, both in a zoographical and zootomical point of view, is certainly the most

valuable we possess ; wiiile within the present year an excellent paper on the

anatomy of certain genera, with descriptions of new species, has been published

Myby                                                                                                  own researches
Mr.   Hancock                                              in  the  ' Annals  of  Natural  History.'
                                                      ;j;

have been from time to time communicated chiefly to the meetings of this

Association and of the Royal Irish Academy ; and though they have not been

hitherto brought together into a connected memoir, they are to be found in

a detached form in the proceedings of both these bodies.

All the known forms of freshwater Polyzoa may be included under six

genera, whose relations and leading diagnostic characters are represented in

the following Table. These genera embrace seventeen species, sixteen of

which have already been found in Britain.

                                                               Family.                                             Genus.

      CoencEcciium )

      free,             Cristatelud2e                                                                              Cristatella.

      comoltotiivvee J

                                                                                           Ccenoecium sacciform, 1 y ,
                                                                                              ectocyst gelatinous / " P ·

»^                                                                                         JCoenoecium tubular,
                                                                                               tubes united, ecto-
3AnO                                                                                                                                   Alcyonella.
                                                                                              cyst pergamenta-

                                                                              Lophophore ceous                  J

                                                                              with two Coenoecium tubular,

                                                                              long arms    tubes distinct, ec-     Plumatella.
                                                                                           tocyst pergamen-
      Coenoecium        Plumatellip^
          rooted                                                                           taceous

                                                                              Arms of Lo-

                                                                              phophore \-                          Fredericella.

                                                                              obsolete

Lophophore orbi-l                                                                                                  Paludicella.
   cular, mouth de- > Palcdicellidje
    stitute of valve J

litatKB, torn. xii. Van Beneden has been the first to point out the priority of Pallas's name,

and in his Rec/ierches sur les Brynzoaires fluviatiles de Belgique, has restored it after a lapse
of many years ; a revision, which justice to the original describer of the species, as well as
the laws of Natural History nomenclature, demand, and which I shall gladly follow in the

present Report.
   * Annales Francaises et Etrangeres d'Anatomie, 1839.

   t Van Beneden, Recherches sur les Br^·ozoaires fluviatiles de Belgique, Mem. del'Acad. Roy,

de Belgique, 1848.

   X On the Anatomy of the Freshwater Bryozoa, Ann. Nat. Hist., 2nd Ser. vol. v. p. 173.
                     ON FRESHWATER POLYZOA.                     BOf

                                            Anatomy.

  --Definition of terms. The old notion, which, by mistaking tlie zoological

rank of the Polj'zoa, erroneously referred tiiein to the class of the Polypes,
caused the same terms to be applied to them which were also used to desig-
nate the various parts of the true polypes. The- recognition, however, of a
type of structure in the Polyzoa totally distinct from that of the Polypes
proper, necessitates a change in the terminology employed in their description.

On these grounds I have ventured to substitute some new terms for those

previously used-, while our increased knowledge of polyzoal structure neces-
sitates the use of certain additional terms of which we have no representatives
in the descriptive terminology of previous authors. For the term Polype,
therefore, originally applied not only to the Anthozoal radiata, to which its

use ought to be. confined, but also to the retractile portion of the Polyzoa, I

have substituted in the following Report that of Polypide*. To the common

dermal system of a colony, which, as well as the solid basis of the true Polypes,
was formerly known under the names of Polypary and Polypidome, I have
applied the term Cosnoeciumf. The ccencecium is composed of two perfectly
distinct tunics ; to the external I have given the name oi EctocystX, and to the
internal that of Endocyst^. The sort of disc or stage which surrounds the

mouth and bears the tentacula, I have c^\\eA Lophop]iore\\. The Perigastric^^
space is the space included between the walls of the endocyst and the ali-
mentary canal.

   The terms now enumerated are such as I believe the nature of the subject
strictly requires. I am fully aware that the changing of an established ter-
minology is highly objectionable where it can possibly be avoided, but in the
present case, where the very same terms are in two different classes of animals
applied to organs in no respect homologous, the purposes of a rigidly scien-
tific description can, I believe, only be served by some such change as that
which I have here ventured to introduce.

                      I. Orga7is for the Preservation of the Individual.

  --A. Dermal system. The Polyzoa are all compound animals, and by the

expression. Dermal system, I intend to be understood, the Ccencecium or
common connecting medium of the colony. It is formed of a number of
little chambers or cells organically united, in each of which is contained a
polypide, and consists of two portions, which must be carefully distinguished,
an internal tunic, soft, transparent and contractile (the endocyst), and an
external investment (the ectocysi), which varies greatly in texture and form
in the different genera. The endocyst lines the interior of the cells, and
when it arrives at their orifice would protrude beyond the ectocyst, were it
not that it here becomes invaginated or inverted into itself, and then termi-
nates by being attached round the base of the tentacular crown ; during the

exsertion of the polypide it undergoes eversion, which, however, in all the

freshwater species is but partial ; a portion of the endocyst, as we shall after-
wards more particularly see, remaining in a permanently inverted condition,
in this respect differing remarkably from the marine species in which the
eversion of the endocyst is perhaps in all cases complete. The endocyst

thus constitutes a series of cells or sacs in organic continuity with each other,
and in which the polypides surrounded by the perigastric fluid are suspended.
These sacs are all closed above, where they are attached to the polypide,
and below have in some cases their cavities in communication with those

* TLoKvKom, elt^os.  t Koivos, o'ikIov.      % 'Ektos, kvotis.
§ "BvSov, KiVns.         Ad^os, ipopcbi.
                                             ^ Ilepi, yaorfip.
                     II                                 X2
                                                                 .

--308 REPORT 1850.

of neighbouring sacs, while in others this communication is interrupted by

the existence of septa, to be presently described.

   The structure of the endocyst in all the six genera is cellular, and in all

cases admitting of favourable observation ; transverse muscular fibres, to be

afterwards described, may be detected in it. Shortly after its inversion it
becomes altered in texture, losing its contractility and assuming a thinner
and more membranous appearance ; in this condition it continues till it ter-
minates by being attached to the base of the tentacular crown ; this thin non-
contractile portion of the endocyst constitutes the tentacular sheath which

encloses and protects the tentacula during the retracted state of the poly-

Apide.  portion, perhaps the whole, of the inner surface of the endocyst is

clothed with vibratile cilia.

   The ectocyst, or external investment, is in most of the species composed of

a tough pergamentaceous brown membrane, strengthened by the deposition

of irregularly-formed siliceous particles, which, except towards the apertures,
where these particles are deficient, give to the ectocyst an opacity which ren-

ders an observation of the contained parts a matter of considerable difficulty.
In some species of Plumatella and in Ahyonella flahellum, and A. Benedeni,
the earthy particles are entirely absent from a longitudinal line which com-
mences wide near the aperture of the cell, and gradually narrows as it passes
downwards, when it soon assumes the appearance of a prominent keel, and

then loses its transparency by the deposition of earthy matter, as in the rest of
the tunic. The perfectly transparent wide origin of this line gives to the

orifice of the cell the appearance of a deep notch at one side. In Frederi-

cella a slightly prominent keel is also apparent, but the notch-like transparent

space does not exist.

In Cristatella the ectocyst would at first sight seem to be entirely absent,

Aand the coencecium to be composed exclusively of the endocyst.  careful

examination, however, proves that both are present, and that the ectocyst

consists of a highly-organized flexible and transparent tunic, of very evident
cellular structure, and quite free from every kind of earthy deposit. The

whole of this tunic is contractile, and presents below a flattened disc desti-
tute of apertures. Upon the disc, which closely resembles the foot of a
gasteropodous mollusc, this singular colony creeps about upon the stems and
leaves of aquatic plants, exposing its beautiful plumes to the light and warmth

of the sun.

   LopJiopus also at first sight conveys the impression of being destitute of an
ectocyst, and having the place of this tunic supplied by a peculiar unorganized

gelatinous secretion, in which the colony is enveloped. This apparently

gelatinous investment is however in reality a distinctly organized tunic, which
seems formed of a cellular or areolar tissue, enclosing in its meshes a transpa-
rent and colourless fluid. That such is its structure becomes apparent when

the animal has undergone partial desiccation after removal from the water, for

then the ectocyst loses a portion of the fluid which had been imprisoned in

its tissue, and its membranous nature becomes revealed. Neither Trembley
nor Baker takes any notice of this gelatinous envelope. M. Dumortier men-
tions it, and represents it in his figure*, while M. Van Beneden believes it to

be an accidental investment acquired by the animal during confinementf
   The ectocyst in Paludicella is formed of a smooth pergamentaceous semi-

transparent membrane, free from earthy deposit, and of a deep brown colour.
Towards the orifice of the cell it becomes thin and delicate, and is here
strengthened by four longitudinal horny ribs. The part of the ectocyst to

which the ribs are attached is carried inwards during extreme retraction of

        * Dumortier, loc. cit.  t Van Beneden, loc. cit.
ON FRESHWATER POLYZOA.  309

 the polypide. These ribs I look upon as the true homologue of the setce
 wliich crown the cell in Boiverbanhia and other marine Polyzoa ; if these
 setae were reduced in number to four, and instead of being free were at-
 tached to the sides of the cell, they would at once be converted into the ribs
 oi Paludicella ; the fact of their being connected to one another by a delicate
.membrane does not in the least invalidate the view here taken, and the cir-
 cumstance of their being detached from the sides of the cell will account for
 the different mode in which they are withdrawn during retraction.

    The septa already alluded to as existing between the cells of certain fresh-
 water Polyzoa, are formed both by the ectocyst and endocyst. In Paludicella
 they acquire their maximum in development and constancy; they exist here
 between every cell, and consist of an annular process which projects trans-
 versely from the ectocyst into the interior ol' the cell, with a covering of
 endocyst on its upper and under surface. The septum thus formed is ren-
 dered complete by the aperture in its centre being closed by a peculiar body,
 which projects into the cavity of the cell at each side. The structure of this
 body is remarkable ; it consists of a central mass or nucleus, surrounded by a
 distinct layer of somewhat elongated cellules placed perpendicularly to the
surface of the nucleus. The body which thus closes up the centre of the
annular septum has, without doubt, some office to perform besides that of
simply completing the septum ; but upon the nature of this office I can form
 no satisfactory opinion. In the other genera the septa are by no means

 so constant or complete as in Paludicella. In several species of Plumatella,
 especially P. coralloides, septa exist, but these generally occur only at inter-
 vals, leaving several cells between them, M'hich communicate freely with one
 another; not unfrequently the septum itself is imperfect, admitting of a com-
munication through its centre between two neighbouring cells. In Alcyonella

fungosa, and in Fredericella sultana, imperfect septa may here and there be
 observed, while Cristatella and Lophopus would seem to i)e quite deprived of

 them, the cells in these genera all opening into one another..

  --B. Organs of Digestion. The digestive system is very similar in all those

species in which the lophophore is bilateral ; these we shall therefore consider

 together ; Paludicella, the only representative of the division with orbicular
lophophore, presents some peculiarities, and should be examined by itself.

  --J. Species with bilateral Lophophore. The mouth is a simple edentulous

 orifice of a circular or slightly crescentic form, placed in the centre of the
body of the lophophore, and consequently occupying the bottom of the ten-
 tacular crater. Its margin is slightly elevated, and is continuous posteriorly,
 with a hollow valve-like organ of very peculiar formation. This organ arches

 over the mouth, and may be aptly enough compared in shape to the epiglottis
 of certain mammifers. The cavity in its interior communicates through an

 opening in the lophophore with the perivisceral space ; its anterior walls are
 thick, and densely clothed on their external surface with vibratile cilia, while
 the posterior walls are thin, membranous, and transparent, and destitute of

 cilia. It may be observed, when the polypide is exserted from its cell, to be
 in a constant motion, which consists in an alternate elevation and depressiou
 of the organ. The elevation is effected by distinct muscular fibres, which are
 visible through the transparent posterior walls, and will be afterwards more

 particularly described, while the depression is probably the result simply of

 an antagonistic elasticity. On the true function and import of this curious
 organ I am unable to throw any light; though it is here described in con-

 nection with the organs of digestion, its relation to the digestive system is

 perhaps very remote. It may possibly be more correctly viewed as connected

 with sensation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :

310 REPORT 1850.

    From the mouth an cesophagus of considerable length leads downwards to
the stomach ; it becomes gradually narrower as it approaches the latter, into
which it opens by a very distinct conical projection.

   To the oesophagus immediately succeeds the sto»?«c/*, without the interven-
tion of any distinct gizzard, such as we find in Bowerbankia and certain

other marine Polyzoa; and I cannot explain the statement of so excellent an
authority as Siebold, who asserts that he has seen in Alcyonella a gizzard
with an organization precisely similar to that of ^oM^ertewAta*. The stomach

is a large tliick-walled sac, and may be divided into two portions, first a

nearly cylindrical prolongation, which by one extremity immediately receives
the oesophagus, while by the other it is continuous with the remaining por-
tion of the stomach : it may be called the cardiac cavity of the stomach.
The second division forms the greater portion of the stomach ; it is also of a
nearly cylindrical form ; its direction is almost continuous with that of the
former, but it is longer and wider; it terminates below in a rounded cul-de-
sac; to distinguish it from the other, I shall call it the pyloric cavity of the
stomach. Between the cardiac and pyloric cavities there is no marked line
of demarcation, the structure of both being quite similar ; notwithstanding,
however, the similarity of structure, I believe there are physiological grounds
for the distinction, for I consider the cardiac cavity as the true homologue of
the gizzard in Bowerbankia,

   On a level with the continuation of the cardiac into the pyloric cavity

arises the intestine ; it springs from the pyloric cavity, with which it com-
municates by a very defined orifice. The pylorus is distinctly valvular, and
is furnished with prominent lips, which project into the intestine, and admit
of the orifice being dilated or contracted, or even completely closed. The
intestine is very wide at its origin, and passes up along the side of the cardiac
cavity and oesophagus, rapidly diminishing in diameter till it terminates in a
distinct anus just below the mouth.

  --Histology of Alimentary Canal. The histological structure of the alimen-

tary tube is somewhat complex. In the walls of the stomach 1 have suc-
ceeded in detecting three distinct layers. Internally we have a thick layer of
a yellowish-brown colour ; this is thrown into strong longitudinal rugae, which,
however, become less prominent in the cul-de-sac of the pyloric cavity
it is composed of transparent spherical cells filled with a clear fluid con-

taining brown corpuscles. When the animal has been long left without food

the brown corpuscles disappear from the cellules, and the stomach becomes
colourless. Externally to this coloured layer, which we may perhaps view
as the representative of the liver, is a layer of elongated colourless cellules,
whose long axes are placed perpendicularly to the surface of the stomach.
The third and most external layer consists of delicate circular fibres which
surround the stomach, and are without doubt muscular ; these fibres are
particularly evident towards the fundus of the pyloric cavity, and are much
less distinct as we ascend towards the cesophagus. The fundus of the pyloric
 cavity seems indeed to differ from the rest of the stomach in structure and
 function ; the strong longitudinal rugae and deep brown colour of the internal
layer nearly disappear in it, and during tiie process of digestion we may per-
 ceive that the peculiar peristaltic action of the walls is more marked in it than
in the remainder of the cavity, from which it is every now and then separated
 by a momentary hour glass constriction.

     In the cesophagus the internal layer of brown-coloured cellules is wanting,
and thereare no longitudinal rugae. The layerof elongated cellules, however, is
 well-developed, and gives to this part of the alimentary canal a sort of tesselated

          * Lehrbuch der Vergleichenden Anatomie der Wirbellosen Thiere, § 38. note 1.
                      ON FRESHWATER POLYZOA.                      311

appearance, when viewed under a high power of the microscope ; external to
this, another layer, possibly muscular, seems also to be present. The mouth

and upper part of the oesophagus are clothed with a ciliated epithelium ; but
I could detect no appearance of cilia further than a short distance down the

tube.

The structure of the  intestine closely resembles  that  of  the  oesophagus
                                                                                                                   ;

vibratile cilia, however, are altogether, absent. In Cristatella the cellules of

the internal layer are large, and filled in the well-fed animal with a clear

greenish-blue fluid.

With the exception of the mouth and upper portion of the oesophagus, no

part of the alimentary canal is ciliated in the species with bilateral lopho-

phores. The whole tract is highly irritable, the presence of alimentary matter

--stimulating it to rapid and vigorous contraction.
    2. Species with orbicular Lophophore. In Paludicella articulata, the only

freshwater representative of the species with the lophophore orbicular, the

mouth is a perfectly circular orifice, with slightly projectile margin, and is

totally destitute of the valve-like appendage which is found in all the other

freshwater species The upper part of the oesophagus is wide, and may

perhaps here, more decidedly than in the other species, be distinguished as

pharynx. It soon contracts into a long narrow tube, which leads to an oval

sac corresponding to the cardiac cavity of the stomach in the other fresh-

water Polyzoa, and to the gizzard in certain marine species. This sac is

much more distinct from the great cavity of the stomach than in the other

Polyzoa of fresh water. It enters this cavity near its upper extremity, and

presents here a well-marked constriction ; in extreme retraction of the polypide
it is bent back upon the rest of the stomach. The great cavity of the stomach

is of a nearly cylindrical figure ; from its upper extremity arises the intestine.
This tube presents, just after its origin, a wide dilation, and then suddenly

contracting, continues as a narrow cylindrical tube to its termination just

below the mouth. The stomach is furnished with an internal layer of coloured
cells, as in the other species, but is destitute of longitudinal rugae. The

pylorus is clothed with long vibratile cilia, which extend for a short distance
into the cavity of the stomach. The mouth and upper part of the pharynx are

also clothed with a ciliated epithelium.

   The whole course of the alimentary matter, from the moment of its pre-
hension to its final ejection, may be easily witnessed in many of the fresh-

water Polyzoa. If a polypide of Plumatella repens be watched while in an

exserted state, different kinds of infusoria and other minute organic bodies

may be observed to be whirled along in the vortices caused by the action of
the tentacular cilia, and conveyed to the mouth, where many of them are at
once seized and swallowed, and others rejected. The food having once entered

the oesophagus, experiences in this tube no delay, but is rapidly conveyed

downwards by a kind of peristaltic action, and delivered to the stomach ; and
at the moment of the passage of the alimentary matter from the oesophagus

into the stomach the cardia may be observed to become more prominent. In

the stomach the food is destined to experience considerable delay ; it is here
rapidly moved up and down by a strong peristaltic action, which first takes

place from above downwards, and then inverting itself, propels the contents

in an opposite direction. Every now and then the fundus of the stomach,

which, as has already been said, seems to perform some function distinct from

that of the rest of the organ, seizes a portion of the alimentary mass, and
retains it for a moment by an hour-glass restriction separate from the re-
mainder, and then powerfully contracting on it, forces it back among the
other contents of the stomach. All this time the food is becoming imbued
--312 REPORT ISjO,

with the peculiar secretion of tlie gastric walls, and soon assumes a rich brown

colour. After having thus undergone for some time the action of the stomach,
the alimentary matter is delivered by degrees into the intestine, where it

accumulates in the wide pyloric extreuiity of this tube. After continuing

here for a while in a state of rest, and probably yielding to the absorbent

tissues its remaining nutritious elements, portions in the form of roundish

pellets become separated at intervals from the mass, and are slowly propelled

along the tube towards the anus, where, having arrived, they are suddenly
ejected into the surrounding water and rapidly whirled away by the tentacu-

lar currents. It was these excrementitious pellets that Turpin mistook for

unarmed ova in Cristatella.                    Upon the tentacular crown

 --C. Oryans of Respiration and Circulation

and tlie walls of the perigastric space Avould seem, among the Polyzoa, chiefly

to devolve the function of bringing under the influence of the aerating

medium the nutritious fluid of their tissues.

   The tentacular crown of a Polyzoon cojisists of two portions, namely, first,
a sort of stage or disc (the lophophore) which surrounds the mouth ; and

secondly, of a series of tcntacula which are borne in an uninterrupted series

round the margin of the lophophore. The lophophore is throughout almost

the entire class of an orbicular figure ; but in the freshwater genera Crista-

tella, Lophojms, Plumatella and Alcijonella, its posterior margin, or that
which corresponds to the side of the rectum, is prolonged into two long tri-

angular lobes or arms, so as to cause the lophophore in these genera to pre-

sent the form of a deep crescent, round whose entire margin the tentacula

are borne in one continuous series. This condition of the lophophore is

found in no marine species. In Fredericella the arms of the crescent are

obsolete, and the lophophore here may, on a superficial view, appear orbicu-

lar; but a careful examination will render manifest its departure from the

orbicular form, the side corresponding to the arms of the crescent being

slightly prolonged obliquely upwards ; a similar tendency to assume a bi-

lateral form may also be observed, as Van Beneden* has alreadj^ pointed

out in certain marine genera. Pahidicella is the only freshwater genus in
whose lophophore not the slightest trace of bilaterality can be detected. The

lophophore in all the genera forms the roof of the perigastric space ; in the

species with crescentic lophophores, the arms of the crescent are tubular and

open into this space; the interior of the arms is clothed with vibratile cilia.

The tentacula are tubular, closed at their free extremity, and opening by

the opposite through the lophophore into the perigastric space ; in all the

Polyzoa they are armed upon their opposed sides with vibratile cilia, arranged

in a single series, and vibrating towards the remote extremity of the tentacle

upon one side, and towards the base on the other. In Fredericella I have suc-

ceeded in detecting two very distinct layers entering into the structure of the

tentacula, a condition which I have also made out, though not so evidently
in other genera, and which is in all probability common to the whole class.

The external layer consists of rounded cells filled with a colourless fluid, and

often presenting a bright nucleus. Some of those cells which lie upon the

back of the tentacle become in certain genera enlarged, giving a vesicular
appearance to the organ ; this is particularly evidt nt in Cristatella. The in-

ternal layer is a delicate transparent membrane, in which I could detect no

trace of structure ; it resists putrefaction longer than the external cellular

Alayer, and forms the immediate walls of the tubular cavity.  nervous fila-

ment and nmscular fibres, to be presently described, may also be traced into

   * Recherches sur I'Organisation des Laguncula, Nouveaux Memoires de I'Acad. Roy. de

Bnixelles, vol. xviii.
                   ox FRESHWATER POLYZOA.                            313

the tentacle. In Cristalella, a minute closed cavity, distinct from the rest of

the lobe, may be very distinctly seen in the extremity of each tentacle ; it
would also seem to exist in other genera, but is less easily demonstrated in

these.

In all the freshwater genera, with the exception of Paludicella, the entire

plume of tentacula is surrounded at its base by an exceedingly delicate trans-
parent membrane in the form of a cup or calyx. This cup is adherent to the

back of the tentacula, and its margin is in most instances prolonged more or

less upon each tentacle, as a narrow triangular process, so as to present a sort

of scalloped or festooned appearance ; the festooning of the margin is most

marked in FredericeUa ; in some species oi Plimtatella it is scarcely percep-

Atible.  high power of the microscope, and carefully adjusted illumination,

Avill enable us to detect in the calyciform membrane certain delicate anasto-
mosing lines, which I at first suspected to indicate the presence of a vascular
net-work; further examination, however has caused me to prefer viewint'

them as the lines of contact of delicate cellules of which the membrane is
composed. The appearance in CristafeUa especially confirms the latter sup-
position. The calyciform membrane has not yet been detected in any

marine Polyzoon. In the curious marine genus Pedicellina the tentacula are
indeed surrounded at their base by a kind of membranous calyx, but this is
of an entirely different import from the membrane connecting the bases of

the tentacula in the freshwater PoJyzoa.

   The perigastric space and interior of the tentacula and lophophore all
freely communicate with one another, and are filled with a clear fluid, in
which float numerous particles of very irregular form and size. In this fluid
may be observed a constant rotatory motion, rendered apparent by the float-
ing corpuscles as they are whirled away under the influence of the currents.
That the fluid thus contained in the perigastric space, and thence admitted

into the tentacula, consists really of water which had obtained entrance

from without, there can, I think, be little doubt, and yet I have in vain
sought for any opening through which the external fluid can obtain ad-
mittance to the interior. I have allowed the transparent genera Cristatella
and Lophopus to remain many hours in carmine without being able to
detect a single particle of this pigment in the perigastric space, though I
have seen this space rapidly empty itself on the removal of the animal from
the water, and again fill on restoring it to its natural element. Van Beneden*

believed that he had detected in Alcyonella apertures, which he names
" bouches aquifercs," at the base of the fentacula; but this distinguished

naturalist is certainly here in error: I shall presently point out the source

of his mistake. Meyen asserts the existence of an aperture in the vicinity

of the anus, through which, he tells us, he has witnessed the escape of an
egg in Alcyonellaj : and Siebold admits the correctness of this statement,

and considers the aperture described by Meyen to be that through which

the external water gains admittance to the interior J. I have, however, fully
convinced myself that no such aperture exists, and the plisenomenon de-

scribed by Meyen must certainly be due to an accidental rupture of the
tissues, though the high authority of Van Beneden describes the passage of
the eggs througii an aperture similarly placed in the marine genus Lagun-
cula^. It is possible that certain apertures may exist in some of the tissues

of the animal so minute as to defy our attempts at detection, and yet capable

* Quelques Observations sur les Polypes d'eau douce, Bull, de I'Acad. Roy. de Bruxelles

1839.

t Meyen, Naturgeschlchte der Polypen, Iris, 1828.

X Loc. cit. § 41.  § Recherches sur I'Org. des Laguncula, loc. cit.
314 REPORT-- 1850.

of permitting a transudation of fluid. Rapp detected numerous minute
apertures in the external walls of Actinia, keeping up a communication be-
tween the interior of the animal and the surrounding water; the discovery
of Rapp I have fully confirmed, and yet the apertures are so small £is to
render it certain that they would have remained undiscovered were it not
that their presence is betrayed by a minute stream which escapes from
them during the contraction of the animal, which occurs immediately on

its being removed from the water. May not similar apertures exist in the

Polyzoa? and if so, I should feel inclined to seek them in the walls of the
alimentaiy canal, perhaps of the rectum. The fluid which circulates in the
perigastric space is not perfectly homogeneous, and numerous corpuscles of
very various and irregular shape may be observed to float through it and be
carried about by its current. Some of these corpuscles are perhaps sperma-
tozoa ; others are of no definite shape, and look like minute portions of the

tissues separated by laceration. May they not be some of the products of

digestion which have transuded through the walls of the alimentary canal,
being thus conveyed into the only representative of a true circulation with
which these animals present us?

    The true signification of the perigastric fluid is a point whose determina-
tion must be of great importance in the physiology of the Polyzoa. If it be
admitted, as I think it must be, that it consists mainly of water which has
obtained entrance from without, it then corresponds to a true aquiferous
system subservient to a respiratory function. But, as we have already seen,
it is probable that it receives certain products of digestion which had trans-
uded through the walls of the alimentary canal ; it thus connects itself
with the digestive system. It is moreover the only representative in these
animals of a sanguiferous circulation, for in the Polyzoa there is certainly
no trace of a heart, nor can anything referable to a true vascular system be
detected. The perigastric circulation therefore unites in itself the triple
function of a chyliferous, sanguiferous and respiratory system.

    The next point of interest to determine, with regard to the perigastric fluid,
is the cause of the peculiar currents observed in it. Tiiese currents, which ex-
tend into the tentacular crown, were long ago observed by Trembley* in Z/op/io-
pus cii/staUinus ; but this author contented himself with simply recording their
existence, and made no attempt to explain them. Nordmannf, who observed
them in both freshwater and marine genera, not being able to detect any
trace of cilia or other moving power, compared them to the currents in the
cells of Chara. That they are* produced by the action of vibratile cilia,
there can, however, now be no doubt. Van Beneden|, tells us that he has

seen these cilia, not only on the walls of the perigastric space, but on the ex-
ternal surface of the alimentary canal. I cannot, however, confirm their

existence in the latter situation ; indeed, my own observations are entirely

opposed to their presence on the alimentary canal ; and I cannot help
thinking that this statement of Van Beneden is connected with some error
of observation. I have, however, most distinctly seen them on the upper
part of the tentacular sheath in Plumatella during the exserted state of the
polypide ; on other parts of the endocyst I have not succeeded in detecting
them by direct observation ; but the peculiar acceleration which the motion
of the circulating corpuscles experiences when these approach the walls of
the perigastric space, plainly indicate the presence of vibratile cilia in this

situation.

--< D. Muscular System. The muscular system is highly developed ; we

* Loc. cit.  t Micrographische Beitrage, Bd. ii. p. 75.

% Quelques Observations sur les Polypes d'eau douce, loc. cit.
                                        ON FRESHWATER POL.YZOA.                                                                                  315

shall first consider it in those species with bilateral lophophores, and after-

wards attend to its disposition in Paludicella.

 --1. Species with bilateral Lophophore. In all these the disposition of the

muscles is exceedingly similar ; seven distinct sets may be considered as de-

--monstrated.                                                  These, which are the largest and
   (1.) Retractor Muscles of the Polypide
most powerful muscles of the animal, consist of two fasciculi which arise far
down from the inner surface of the endocyst, and thence pass upwards, one

along each side of the alimentary tract, to be inserted into the upper part

Aand sides of the oesophagus.                   few accessory fasciculi may also be generally

seen arising near the origin of the former, and inserted into the sides of the

stomach. The use of the retractor muscles is very obvious ; acting towards

the bottom of tlie comparatively fixed tube, they retract the whole alimentary

canal with the tentacular crown, so as to place them in a state of security in

the interior of the coencecium.

(2.) The Rotatory Muscles of the Crown.--These also consist of two fasci-

culi, which arise along with the set just described, and passing up in company

with these, separate from them at some distance below the crown, and thence

pass outwards to the right and left to be inserted each into its own side of

--the lophophore. Use : to rotate the tentacular crown and depress the lobes.
   (3.) The Tentamdar Muscles. The muscular apparatus of the tentacula

consists of a set of delicate parallel bands, which may be observed running

from below upwards upon the margin of the lophophore ; these bands are con-

tinuous with one another below, and when they arrive at the intervals between

the roots of the tentacula, each divides into two others, which run along the

opposite sides of two neighbouring tentacula. The margin of the lophophore

in the interval of the bands presents an oval transparent space, which looks

almost exactly like an aperture, and it would seem to be these spaces which
M. Van
                      Beneden      has  taken for  aquiferous  mouths                                    after  very  careful                    ex-
                                                                                                      ;

amination, however, I have convinced myself that no aperture exists here,

--the apparent mouths being merely transparent spaces in the lophophore.
   (4.) The Elevator Muscle of the Valve This is a small, but very evident

fasciculus, occupying the interior of the oral appendage, and visible through

Its transparent posterior walls; it arises from the lophophore near the base

of the valve, and passing forwards and upwards, is inserted into the posterior

surface of the anterior wall of the valve. Use : to elevate the valve and draw
it backwards from the mouth.

(5.) Superior Parieto-vaginal Muscles.~The&e consist of numerous short

bands, which arise all round from" the inner surface of the endocyst, com-
mencnig close to the line of invagination, and extending for some distance

downwards. From this origin they pass transversely inwards, and are inserted

into the opposed surface of the invaginated endocyst and tentacular sheath.
Use
               :  to  dilate  the  invaginated     endocyst  and  sheath, and assist in keeping

the invaginated               endocyst  and  upper portion of     the sheath                                    permanently                      in-
verted.                                                                                                                                       '

   (6.) Inferior Parieto-vaginal Muscles.-- These consist of several radiating
bands longer and stronger than the last, below which they arise from the
inner surface of the endocyst in a single plane perpendicular to the axis of
the cell, and thence passing upwards and inwards, are inserted into the sheath
in a plane parallel to that of their origin, and just below the termination of
the superior parieto-vaginal muscles. Use : to steady the sheath and regulate
Its position during the protrusion of the polypide, and to form a fixed plane
on which It may roll outwards with the polypide in the act of protrusion.
--

 316 REPORT--1850.                                                                {

  --(7.) Vaginal Sphincter. The vaginal sphincter is a circulai* band surround-

 ing the termination of the invaginated endocyst at the point where the latter
 passes into the tentacular sheath. Though a contraction of the endocyst at

 this spot, as if occasioned by the action of a powerful sphincter, may be
 always observed when the polypide is completely retracted, yet the demon-
 stration of an actual muscle is by no means easy. I have however convinced
 myself of the existence of a distinct structure at the place where the con-

 traction occurs, and, though I have not observed any evident fibres, I have
 no hesitation in viewing tliis structure as a sphincter muscle on which the
 contraction in question is dependent. The use of the sphincter is to close
 the sheath after the recession of the viscera, and thus protect the latter from
 all annoyance from without.

    Besides the seven sets of muscles now described, a high magnifying power
 and properly adjusted illumination will enable us to detect in the walls of
 the endocyst, towards its anterior extremity, numerous delicate fibres which
run transversely round the cell. They are doubtlessly muscular, and by
 their action constrict the endocyst in a transverse direction, and thus aid in
the protrusion of the viscera. I have not succeeded in determining how far
down the cell they extend, as the structure soon becomes concealed under

the increasing opacity of the superjacent tissues. Circular muscular fibres
are also very evident in the walls of the stomach ; these have already been
described in connection with the histology of the digestive system.

  --2. Muscles of Paludicella. The muscular system o{ Paludicella differs in

some important points from that of the species with bilateral lophophores.
The muscles may here be divided into five sets :

  --(1.) The Retractor Muscle of the Polypide. This resembles in attachments

and use the corresponding muscle in the other species, but is not divided like
the latter into two distinct fasciculi.

  --(2.) The Superior Parieto-vaginal Muscles. These constitute four strong

fasciculi, which, arising from the sides of the cell near the top, are inserted
into the opposed surface of the invaginated endocyst. The fibres of each
fasciculus are inserted one after another in a straight line, commencing near
the line of invagination, and extending for some distance down the invagi-
nated tunic. These four lines of insertion are placed at nearly equal di-
stances from one another, and thus cause the orifice and in^'aginated tube to
assume a regular quadrilateral figure. The corneous ribs already described
correspond to the centre of the intervals between the insertion of the muscles.

    Mr. Hancock* enumerates, under the name of Superior Tube Retractors,
two small additional fasciculi, which he describes as originating below those
just mentioned, and as inserted also below them into the invaginated tube,
their insertion becoming of course superior to them when the tube is evagi-
nated during the exserted state of the polypide. The marine Polyzoa cer-
tainly afford an analogy for the existence of these muscles; but, though I have
carefully sought for them in Paludicella, I have not succeeded in detecting
tiiem here as distinct fasciculi, and I prefer viewing them as some of the
inferior fibres of the superior parieto-vaginal muscles. The tise of the supe-

rior parieto-vaginal muscles is to assist in the invagination of the tube, and
dilate it when completely retracted, thus acting as antagonistic to the vaginal
sphincter, while the inferior fibres will check the complete evagination during

exsertion.

  --(3.) The Inferior Parieto-vaginal Muscles. These are about four strong

fibres, first pointed out by Mr. Plancock ; they arise from the inner surface

                                                              * Loe. cit.
ON FRESHWATER POLYZOA.  3l7

of the endocyst near the top oP the cell, two in front and two behind the
polypide, and are inserted into the opposed surface of the tentacular sheath.
Their use is to check the complete evagination of the sheath in the way we

shall presently see.

 --(4.) Vaginal Sphincter. This was also pointed out for the first time by

Mr. Hancock. It consists of a set of fibres which run transversely round
the invaginated tunic. I have not succeeded in dividing it into an inferior
and superior set, as described by Mr. Hancock. Its use is to close the inva-

ginated endocyst after the retraction of the polypide.

  --(5.) The Parietal Muscles. These are numerous, short but strong, and

very evident fibres, which run transversely in the endocyst in small groups of
two or three fibres each, embracing about a third or fourth of the circum-

ference of the cell. Their use is to compress the endocyst, and by thus di-
minishing the cavity of the cell, effect the exsertion of the polypide.

   The description now given of the muscular system in the freshwater Po-
lyzoa, will enable us to understand the mechanism by which the protrusion
and retraction of the polypide are effected.

   The grand agency to which we must assign the protrusive act, is without
doubt the contraction of the endocyst eff'ected in Paludicella by the well-de-.
veloped parietal muscles, and in the other freshwater genera by the action of
the corresponding delicate fibres already alluded to, or by the general con-
tractility of the tunic itself; and indeed it does not seem possible to refer
the act of protrusion to any other cause than the consequent pressure of the
perigastric fluid against the body of the polypide, and the necessary compul-
sion of the latter to move in the direction of least resistance, or througli the
orifice of the cell ; for the mere straightening of the oesophagus, to which
Dr. A. Farre* attributes so large a share in the production of this act among
the marine Polyzoa, can at most raise the lophophore and tentacula a very
short distance, and can exercise no exsertile influence on the inferior portion
of the polypide, Avhich, indeed, it must rather tend to repel into the bottom
of the cell ; while in all the freshwater genera, with the exception oi Paludi-

cella, the oesophagus, in the retracted state of the polypide, is scarcely at all
bent, so that here its agency in exsertion is at once out of the question.

   Let us now suppose the polypide withdrawn into the recesses of the cell,
and that hunger or some other stimulus impresses on it a desire of protru-
sion. The endocyst now contracts on the perigastric fluid, which, pressing
on the polypide, forces it onwards towards the aperture ; at the same time
the vaginal sphincter relaxing, affords to the cone of tentacula a free passage
through the tube of the inveited endocyst.

   The succeeding steps in the process take place somewhat differently in
the two great groups. In Phmiatella and the other species with bilateral
lophophores, as the polypide continues to advance from the cell, the invagi-
nated endocyst is gradually carried out with it by a process of evagination,
which proceeds up to a certain point, where it is stopped by the action of the
inferior parieto-vaginal muscles, which, by straining upon the invaginated
membrane, had already afforded a fixed line, on which it rolled outwards du-
ring eversion. This line constitutes the extreme limit of eversion, and that
portion of the invaginated endocyst which lies between it and the mouth of
the cell remains permanently invaginated. In Paludicella the process is some-
what more complicated ; here the relaxation of the upper fibres of the supe-

rior parieto-vaginal muscles permits the eversion of the endocyst, but only

   * Observations on the Minute Structure of some of the higher forms of Polypi. Philo-
sophical Transactions, 1837.
--318 REPORT 1850.

to a certain extent, for the inferior fibrrs of these muscles soon check its
further progress. Tlie remainder of the invaginated membrane, which in the
retracted state constitutes the tentacular sheath, continues to be carried out-
wards by the ad%'ancing polypide, tlie inferior parieto-vaginal muscles slowly

relaxing to admit of it. These muscles, however, after a certain time refuse
to suffer further relaxation, and thus afford a second check to the evagina-
tion of the membrane. Thus we have two small permanent invaginations
existing after the completion of tlie protrusive act. One of these is placed
within the other, and gives rise to tlie membranous cup which projects from

the lips of the orifice in tiie exserted state of the polypide. This cup, there-

fore, which may plainly be seen under a proper illumination to consist of a

membrane doubled into itself, is nothing else than the imperfectly e vagi nated
tentacular sheath. It may be seen during the act of protrusion in Pluma-
tella and other genera ; but in these it is a mere temporary condition, being
obliterated on the completion of the act. Mr. Hancock therefore appears to
me to mistake the true import of this cup, when he maintains its homology with
the crown of setae in Bon-erbankia* . The true homologue of these setae is

to be found, as has been already stated, in the corneous ribs of the endocyst.

When tiie protrusion of the polypide is complete, the last act in all the species

is the display ot the tentacula, which had previously been all drawn together
into a close cone or cylinder; and scarcely any more pleasing sight can be

presented to the microscopic observer than the spreading out of the beautiful
crown and the excitement of the vortices in the surrounding fluid, by the

countless cilia which instantly commence their untiring vibration on the

sides of the tentacula.

   The mechanism of retraction is easily understood. Here the perigastric

fluid being no longer pressed upon by the contraction of the endocyst, the
great retractor muscles act directly on the polypide and withdraw it into

the cell, the superior and inferior parieto-vaginal muscles in Paludicella
drawing after it as it descends that portion of the endocyst which had been

carried out during protrusion ; in the other genera, however, the superior

muscles would seem to take no part in this act. When the retraction is

complete the sphincter closes the tentacular sheath, and the polypide rests

secure in the recesses of the cell.

The muscles of these animals are especially interesting in a physiological

point of view, for they seem to present us with an e.^ample of true muscular

Atissue reduced to its simplest and essential form.  muscle may indeed

here be viewed as a beautiful dissection far surpassing the most refined pre-

paration of the dissecting knife, for it is composed of a bundle of elementary

fibres totally separate from one another through their entire course. These

fibres are distinctly marked with transverse strife, a condition, however,

which is not at all times equally perceptible ; and some of our best observers

have denied to the Polyzoa the existence of striated fibre. I have however,

by repeated observations, satisfied myself of the striated condition of the fibre  I

in the great retractor muscle in all the freshwater genera. In Paludicella, I

have seen this state beautifully marked through the pellucid cell in the

whole extent of the retractor muscle while the fibres were on the stretch in

the exserted condition of the polypide ; and in all the other genera it has,

under favourable circumstances of observation, been more or less visible.

In order to witness it in perfection the fibre nmst be on the stretch, for

when this is torn from its attachments or lies relaxed on the bottom of the cell,
the striae become very obscure. When the broken extremity of a fibre is

                                     * Loc. eit.
ON FRESHWATER POLYZOA.  319

examined, the fracture will be found to have occurred in a plane perpendi-
cular to the axis of the fibre, never presenting an uneven or lacerated ap-

pearance; and a marked tendency to separate into discs may be recognised
in the detached and broken fibre. When the fibre is in an uncontracted
state, it would seem to be perfectly cylindrical, and the normal act of con-
traction is so momentary that its condition during this act cannot be wit-
nessed. When, however, tiie living polypide is torn from its cell, the rup-
tured fibres which continue attached to its body are thrown into a state of

spasmodic contraction, and then it will be seen that they lose their cylindri-
city and become irregularly swollen at intervals, while the whole fibre has

much increased in thickness : in this state we may also observe it obscurely
striated. The swellings here visible in the contracted fibre are quite differ-
ent from the peculiar knots described by Dr. A. Farre in the muscles of
the marine Polyzoa. Such knots do not exist in the freshwater species, at

least I have never seen them, with the exception perhaps of certain little

swellings, which may be occasionally witnessed in the parietal muscles of
Paludicella and in the superior parieto-vaginal muscles of Plumafella. In Pa-
ludicella I have witnessed a curious phsenomenon presented by the muscular

fibre. In this polyzoon the fibres of the great retractor muscle, while lying

relaxed in the bottom of the cell after the retraction of the polypide, may

frequently be seen to present a singular motion, impressing you with the
idea of a cluster of writhing worms.

    The existence of striated fibre in the Polyzoa was first noticed by Dr.
M. Edwards, who detected it in Eschara*; and Mr. George Busk has since
described and figured the same form of tissue in Anguinaria spatulaia and
Notamia bursaria\.

  --E. Organs of the Life of Relation. I have succeeded in making out a

distinct nervous system in all the genera with the exception of Paludicella,
in which I have not as yet been able to effect any satisfactory demonstration

of its existence. In all the species with bilateral lophophores, there may be

seen attached to the external surface of the oesophagus, on its rectal aspect
just below the mouth, an oval body of a yellowish colour. Careful examina-
tion shows that this body is furnished with a cavity or ventricle in its inte-
rior ; that it is a nervous suboesophagean ganglion there cannot be any doubt,
and I have succeeded in distinctly tracing nervous filaments in connection
with it. In Cristatella, Lophopus, and other genera with crescentic lopho-

phores, the ganglion may be seen giving off from each side a rather thick
chord, which takes a course backwards, and immediately enters the tubular

arms of the lophophore, and then running along the roof of this cavity, gives
off at regular intervals a filament to each tentacle upon the outer margin of

the arm. When it arrives at the extremity of the arm it turns on itself, and

in its retrograde course gives off similar filaments to the tentacula placed
upon the inner margin. I have thus traced it back to the base of the arms, but

have here failed in my attempts to follow it further; it is however highly proba-

ble that it passes across the lophophoreto unite with the corresponding filament
of the opposite side. The ganglion also sends off filaments upwards towards

the mouth ; and a filament may be observed passing downwards along the
oesophagus, and soon losing itself on the walls of this tube. I have made out
this last filament very distinctly in Cristatella. From each side a delicate
filament would seem to pass forwards on the oesophagus, but I have not suc-

    * Milne-Edwards, Recherches Anatomiques, Physiologiques et Zoologiques sur les Eschares,
Ann. des Sci. Nat., 2de Serie, t. vi,

    t Busk in Transactions of the Microscopical Society of London, vol. ii.
--320 REPORT 1850.

ceeded in detecting anything like a complete collar surrounding the tube at
this place. There is no other ganglion than the one just described, and
nothing which can with any real probability be referred to an organ of
special sense has as yet presented itself.

   To INI. Dumortier is due the credit of having first demonstrated tiie exist-
ence of a nervous system in the Polyzoa. He saw in Lojihojius cryslnUinns*

the subcesophagean ganglion, thougii he speaks doubtingly of it as referable
to the nervous system, while he assures us of a distinct ganglion placed at
the base of eacii arm of the lophophore. This last is certainly an erroneous
observation, and it is probable tliat the learned Belgian naturalist mistook
for a ganglion the optical expression of the cavity of the arm Mhen seen in

transverse section.

     --II. Organsfor the Preservation of the Species. Emhryologij.

In the Polyzoa, both marine and freshwater, three distinct modes of re-

production may be witnessed, namely, by buds or gemma, by true ova, and

h^ free, locomotive embryos.

1. Reproduction by GcmmcE.--'Y.XxQ. gemmae always originate in the endo-

cyst. In Loj)hopus, Alcyonellu, Fhimatella and Fredericella, they occur Avith-

out any very regular order near the mouth of the cell. They at first appear
as a small tubercle projecting into the perigastric space, but may soon be
seen to take a development in an outward direction. The bud now presents

the appearance of a vesicle projecting from the exterior of the parent cell,

closed' at its external or free extremity, but having its cavity in communica-

tion with the perigastric space. The polypide is gradually developed in the

interior of the gemma, which soon opens at its free extremity so as to admit
of the exsertion and retraction of the young polypide. The gemma is now

a complete cell with its contained polypide, and in the branched species soon

grows into a new branch springing from the side of the old one. In Crisla-

tella the gemmas are produced very regularly from the external side of the

last-formed series of cells, and constitute a marginal series extending round
the entire colony. Finally, in Paludicella the gemmae are also exceedingly

regular, always originating at a fixed point a little below and at each side of

the orifice. From this position of the gemmae, two opposite branches spring

from the thick end of each cell ; and though these branches are by no means

necessarily developed on every cell, yet the tixed points on which they ori-

ginate, and the constant angle at which they are given off from the parent

cell, give to the whole colony a very regular and elegant appearance.

    It is difficult, on account of the nature of the intervening structures, to
follow the process of development of the polypide in the gemmae of any of

the species with the exception of Paludicella ; in this, however, I have been

able to trace its gradual formation from a very early stage to its complete

development.

   The gemma in the earliest condition in which I have been able to observe

it, appears here as a minute tubercle projecting from (he external walls of

Wethe cell, and filled with a granular parenchyma.    next find it hollowed

out into a cavity which communicates with the interior of the parent cell.

The tubercle with its cavity increase in size, and the gemma is now found

to consist of an external envelope continuous with the ectocyst of the parent

cell, and of a thick fleshy lining continuous with the endocyst; this internal

tunic has numerous large round nucleated cells distributed through its sub-

                              * Dumortier, loc. cit.
       ON FRESHWATEn POLYZOA.                       321

stance, and internally it presents a rough uneven surface. The two tunics

of the gemma are to become the ectocyst and endocyst of the future cell.

By this time the gemma has become considerably elongated and has

acquired a clavate form, and its cavity begins to be cut off from that of

Wethe parent cell by the formation of a septum.  next perceive that a

rounded mass has formed in the substance of the lining tunic, near the wide

extremity of the gemma, and projects into the interior of the latter. In this

mass we soon perceive a cavity, which, when viewed in front, appears sur-

rounded by a slightly waved oval ring which is afterwards to become the

tentacular crown of the polypide. The ring is at first quite simple, re-
sembling a mere fold of thickish membrane, but in a short time it presents

all round a series of minute tubercles, the rudiments of the future tenta-

cula. Delicate fibres may now be distinctly seen passing from the little

mass in which these appearances have been presenting themselves to the

walls of the cavity of the gemma ; these fibres are tiie rudimental retrac-
tors of the polypide. Circular filu'es may also be now seen in the lining
membrane of the gemma; these are chiefly collected near its proximal end,
and are to become the parietal muscles of the adult. The tentacular sheath
may about the same time be distinctly seen extending from the base of the

rudimental tentacula to the walls of the cavity in which the young polypide

is suspended, and fibres which are to become the superior parieto-yaginal
muscles may be observed in connection with it. The rudimental polypide has
now become somewhat enlarged below the tentacular ring, and here presents
in its interior a cavity. This cavity is at first simple and continuous, but as
the inferior extremity of the polypide continues to elongate, we soon find it
divided into three distinct regions, which are the first indication of oesophagus,

stomach and intestine. By the elongation of the tentacles, the tentacular

crown has now acquired nearly its full development.
   Up to this period the young polypide has been entirely shut off from all

communication with the external water, and its nutrition must have been
effected through the general nutrition of the colony ; now, however, an opening

occurs in the gemma just over the tentacular crown, and the last stage of de-
velopment is entered on. The tentacular crown rapidly acquires its complete

form, the inferior extremity of the alimentary canal becomes elongated into
the great cul-de-sac of the stomach, the muscles are by this time all formed,
and the polypide is capable of exsertion and retraction. It is now no longer
dependent for its growth on the general nutrition of the colony, but has be-

come an independent being, obtaining its food from without, and submitting

it to the action of its own digestive system.
   From the* description here given of the development of the gemma in Pa-

ludicella, we must be at once struck with its remarkable similarity to that of
the gemma in Laguncula, as elaborately described and figured by Van Be-

neden*; a glance indeed at the figures in Van Beneden's memoir is sufficient

to convince us how closely the freshwater genus resembles that of the sea in

the interesting process whose details we have been just following.

 --2. Reproduction by Ova. All the freshwater Polyzoa produce true ova,

which are formed in a definite organ or ovary. From the existence of a true

ovary and ova, we are at once led to expect the co-existence of a male organ.

That a testis is present in all the species of freshwater Polyzoa, there can I

think now be little doubt. In most of the genei^a I have met with an organ

which I have little hesitation in viewing as a testis, though, with the exception

of Paludicella, the demonstration of such an organ is somewhat obscure. In

this genus, however, I have had the most satisfactory demonstration of both

       * Loc, cit.

1850.                                            Y
322 REPORT-- 1850.

testicle and ovary, the one loaded with spermatozoa, the other with ova in

various stages of development.

The ovary and testis in Paludicella are both found in the same cell.

The former is an irregulai"ly-shaped body, adherent to the inner surface

of the endocyst towards the upper part of the cell. About the end of June,

when I discovered this organ, it was loaded with ova of various sizes,

some so small as to require for their detection a high power of the micro-

scope, while others were almost visible to the naked eye, and seemed ready

to burst the restraining membrane of the ovary and escape into the cavity of

the endocyst. Attached by one extremity to the external surface of the

stomach near the commencement of the intestine, and by the other, appa-

rently in connection with the ovary, is a cylindrical, flexible chord, which

obeys all the motions of the stomach. Of the nature of this appendage which

thus brings the ovary into connection with the stomach, 1 have been unable

to arrive at any satisfactory conclusion. It can scarcely be an oviduct com-

municating with the cavity of the stomach, and thus aflfording, through the

--latter organ, a way of egress to the ova ; for even though it be tubular, a con-

--dition not by any means apparent, it is evidently too narrow to receive the

mature ova, even though it undergo as much dilation as would seem possible

with such an organ.

The testicle is an irregularly-lobed mass attached like the ovary to the

inner surface of the endocyst. It occupies a position near the bottom of the

cell, and is thus separated by a wide interval from the ovary ; like the latter

organ it is connected with the stomach by a cylindrical chord, precisely

similar to that already described as belonging to the ovary : this chord, which

is connected with the testicle by one extremity, is attached by the other to

the fundus of the stomach, and its office is just as obscure as that of the cor-

responding chord connected with the ovary. The testicle was observed at

the same time as the ovary, and was then loaded with spermatozoa, multitudes

of which projected from its surface in the form of a dense villosity, each minute

filament of which exhibited a perpetually undulating motion. Many of the

spermatozoa had escaped from the testicle and were carried about by the

currents of the perigastric fluid, and thus brought in contact with the ovary,

mround which several were observed clustering. The spermatozoa Paludicella

are simple vibrioid bodies without any terminal enlargement, and exhibit a

constant sinuous or undulatory motion.

The ova, on arriving at a certain stage of development and while still in

the ovary, present distinctly the germinal vesicle and germinal spot ; these,

however, soon disappear. When the ovum escapes from the ovary it is a lenti-

cular body surrounded by an annulus, in which a somewhat obscurely cellular

Astructure is apparent.  coloured and very eccentric spot may be observed

at this stage in the contents of the ovum. I have not been fortunate enough

to observe the ova oi Paludicella more than once, and have thus had no op-

portunity of making further observations on these bodies.

In those freshwater Polyzoa whose lophojihore is bilateral, we find the

ovary occupying a very different position from that which it holds in Palu-

dicella. In these, attached by one extremity to the fundus of the stomach,

and by the other to the inner surface of the endocyst near the bottom of the
cell, may be observed a chord-like organ quite similar to what has already

been described as passing from the stomach to the testicle in Paludicella.

This chord is surrounded by the ovary, in which the ova may be observed in          I

various stages of progress, becoming gradually more developed as they ap-

proach the gastric extremity of the ovary. The ova are for the most part

few in number, and lie along the chord which connects them in a sort of
                        :

ON FRESHWATER POLYZOA.  $2B

moniliform manner. As they increase in size the membrane of the ovary
becomes strained over them, and they finally rupture it and escape into the
perigastric space, where they lie loose in the surrounding fluid.

    Just before the chord-like organ becomes attached to the walls of the cell,
it presents in many cases an enlargement which seems due to a peculiar in-
vestment acquired at this spot, and which is quite distinct from the ovary
this structure I believe myself justified in viewing as a testicle. M, Van
Beneden believes in the existence of a testicle occupying in certain polypides
of Alcyonella fungosa, the position of the ovary in others, and is thus led
to maintain the existence of distinct male and female individuals in the same

colony*. I confess iiowever that my own observations do not tend to con-
firm the view of the distinguished professor of Louvain. The ova, on esca-

ping from the ovary, are in most species, perhaps in all, still enclosed in a
delicate transparent membranous investment, which however is soon lost.
The general formation of all these ova, when they have arrived at maturity,
is that which results from the apposition by the concave surfaces, of two
concavo-convex horny discs united in all cases, except in Fredericella, by an
annulus of a different structure which runs round the entire margin over-
lapping each disc. The ova in the different species vary from a lenticular
shape to an elongated oval, and in Fredericella the marginal ring is obsolete.
In all, one surface would seem to be a little more convex than the other.

   In Cristatella the mature ovum is furnished with hooked spines, which
spring alternately from the two sides just within the annulus, and thence

passing outwards over the latter project in short rays beyond tlie margin.
The disc in all the species is of a deep brown colour, and would seem to be
composed of a single layer of hexagonal cellules, whose external walls in
most cases slightly project beyond the surface of the disc, and thus give to
the latter an elegantly mammillated condition. In some cases however the
cellular condition of one or both discs is very obscure. The annulus is also
composed of cellules, which here, however, occur in several layers ; these
cellules are also for the most part larger than those of the disc and of a dif-
ferent colour ; they are filled with air, and give to the annulus a light spongy

texture.

    In Cristatella I have succeeded in tracing certain stages in the progress of

the ovum towards the mature condition, in which it is ready to escape from
the body of the parent. In an early stage it may be observed as a whitish

semitransparent compressible vesicle enclosing a fluid loaded with granules or

minute cellules. In this state its surface is perfectly smooth, but we find it
before long acquiring two additional investments, which however possess but
a temporary existence and are destined to disappear as the ovum advances
to maturity. The internal of these is a thick layer of a gelatinous con-
sistence, which immediately invests the ovum; the external is a delicate
transparent membrane which retains the internal gelatinous investment in
its place, and is thickly covered on its outer surface with minute vibratile
cilia. The action of these cilia seems to be confined to the production of
currents in the surrounding fluid, and is thus probably subservient to the
function of aeration, for they are evidently too weak to act as organs of
locomotion, at least I never witnessed the ovum carried about by their aid
through the surrounding water. This interesting condition of the ovum
must be carefully distinguished from a ciliate locomotive embryo, exam-
ples of which will be presently adduced. Within the gelatinous envelope
the ovum acquires its horny shell and annulus, and has now attained to its
full size, still invested by the gelatinous and ciliated envelopes, but as yet no

                         * Quelques Observations sur les Polypes d'eau douce, foe. cit.

                                                                                                Y2
--324 REPORT 1850.

trace of the spines is visible. These however shortly after show themselves
growing out irom the two faces of the ovum ; they penetrate the gelatinous
envelope, and soon impinge on the external membrane, which by this time
has lost its cilia, and which now gives vvay, torn by tlie grapple-like extremi-
ties of the spines. The two temporary investments of the ovum now rapidly
disappear, and the latter presents itself as the elegant little spiny lenticular
body so characteristic of the genus Cristatella.

    I have observed in the freshwater Polyzoa the curious fact of the very
same individual producing two different kinds of ova. This occurs in Plu-

matella emarginata and in Alcyonella Benedenl. In both these, the cells may
be observed towards the end of summer loaded with ova which lie loose

within them. These are of an elongated oval figure, with a largely developed
annulus which overlaps a considerable portion of the disc. But besides these
bodies, others may also be observed invariably attached to the internal sur-
face of the walls of the cell, to which they adhere by means of a peculiar
cement, in which no trace of structure can be detected. These differ also
from the unattached ova in shape, being much shorter in proportion to their
width, while the annulus is exceedingly narrow, and presents but slight traces
of that highly developed cellular structure so remarkable in the others.
After the decay of the coenoecium, many of tiiese attached ova may be seen
adherent to the stone or other body on which the specimen had developed
itself, and to which they are now connected in lines through the medium of

a portion of the old cell in which they had been produced. I am unable to

state whether the development in these last-described bodies is similar to
what occurs in the others, as I have not succeeded in witnessing the escape
from them of the young.

    \nAlcijonellafungosa and Lophopuscri/stallim(s,lha.ve also witnessed bodies
which differed from the ordinary ova of these Polyzoa in the possession of a
regular elliptical aperture in the centre of their more convex face. They
were always empty, and of their nature I have not been able to form any
conclusion of value.

    The nearly opake horny investment of the ova of all these species renders
it impossible to trace those stages of the development of the embryo which
occur previously to the hatching of the egg; and on rupturing the latter
under the microscope, nothing can be witnessed but the escape of a fluid
holding in suspension innumerable corpuscles which spread themselves over

the field and exhibit but obscure traces of definite aggregation. When

however the development has gone on to a certain extent within the ovum,
the latter opens by the separation from one another of the two faces, and the
young polyzoon gradually emerges and floats away freely through the water,
but the surface of its investing tunic is altogether destitute of cilia or other
active organs of locomotion ; and its motions through the surrounding fluid
seem to be quite passive, except so far as they may be possibly influenced by
the ciliary action of the tentacula. It now possesses all the essential organs
of the adult, the retractor muscles are well-developed, and the polypide is
capable of regular exsertion and retraction ; but the cctocyst is colourless and
transparent, and free from the earthy particles which in the greater number
of species are afterwards found in it, and the little animal is still simple. It
loses however no time in developing gemmae, which soon change it to the
perfect compound form of the adult. In many cases the two separated faces
of the original ovum continue for some time to adhere to the lower end of
the little animal like the valves of a bivalve shell.

    I have sought in vain, in all the freshwater Polyzoa, for some orifice through
·which the ova may escape from the cells ; and yet, from the large size and
ON FRESHWATER POLYZOA.  S25

incompressible nature of these ova, such an orifice, were it present, could hardly-
escape detection. Meyen*, it is true, states that he has witnessed in Alcyo-
nella fungosa the escape of an egg through an opening in the vicinity of
the anus ; but, notwithstanding a similar observation already noticed as made
by Van Beneden on the marine Laguncula repens, this I feel certain has been
an imperfect observation of Meyen, and that the escape of the egg was the
result of some accidental laceration of the tissues in this spot. There is then
no natural aperture through which the ova can escape, and their liberation

I am convinced can only take place after the destruction of the soft parts of
the Polyzoon has afforded to them a mode of egress through the mouth of

the cell.

   3. Reproduction by free Embryos While engaged in the examination of
a specimen of Plumatella fruticosa, I observed in the water which contained
it, a small egg-shaped body of a white colour. On placing this under the
microscope, I distinctly saw through the transparent external skin that it
enclosed a young polyzoon, and on now rupturing this skin with the point of
a needle, the little polyzoon was set at liberty. This consisted of a solitary
well-developed polypide enclosed in a completely formed cell, from which it
every now and then protruded the upper part of its body by a process of
evagination, just as in the adult animal. The cell appeared to consist of the
endocyst alone, and the whole of its external surface to the line of invagina-
tion was densely clothed with long vibratile cilia. The little animal would
sometimes remain stationary with the upper part of the polypide protruded
from the cell, but most constantly the entire polypide was retracted and the
mouth of the cell closed, and then the little embryo would present the ap-
pearance of a minute sphere covered with long cilia, by whose action it was'
carried about through the water Avith rapid and elegant motion.

    Some time after discovering the free emhr^ o of Plumatella fruticosa, 1
observed similar locomotive bodies in the water in which I had been keeping
a specimen of Alcyonella fungosa. These, in the retracted state, were of a
 more elongated form than the little embryos already described, from which
 they moreover differed in invariably containing two polypides in a single
 cell. They were exceedingly active in their motions, moving always with
 the cul-de-sac of the cell foremost, and at the same time revolving on
 their axis in an exceedingly elegant manner ; they frequently assumed a pear-

 shaped figure, with the narrow end corresponding to the orifice of the cell.
    In both the embryos now described the general structure is quite similar.

 A soft, transpai-ent and eminently contractile sac, partly clothed with cilia,

 has the unciliated portion invaginated into the ciliated, down which it extends
 for some distance, and then turning back upon itself is reflected upwards,
 when it experiences another invagination before becoming attached beneath
 the tentacular crown of the polypide. The first invagination is rendered
 permanent in this stage of the embryo by numerous bands, so closely re-

 sembling the superior and inferior parieto-vaginal muscles of the adult as to
 lead at first to the belief that they are these very muscles visible in the em-
 bryo. Such however is not the case. Neither these bands, nor the invagi-
 nation with which they are connected, have any existence in the adult ; and

 it is the second invagination just mentioned which the latter alone retains.
 The great retractor muscle of the polypide is well developed in the embryo.

     The subsequent development of the embryo I have not been able exactly
 to follow ; it seems however probable that it consists in the obliteration of
  the inferior invagination, and the disappearance of the cilia from the surface
 of the sac, with the formation of an ectocyst, the embryo at the same time

                                                                    * Loc. cit.
--326 llEPORT 1850.

becoming complicated by the development of gemmae ; indeed the commence-
ment of gemmation may be observed before any other change is apparent.

   Meyen* was the first to record the presence of locomotive embryos in the
freshwater Polyzoa. He observed them in Alcyonellafungosa, but his descrip-
tion differs in some points from that here given, and he mistakes the ciliated
sac for the external membrane of an egg containing two embryos. This
egg, he tells us, becomes ruptured at its anterior extremity and allows the
embryos gradually to escape. The bodies however here described are of a

nature totally different from eggs ; they are in reality embryos complicated
by a previous development of gemmae, and thus containing a double system
of digestive and respiratory organs, and destined to undergo an ulterior
development in all their parts. The little animals originally described by
Miillerf as infusorial animalcules, under the name oi Leucophra heteroclyta,

are shown by Meyen to be identical with the locomotive embryos of Alcyo-

nella fungosa, a fact which corroborates a previously expressed notion of
Raspail as to the identity oi Leucophra heteroclyta andAlcyonellafiaigosaX-

    I have now described the three distinct modes of reproduction which may-
be observed in the freshwater Polyzoa. Tiie colony extends itself by the
production of gemmae, which, after development, remain permanently adhe-
rent ; it establishes new colonies by eggs and free embryos. In Cristatella
and Lophopus I have also observed the multiplication of a colony by a
process of self-division. In Cristatella this commences by a constriction
which takes place generally towards the middle of the colony, and which
gradually deepens, till at last it divides the entire mass into two separate por-
tions, which move off in opposite directions. In Lophoptis the process is very

similar ; large specimens of this Polyzoon have the endocyst constricted at

 intervals, so as to give to the colony the appearance of a variously-lobed

body enveloped in the gelatinous-looking ectocyst; it is at the point of these
constrictions that the self-division takes place, separating the entire colony

into two or more smaller ones.
    It may perhaps be thought that I ought to have enumerated this multipli-

cation of colonies by a self-division as a fourth form of reproduction ; but as
 in all these cases the division is wholly confined to the coencecium, the poly-

pides themselves invariably remaining entire, it is truly referable to the first
of the modes just enumerated, being really a reproduction by gemmae with
separation of the gemmae in masses. It is analogous to the geramiparous

 generation in Hydra, and is totally distinct from the true fissiparous genera-

tion of the lower forms of simple animals.

             ZOOGRAPHICAL OUTLINE.

                  Diagnosis of Genera and Species, and Synonomy.

                         Genus 1. Cristatella, Cuvier (1798).

--Gen. Char. Coencecium sacciform, hyaline, with a common flattened disc

   adapted for locomotion. Orifices placed on the surface opposite to the
   disc, and arranged in several concentric marginal series. Lophophore

   crescentic. Ova lenticular, with an annulus and marginal spines.

             Species unica. Cristatella mucedo, Cuvier.

Characters the same as those of the genus.
                                            Synonyms.

1755. Der Kleinere Federbusch-Polyp. Rosel, Insect. Belustig. Supp. p. 559.

                   tab. 91 . (Original figure.)

* Loc. cit.  t 0. F. Miiller, Animalcula Infusoria, p. 158.  % Raspail, loc. cit.
       ON FRESHWATER POLYZOA.                                             82?

1766. La seconde sorte de Polypes a Bouqmts. Ledermuller, Amusm. Mic.

                2de cinq. p. 94. pi. 87. (The figures are imperfect copies from

                   Rosel.)

1798. Cristatella mwedo. Cuvier, Tab. Elem. p. 656.

1816. Cristatella vagans. Lamk. An. sans Vert. 1st edit. vol. ii. p. 97.

1817. Cristatella mucedo.   Cuv. Regne An, 1st edit. vol. iv. p. 68.
1820. Cristatella vagans.   Schweigger, Handbuch der Naturg. p. 4.23.
1824. Cristatella vagans.   Lamouroux, Enc. Meth. Zooph. 1824. p. 226.

                 pi. 472. (Figures copied from Rosel.)
1824. Cristatella vagans. Goldfuss, Naturhistorisch. Atlas, (Fig. copied

                 from Rosel.)
1828. Alcyonella, secundus evolutionis gradus. Raspail, Hist. Nat. de

             I'Alcyon. fluv., Mem. de la Soc. d'Hist. Nat. de Paris, vol. iv.p.l29.

1830. Cristatella mucedo. Cuvier, Reg. An. 2nd edit. vol. iii. p. 296.

1834. Cristatella mirabilis. Dalyel, Rep. Brit. Assoc, an. 1834. p. 604.

             and Edin. New Phil. Journ. vol. xvii. p. 414.
1834. Cristatella vagans. De Blainville, Man. d'Act. p. 489. pi. 85. fig. 7.

       (Fig. copied from Rosel.)

De1 834. Cristatella vagans.   Blainville, Diet. Sc. Nat. Art. Cristatelle,

                 fig. 7. (Fig. copied from Rosel.)
1836. Cristatella vagans. Lamarck, An. sans Vert. 2nd edit. vol. ii. p. 110.
1837. CHstatella mucedo. Turpin, Ann. Sc. Nat. 2nd series, tom. vii. p. 65.

                   pi. 2, 3. (Original figures.)

1837. Cristatella mucedo. Gervais, Ann. Sc. Nat. 2nd series, tom. vii. p. 77.

       pi. 4. (Original figures.)

1838. Cristatella mticedo. Johnston, Brit. Zooph. 1st edit. p. 308. pi. 43.

                 (Figures copied from Turpin.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ^

1839. Cristatella mticedo. Gervais, Ann. Franc, et Etrang. d'Anat. tom. iii.

                   p. 133.     Gervais, Diet. Sc. Nat. Suppl. Art. Al-
1840. Cristatelle moisissure.

       cyonelle. Planches Supplementaires, Pol. fluviatiles. (Original

1843.          figures.)      Thompson, Rep. Brit. Assoc, an. 1843. p. 285.
1844.                       Allman, Ann. of Nat. Hist. vol. xiii. p. 330.
1846.  Cristatella mucedo.
       Cristatella mucedo.    Allman, Rep. Brit. Assoc, an, 1846. Trans, of
       Cristatella mucedo.

                    Sect. p. 88.

1847. Cristatella mucedo. Johnston, Brit. Zooph. 2nd edit. p. 387. pi. 73.

1848.        (Fig. copied from Turpin.)
1849.
       Cristatella mucedo. Van Beneden, Bryoz. Fluv. de Belg. p. 16,
            Mem. de I'Acad. Roy. de Belgique, 1848.

       Cristatella mirabilis. Dalyell, Rare and Remarkable Animals of

       Scotland, vol. ii. (Original figures.)

   The original figures are those of Rosel, Turpin, Gervais, Ann. Sc. Nat.,
Gervais, Diet. Sc. Nat. Suppl., and Dalyell.

 --Distribution. Germany, France, Belgium, England, Scotland, Ireland.

                         Genus 2. Lophopus, Dumortier (1835).

--Gen. Char. Ccencecium sacciform, hyaline, with a disc which serves for

   attachment but not for locomotion ; orifices scattered. Lophophore cres-

  centic. Ova elliptical, with an annulus, but without marginal spines.

                     Species unica*. Lophopus crystallinus, Pallas.

--Spec. Char. Same as that of the genus.

  * I have not been able to find sufficient grounds for viewing the L. Bakeri, Van Benedea^

as a distinct species.
--32S REPORT 1850.

                                                Synonyms.
1744. Polype a Panache. Treuibley, Mem. sur les Pol. d'eau douce, p. 210.

                    tab. ]0. fig. 8, 9. (Original figures.)
1746. Polype a Panache. Baeck, Acta Suecica, 1746. p. 198. tab. 6. fig. 3, 4.

                  (Figures copied from Tremble}'.)
1753. BeU-floioer Animal. Baker, Employment for the Microscope, p. 306.

                   pi. 12. fig. 15-22. (Original figures.)
1766. Tuhularia crystallina. Pallas, Elenchus Zooph. p. 88.
1767. Tuhularia campanulata. Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. Edit. xii.
1789. Tuhularia reptans. Linn. Syst. Nat. Cura Gmelin, p. 3835.
1789. Canipanulated Tuhularia. Shaw, Nat. Miscel. tab. 354. (Original

                      figure.)

1806. Tubularict campanulata. I'urton, Linn. Syst. Nat. vol. iv. p. 668.
1816. Plumatella cristata. Lamarck, Hist, des An. sans Vert. 1st edit. vol. ii.

                     p. 107.

1820. Plumatella cristata. Schweigger, Handbuch der Naturg. p. 424.
1821. Naisa reptans. Lamouroux, Exp. Meth. p. 16. tab. 68. figs. 3, 4.

                  (Figures copied from Trembley.)
1824. Naisa reptans. Deslongchamps, Encyc. Meth. Zooph. 1824. p. 561.
1826. Plumatella cristata. Blainville, Diet. Sci. Nat. torn. xlii. Art. Plu-

                     matella.
1828. Alcyonella, tertius evolutionis ffraclus. Raspaii, Hist. Nat. de I'Alc.

              Fluv., Mem. de la Soc. d'Hist. Nat. de Paris, vol. iv. p. 129.
1834. Plumatella cristata. Blainville, Man. d'Actin. p. 490.

1835. Lophopus crystallinus. Dumortier, Bull, de I'Acad. de Brux. 1835.

                   p. 424. pl. 5, 6. (Original figures.)
1836. Plumatella cristata. Lamarck, An. sans Vert. 2nd edit, vol.ii. p. 122.
1837. Plumatella campanulata. Gervais, Ann. Sc. Nat. 2nd ser. torn. vii.

                      p. 78.

1838. Alcyonella stagiiorum. Johnston, Brit. Zooph. 1st edit. p. 311. fig. 48.
                  p. 314. (Figure copied from Trembley.)

1839. Plumatella crystallina. Gervais, Ann. F'ranc. et Etrang. d'Anat. tom.

                    iii. p. 134.

1844. Alcyonella stagnorum. Allnian, Ann. Nat. Hist. vol. xii. p. 330.
1847. Alcyonella stagnorum. Johnston, Brit. Zooph. 2nd edit. p. 391. fig.

                 73. p. 395. (Fig. copied from Trembley.)
1848. Lophopus cristalUnus. Van Beneden, sur les Bryoz.fluv.de Belg.

              p. 23, Mem. de I'Acad. Roy.de Belg. 1848.
1848. Lophopus Bakeri. Van Beneden, sur les Bryoz. fluv. de Belg. p. 24.

              pl. 2, Mem. de I'Acad. Roy. de Belg. (Original figure.)

1849. Lophopus crystallinus. Allman, Rep. Brit. Assoc, an. 1849. Trans, of

                    Sect. p. 72.

   The original figures are those of Trembley, Baker, Shaw, Dumortier, and
Van Beneden.

 --Distribution. France, Belgium, England, Ireland.

         -- Genus 3. Alcyonella, Lamarck (1816).

Gen. Char. Ccencecium composed of membrano-corneous branched tubes,
   which adhere to one another by their sides : orifices terminal. Lophophore
   crescentic. Ova elliptical, with an annulus, but without marginal spines.

                               Number of known species, 3.

         -- 1. Alcyonella fungosa, Pallas.

Spec. Char. Ccencecium fungoid, formed of numerous branched vertical
   tubes, destitute of a furrow. Ova broad.

                           i
on freshwater polyzoa.  329

                                               Synonyms.

1768. Tuhularia fivngosa. Pallas, Descript. Tub. Fung. Nov. Comment.
                 Acad. Sci. Imp. Petropol. torn. xii. p. B%5. tab. 14. (Original

                      figures.)

1782. Spongia lacitstris. Schniiedel, Icones Plantarum el Anal. Partium.
1786. Leucophra heteroclita. Miiller, Animal. Infusor. p. 158. tub. 22. fig.

                 27-34. (Locomotive embryo, original figures.)
1789. Alcyoninm fluvialile. Bruguiere, Encyc. Meth. 1789. p. 24. pi. 472.

                    fig. 3. (Original figure, bad.)
1802. Alcyonium fluviatile. Bosc. Vers. vol. iii. p. 132.

1816. Alcyoniumfluviatile. Lamouroux, Pol. flex. p. 354.
1816. Alcyonella stagnorum. Lamarck, An. sans Vert. 1 st edit. vol. ii. p. 102.
1820. Alcyonella stagnorum. Schweigger, Handbuch der Naturg. p. 423.
1821. Alcyonella stagnorum. Lamouroux, Exposit. Meth. p. 71. tab. 76.

                 fig. 5-8. (Figures copied from Bruguiere.)
1824. Alcyonella stagnorum. Lamouroux, Enc. Meth. 1824. Zooph. p. 38.
1828. Alcyonella fluviaiilis vel A. ultimus evolutionis gradus. Raspail,

              Hist. Nat. de I'Alcyonelle fluv., Mem. de la Soc. d'Hist. Nat. de

                  Paris, torn. iv. p. 130. pi. 12-16. (Original figures.)
1828. Alcyonella stagnorum. Meyen, Isis, torn. xxi. p. 1225. pi. 14. (Ori-

                     ginal figures.)

1831. Alcyonella stagnorum. Ehrenberg, Symbolas Physicae Evert. Dec. 1.

                      Pol. fol. a.

1834. Alcyonella stagnorum. Blainville, Man. d'Actin. p. 491. pi. 85. fig. 8.
                 (Figure copied from Raspail.)

1835. Alcyonella stagnorum. Cams, Tabulae lUustrantes, pars 3. tom. 1.
                (Figure, locomotive-embryo, copied from Meyen.)

1836. Alcyonella stagnorum. Dumortier, Mem. sur les Pol. comp. d'eau

                   douce, p. 24.
1836. Alcyonella stagnorum. Lamarck, An. sans Vert. 2nd edit. vol. ii. p. 116.
1837. Alcyonella stagnorum. Teale, Trans. Phil, and Liter. Soc. of Leeds,

                   vol. i. part 1. p. 116. pi. 12. (Original figure.)

1837. Plumatella campanulata var. B. dutnetosa. Gervais, Ann. Sc. Nat.

                   1837. p. 78.
1838. Alcyonella stagnorum. Johnston, Hist. Brit. Zooph. 1st edit. p. 311.

                pi. 45. (Figures partly original and partly copied from Raspail.)
1839. Alcyonella flicviatilis. Gervais, Ann. Franc, et Etrang. d'Act. tom. iii.

              p. U5.
1839. Alcyonella. Van Beneden, Bull, de I'Acad. de Brux. tom. vi. part 2.

                   p. '2,16. figs. 3, 3'. (Original figures.)
1840. Alcyonella fluviatilis. Gervais, Diet. Sci. Nat. Suppl. Art. Alcyonelle.

                   (Original figures.)

1847. Alcyonella stagnorum. Johnston, Brit. Zooph. 2nd edit. p. 391. pi.
               74. (Figures partly original, partly copied from Raspail.)

1848. Alcyonella stagnorum. Siebold, Lehrbuch der Vergleich. Anat.

                   § 38, note 1 ; § 40, note 2; § 43, note 4.

1848. Alcyonella fungosa. Van Beneden^ Recherch. sur les Bryoz. fluv. de
              Belg. p. 18, Mem. de I'Acad. Roy. de Belg. 1848.

1849. Alcyonella anceps, Dalyell, Rare and Remark. Anim. of Scotland,

                   vol. ii. (Original figures.)

1849. Alcyonella gelcdinosa. Dalyell, Rare and Remark. Anim. of Scotland,

                   vol. ii. (Original figures.)
1850. Alcyonella fungosa. AUnian, Proc. Roy. Irish Acad. vol. iv. p. 470.
                                             --

330 REPORT--1850.

    The original figures are tliose of Pallas, MuUer (embryo), Bruguiere,
Schmiedel, Raspail, Meyen, Teale, Johnston, Van Beneden, and Dalyell.

  --Distribution. Russia, Prussia, Germany, Denmark, France, Belgium,

England, Scotland.

                   2. Species nova. Alcyonella Benedeni, AUman.

--Spec. Cliar. Coencecium fungoid, formed of numerous vertical furrowed

   tubes. Ova nari'ow.

  --Distribution. England.

                           3. Alcyonella ftabellum, Van Beneden.

--Spec. Char. Coencecium flabelliform, composed of prostrate furrowed tubes.

    Ova broad.
                                               Synonyms.

1848. Alcyonellafiabellum. Van Beneden, Recherches sur les Bryoz. fluv.
              de Belg. p. 19, Mem. de I'Acad. Roy. de Belg. 184-8. (Original

                      figures.)

--1850. Alcyonella fiabellum. Allman, Proc. Royal Irish Acad. vol. iv. p. 470.
    Distribution. Belgium, England.

                       Genus 4. Plumatella, Lamarck (1816).

--Gen, Char. Coencecium confervoid, branched, composed of a series of

    membrano-corneous tubular cells, each of which is continued into a short
    ramulus with a terminal orifice. Branches distinct from one another.
   Lophophore crescentic. Ova elliptical, with an annulus, but without
    marginal spines.

                Number of known species 10, of which 9 are British.

                                     1. Plumatella repens, Linnaeus.

--Spec. Char. Coencecium irregularly branched, cells sub-claviform, desti-

   tute of furrow and keel. Tentacula about 60 ; margin of calyciforra
   membrane distinctly festooned. Ova broad.

  --Variation a. Coencecium closely adherent, creeping along the surface of

various submerged bodies, to which the branches are attached in their entire

length.

  --Variation p. Coencecium attached only towards the origin, branches soon

becoming free.
                                               Synonyms.

   It is scarcely possible to conceive of a species burdened with a more
discordant and perplexing synonomy than that which encumbers the history
of P. repens. In order to reduce this chaos to some sort of order, the first
step is of course the determination of the exact animal which the original
founder of the name had in view in his description.

   In the tenth edition of the ' Systema Naturae,' published in 1758, we find
Linnaeus introducing an animal under the name of Tubipora repens, and
placing it among his Lithophyta with the following diagnosis :

    " T. corallio repente tiliformi dichotomo : tubis flexilibus cylindricis distan-
tibus erectis.

    "Habitat in aquae dulcis plantis in Nymphaea, &c. minuta."
   The figures here referred to are Trembley's " Polype a Panache," as copied
by Baeck in ' Acta Suecica,' Rdsel's figures of his " Federbusch-Polyp," and
Schafier's figures of his " Corallenartiger Kamm-Polyp," a reference so
discordant as to render it very difficult to determine the animal Linnaeus had
ip view in his Tubipora repens. Linnaeus's short description, however,
plainly excludes the " Polype a Panache ; " and that the original of the
Tubipora repens was really Schaffer's animal seems confirmed by the ' Fauna
--

    ON FRESHWATER POLYZOA.  331

Suecica,' published in 1761, where Tubipora repens is also given, but with
SchafFer's animal quoted as the only synonym.

    In the twelfth edition of the ' Systema Naturae,' published in 1767, Tubi'
pora repens is altogether omitted ; but in this edition a new species is intro-
duced under the name of Tubularia campanulala, with the following short

diagnosis :
    " T. reptans tubis campanulatis."

    The animal thus defined is without any doubt the " Polype a Panache"
of Trembley, though to the real synonyms of the " Polype a Panache" there
is added Schaffer, tab. 1 . fig. 2. The Tubularia campanulata is intended to
replace the Hydra campanulata of the tenth edition, which however, as
there described, is certainly an imaginary species, founded on the fifth and
sixth figures of Bseck's plate in the ' Acta Suecica,' which are evidently
drawn from some animal very imperfectly observed, though most probably
intended for the " Polype a Panache."

    In 1773 we find O. F. Miiller giving the name of Tubularia repens to a
polyzoon which he found in the fresh waters in Denmark, and which he
viewed as identical with Schaffer's " Kamni-polyp." If Miiller be correct

-- --in this view and there is certainly every reason to think he is, the true

synonyms of the Tubularia repens of Miiller will be Tubipora repens, Lin-

naeus, and " Corallenartiger Kamm- polyp," Schaffer.

    It is evident that Linnaeus had a very imperfect idea of his Tubipora re-
pens, but we are now happily no longer left in doubt as to the nature of the
animal in question ; for though both Schaffer's and Linnaeus's descriptions
are very meagre, Midler's, on the contrary, is full and perspicuous, though
unfortunately not accompanied by an original figure ; so that we are com-
pelled to have recourse to the figures of Schaffer, to which Miiller refers us,
and which, though very imperfect, would seem sufficient for the purposes of
identification : one represents a small portion of the ccencecium of the natural
size creeping spirally round the stem of some aquatic plant ; the other is a

portion magnified, with three polypides in different states of exsertion.

    From this time we find writers relying almost exclusively on the descrip-
tion of Miiller, and after some notices of minor importance, we find the name
given by Miiller introduced into the ' Systema Naturae' by Gmelin, who in
his edition of this great work, published in 1789, makes mention of the Tu-

bularia repens with Miiller's diagnosis.

    In 1804 a new element of confusion was introduced into the synonymy of
this species by Vaucher, who mentions its occurrence, and adds incidentally,
that its ova are elongated: this naturalist accompanies his notice with a
figure, which, however, in no respect agrees with Miiller's description ; and
I have no hesitation in considering the animal which Vaucher, under the
belief that it was the same as that described by Miiller, calls Tubularia re-
pens, to be quite distinct from this species; it comes nearer to Pluniatella
emarginata of the present Report ; and indeed, were it possible from Vaucher's
 data to form any opinion of value on this subject, I should not be disinclined
 to view it as identical with the latter, though the description and figures of
Vaucher are so very imperfect, as to render it impossible to decide with
satisfaction on his species. The T. lucifuga of Vaucher, on the other hand,
comes much nearer to the true Tubularia repens, and is probably identical
with it, for the number of tentacula which he ascribes to the species is evi-

 dently the result of having observed the polypide in a very partially exserted
state, and therefore goes for nothing in the description.

   We next find Miiller's Tubularia repens enumerated by Turton in his

edition of the ' Systema Naturae,' 1806. In 1816 we have Lamarck substi-
                                                    --

--332 REPORT 1850.

tutiiig the generic name of Plumatclla for that of Tuhularia, as applied to
the freshwater Polyzoa, and describing, under the name of Plumaiella re-
pens, an animal for which he adduces Schaffer's figure, but which he cha-
racterizes from the erroneous description and figures of Vaucher; the P.
repens of Lamarck, therefore, while it must be viewed as synonj'mous with
Vaucher's Tubularia repens, can find no place in the synonj'my of the true
 Tubulm-ia repens of Miiller. I.amouroux, first in 1816 (Pol. Flex,), and
afterwards in 1821 (Exp. Meth.), substitutes the name oi Naisa repens for
 Tubularia repens, employing Mliller's diagnosis, though referring to

Vaucher, and in the latter work reproducing his figure. De Blainville, in 1834,

enumerates without any diagnosis Plumatella repens, quoting as synonyms
the Tubularia repens both of Gmelin (Syst. Nat.) and Vaucher. Gervais,
in Ann.Tranc. et Etrang. d'Anat., 1839, enumerates also witiiout description
the Plumatella repens, quoting among his synonyms not only Scbaffer and
Miiller, but also Vaucher, The Plumutella repens of Johnston (Brit. Zooph.
edit. 1 and 2, 1838 and 1847) is the true animal of Schiiffer and Miiller.
Lastly, Van Beneden (Recherches sur les Bryozoaires fluviatiles, 1848) de-
scribes, under the name of Plumatella repens, a Polyzoon which I cannot
safely refer to the original Tubularia repens; Mliller's character, " Tubuli

basi angustati apice crassiores," does not at all agree with it, while the elon-
gated ova approach it to Vaucher's Tubularia repens, and to the Plumatella

emarginata of this Report and of my Synopsis, published in the ' Annals and

Magazine of Natural History,' 1844, from which however it is separated by
the absence of a furrow. The Plumatella campanulata, on the contrary, of
Van Beneden is doubtless identical with the true Tuhularia repens of the
Danish naturalist, and with the animal here described under the name of

Plumatella repens var. a.

While the " Corallenartiger Kamm-polyp" of Schafier thus formed the

basis of the various synonyms now enumerated, the animal described by

Rosel (Insecten Eelustigung, 1755) under the name of " Federbusch-polyp,"

was made the basis of another series of synonyms. This polyzoon was first

systematically named by Pallas, w ho described it in his ' Elenchus,' published

Wein 1766, giving to it the name of Tubularia gelatinosa.  afterwards find

Blumenbach (Handbuch der Naturg. 1777) describing it under the name of

Tubularia campaiiulata, with the following diagnosis, which is evidently

formed from the incorrect account given by Rosel :

" T. crista lunata orificiis vaginae annulatis corpore intra vaginam abscon-

dito."

Next comes Gmelin (Syst. Nat. 1789), who also describes it, employing

Weboth the name and diagnosis of Blumenbach.        have already seen that

the Tubularia campanulata of the ' Systema Naturae,' 1767, was a totally

different animal, namely the " Polype a Panache" of Trembley. Rosel's

animal is next described in Dr. Turton's edition of the ' Systema Naturae,*

1806, under the name of Tubularia reptans, the Tubularia campanulata of
this edition being the same as that of the edition of 1767. From this time

forwards, the specific name campanulata continued to be employed by the

greater number of naturalists for Rosel's Federbusch-polyp, and we find ac-
cordingly this little animal so designated by Lamarck, De Blainville, Du-

mortier, and Gervais.

The next question of importance is the determination of the exact relation

which the two series of synonyms just enumerated hold to one another. In

order to form an accurate opinion on this point, it will be necessary to bear

in mind the fact, that P. repens presents two distinct variations. In the first

of these (Var. a), which must be viewed as the normal and typical condi-
                                                                                    --

         ON FRESHWATER POLYZOA.                                                     333

tion, the animal may be seen attaching itself to flat surfaces, as the under
side of stones, and of the floating leaves of the water-lily and other aquatic

plants. In this condition it is closely adherent throughout its entire length
to the surface on \vhich it is developed, and forms elegant dendritic or con-

fervoid growths, radiating from a common centre. In the second (Var. /3)
it will be found fixed to surfaces of small extent, as thin, submerged stems,

straws, &c., and as it continues to increase in size, the brandies having no
extensive surface of attachment, soon become free, and a more or less entan-
gled bushy mass will be produced. Now, I believe the "Corallenartiger
Kamm-polyp" of Schaffer to correspond to the P. repens var. a of this Re-
port, while the " Federbusch-polyp" of Rosel corresponds to the variation /3,
and if so, the two animals must be viewed as identical in species. Miiller
believed them to be distinct, but he founded this opinion on certain charac-
ters in the figures and description of Rosel, some of which were obviously
erroneous, while others aff"orded no grounds for specific distinction at all.
The distinction, tlierefore, drawn by Miiller is nugatory, and the specific
name campanulata, originally applied by Blumenbach to Rosel's animal, and
adopted by subsequent writers, is applicable to no distinct species, and must

therefore be expunged.

  --If the above criticism be admitted and it is what I have arrived at after
--a very laborious examination the synonyms of P. repens will stand thus :

                               Variation a,

1754. Corallenartiger Kamm-polyp. Schaffer, Armpolypen, tab. 1. figs.

1, 2. (Original figures.)

1758. Tubipora repens. Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. Edit. x.

1761. Tubipora repens. Linnaeus, Fauna Suecica, 2219.

1773. Tubularia repens. Miiller, Verm. ter. et fluv. vol. i. pars 2. p. 16.
1776. Tubularia repens. Miiller, Zool. Dan. Prod. 3064'.

1781. Der Polyp mit dem Feder-busch. Eichhorn, Naturg. der kleinst.

Wasserthiere, tab. 4. (Original figure.)

1789. Tubularia repens. Gmelin, Linn. Syst. Nat. p. 3835.

1804. Tubularia lucifugal . Vaucher, Bull, de la Soc. Philomat. ann. xii.

No. 81. pi. 19. f. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 *. (Original figures, bad.)

1806. Tubularia repens. Turton, Linn. Syst. Nat. vol. iv. p. 668.

1816. Plumatella lucifuga ?. Lamarck, An. sans Vert. 1st edit. vol. ii. p. 108.
1816. Naisa repens. Lamouroux, Pol. flex. p. 223.

1821. Naisa repens. Lamouroux, Expos. Meth. p. 16. (Not the figure

tab. 68. f. 2, which is a copy of Vaucher's Tubularia repens.)

1824. Naisa lucifuga}. Deslongchamps, Encyc. Meth. Zoophytes, 1824.

p. 562.

1826. Plumatella lucifuga?. Blainville, Diet. Sc. Nat. torn. xlii. p. 12.
1826. Plumatella caharia?. Cams, Tabulae Illustrantes. (Original figure.)

1828. Alcyonella, tertius evolutions gradus. Raspail, Mem. de la Soc. d'Hist.

              Nat. de Paris, vol. iv. p. 1 30.
1831. Alcyonella stagnorum. Ehrenberg, Symb. Phys. Evert. Dec. 1. Pol.

fol. a.

1834. Plumatella repens.    1  btjliai·nvil-lne,  Aacl.moloi gie· ,  p.  4^r9.0r>.
1834. Plumatella lucifuga.
                            ]

1836. Plumatella lucifuga}. Lamarck, An. sans Vert. 2nd edit. vol. ii. p. 124.

1836. Plumatella repens. Dumortier, Mem. sur les Pol. comp. d'eau douce,

p. 21.

   * Figs. 9 and 10 e\'idently belong to T. repens on the same Plate, and are transposed by
an error of the engraver, while figs. 4 and 5 belong to T. lucifuga, though by a similar error
they are placed with T. repens,.
--3 34
                      REPORT 1 850.

1838. Plumatella repens. Johnston, Brit. Zooph. 1st edit. p. 322. fig. 51.
               p. 332. (Original figure.)

1839. Plumatella repens. Gervais, Ann. Franc, et Etrang. d'Anat. torn. iii.

                 p. 134-.

1842. Plumatella repens. Allman, Proc. Roy. Irish Acad. ann. 1842.
             No. 38.

1843. Plumatella repens, first variation. Allman, Rep. Brit. Assoc, ann.
               1843. Trans, of Sections, p. 74.

1843. Plumatella repens. Thompson, Rep. Brit. Assoc, ann. 1843. p. 285.
1844. Plumatella repens. Allman, Ann. Nat. Hist. vol. xii. p. 330.
1847. Plumatella repens. Johnston, Brit. Zooph. 2nd edit. p. 402. fig. 76.

               p. 403. (Original figure.)

1848. Plumatella campanulata. Van Beneden, Recherches sur les Bryoz.
          fluv. p. 20. pi. 1. f. 5, 6, 7, Mem. de I'Acad. Roy. de Belg. 1848.

               (Original figures.)

1849. Plumatella repens. Daly ell, Rare and Remark. Anim. of Scotland,

               vol. ii. (Original figures.)

   The original figures are those of Schaffer, Eichhorn, Vaucher, Raspail,
Carus, Johnston, Brit. Zooph. 1st edit., Johnston, Brit. Zooph. 2nd edit., Van

Beneden and Dalyell.

                      Variation ^.

1755. Federbusch-poli/p. Rosel, Insect. Belustig. Supp. p. 447. tab. 73,

               74, 73. (Original figures.)

1766. La premiere sorte de Polypes a Bouquet. LedermuUer, Amus. Micros.

             2TM" cinq. p. 94. tab. 87. (Figures imperfect copies from Rosel.)

1766. Tuhularia gelatinosa. Pallas, Elenchus Zooph. p. 85.
1777. Tuhularia campanulata. Blumenbach, Handbuch der Naturge-

schichte.

1789. Tuhularia campanulata. Gmelin, Linn. Syst. Nat. 3834.

1806. Tuhularia reptans. Turton, Linn. Syst. Nat. vol. iv. p. 669.
1816. Plumatella campanulata. Lamarck, Ann. sans Vert. Ist edit. vol. ii.

               p. 108.

1816. Naisa campamdata. Lamouroux, Hist, des Pol. flex. p. 224.
1820. Plumatella campamdata. Schweigger, Handbuch der Naturg. § 76.
1824. Naisa campanulata. Deslongchamps, Encyc. Meth. 1824. Zooph.

               p. 562.
1826. Plumatella campamdata. Blainville, Diet. Sc. Nat. vol. xlii. p. 12.

1826. Plumatella campanulata. Risso, Hist. Nat. de I'Europe Meridion.

               vol. V. p. 508.  Blainville, Actinologie, p. 490. pi. 85.
1834. Plumatella campamdata.

fig. 6. (Figure copied from Rosel.)

1835. Lophopus campanulatus'i . Dumortier, Bull. Ac. Brux. 1835. p. 424.
1836. Plumatella campanulata, Lamarck, Ann. sans Vert. 2nd edit. vol. ii.

                 p. 12.3.

1837. Plumatella campamdata. Gervais, Ann. Sc. Nat. 2nd series, torn. vii.

                p. 78.

1839. Plumatella campanulata. Gervais, Ann. Franc, et. Etrang. d'Anat.

               torn. iii. p. 134.
1848. Plumatella repens, second variation. Allman, Rep. Brit. Assoc, ann.

               1843. Trans, of Sect. p. 74.

   The only original figure of this variation is that of Rosel.

 --Distribution of the Species. Germany, Prussia, Sweden, Denmark, Russia,

France, Belgium, Italy, England, Scotland, Ireland.
                                                                              .;

             ON FRESHWATER POLTfZOA.                                   3SB

                                   2. Plumatella stricta *, Allman.

Spec. Char Coenoecium adherent, creeping. Cells cylindrical, narrow, not
   furrowed or carinated. Ova narrow.

                                               Synonym.

IS'l'S. Plumatella repens. Van Beneden, Recherches sur les Bryoz. Fluv,
          de Belg. p. 21. pi. 1. fig. 1-4', Mem. de I'Acad. Roy. de Belg. 1848.

              (Original figure.)

   Distributio7i.~Be\gmm.

                                3. Plumatella punctata, Hancock.

--Spec. Char. Ccenceciuni adherent, creeping, irregularly branched ; branches
   composed of a series of large conical cells tapering towards the orifice,
   destitute of a furrow, the upper portion of the cell almost colourless, and
   freckled with minute opake white spots. Tentacula about 60, calyciform
   membrane distinctly festooned. Ova broad.

                             Synonym.

1850. Plumatella punctata. Hancock, Ann.              Nat.  Hist. 2nd  series, vol. v«
            p. 200. pi. 5. f. 6, 7, and pi. 3. f. 1.

 --Distribution. England.

             4. Plumatella fruticosa, Allman.

Spec. Char Ccencecium irregularly branched, attached only at its origin
   cells cylindrical, destitute of furrow, but obscurely keeled. Ova narrow.

                             Synonyms.

1844. Plumatella fruticosa.  Allman, Ann. Nat. Hist. vol. xii. p. 330.
1846. Plumatella fruticosa.  Allman, Proc. Roy. Irish Acad. ann. 1846.
1847. Plumatella fruticosa.  Johnston, Brit. Zooph. 2nd edit. p. 404.

 --Distribution. Ireland-

                  5. Nova species. Plumatella coralloides, Allman.

Spec. CAa?-.-- Ccencecium attached only at its origin, and forming dense
   erect tufts of dichotomously branched tubes, destitute of furrow and keel.

   Tentacula about 60. Ova broad.

 --Distribution. England.

             6. Plumatella emarginata, Allman.

C^r.--Spec.  Ccencecium adherent, creeping ; cells cylindrical, with a very

distinct furrow, which gives an emarginated appearance to the orifices, and

becomes continuous below with a prominent keel. Tentacula about 40.

Ova narrow.

                             Synonyms.

1804. Tubularia repens?. Vaucher, Bull, de la Soc. Philom. ann. xii. No. 81

             pi. 19. f. 1,2,3, 9, lot-
1816. Plumatella repens";. Lamarck, An. sans Vert. 1st edit. vol. n. p. 108.
1824. Naisa repens?. Deslongchamps, Encyc. Meth. 1824. Zooph. p. 561.
1836. Plumatella repens ?. Lamarck, An. sans Vert. 2nd edit. vol. ii. p. 123.
1844. Plumatella emarginata. Allman, Ann. Nat. Hist. vol. xii. p. 330.
1847. Plumatella emarginata. Johnston, Brit. Zooph. 2nd edit. p. 404.

 --Distribution. France ?, Ireland.

   * This species, the only freshwater Polyzoon not hitherto found in Britain, has been
formed for the P. repens of Van Beneden, which, as has already been said, does not cor-
respond with the true Tubularia repens of Muller.

    t See page 332.
336 REPORT-- 1850.

                                7. Plumatella Allmani, Hancock.

--Spec. Char, Ccencecium adherent, creeping ; cells claviform, keeled. Ten-

   tacula 42. Calyciform membrane distinctly festooned. Ova narrow.

                                  Synonyms.

1850. Plumatella Allmani. Hancock, Ann. Nat. Hist. 2nd series, vol. v.

          p. 200. pi. 5. f. 3-5.  (Original figures.)

--Distribution. England.

                     8. Nova species. Plumatella elegans, AUinan.

--Spec. Char. Ccencecium adherent, creeping ; cells of uniform diameter, fur-

   rowed and carinated. Calyciform membrane but slightly festooned. Ova

broad.

--Distribution. Ireland.

                  9. Nova species. Plumatella Dumoitieri, Allman.

--Spec. Char, CcencEcium adherent, irregularly branched ; cells somewhat di-

   lated towards the orifices, furrowed, carinated. Tentacula about 50,

   festooning of calyciform membrane deep and distinct. Ova broad.

 --Distribution. England.

                    10. Nova Species. Plumatella jugalis, Allman.

--Spec. Char. Ccencecium adherent, consisting of two series of branches con-

   nected by a common tube and extending in opposite directions ; cells of

   uniform diameter, with a furrow which passes below into a keel. Ten-

   taculaabout 40, calyciform membrane with shallow festoons. Ova not known.

 --Distribution. England.

                       Genus 5. Fredericella, Gervais (]838).

--Gen. Char. Ccencecium confervoid, composed of a membrano-corneons

   branched tube, with the bi'anches distinct from one another and terminated
   by the orifices. Lophophore nearly circular, tentacular crown campanu-

  late. Ova bean-shaped, destitute of annulus and spines.

                Species unica*. Fredericella sultana, Blumenbach.

--Spec. Char. The same as that of the genus.

                                                Synonyms,

1777. Tubularia sultana. Blumenbach, Haudbuch der Naturgeschichte.

               (Original figure).

1789. Tubularia sidtana. Gmelin, Linn. Syst. Nat. p. 3835.
1806. Tubularia sultana. Turton, Linn. Syst. Nat. vol. iv. p. 669.
1816. Naisa sultana. Lamouroux, Pol. flex. p. 224.
1828. Plumatella gelatinosa. Fleming, Brit. Anim.
1830. Diffiugia protaiformis. Meyen, Isis, 1830, p. 187.
1834. Diffiugia protceiformis. Meyen, Nov. Act. Acad. Caes. Leop. vol. xvi.

             Suppl.

1836. Plumatella sultana. Dumortier, Mem. sur les Pol. comp. ffuv. p. 22.

1838. Plumatella sultana. Johnston, Brit. Zooph. 1st edit. p. 323.
1838. Fredericella sultana. Gervais, Bull. Soc. Philomat. 1838.
1839. Fredericella. Van Beneden, Bull. Ac. Brux. torn. vi. 2de partie,

              p. 277. fig. 2. (Original figure.)

   * In my ' Synopsis of Freshwater Zoophytes,' published in the Annals of Natural History,
1844, I have described as a distinct species with the specific name dilatata, a Fredericella

in which the branches become dilated towards the extremities ; subsequent investigations,
however, have led me to look upon the F. dilatata of that publication as a merely accidental
variation of F. sultana, and I have accordingly suppressed the species in the present Report.
                O.'V FRESHWATER POLYZOA.                                                      337

1839. Fredericella sultana. Gervais, Ann. Franc, et Etrang. d'Anat. torn. iil.

       p. 136.

1840. Fredericella sultana. Gervais, Diet. Sci. Nat. Suppl. vol. i. PI. Suppl.

       Pol. Fluv. (Original figures).

184!3. Fredericella sultana. Thompson, Rep. Brit. Assoc, ann. 184-3. p. 285.

l.n xTiU-i1844.

1844.
       Fredericella sultana,     ^"'°^°'   »         "''*'           i      ···  ^'  ^a^n^,'

       Fredericella dilatata. ]           ^°"- N^*'         ^^''        '""·

1844. Fredericella sultana. AUman, Proc. R. I. Acad. 1844. No. 44.

1847. Fredericella sultana. Johnston, Brit. Zooph. 2nd edit. p. 405.

1848. Fredericella sultana. Van Beneden, Recherches sur les Bryoz. fluv.

       de Belg. p. 25, Mem. de I'Acad. Roy. de Belg. 1848.

1850. Fredericella sultana. Hancocli, Ann. Nat. Hist. 2nd series, vol. v.

       &p. 173. pi. 2. f. 1. 4 6. and pi. 3. f. 1. (Original figures.)

   The original figures are those of Blumenbach, Van Beneden, Gervais
and Hancock. There is also an ©riginal figure apparently referable to this
species, though unaccompanied by a name, illustrating a paper by Mr. Varley
in the Lond. Phys. Journal, No. 2, 1844.

   Distribution Germany, France, Belgium, England, Scotland, Ireland.

                        Genus 6. Paludicella, Gervais (1836).

--Gen. Char. Ccenoecium membrano-corneous, branched, branches composed

   of a series of claviform cells placed end to end and separated from one

   another by complete septa ; orifices tubular, lateral placed near the wide

   extremity of each cell. Lophophore orbicular ; no oral valve or calyciform

   membrane. Ova lenticular with a narrow annulus.

              Species unica. Paludicella Ehrenbergi, Van Beneden.

 --Spec. Char. Same as that of the genus.

                                 Synonyms.

1831. Alcyonella articulata. Ehrenberg, Symb. Phys. Evert. Dec. 1. Pol.

                  fol. a.

1832. Alcyonella diaphana. Nordmann, Mikrograph.Beitrage, vol. ii. p. 75.
1836. Paludicella articulata. Gervais, Comptes Rend. 1836.
1837. Paludicella. Gervais, Ann. Sc. Nat. 2nd series, torn. vii. p. 80.
1839. Paludicella articulata. Gervais, Ann. Franc, et Etrang. d'Anat.

                torn. iii. p. 75.

1839. Paludicella. Van Beneden, Bull. Ac. Brux. tom. vi. 2nd part. p. 27?.

              fig. 1. (Original figure.)

1840. Paludicelle articulee. Gervais, Diet. Sc. Nat. Suppl. vol. i. pi. I.
              Pol. Fluv. fig. 6. (Original figure.)

1842. Paludicella articulata. AUman, On the Muscular Syst. of Palud. &c.

             Roy. Irish Acad. 1842. No. 38. with a plate. (Original figure.)
1843. Paludicella articulata. Thompson, Rep. Brit. Assoc, ann. 1843. p. 285.
1844. Paludicella articulata. AUman, Ann. Nat. Hist. vol. xiii. p. 331.
1847. Paludicella articulata. Johnston, Brit. Zooph. 2nd edit. p. 405.

               fig. 77. p. 406. (Original figure.)

1848. Paludicella Ehrenbergi. Van Beneden, Recherches sur les Bryoz. fluv.
           de Belg. p. 27, Mem. de I'Acad. Roy. de Belg. 1848.

1850. Paludicella procambens. Hancock, Ann. Nat. Hist. 2nd series, vol. v.
             p. 201. pi. 5. fig. 1, 2. and pi. 4. (Original figures.)

   The original figures are those of Van Beneden, Gervais, AUman, John-
ston, and Hancock.

 --Distribution. Prussia, France, Belgium, England, Ireland.

1850.                                                                            z
     338 REPORT-- 1850.

        Registration of the Peyiodical Phoinomena of Plants and Animals.

     The following tables are the first fruits of the labours of the Committee ap-

     pointed by the Association for the purpose erf preparing tables and obtaining
     results on the periodical phfenomena of plants and animals.

        The Committee could have wished that a larger number of the tables
     which they have circulated had been returned, and they hope the publica-
     tion of the following papers will induce others to forward to them the result

     of their observations.

        On account of the deficiencies under many of the heads, it has been

     thought advisable to omit some of the columns which are given in the cir-
     culated tables. Where, however, any of the omitted columns contained in-
     formation of importance, it has been added in the form of " remarks," as in
     pages 348, 349.

         For the convenience of reference, the Committee have thought it better to
     republish the list of plants and animals with the numbers attached. They
     have allowed observations on other plants and animals to be printed at length
     in the columns, although the confining the observations to the published list
     spares much space in the printing. They would call the attention of obser-
     vers to the importance of making observations on the same plants and ani-

     mals for the purposes of comparison. Two observations on the same plant

     or animal in different years are of more value than a large series of single

     observations in attaining the objects of this registration.

        The Committee request that observers wishing for a fresh supply of tables
     will apply to Professor Phillips, York, and that they will inclose to him any
     observations thpy may have made at least a week before the Annual Meeting
     of the Association, in order that they may be laid before the Section of the
     Association in which the Committee has originated.

         For general directions for observing, the Committee must refer to their
     Report, published at page 321 of the volume of the Transactions for 1845.

               LIST OF PLANTS AND ANIMALS,

     WITH THE NUMBERS REFERRED TO IN THE FOLLOWING TABLES.

                            LIST OF VEGETABLE KINGDOM.

     List of Plants to he observedfor the periods of Foliation and Defoliation.

1. Acer campestre, L.       15. Bignonia catalpa, L.       30. Crata;gus oxyacantha, L.

2.   psendo-platatius, jt.  16.     radicans, />.          .SI. Cytisus laburniini, Z.

3. sacchariniim, L.         17. Carpinus americana, Mich.  32.  sessilifolius, L.

4. tataricuni, i.           18. betulus, i.                33. Euonymus europaius, i.

5. jEscuIus hippocastatium, L. 19.  orientalis, L.         34.  latifolius, Mill.

6. lutea, Pers.             20. Celtis cordata, Desf.      35. verrucosus, Scop.

7. pavia, Z.                21. orientalis, Z.             36. Fagus castanea, Z.

8. macrostachys, Mich. 22. Cercis siliquastrum, Z.         37. sylvatica, Z.

9. Amygdalus communis, Z. 23. Chionantlnis virgiuica, Z.   38. Frasinus excelsior, Z.

10. persica, Z. {j3. Made- 24. Corchorus japonicus, Z.     39. juglandifolia, Zqto.

     leine).                25. Corylus avellana, Z.       40.  orniis, L.

11. Aristolochia sipho, Z.  26. colurna, Z.                41. Ginkgo biloba.

12. Betula alba, Z.         27. tubulosa, Willd.           42. Gleditschia inermis, Z.

13.  alniis, Z.             28. Crataegus coccinea, Z.     43. horrida, Willd.

14. Berberis vidgaris, Z.   29. nionogyna, Jacq.           44. triacanthos, Z.
     ON" PERIODICAL PH.ENOMENA.  339

45.
--340 REPORT 1850.

301. Cytisus sessilifolius, L.                                360. Kalmia latifolia, L.          421. Pyrus communis {berga-

302. Daphne laiireola, /-.                                    361. Koelreuteria paniculata, L.                motte).
                                                                                                                     cydonia, L.
30a.       mezeieum, L.                                       362. Lamium album, L.              422.               japonica, L.
                                                                                                 423.               vaiXv&^ealvilled'hiver).
304. Dianthus caryop., L. (v. 363. Leucojum aestivum, L.                                         424.                spectabilis. Ait.
                                                                                                 425.
       (/renad.).                                             364.      vernum, L.               426.      Quercuspedunculata, Willd.
                                                                                                 427.               sessiliflora, Smith.
303. Dictamnus albus, L.                                      365. Ligustrura vulgare, L.        428.
                                                                                                           Ranunculus acris, L. {ft.
30G.                     purpurea.                            366. Lilium candidura, L.

                   ,fl,

307. Digitalis purpurea, L.                                   367.      flavum, L.

308. Ecliinops sphserocephalus, 368 Linum perenne, L.

                                                              369. Liriodendron tulipifera, L.                        plen.).

309. Epilobium spicatum, Lam.                                 370. Lonicera periclymenura, L. 429.                    ficaria, L.

310. Erica tetralix, L.                                       371.      syraphoricarpos, L. 430.                      lingua, L.

311,       vulgaris, L.                                       372.      tatarica, L.              431. Rharanus catharticus, L.

312. Erythrina crista-galli, L.                               373.      xylosteum, L.             432.                frangula, L.

313. Escholtzia californica,                                  374. Lupinus polyphyllus, DowjT?. 433. Rheum undtUatum, L.

       C/imss.                                                375. Lychnis chalcedonica, L. 434. Rhododendron ferrugi-

314. Euonymus europa;us, L.                                   376. Lysimachia nemorum, L.                             neum, L.

315.       latifolius, Mill.                                  377. Lythrum salicaria, L.             435.             ponticum, L.

316,       verrucosus, Scop.                                  378. Magnolia tripetala, L.            436. Rhus coriaria, L.

317.   Fagus castanea, L.                                     379.            yulan, L.              437.             cotinus, L.
318.             sylvatica, L.                                380.  Malope trifida, L.
319.                                                          381.                                   438.             typhina, L.
       Fragaria vesca, L.                                     382.  Majva sylvestris, L.
                                {(3. hor-                           Melissa officinalis, L.          439. Ribes alpinum, L.
           ten-iis).
                                                                                                     440.             grossidaria, L. (ft:

320. Fraxinus excelsior, L.                                   383. Mellitis melissophyllura, L.                       virid.).

321.       jiia;laiulifolia, iarn.                            384. Menispermum canadense,i. 441.                                (/. ruhent.).

322.       ornus, L.                                          385. Mentha piperita, L.               442.             nigrum, L.

323. Fritillaria imperialis, L.                               386. Mespilus germanica, L.            443.             rubrum, L.

324. Galaiithus nivalis, L.                                   387. Mitella grandiflora, P«rse/i. 444.                           fruct. alb.

325. Geiitiana asclepiadea, L.                                388. Morus nigra, L.                   445. Robinia pseudo-acacia, L.

326.       cruciata, L.                                       389. Narcissus pseudo-narcissus, 446.                   viscosa. Vent.

327. Geranium pratense, L.                                          L. 447. Rosa centifolia, L.
328. Glatliolus communis, L.
                                                              390. Nepeta cataria, L.                448.             gallica, L.
                                                           .
                                                              391. Nymphaea alba, L.                 449. Rosmarinus officinalis, L.
329. Gleehoma hederaceum, L.

330. Gleditschia horrida, Willd                               392.      lutea, L.                    450. Rubia tinctorum, L.

331.       inermis, /,.                                       393. Orchis latifolia, L.              451. Rubus idseus, L.

332.       triacanthos, L.                                    394. Orobus vernus, L.                 452.             odoratus, L.

333. Gymnocladus canadensis,                                  395 Oxalis acetocella, L.              453. Ruta graveolens, L.

       Lam^                                                   396.      stricta, L.                  454. Salix alba, L.

334. llallesia tetraptera, L.                                 397. Papaver bracteatura, L.           455. Sagittaria sagittifolia, L.
335. Hedera helix, L.                                                                                456. Salvia officinalis, L.
330. Ilcdysarum onobrychis, L.                                398.      orientale, L.                457. Sambucus ebulus, L.

                                                              399. Paris (juadrifolia, L.

337.   Heleuium autumnale, L.                                 400. Philadelphus coronarius,          458.             nigra, L.
338.   Helleborus fcetidus, L.
339                                                                 L.                               459.             racemosa.
310,             hiemalis, L.
341              niger, L.                                    401.      latifolius, Schrad.          460. Sanguinaria canadensis, L.
342,             viridis, L.
       Helianthus tuberosus, L.                               402. Phlox divaricata, L.              461. Satureja moutana, L.
       Hemerocallis cserulea,
         Andrs.                                               403.      setacea, L.                  462. Saxifraga crassifolia, L.

                                                              404. Physalis alkekengi, i.            463. Scabiosa arvensis, L.

                                                              405. Plantago major, L.                464.             succisa, L.

                                                              406. Platanus acerifolia, Willd.       465. Scrophularia nodosa, L.

344.       flava, L.                                          407.      occidentalis, L.             466. Secale cereale, /,.
345.
346.       fulva, L.                                          408. Polemonium caerulenra, L. 467. Sedum acre, L.
347.
348.   Hieracium aurantiacum, £ 40.9_. Polygonum bistorta, L.                                        468.             album, L.
349.
350.   Ilippophaii rhamnoldes, L. 410. Populus alba, L.                                              469.             telephium, L.
351.
352.   Hordeuni hexastichum, i. 411.                                    balsamifera, L.              470. Solanum dulcamara, L.
353.
           vulgare, L.                                        412.      tremula, L.                  471. Sorbus aucuparia, L.
354.
       Hibiscus syriacus, L.                                  413. Primula elatior, L.               472.             domestica, L.

       Hydrangea arborescens, L. 414.                               Prunus   armeniaca,      L.        473.           hybrida, L.

                                                                                                                   ,

                                                                                                 {fi.

           hortensis, Sm.                                           abricotin).                      474. Spartium scoparium, L.

       Ilydrocharis morsus-ranse, 415.                                  cerasus (/3. higarr. 475. Spira;a bella, Sims.

       L.                                                           noir).                           4 76.            filipendula, L.

       Hypericum perforatum, L. 416.                                    domest.      dam(/3. gr.  .  477.             hypericifolia, L.

3fi5, Ib'eris sempervirens, L.                                      viol.).                          478.             laevigatr, L.
356, Iris florentina, L.
                                                              417.      padus, L.                    479. Staphylea pinnata, L.

357        germanica, L.                                      418. Ptelia trifoliata, L.             480.             trifolia, L.

358 Juglans nigra, L.                                         419. Pulmonaria officinalis, L.        481. Statice armeria, L.

359 ,      regia, L.                                          420.      virginica, L.                482.             limonium, L .
                              ON PERIODICAL PHyEXOMENA.                                         341

483. Symphytum officinale, L.     495. Trifoliura pratense, L.   506. Veronica spicala, L.

484. Syringa persica, L.          496.        sativum, L.        507. Viburnum lantana, L.

485.  rothomagensis, Hort.        497. Triticum sativum, L. a. ces- 508.  opulus,_7?. simpl.

486.  vulgaris, L.                         tivum.                509.              ,y/. plen.

487. Taxus baccata, L.            498.             , |3. hybem.  510. Vinca minor, L.
488. Thymus serpyllum, L.
                                  499. Tussilago fragrans, L,    511. Viola odorata, L.

489.  vulgaris, L.                500.      petasites, L.        512. Vitex agnus-castus, L.

490. Tiarella cordifolia, L.      501. Ulmus campestris, L.      513.     inci^a. Lam.

491. Tilia americana, L.          502. Vaccinium myrtillus, L.   514. Vitis vinifera, L. {ft. c/ias-
                                  503. Veratrum album, L.                     selas dore.)
492.  microphylla, Vent.

493.  platyphylla. Vent.          504. Verbena officinalis, Z.   515. Waldsteinia geo'ideo. Kit.

494. Tradescautia virginica, L.   505. Veronica gentinoides, L.

List of Plants to be observed at the Vernal arid Autumnal Equinoxes and Summer
                Solstice, for the hours of opening and closing their Floioers.

601. Anagallis arvensis, L.       612. Hemerocallis fulva, L.    622. ffinothera biennis, L.

602. Arenaria purpurea, Pers.     613. Lactuca sativa, L.        623. Ornithogalum bellatum, L.

603. Caleudula officinalis.       614. Leontodon taraxacum, L. 624. Picridium tingitanum,

604.  arvensis, L.                615. Malva sylvestris, L.               Berf.

605. Campanula speculum, L.       616. Mesembryanthemum cry- 625. Portulaca oleracea sativa, X.

606. Cichorium endivia, L.                 stallinum, L.         626. Sonchus oleraceus, L.

607. Convolvulus tricolor, L.     617.      coceineum, i/aj«.    627. Trapa natans, L.

608. Crepis rubra, L.             618.      pomeridianum, L.     628. Tigridia pavouia, /,.

609. Datura stramonium, L.        619. Mirabilis longiflora, i.  629. Tradescautia virginica, L.

610.  ceratocaula, Jacq.          620.      jalapa, L.           630. Tiagopogoii pratensis, L.

61 1. Dianthus prolifer, L.       621. Nymphaea alba, Z.         631.     porrifolius, L.

                             LISTS FOR THE ANIMAL KINGDOM.

                                              MAMMALS.

      701. Meles taxus {Badger), appearance and retreat.
      702. Mustela erminea {Stoat), periods of moult.
      703. Myoxus avellanarius {Doormouse), commeiicement and termination of winter sleep.
      704. Vespertilio pipistrellus {Bat), first appearance and disappearance.

      Regular Summer migrants, of which the first appearance is to be observed.

705. Anthus arboreus {Tree Pipit).                 720. Saxicola rubeta {WldncJiat).

706. Caprimulgus europaeus {Goat-siicker).         721. Sylvia atiicapilla {Blackcap Warbler).

707. Colntnh^ turtm {Turtle-dove).                 722.          cinerea {IV/iitethroat),

708. Coturnix dactylisonans {Quail).               723.          curruca {Lesser WIdtethroat).

709. Crex pratensis {Land-rail).                   724.          hortensis {Garden Uarbler).

710. Cuculus canorus (Cmc^oo).                     725.          locusteUa {Grasshojijter Tlariler).

711. Cypselus apus {Swift).                        726.          luscinia {Niglitingale).

712. Hirundo riparia (£araA ilfar/in).             727.          arundiuacea {Reed Warbler).

713.  rustica {Swallow).                           728.          phragmitis {Sedge Warbler).

714.  mhica. {House Martin).                       729.          phoenicurus {Redstart).

715. Lardns coUurio {Bed-bacfced ShriAe).          730.          rufa {Chif-chaf).
                                                   731.
716. MoiaciWa. yarrellii {Pied Wafftait).                        sylvicola {Wood Wren).

717. Muscicapa grisola {Spotted Flycatcher).       732.          trochilus {Willow Warbler).

718. Perdix coturnix {Quail).                      733. Turdus torquatus {Ring Ouzel).

719. Saxicola oenantlie (^'Aea/far).               734. Yunx torquilla {Wryneck).
342 REPORT-- 1850.

            Rare, or only occa;^ional, Summer migrants.

735. Emberiza liorlulana (Or/o/(j?t />Mra/my).     738. Muscicajw luctuosa, Temm. {Pied           Flij-
736. \Am\\%\wiwi, {Woodchat Shrike).
'iZl. Motacilla flava, Temm. {Gi-ay-headed Wag-                 catcher).
                                                   739. Oriolus galliula {Golden Oriole),
                tail).                             740. Sylvia tethys {Black Redstart).
                                                   741. Upiipa epops {Hoopoe).

                             Regular Winter migrants.

742. Anser segetum {Bean Goose).                   746. Fringilla spiiuis {Siskin).
743. CoT\»s comix {Hooded Crow).
744. Cygiuis ferus {Hooj/er or JVild Swan).        747. Scolopa.v rusticola ( JFoof/eocA).
745. Fringilla inontifriiigilla {Mountain Finch).
                                                   748. Turrlus ]>ilaris {Field/are).

                                                   749.     iliacus {Redwing).

                                          Occasional Winter migrants.

750. Bonibycilla garrula (Bo/te/wiare Waxwing). 751. Coccothraustes vulgaris {Grosbeak).
                                                    752. Loxia curvirostra (Crossbill).

                             Of accidental occurrence.

753. Procellaria leachii {Fork-tailed Petrel).        754. Procellaria pelagica {Stormy Petrel).

            Species to be observed for the periods of deuarture.

      755. Cypselus apus (.Swi/lf).                757. Hirundo rustica (AwaWow).
      756. Hirundo riparia {Bank Martin).
                                                   758.     urbica {House Martin).

Species to be observed for the periods of collecting into flocks and pairing off
                                                           in the Spring.

759. Fringilla cannabina (CoTwmon im«e<).          760. Sturnus vulgaris (S'/ar/m^r).

      Species to be observed for the periods of commencing song or note.

761. Columba palumbus {Ring-dove).                 766. Parns major {Great Titmouse).

762. Emberiza citrinella ( yiptoi«-Aamme/-).       767. Turdus nierula (iJtoe/rizVrf).
763. Fringilla cannabina (imw^/).
                                                   768.             m\xs,\c\K {Thrush).

764.  chloris {Greenfinch).                        769.             viscivorus {Missel-thrush).

765.  coelebs ( Chaffinch).

            Species to be observed for the periods of building.

      770. Corvus frugilegus {Rook).                                771. Corvus pica {Magpie).

            5 72. Fringilla domestica {House Sparrow).

                                              REPTILES.

      773.  Natrix torquata (Cowmo)i Sna'e).             1  p- ,.   appearance.
      774.  Zootoca vivipara {Common Lizard).            J  '^"'^^

      775. Bufo vulgaris (Common Tbarf). "|

      776. Rana temporaria {Common Frog). V Ditto; also period of spawning.

      777. Triton palustris {Warty Eft).              J

      778. Acipenser sturio {Sturgeon). "]

      779. Cupea alosa {^llis).                    i

      780.  finta {Shad).                          [> Period of ascending rivers.

      781. iia]m.o salar {Common Salmon).

      782.  trutta {Salmon Trout). J

      783. Clupea barencus {Common Herri,in).               1 r..   ,  , .,              ,

      784. Scomber vulgaris {Common Macleycl). ] ^"^'^ ''''''''^^ "" <'"= ^*"''*-
                                  ON PERIODICAL PII/ENOMENA.                                        343

                                        MOLLUSKS.

                                  785. Helix aspersa I|*piur-sst apupneaarraannccee.
                                  786.  nemoraUs

                               First appearance of the following species.

      {Coleoptera.)               800. Libellula depressa.      815. Pontia napi.
                                  801. Panorpa communis.
787. Geotrupes stercorarius.      802. Sialis lutarius.         816.                  rapaj.

788. Lytta vesicatoria.                         {Hymenoptera.)  817. Vanessa io.

789. Meloe proscarabaeus.         803. Anthrophora retusa.      818.                  polychloros.
                                  804. Apis mellifica.
790. Meloloutha vulgaris.         805. Bombus.                  819.                  urticae.
                                  806. Formica.
791.  solstitialis.               807. Vespa vulgaris.                                {Diptera.)

792. Poecilus cupreus.                                          820. Bibio hortulanus.

793. Telephorus rusticus.                                       821.                  marci.

794. Timarcha tenebricosa.                                      822. Bombylius raedius.

                (Orlhopiera.)                                   823. Culex pipiens.

795. Acrida viridissima.                {Lepidoptera.)          824. Eristalis tenax.
796. Locusta.
                                  808. Catocala nupta.          825. Hrematopota pluvialis.

                                  809. Gonepteryx rhamni.       826. Meserabrina meridiana.

                                  810. Hipparcbia janira.       827. Rhyphiis fenestralis.

                  {Neurojjtera.)  811. Plusia gamma.            828. Stomoxys calcitrans.

?97. jEschna maculatissiina.      812. Polyommatus alexis.      829. Tipula oleracea.
798. Calepteryx virgo.
799. Ephemera vulgata.            813. Pontia brassica;.        830. Trichocera biemalis.

                                  814.  cardamines.             831. Xylota pipiens.
344                   --REPORT 1850.

                  St
                            ON PERIODICAL PHENOMENA.                                          345

              -H B .a                                      ?·&
                                                                                                   °a

     i^ 3c u

              p< g .a bD.5  ITS

a=3

                                                        .^"a! CO                          3 >Q

2^                                                      §-« c-                            .5 <u
                                                        S>.=S''c=3  "3
So                                                                                        e-2 5
                                                                    a
          Je                                                                                  ex o
                                 5a                       5 <u a        SS
                                 ff a                                                       "S
                                 OQ                       «I" b m
                                         M          33
                                                               is
                                                    S4  3 .2

                                 V> ^ Oi ^
                                 ) CO CO »-· OJ J3
                                 CO r-1
                                         r-l

                                                                            e<5!

                                                    ^. '£                         ·--  g""^«

                                                                                  3

                                                                                  m    S  S
                                                                    ^a) 3         3    °

                                                                                  3 !s

                                                                                  HO?

^S S-'c                                                    O O OI l-^ 00

3'--I -rl-ja

    O oI CO -^ irt to CO
346 REPORT 1850.

      -t ..to                                    So                ^§
                                          S /a o
·St:                                                               3 >.

                                                                   S'2

        P.5 g

      : <N 1" tc

ou

i^g-

                                                          " Oi-r<

                       .2 .2 03 .         Wo
                                    - t^         »>.
                                          M 05 -
                                          ogoo("-.IM 1-1

                  oin  u^      o ^g
                           (N
                  <t^ 00
                     ON PERIODICAL PHyENOMEXA.                            347

                       oc^       S:    jse                                                    cues
                                                                          S£
P-o S                     00 00  ;o £

         2 =I i " §   a; J2      -- o J c3 .^3                c5u
                     .0 00 lO                                 :§ o.
    50
                                 " S " E "K "^        3 >.5 =>s
     3 .2                                             "   ss  s   =
                                                   ·                  9s
                                                   2  oj      '^  =s

                                 en XI -S »· >· rs 00 3 b Ci -§ § x"
                                 o00 ,'? a> ;e 05
                                 M W > O ^-^ -^
                                 T)« CJ CO ;?·.

                     WCO-S-XCTsO-HlN                  >OtDt->-XOIN^O
348     REPORT 18.50.

O

t«o  c
     3
<« O
o s*.

go

11

Qa?
                                                                                                                                                                                             ]  349

                                     ON PERIODICAL PH.CINOMENA,

        S'^.s ^                      Sfl s§«j Zip

                                     o

'^" lit                °             fit fi-:                      ^°^
                                                                                            .
              ;r S !3
                                     -o '^.Q 03" o<!j      £. CO          ·

        « .;                         o ^fe ·;= 50   5i re

                                                                      ^^

        ggl ^i3 11 SI'S fsS^: l^r,

.>>5§ a5 · 'J" l2§J;S ^ S I s S-g,^

            -a         o to              > o .a     to 5" 3^ °° ·· ·"
        O2"
                       T-.3J -3      <« to r: ro<U  Ocat-< .---CD
        *.«i.2          tS .5
                                     S-'S2 §        Si»g. oS,,
                       ;:«

"oa^    s^» 3^                       g-g-gSs        :||& -g^sj

^""-5   all's I"                     ^S".2V         lr^=3 i«|
        ^ :^§^..                                    ':il§ -^1
.S"-ll                               1 1 §1.5
        -i:-Ssl^t^glol^S                            2§"fi-         "I^s^S2i
|ig^                                 ^2|s              Sr'?g

3<^^2o                               a-^cow"

1^^^ uj«      >           a          g^-g o,.|^^ S.S3 . |«op

                       J,

|S-|M«'T|3°-e^g|«|^S..^oO|<|a§go^t2-cgs->.,;°5|.£|7JS^             aaS
8J=acSSc»,,-ato^'"fe^o='=a*"
                                                                   ,JO

                                                    ^fl-           o
                                                               bo

                                                                   5«

S>.C-«J 3S13                     =0  33-3           <C^t«             00
350       --REPORT 1850.

     gS«
o
ON PERIODICAL PHENOMENA.  351
352 UEPORT-- 185G.

IM CO -fl" in «5 '                         we~i -y !N c>] 1' CM

                    M(^^«^noo·aoo50r-<c^^co-*<n50«-»
                     ON PERIODICAL PHENOMENA.                                              3^53

                                                                           *M^

                         .a ^

O *CO >-H -#     rt      ^r-0H*crgHoOiCn0ifOs^oHOOTtj>i»oo<o;i0OiCoqo  CO CO CO Tt« CO -^  CO CO -^ Tl< -^
o<o »>· 00  »> o>
CO -^ -^ CO CO C<I       (M <N <N M* -a" -^ CO lO CO CO

                         O-I  -^ ^Q o^ CO

-<Ne<e^lMC401N<NN<NC0C0  ic4«fi-^iO«£Jt>lodo^OrHoicO'^ift«d«>CoDo^o^^wcO"^»o

1850.                                                                  2a
^34 REPORT 1850.

  5«
   0;s

O o--. OO CD    ·*  a>00ifSQDt»t>.OCD»^t^t~OOO«>.t--N .!>
                >o  (M»>.-*Oi0^aomot~.ioco.-icioo5<Nociinkra
: if3
M. eo -^

^00 CO

we>j ca  (M CO  >-i(Mc<5-*ot£>»>.ooo»o^(Mco-<j'm«o«>»oooio^c^cO'<«'ira
                                                i_,-l_<nr4n^rHi-l,-CC4MC4e4C]CM
3
        .

356                             REPORT 1850.

    A A«·" rj 4>

    C cd       c
    o js       Or^

    c » SiS

    ^ S 3 "3

           CW

!2

Q          tea
<

           ^ -s >>

      OP '
                            t.

Wo 2 T3 O

    Ct3 «
    .£a oo'Sc.-S^

    o      «^  SSoH£

    ,u     a

    3 S^-^

             ·S'cs

    ><

    S«

"5 2t3'
ON PERIODICAL PHjENOMENA.  357
       SUGGESTIONS TO ASTRONOMERS

                                     FOR THE

     OBSERVATION

                                     OF THE .

TOTAL ECLIPSE OF THE SUN

               ON JULY 28, 1851.

                         DRAWN UP BY A

COMMITTEE OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION.

                                        Not Published.
        --

General Committee of the British Association for the Advancement
                                             of Science.

                                      Edinburgh, August 7, 1850.
    Resolved,

           That a Committee, consisting of Sir John Herschel, the
       Astronomer Royal, Professor Forbes, and Professor Powell,
      with power to add to their number, be empowered to commu-
       nicate with the astronomers of Pulkowa on the observations
      to be made at the next approaching Total Eclipse of the Sun,
       July 28, 1851 ; and to draw up Suggestions for the guidance

         of observers generally.

    [The following Suggestions have been drawn up by the Com-
mittee above-named, with the assistance of M, Otto Struve of

Pulkowa.]
              --

 SUGGESTIONS TO ASTRONOMERS

                                                    FOR THE

                    OBSERVATION

                                                      OF THE

       TOTAL ECLIPSE OF THE SUN,

                                  ON JULY 28, 1851.

1. The principal observations for which a total eclipse of the sun
presents peculiarly favourable opportunities may be classed under

the following heads :
             Obsei'vations applying specially to the physical structure

       of the sun and mooUj as those of the corona, and of the rose-
        coloured prominences (seen so markedly in the eclipse of
        1842).

           Photometric^ thermometries and actino-chemical observa-
       tions, illustrating the difference in the nature and amount of
       radiation from different parts of the sun's disc.

            Optical observations, particularly on the state of polariza-
        tion of the light in different phases of the eclipse, and on the
        phsenomena of irradiation, and of distortion of a dark limb by
        the formation of beads or threads.
    The phseuomena of the first class have never been seen except in
a total eclipse of the sun ; and they appear so deserving of attention
(especially the red prominences, which, if belonging to the sun, indi-
cate physical peculiarities of structure on a most stupendous scale,
and perhaps of corresponding importance), that it seems highly desi-
rable that the arrangements for observation should be planned with
especial reference to them. For the observation of the phaenomena
of the other classes, the opportunities (though absolutely rare) are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :

--362 REPORT 1850.

mucli more frequent ; they will, however, be most effectually se-
cured by the same arrangements which secure those of the first

 class.

    2. It is a priori probable, that the phsenomena (especially those
depending on prominences from the body of the sun) will not be
the same when viewed from stations on different sides of the cen-
tral line of the shadow's path ; and such differences appear, in
fact, to have been observed in the eclipse of 1843. This considera-
tion at once suggests the propriety of placing some observers at no
great distance from the southern boundary of the total obscuration,
and others at no great distance from the northern boundary. Near
the centre of the shadow's path, the picturesque effect of the eclipse
is the greatest, the phsenomena are most symmetrical, and the
longer duration permits observers to watch the phsenomena with
greater coolness ; and here also it seems desirable that competent
persons should be planted.

    It appears not improbable that some of the phsenomena may

change with a change of absolute time ; and for this reason, as well
as for eliminating the chances of weather, and for obtaining varia-
tions o"f appearance due to differences of climate and of hours of the
day, it is desirable that observations be made at different points
along the line of the shadow's path.

   3. In examining upon a map the course of the shadow in this

eclipse, it will be seen that Stavanger, Christiansand, Copenhagen,
Lund, Ystad, Coslin, Thorn, Lowicz, Zamosc, Tarnopol, Kaminiez,
Odessa, Eupatoria, Gumri, Erivan, are south of the southern boun-
dary, but probably not so far as to prevent their being used as con-

venient head-quarters from which an excursion for observation may
be made : that Bergen, Grimstadt, Arendal, Helsingborg, Cimbri-
shamn, Bornholm, Kulm, Plock, Warsaw, Lublin, Vladimir, Brody,

Nikolaiew, Kherson, Perekop, Feodosia, Redut-Kale, Achalzich,
Schuscha, are within the southern boundary : that Friederichsvarn,
Goteborg, Carlskrona, Kalmar, Danzig, Ostrolenka, Lomja, Bialy-

stock, Brest-Litowsk, Jitomir, Machnowka, Lipowez, Uman, Ba-
brinez, Jenikale, Tiflis, Schcmacha, are nearly on the central hne
that "Christiania, Friederichstadt, Konigsberg, Gumbinnen, Augus-

towo, Grodno, Slouin, Pinsk, Radomist, Kiev, Jelisawetgrad, Ber-
diansk, Stavropol, Gheorgiewsk, Wladikawkas, are within the
northern boundary : and that Carlstad, Memel, Tilsit, Krement-
schug, Ekaterinoslav, Mariupol, Mosdok, Derbent, are at a small
distance beyond the northern boundary.

   Now4. it appears extremely desirable that, if possible, observers

should arrange themselves in confederations, each confederation con-

sisting of three directing-astronomers, who should by concert station

themselves at three places respectively near the northern boundary,
near the centre, and near the southern boundary ; these places
being not very widely separated in the longitudinal direction of the
                 SUGGESTIONS TO ASTRONOMERS.                  363

shadow's movement. Thus Arendal, Friederichsvarn, Christiauia;
Kulm, Danzig, Konigsberg ; Warsaw, Ostrolenka or Lomja, Au-
gustowo ; Brody, Brest-Litowsk, Grodno ; Nikolaiew, Babrinez, Je-
Hsawetgrad ; &(;., would be favourable combinations. Two or three

such confederations should be formed at different parts of the

shadow's path.

    5. It is desirable that, at each station, there should be three or

four observers. One should be furnished vnth a telescope magni-

fying about twenty times, with a pretty large aperture ; and this

Awill probably be found the most important.  second should have

a telescope magnifying ] 00 times. Each of these telescopes should

have in its field, but not crossing the centre, two wii-es of an iriter-

val of 1', or some other convenient distance, for giving an approxi-

nate measure of any small object which may be observed. It is de-
sirable that by the position of these wires, or in some other way,

he observer should be able rapidly to refer the positions of objects

Aeen in the telescope to vertical and horizontal directions.  third

,)erson should have a watch or chronometer (if the error of the

chronometer is known, the astronomical value of the observations

will be increased, but their physical value will be equally great

without it) and writing materials, and should be prepared at any

signal first to note the time, and secondly, to write down the phse-

Anomenon. fourth should observe the general appearances, as seen

with the naked eye. If the party were more numerous, a good

sextant, or other double-image instrument, might be found useful
in the hands of one person.

    6. It is important that the dark glasses used for observing the

sun up to the moment of total obscuration be so mounted that they
can be slipped off in an instant. And it is desirable that each tele-

scope should be furnished with several dark glasses, some showing

the sun with a red disc, some with a white or greenish disc. These
may be mounted, in a form which admits of rapid change, in a
sliding or a turning frame ; or their cells may be fitted loosely with
bayonet-notch. If the observer is satisfied with the use of one co-

lour or combination for the dark glasses, no arrangement is more

convenient than that of wedges of the coloured glass, achromatized

(as to dispersion) by wedges of colourless glass ; the intensity is
then changed gradually by merely sliding the combination of
glasses. It may also be desirable to possess the power of altering
the aperture of the telescope rapidly : this perhaps may be done by
attaching by hinges to the object-glass cell one or more flat rings,
which can be turned off or on the object-glass by pulHng a string

at the eye end.

    7. It is desirable also that the observers should be provided with
some instrument for the measure of radiant heat, as a thermomul-

tiplicr (of a coarse kind) with galvanometer, an actinometer, or a
simple thermometer with rough black bulb (whose indications will

be more accurate if the bulb be inclosed in a glass sphere from
364 REPORT-- 1850.

which the air is exhausted). In the selection of the instrument, it
must be borne in mind that in Western Europe the sun will be
high, and that the season of the year is (generally speaking) favour-
able to energetic radiation ; and also that it is desirable that the
observation with the selected instrument occupy as short time as
possible. For meteoi'ological observations, a dry thermometer and
a thermometer with wet bulb (or other hygrometer) will probably

suffice.

    8. It would be most desirable also to be furnished with some
apparatus for measure of the intensity of light, but we are unable
at present to particularize any which can be considered unobjection-
able. The appearance of a lighted candle will give some very rude
information. The flame of a candle may also be used for giving a
good idea of the intensity of light, by viewing the object, whose
brightness is to be ascertained, through the flame (thus, in ordinary
sunlight, the light of the sky near the sun is seen through the flame
without apparent diminution ; but the light of a full moon cannot
be seen through it at all). For the observation of shadows, a gra-
duated scale, several feet long, with a disc of white paper to be slid
upon it, with its plane perpendicular to the scale, may be useful.

   9. Some instrument should also be provided for ascertaining the

state of polarization of the light. In the limited duration of a total
eclipse, time is wanting for the use of instruments giving an accu-
rate measure of the degree of polarization ; for the rough estima-
tion of the position of the plane of polarization, and of its general
magnitude, perhaps a NicoPs prism, furnished with plates of quartz

cut in Savart's manner, or a Savart's polariscope, may be found

convenient and sufficiently accurate. For the observation of the
sun^s disc before the total darkness, a dark glass of some kind

should be used with the NicoFs prism. A common glass prism

should be provided for examination of the chromatic composition

of the hght.

    10. At any fixed observatory within the path of the shadow,
which is furnished with a telescope mounted equatorially, and
moved by very good clock-work (adapted in its rate to the diurnal
movement of the sun), it is extremely desirable that arrangements
should be made for Daguerreotyping or Talbotyping the image of
the sun, or of the light surrounding the moon when the sun is

hidden. It is necessary to observe that materials of very different
degrees of sensibility will be required in different stages of the
eclipse ; the light of the uneclipsed sun being intensely bright, and
that of the corona surrounding the moon, or even that of the red
flames projecting into the corona, being exceedingly feeble.

    If the plate or paper be so sensitive to photogenic action that an
image can be formed in a fraction of a second of time, no equa-

toreal movement will be required. If an image can be formed in
one or two seconds, a rude equatoi-eal motion, such as may be given
to a temporary stand, will probably suffice. If this motion is given
                                                                         -

SUGGESTIONS TO ASTRONOMERS.  365

 by hand, it must be done by turning a winch in accordance with
 the beats of a chronometer or the vibrations of a pendulum.

     11. The observers at each station should be prepared with accu-
 rate computations of the local times of beginning and ending of
the general eclipse, and of beginning and ending of total darkness,

 with particular attention to the accuracy of computation of the
 duration of total darkness. It will be remarked that the compu-
 tation of duration admits of great exactness for places near the
 central line of shadow, but that it is liable to considerable errors
for places near the north or south boundary. They should also
 have accurate computations of the position, with respect to the
 vertical, of the points of the sun's limb at which the general eclipse
begins and ends, and of the points of the moon's limb at which the
 sun disappears and reappears : the latter will be liable to sensible

 error.

    Every observer should be furnished with one or more cards, upon
each of which a circle is described : upon one of these the points
of beginning and ending of the general eclipse and of the totality
are to be marked ; the others are to be used for hasty records of
 the places of any remarkable phsenomena during the eclipse.

    13. The observations to be made, and the mode of proceeding,
 should be arranged some days before the eclipse, and should be
 fully described in written instructions, with which each observer
 should be so perfectly acquainted as to have little need to refer to
them at the time. Two cautions, however, must be borne in mind.
 The phsenoraena about the time of total obscuration are so striking
that the most perfect discipline will then probably fail, and it will
 be almost useless to prescribe any observations which will prevent
the observers from looking about them for a few moments to see
the wonderful spectacle. And the whole time is so short, that it

will be very desirable that each observer's attention be confined to

very few phsenomena. No party, probably, will be able to make

all the observations mentioned below ; it will be desirable, there-
fore, carefully to select those which can be made with the greatest
probability of success, and to give the utmost attention to those

 only.

   A13. quarter of an hour before the first contact of the sun and

moon, the observations of radiation with the actinometer, &c. should
be begun. [These should be continued through all stages of the
eclipse.] The commencement of an eclipse is a very indistinct pha;-
nomenon, and perhaps for the principal part of the time before the
total obscuration little can be done except to make, from time to
time, observations of radiation and meteorological observations.
'But when the limb of the moon crosses that of the sun at right
angles, and afterwards, the observers will be well able to estimate
 (as far as can be done by the eye) the difi'erence in the intensity of
light on different parts of the sun's disc. From this time also it
will be proper to examine whether the entire circumference of the
--366 KEPOUT 1850.

moon, or any portion of it extei*nal to its intersection with the sun's
limb, can be seen. It may be necessary for this purpose to use a
telescope with a small number of lenses, all the surfaces of which
are well polished and perfectly clean.

   14. When the lune becomes narrow, occupying about a quadi-ant

of the sun's circumference, the state of polarization of the sun's

light in different parts of that quadrant may be examined. In
these and subsequent observations of the same kind, it must be
borne in mind that the diffused light reflected from air will pro-
bably give traces of polarization, and it may be well in all cases to

remark whether the brightest parts of the light under inspection
are as evidently polarized as the faintest. Attempts should now be
commenced for discerning whether a comparison can be instituted
between the darkness of the shadows of a small object (as a pencil,
or a small rod) foinned by the sun and by the lighted candle; and
whether the distance of the paper disc, when their shadows are
equally black, can be ascertained. [If this is found practicable, this
observation should be continued to and through the total obscura-
tion.] The light should be analysed, in regard to its chromatic
composition, by the use of a prism, and special record made as to
whether any of the colours are unusually vivid or deficient. The
general state of the sky and atmosphere should be carefully ob-
served and fully recorded.

   15. As the totality approaches, the sextant observer may mea-

sure the interval between the cusps ; and the telescope observers
should examine carefully the state of the moon's limb as to rough-
ness, particularly in the central part (which will be the last to
touch the sun's limb), and should carefully remark whether the
moon's limb can be seen beyond the sun's limb. These observa-
tions should be made with rapid changes of the dark glasses. At
the very time of completion of the obscuration, Baily's beads should
be looked for, and if possible with change of the dark glasses, and
with change of the aperture of the object-glass, and perhaps by
putting the telescope, for a moment, out of focus. (See Appendix
No. I.) It will probably be best, for the relief of the eye, that
the observers should now and then quit the telescope for an
instant. The time of total obscuration is to be communicated to
the chronometer-bearer by a single syllable. It is to be remarked
that, even though the error of the chronometer be not known, the
accurate observation of the duration of the totality will give valu-
able information as to the diameters of the sun and moon, and as
to the moon's latitude.

    16. The naked-eye observer, in the mean time, is to look at the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '

sun with a dark glass, occasionally changing the glass, occa-
sionally trying the polarization, occasionally relieving his eye.

He may also specially remark whether the colour of objects ap-

pears to change, and whether the light in different parts of the
sky is differently coloured. But when the totality is near, he is
SUGGESTIONS TO ASTROXOMERS.  367

simply to observe, with the weakest of the dark glasses or (if
possible) with the eye uncovered, and to note the way in which

the light is distributed, as to intensity, in diiferent directions

round the sun ; whether there are beams of light, and in what
direction; whether there arc the rudiments of a ring round the
moon ; whether there is any light on the side opposite the bright
lune. It is recommended that he do not quit this observation
for any other ; but if a trustworthy person of good general obser-
vation were near, it would be desirable that he should remark
vfhether there appears to be any fluctuation or trembling of the
light which falls upon the ground and upon walls, and whether the
shadow appears, as to sense, to sweep over the earth.

    17. The important use of the photographic apparatus will com-
mence shortly before the total obscuration. It will be desirable to
take photographic images of the cusps, but it will be particularly
desirable that they should be varied by causing the pencil of light
to pass through a prism, so as to produce prismatic dispersion in
the direction transverse to the cusp, and thus to exhibit on the
plate or paper an actino-chemical analysis of the light which has
passed at the highest degree of obliquity through the sun's atmo-

sphere. When the sun is totally hidden, simple images should be

taken, at several repetitions, if possible, during the obscuration.

   18. On the instant of total obscuration the corona will be formed.

It is important that the observer with the low-power telescope and
the observer with the naked eye should be prepared to remark
whether any part of the corona is visible before the sun is com-
pletely obscured, and in what order the complete ring is formed,
whether all at once or by progress from one or more points. Also,
whether the ring is equally broad in different parts, and what is
the proportion of its breadth to the moon's breadth ; whether it is
double, or divided as a succession of annuli ; whether it is divided
by radial lines ; whether its texture appears fibrous, and what is
the position of the fibres ; whether it is sensibly coloured ; and, if
possible, whether its light is polarized. The light should be ex-
amined by the dispersive prism, and the excess or deficiency of any

particular colour recorded.

    19. As soon as possible, and also as late as is prudent during
the obscuration, an attempt should be made to judge whether the
corona is concentric with the moon, or with the sun.

   20. The moment that the sun's bright edge is eclipsed, the ob-
server with the most powerful telescope should watch for the ap-
pearance of red prominences in the direction of the moon's ad\ance.
From this time tp the end of the totality each of the observers
should repeatedly examine the whole circumference of the moon, to
discover whether there are any of these prominences visible. The

observer with the most powerful telescope should devote himself
entirely to this subject. If any are seen, it is of the utmost im-
--368 REPORT 1850.

portance to note wlietber they undergo any change j whether new
ones appear, and in what part of the circumference ; whether they
increase on one side and diminish on the other, &c. For details on
this very important observation, see Appendix No. II. The times
of any striking phsenomena should be recorded, no description be -
yond reference by a single word being attempted at the time ; and
their places should be noted on the card-circle.

   21. The telescope-observers should endeavom- to judge whether
the disc of the moon is sensibly illuminated. Little confidence
can be placed in the appearance of light, unless some of the larger
spots can be seen. The sextant-observer should measiu'e the moon's
diameter. If there is leisure, one actinometer-observation should
be made.

   22. An attempt should be made (as has already been mentioned

under article 14) to ascertain whether the light of the corona is
sufficient to cast a distinguishable shadow, and whether a distance
can be found for the candle at which the intensities of the shadows
are sensibly equal. But it is certain that the light of the corona is
extremely feeble, and the observer must therefore be prepared to

remove the candle to a considerable distance. Some estimate may
be formed of the intensity of light by remarking the distance at

which the letters and figures of a book can with difficulty be distin-
guished. All observers, as far as possible, should use the same page :
for instance, the title-page of the Nautical Almanac for 1851, or the
title-page of these " Suggestions," in which the same type is used. To
give this observation its greatest value, each observer should as soonas
possible examine at what distance he can distinguish the same letters
in full sunshine, and at what stage of twilight and in what position
he finds the difficulty nearly the same as during the eclipse.

    23. Should any stars or planets be seen, their places should be
noted (mentally) sufficiently to enable the observer to identify them
afterwards upon a celestial globe. In particulai", the observer should
note the place of the smallest star which he can see. The apparent
coloui's of the stars should be noted ; and the observers should also
record what they judge to be the colours of the same stars when
seen in a dark night.

   24. Among the coarser kinds of observation to be made with
the naked eye during the totality may be mentioned the following.

Whether bushes of light radiate from the corona, in what number,
and in what directions. Wliether there are beams in the direction
of the ecliptic, like pyramids with their bases united at the sun, in
the manner of the zodiacal light. Whether there is a red band of
light near the horizon, or in any part of it. Whether the outlines
of hills can be seen. Whether the smoke of chimneys can be seen.
Whether any plants (as the sensitive plant, the convolvulus, or the
silk-tree acacia) close their leaves or petals. Whether animals appear

friorhtened.
                SUGGESTIONS TO ASTRONOMERS.                         369

25. As the duration of the totality will be, in most places, ap-

proximately known, the chronometer-bearer should be prepared to

give about ten seconds' notice to the observers of the re-appearance

of light. At places near the north or south boundary this may be

--scarcely sufficient. Each observer should then remark, first, whe-

ther there  is  anything  peculiar  in  the  circumference  of the  moon
                                                                                        ;

secondly, whether the reappearance of the sun is heralded by any-

thing like a twilight on the moon's limb ; thirdly, whether the co-
rona disappears in separate parts ; fourthly, whether beads or strings

are seen ; fifthly, whether the moon's circumference is visible be-

yond the sun's visible limb ; sixthly, whether the brilliancy of the

sun's limb is equal to or less than that of the portions of the disc

immediately within it. The first appearance of white light should

be noted by signal, as before.

26. It would now be interesting for the naked-eye observer to

remark, if possible, whether the light of the sun appears to sweep

over the country ; whether there is any fluctuation of light on the
ground, or on walls, &c. ; and also whether dew or fog is formed.

   27. Any observations for intensity, polarization, &c. which were
omitted before the total obscuration, can now be made in a leisurely
manner : and some measures of the interval between the cusps may
be made with the sextant.

28. During the remainder of the eclipse there will be little of

interest to be done, except to repeat the observations of radiation,

and to make any observations applying to the meteorological state

of the atmosphere. The instant of termination of the eclipse (a

phsenomenon which admits of accurate observation) should be noted.

The actinometer-observations should be continued to a quarter of

an hour after the last contact.

                          Appendix No. I.

The following suggestions, applying specially to the observation

of the beads or strings sometimes seen, are principally extracted
from the " Suggestions for the observation of the Annular Eclipse,

Oct. 9, 1847," in the Report of the Seventeenth Meeting of the

British Association, Transactions of the Sections, p. 1 6.

Whether the points of the cusps are rounded ?

Whether in the neighbourhood of the cusp the limb either of

the sun or moon appears distorted ? Whether the beads appear

steady or waving, disappearing and reappearing ? Whether they

present any peculiar changes when viewed through differently-

1850.                                                       2B
                                              --;

--370 REPORT 1850.

coloured glasses, the observer alternating the colours, \yhich should
be as dissimilar as possible, such as red and green ?

   Whether they are seen when the telescope is out of focus ?
   Whether they are seen when the eclipse is projected on a screen?
   The drawing out of the beads into thi-eads when very near junc-
tion ; and whether they waver and change, and the number of them.
    WTiether before and after the formation of the threads the moon's

dark disc is elongated towards the point of contact ?

   The beads are ascribed by some to lunar mountains. What

mountains exist at that part of the limb ?
    The exact interval of time between the first formation of beads

and the first complete contact, and that between the last complete
contact and the last disappearance of beads (or other irregularities
in or about the cusps), should be determined.

    The remarkable fact of a recurrence of cusps, and the possible
explanation of it, should be attentively considered.

    In reference to the phsenomena of the corona, and their possible
explanation, the observer is referred to Professor Powell's papers in

the Memoirs of the Astronomical Societrj, vol. xvi. p. 301, " On
Luminous Rings round Shadows," and vol. xviii. p. 69, " On Irra-

diation."

                                  Appendix No. II.

    It is recommended to observers who may devote themselves

especially to the phsenomena of the rose-coloured prominences :
     1. Immediately before the total obscuration, to watch for the ap-

pearance of the prominences on all parts of the sun's limb, but par-
ticularly at the part just about to be eclipsed by the moon's limb
and, the moment that the sun's bright edge is eclipsed, to watch in
the direction of the moon's advance for any such prominence ; to
note mentally its form, and particularly the proportion of its height
to its breadth at the base, which may be afterwards recorded in a
sketch ; and to make quite sure whether or not the moon gradually

 eclipses it.

    2. In like manner, and with the same view, to direct the second
 scrutiny (immediately after the previous one) to the diametrically-
opposite portion of the moon's limb, watching for the summits of
any prominences, and whether they enlarge as the total eclipse

proceeds.
    3. In the third place, the observer having satisfied himself on

 the two previous points, will carefully examine the moon's limb all

round, and may now record, on the previously prepared circular

 diagram, the positions of any such prominences round the moon's
 limb. Let this be done in the first instance without regard to
 their form or size, but only with regard to their distribution round
          -- --;

          SUGGESTIONS TO ASTRONOMERS                              371

the circle ; and let this be carefully verified once at' least. Let him
note whether any kind of arch of light connects two or more of the

prominences.
    4. Let the dimensions and forms of the prominences be studied.

For the former purpose reference should be made to the two parallel
threads in the eye-piece of the telescope. For the latter, observe
Whether the prominences have hard and permanent, or waving and
ill-defined outlines. Whether they are invariably broadest at the
base, and have on the whole a tapering shape. Whether they seem
to stand erect, or whether any or all of them are aslant, like teeth
on the edge of a circular saw. Whether any of them taper inwards
next the dark limb of the moon : whether they appear isolated
and, if so, how the space between the red patch and the moon's
limb is occupied. Whether the prominences vary in outline diu'ing
the scrutiny. Whether any appear to grow up or to diminish
and, if so, whether such change is what the moon's motion would

naturally account for.

    5. Let the f//««OTm«/iore of the prominences be studied. First, as
to general colour ; by inspecting them with the undefended eye,
both with and without a telescope (without any dark glass). Next,
as to distribution of colour, select a well-defined prominence and
examine it all over repeatedly with a considerable magnifying
power, and observe if it appears absolutely uniform in colour and
brightness, or whether it shows any marks of stracture or shadow
or variation of tint. It seems very difficult to suggest any com-
parative experiment for recording the brightness of the illumina-

tion of the prominences.

    6. As the total phase goes off, let the eye be fixed on one or
more of the prominences, and see whether they instantly and totally
vanish, or for how many seconds they can be kept in view.

   It may be well to refer to M. Arago's narrative of what was seen
in 1842 and on former occasions, in the Annuaire du Bureau des
Longitudes for 1846, and to a paper by M. Faye in the Comptes

Bendus de I'Academic, 1850, Nov. 4.

          Appendix No. III.

Allusion having been made to instruments for determining the

plane of polarization, it may be proper to give the following infor-

mation :

Nicol's prism is described in the Edinburgh Philosophical Journal,

vol. XX. p. 83, and in the Philosophical Magazine, vol.  iv.  p.  289
                                                                                  ;

and instruments on this construction are sold by Soleil in Paris

and Watkins and Hill in London.

Savart's polariscope is described in Peclet's Traite de Physique,

and is sold by the same artists.
--372 KEPORT 1850.

   The accompanying Map (Plate V.) has been constructed principally
from computations furnished to the Committee by Lieut. W. S.

Stratford, R.N., Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac, verified
in some parts by duplicate computations made under the direction

of the Astronomer Royal.
   The elements employed for computation of the geocentric places

of the sun and moon are those of the Nautical Almanac. The sun's
semidiameter, as given in the Nautical Almanac, is increased by
__i__ part, the moon's parallax by y^Vo P^''*^' ^^^^ ^^^ moon's semi-
diameter by ^i^ part, in conformity with the results of extensive
investigations by the Astronomer Royal. It is to be remarked that
the semidiameter thus found for the moon is that corresponding to
an illuminated moon seen on a dark sky : if the apparent semi-
diameter when the dark moon is seen on the sun's bright disc be
sensibly smaller, the breadth of the shadow and the duration of
total darkness will be less than those given in the map.

    The numbers in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 7th, and 8th columns are
computed for the points opposite to them in the central line of
 shadow, but they will apply with sufficient accuracy for other neigh-
bouring points within the shadow. The numbers in the 4th, 5th,
and 6th columns are also computed for the points opposite to them
 in the central line of shadow; but they require large corrections to
make them applicable to other points within the path of the shadow
 but not on its central line. These corrections are given by the
 numbers at the top and bottom of the map, corresponding to the

various lines drawn longitudinally through the shadow's path. An

 example will best illustrate the mode of finding these corrections.
     It is required to find the duration of total darkness and the angles

 from the upper point of the sun's disc for disappearance and reap-

 pearance, at Vladimir.
     Opposite Vladimir, the duration of total darkness on the central

 line is 189^ The longitudinal line passing through Vladimir, if
 traced to the bottom of the map, is found to correspond to the
 factor 0-7. Hence the dm-ation of total darkness at Vladimir will

=be 189^ X 0-7 132^

     Opposite Vladimir, the angles from the sun's upper point at dis-
 appearance and reappearance are respectively 64° and 116°. The

 longitudinal line passing through Vladimir, if traced to the top of
 the map, is found to correspond to the correction 46° towards S.
  Hence the angles from the sun's upper point for disappearance and

  reappearance at ATladimir will be

           = =64° -f 46° 110° and 116° + 46° 163°.
                     NOTICES

                                            AND

       ABSTRACTS OF COMMUNICATIONS

                                           TO THE

BRITISH ASSOCIATION

                                           FOR THE

        ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE,

                                             AT THE

 EDINBURGH MEETING, JULY AND AUGUST 1850.
                      ADVERTISEMENT.

   The Editors of the following Notices consider themselves responsible

only for the fidelity with which the views of the Authors are abstracted.
CONTENTS.

NOTICES AND ABSTRACTS OF MISCELLANEOUS
      COMMUNICATIONS TO THE SECTIONS.

MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

Mathematics.

The Astronomer Royal on a Question of Probabilities which occurs in the                    1

   use of a fixed Collimator for the Verification of the Constancy of Position of          2
                                                                                           2
   an Az i muth Circle

Sir W. R. Hamilton on Polyzones inscribed on a Surface of the Second Order
Mr. W. J. Macquorn Rankine on the Laws of the Elasticity of Solids

                             Light, Heat, Electricity, Magnetism.                             3

Mr. Samuel Beswick on a Method for computing Magnetic Charts of Decli-                        4

     nation                                                                                  4

Sir David Brewster's Notice on the Artificial Magnets made by M. Logeman,                     5
    Optician at Haerlem, by the process of M. Elias                                          5
                          on a New Membrane investing the Crystalline Lens of
   the Ox                                                                                    6

                                   on the Optical Properties of the Cyanurets of Platinum    6
    and Magnesia, and of Barytes and Platinum
                                                                                             7
                                on the Polarizing Structure of the Eye
                                on some new Phsenomena in the Polarization of the            7
    Atmosphere                                                                               7
                                  's Notice regarding the recent Improvements in Photo-
    graphy                                                                                   7
Mr. J. A. Broun on the Effect of Height on the Diurnal Variation of the
    Horizontal Complement of the Magnetic Force                                              9
                          on the Variation with Season of the Differences of the Mean
    Pressure at Greenwich and Makerstoun                                                   10
' on Electrical Figures of Dust on Plate Glass ..-.
                              on the Effect of Height in the Atmosphere on the Diurnal     12
    Variation of Magnetic Declination
           ·: on the Mechanical Compensation of the Bifilar and Balance                    13
   Magnets for Variations of the Magnetic Moment with Temperature                          14
                              on the Construction of Silk Suspension Threads for the       14
    Declination Magnetometer                                                               15
                                                                                           16
M. Claudet on a New Instrument called the Dynactinometer for comparing
                                                                                           19
   the Power of Object- Glasses, and for measuring the Intensity of the Pho-               19
                                                                                           20
    togenic Light                                                                          20
Professor Phillips's Report of a Committee appointed to examine the Effects
                                                                                           21
   produced by Lightning on a Tree near Edinburgh
                               on Isoclinal Magnetic Lines in Yorkshire

Prof. Baden Powell on the Refractive Indices of several Substances
Rev. J. B. Reade on a New Solid Eye-piece
Mr. Richard Roberts on the Expansion of Solids by Heat
Professor Stokes on the mode of Disappearance of Newton's Rings in passing

    the angle of total Internal Reflexion

· on Metallic Reflexion

--· on a Fictitious Displacement of Fringes of Interference
                            on Haidinger's Brushes
                              :

Professor Stevelly's Attempt to explain the occasional distinct Vision of
   Rapidly Revolving Coloured Sectors
IV CONTENTS.

                                                                                      Page

Professor W. Thomson on the Theory of Magnetic Induction in Crystalline

Substances                                                                            23

Mr. John Tyndall on the Magneto-Optical Properties of Crystals                        23

                                 Astronomy, Meteors, Waves.                           23

Professor Chevallier on a Sidereal Clock for showing the Arc of Right Ascen-          23
                                                                                      24
    sion directly                                                                     25
                                                                                      26
Mr. James D. Forbes on the alleged evidence for a Physical Connexion between          31
   Stars forming Binary or Multiple Groups, deduced from the Doctrine of              31
   Chances

Mr. Henry Hennessy on the Distribution of Shooting Stars in the Inter-

    planetary Spaces

Mr. James Nasmyth on the Structure of the Lunar Surface and its relation to

    that of the Earth

Dr. W. ScoRESBY on Atlantic Waves, their Magnitude, Velocity, and Phae-
   nomena

Professor Smyth on Cometary Physics

                          's Account of the Edinburgh Observatory

            Meteorology.

Mr. J. A. Broun on the Attempts to resolve the Pressure of the Atmosphere

into tvvo parts, that of Vapour and Dry Air       ·                                   31

Mr. Peter Clare on some extraordinary Electrical Appearances observed at              31

   Manchester on the l6th of July 1850                                                32

Mr. Richard Edmonds, Jun., on Remarkable Thermometrical Maxima at or                  34

   near the Moon's First Quarter during the twelve years 1839-1850                    30
                                                                                      36
Mr. Thomas Hopkins on the Causes of the Rise of the Isothermal Lines (as
                                                                                      36
represented on Professor Dove's Maps) in the Winters of the Northern                  42

Hemisphere                                                                            42
                                                                                      42
            on the means of computing the Quantities of Aqueous                       42

Vapour in the Atmosphere at various places and heights                                43
                                                                                      43
                                      on the Daily Formation of Clouds at Makerstoun  45
                                                                                      46
Dr. John Lee on Meteorologicar Observations made at Kaafjord, near Alten,

in Western Finmark, and at Christiania in Norway

                       on the British Meteorological Society

Rev. C. F. Lyon on some Phsenomena of Mirage on the East Coast of Forfar-

shire

Rev. T.Rankin on Meteorological Phaenomena at Huggate, Yorkshire, for 1849
Mr. R. Russell on the Passage of Storms across the British Islands

Lieut. Strachey on Hourly Meteorological Observations made in Thibet at an

   elevation of 18,400 feet

Lieut. -Col. Sykes on Indian Hail-Storms
Mr. T. Spencer Wells' Observations on the Climate of the Valley of the Nile

Dr. C. Martins on the Six Climates of France

            CHEMISTRY.

Dr. T. Anderson on the Action of Oxidizing Agents on certain Organic Bases            47
                         on a Compound of Iodine and Codeine                          48
                                                                                      48
Professor Buckman's Remarks on some Chemical Facts connected with the
   Tessellated Pavements discovered at Cirencester                                    49
                                                                                      50
Mr. DuGALD Campbell on the Action of the Soap-test upon Water containing              51
   a Salt of Magnesia only, and likewise upon Water containing a Salt of Mag-         53
   nesia and a Salt of Lime

Professor Chapman's Remarks on the Isomorphous Relations of Silica and
   Alumina

Dr. John Davy on the Incrustation which forms in the Boilers of Steam-

   Engines, in a Letter addressed to Dr. George Wilson
Mr. J. P. Gassiot on a peculiar Form produced in a Diamond when under the

   Influence of the Voltaic Arc
·

                          CONTENTS.                                                      V

                                                                                                                                                              Page

Dr. J. H. Gladstone and Mr. G. Gladstone's Observations on the Growth

of Plants in Abnormal Atmospheres                                                        54

Dr. William Gregory on the Sulphite of Lead                                              55

Mr. J. P. Joule on some Amalgams                                                         55
Professor G. I. Mulder on the presence of Carbonates in Blood                            57
Dr. Frederick Penny on a new and ready Process for the Quantitative De-

termination of Iron                                                                      58

Mr. William Petrte on the Phosphorescence of Potassium                                   59

Dr. Lyon Playfair on the Condensation of Volume in highly hydrated Mi-

nerals                                                                                   60

Mr. George Read's Observations on Ropy Bread                                             60

Dr. ScoFFERN on the Sugar Produce of the South of Spain, chiefly in connexion

with the employment of Acetate of Lead and Sulphurous Acid as Purifying

Agents                                                                                   60

Mr. Henry Clifton Sorby on the Tetraniorphism of Carbon...,                              62

Mr. James Stein on a direct Method of separating Arsenious from Arsenic

Acid, and on its application to the estimation of Nitric Acid                            62

Mr. Henry Taylor on the Chemical Composition of the Rocks of the Coal

Formation                                                                                63

Dr. A. Voelcker on the Proportion of Phosphoric Acid in some Natural Waters 63

                on the Per-centage of Nitrogen as an Index to the Nutritive

   Value of Food                                                                         64
                                                                                         65
Professor A. W. Williamson's Results of a Research on iEtherification

Dr. George Wilson on the Influence of Sunlight over the Action of the Dry

Gases on Organic Colours                                                                 65

----    ----^ on the presence of Fluorine in Blood and Milk                              67

                     on the extent to which Fluoride of Calcium is soluble in

Water at 60° F                                                                           68

                     's few unpublished particulars concerning the late Dr. Black 69

           GEOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY.

Dr. Anderson on the Fossil Fishes and Yellow Sandstone of Dura Den                       70
The Duke of Argyll on a Fossilifeious Deposit underlying Basalt in the Island            70
                                                                                         71
    of Mull                                                                              72
                                                                                         73
Mr. Robert Austen on Recent Changes of Sea- level
Dr. LuDwiG Becker on the constant Increase of Elevation of the Beds of Rivers            74
                                                                                         76
                                's Remarks as to the earlier Existence of the Binnen or  77
   Inland Lake                                                                           78
                                                                                         79
Rev. P. B. Brodie's Remarks on the Stonesfield Slate at C'ollyweston, near               79
    Stamford, and the Great Oolite, Inferior Oohte, and Lias, in the Neighbour-          82
   hood of Grantham                                                                      83
                                                                                         84
Mr. James Bryce, jun., on Striated and Polished Rocks and "Roches Mou-                   85
    tonnees" in the Lake District of Westmoreland
                                  on the Lesmahagow and Douglas Coat-field in Lanark-

     shire

Mr. Robert Chambers on the Glacial Phsenomena of the Neighbourhood of
    Edinburgh, with some Remarks on the General Subject

Dr. CuLLEN on the Gold Mines of the Isthmus of Darien, Emigration to New

    Granada, and Canalization of the Isthmus of Darien

Professor Edward Forbes on the Succession of Strata and Distribution of

    Organic Ren^ains in the Dorsetshire Purbecks

Dr. Mathie Hamilton's Brief Notices of Earthquakes in South America in

    1844, 1845, 1846 and 1847

Mr. Robert Harkness on the Position of the Footsteps in the Bunter Sand-

    stone of Dumfries-shire

                  -- on the Representatives of the Mountain Limestone as

    they occur in Dumfries-shire

Rev. Edward Hitchcock on the Erosions of the Earth's Surface, especially by

     Rivers
VI CONTENTS.

                                                                               PaRP

Rev. Edward Hitchcock on Terraces and Ancient Sea Beaches, especially

those on the Connecticut River, and its Tributaries in New England,            8"

Mr. Willi A.M Hopkins on the Dispersion of Granite Blocks from Ben Canachan 88

Mr. Stevenson Macadam's Remarks on the Central Heat and Density of the

Globe, as also the Causes of Volcanic Phaenomena                               88

Mr. C. Maclaren on Traces of Ancient Glaciers in Glenmessan                    90

Dr. Charles Martins and B. Gastaldi's Parallel between the Superficial
   Deposits of the Basin of Switzerland and those of the Valley of the Po in

Piedmont                                                                       · 90

                                              ;

Mr. Hugh Miller on certain extraordinary Peculiarities of Structure in the

more Ancient Ganoids                                                           91

                   on peculiar scratched Pebbles and Fossil Specimens from

the Boulder Clay, and on Chalk Flints and Oolitic Fossils from the Boulder

Clay in Caithness                                          · ····              93

Sir Roderick Impey Murchison on the Discovery of Palaeozoic Fossils in the

crystalline chain of the Forez in France, and on lines of dislocation between  90

the Lower and Upper Carboniferous Deposits of France and Germany
              · ^'s Review of the Labours of M. Barrande in

preparing his important work " The Silurian System of Bohemia"                 97

Mr. James Nicol's Notes on the Geology of the Southern Extremity of Can-

tyre, Argyleshire                                                              1 00

Mr! G. W. Ormerod on the Gradual Subsidence of a Portion of the Surface

of Chat Moss, in Lancashire, by Drainage                                       101

Lt. -Colonel Portlock's Notice of the manner in which Trap or Igneous Rocks

intrude into the Sandstone and Conglomerate near North Berwick                 101

Professor Ramsay on the Geological Position of the Black Slates of Menai

Straits, &c                                                                    102

Mr. Alexander Rose's Notice of the recent Discovery of Plumbago or Gra-

phite in the Island of Mull, Hebrides                                          102

Rev. Professor Sedgwick on the Geological Structure and Relations of the

Frontier Chain of Scotland                                                · 103

Professor M'Coy's List of Organic Reniains                                .·· 107

M. E. de Vehneuil's Notice on the Geological Structure of Spain, to explain

an Outline General Map of the Peninsula                                        108

Mr. Bryce's Postscript to a Paper on Striated Rocks in the Lake District       112

BOTANY AND ZOOLOGY, including PHYSIOLOGY.

                                   Botany.

Mr. C. C. Babixgton on Anacharis Alsinastrum                                   112

Dr. H. Cleghorn on the Glass-Cloth {Clm Ma) of India                           112

                   on the Hedge Plants of India, and the conditions which

adapt them for special purposes and particular localities                      113

Dr. Edwin Lankester on the Epidermal Appendages of the Genera Callitriche,

Hippuris, Pinguicula, and Drosera                                              113

Mr. J. T. Mackay's few Remarks on the Treatmei;it and Flowering of a Plant

of Dracaena Draco, or Gum-Dragon Tree, in the Botanic Garden of Trinity

College, Dublin                                                                114

Dr. Aug. Voelcker on the Effects of Salt on Vegetation                         114

                                   Zoology.

Mr. C. Spence Bate's Notes on Crustacea                                        115

Mr. George Busk's List of Sertularian Zoophytes and Polyzoa from Port

Natal, Algoa Bay, and Table Bay, in South Africa ; with Remarks on their

Geographical Distribution, and Observations on the Genera Plumularia and       H^

Catenicella

Sir John Graham Dalyell's Examples of Exuviation, or the Change of the

Integuments of Animals in the Crustacean Tribes                                120

Mr. James Dennistoun's Notice of a Tissue spun by Caterpillars                 123

Professor Edward Forbes on the European Species of Echinus, and the Pe-

culiarities of their Distribution                                              123
                                                 CONTENTS.                                              VU

Mr. Albany Hancock and Dr. Embleton on the Anatomy ot' Uoris                                            Page
                                                                                                        124

Mr. James Hardy on an Acarus and a T''ibrio that attack Grasses                                         124

Professor Van der Hoeven on the Genus Pei'odicticus of Bennett, and its re-

lation to Slenops                                                                                       125

Dr. G. A. Mantell on the Upper Jaw of the Iguanodon                                                     125

Mr. C. W. Peach's List of Zoophytes found in the Vicinity of Peterhead, N.B.,

with a Notice of some new to the British List                                                           126

Mr. H. E. Strickland on a peculiar Structure in the Submedial Pair of Rec-

trices of Vidua paradisea                                                                               126

Mr. W. Thomson on the Dentition of the British Pulmoniferous MoUusca                                    126

Mr. Wyville T. C. Thomson on the AppHcation of Photography to the Com-

   pound Microscope                                                                                     126
                                                                                                        127
Mr. J. Wolley on the Birds of the Faroe Islands

                                                 Physiology.

Dr. John Coldstream's Suggestions regarding the expediency of ascertaining

the extent to which Infantile Idiocy prevails in the United Kingdom gene-

rally, and of inquiring into the Causes of its Prevalence in certain Districts,

with a view to the adoption of some means of deliverance from it                                        128

Dr. John Dalziel's Observations on Hysteria, Hydrophobia, and other Con-

   vulsive Affections, embracing an Analysis of the Pheenomena of Water- dread 129

Dr. Richard Fowler on the Influences of Man's Instinct on his Intellectual

   and Moral Powers, i. e. his Mental Functions                                                         130
                                                                                                        131
Dr. W. T. Gairdner on Pathological Cell-Development
Mr. D. R. Hay on the Geometrical Bases of Beauty in general, and more par-                              131

  ticularly as applied to Architecture and the Human Form

Dr. J. O. M'^WiLLiAM on the use of the Bofareira (JRicinus communis of Bo-

tanists) as a means adopted by the Natives of the Cape de Verd Islands to

excite Lactation                                            ,                                           132

Mr. George Newport on the Reciprocal Relation of the Vital and Physical

Forces                                                                                                  133

Mr. John S. Sanderson on the supposed relation of the Spleen to the origin

of the Coloured Blood-Corpuscle in the Adult                                                            134

Dr. William Seller on a Physiological Mode of resolving the Metaphysical

Difficulties as to the Origin of the Notion of Space, of Motion, of the External,

of Substance, &c                                                                                        135

Dr. E. J. Tilt on the Causes which advance or retard the appearance of First

   Menstruation in Woman, with a Synoptical Table showing the Mean Age of
  First Menstruation in 10,422 Women in Hot, Temperate, and Cold Climates 135
Dr. Alexander Wood's Remarks on the Laws regulating the Development of

Monstrosities, with illustrative Specimens                                                              138

M. Zaglas's General View of the Morphology of the Muscular System                                       138

                                                 ETHNOLOGY.

Rev. Dr. Edward Hincks on the Language and Mode of Writing of the an-

                      cient Assyrians                                                                   140

Mr. John Hogg on the Sicilian and Sardinian Languages                                                   140

Dr. R. G. Latham on the Original Distribution of the Germanic, Lithuanic and

Slavonic Populations                                                                                    141

Professor F. W. Newman's Remarks on the Soukaneeah Dialect of the Berber 142

Ml                    Daniel  Wilson's  Inquiry  into  the  Evidence  of the  Existence  of  Primitive
                   .

Races inScotland prior to the Celtic                                                                    142

                                                STATISTICS.

Di. W. P. Alison's Account of the System of Croft Husbandry and the Re-

   clamation of Waste Lands, chiefly by Spade Culture, adopted at Gairloch, in
   Ross-shire since 1846, and its results as illustrating the conditions under
  which the labour of Paupers and Criminals may safely be made productive... 147
via CONTENTS.

                                                                                                                                             · Page

Professor Hancock's Statistics respecting the Sale of Encumbered Estates in

Ireland                                                                                                                                                                                         148

                                                                                                                                      on the Cost of obtaining Patents in different Countries   149

                                                                                                                                      on the Causes of Distress at Skull and Skibbereen during

the Famine in Ireland                                                                                                                                                                           149

Mr. A. Keith Johnston on the Geographical Distribution of Disease, as indi-

cating the Connexion between Natural Phsenomena and Health and Longevity 150

Mr. A. Milward's Remarks on the present Condition of the City and Neigh-

bourhood of Malaga, and on the Preparation of Raisins                                                                                                                                           151

Mr. F. G. P. Neison's Mortality of the Provident Classes in this Country and

on the Continent                                                                                                                                                                                151

Colonel Sykes's Statistics of Criminal and Civil Justice under the Bombay

Government for the Years 1844, 1845, 1846 and 1847                                                                                                                                              159

Dr. Cuthbert Finch on the Prevalence and Mortality of Cholera in the Indian

Armies                                                                                                                                                                                          161
^Dr. John Strang on the Progress of Glasgow, in Population, Wealth,

Manufactures, &c                                                                                                                                                                                162

                                                                                                                                         MECHANICAL SCIENCE.

Mr. J. G. Appold on a Register Hygrometer for regulating the Atmospheric

Moisture of Houses                                                                                                                                                                              170

Mr. George Beattie on an improved Door Spring                                                                                                                                                   170

Mr. George Buchanan on some proposed Improvements in Valves, Stopcocks

   or Stoppers for regulating the Passage of Fluids, by the Use of Flexible

Substances                                                                                                                               ,.                                                     171
                                                                                                                                                                                                172
Mr. Homersham Cox on the H^^)erbolic Law of Elasticity of Cast Iron

Professor John Donaldson on the Water Sirene                                                                                                                                                    174

Mr. William Faibbairn on a Wrought Iron Tubular Crane                                                                                                                                           177
                                                                                                                                                                                                180
Mr. W. S. Jacob on a Folding Dome foi Observatories                                                                                                           ,

Mr. William Lassell on a Method of Supporting a large Speculum, free from

sensible Flexure, in all Positions                                                                                                                                                              180

Mr. William Petrie on the Powers of Minute Vision. Results from Experi-

ments for determining the best sort of Station-marks, and the errors liable in

observing with Optical Instruments that measure on the principle of bring-

ing two reflexions together                                                                                                                                                                     183

                                                                                                                                         on the Application of Electricity and Heat as Moving

Powers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 183
                                                                                                                                         Table of the Relative and Absolute Powers of Galvanic
                                                                                                                                   .

Arrangements, showing the electric current circulated, after the surfaces of

the elements have been in continued action for several hours, with continuous

supplies of liquids, the temperature being70°                                                                                                                                                   185

                                                                                                                                         on the Dynamic Equivalent of Current Electricity, and

on a fixed Scale for Electromotive Force in Galvanometry                                                                                                                                        185

Mr. M. W. Ruthven on Improvements in propelling and navigating Steam

Vessels                                                                                                                               ,                                                         186

Mr. John Smith on the Rubble Bridge of Ashiesteel                                                                                                                                               187

Professor Piazzi Smyth on a new form of Equatorial Mounting now making

for the Edinburgh Observatory                                                                                                                                                                   187

                                                                                                                                         on a Mode of Cooling the Air of Rooms in Tropical

Climates                                                                                                                                                                                        188

                                                                                                                                         on the Application of Telescope Sights to Rifles       188

Mr. Thomas Stevenson's Observations on the Force of the Waves                                                                                                                                   189

Mr. William Swan on the Limits to the Velocity of Revolving Lighthouse

Apparatus caused by the time required for the production of Luminous Im-

   pressions on the Eye                                                                                                                                                                         191
                                                                                                                                                                                                191
Mr. William Sykes Ward on a Gas Stove
             NOTICES AND ABSTRACTS

MISCELLANEOUS COMMUNICATIONS TO THE SECTIONS.

       MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

       Mathematics.

On a Question of Probabilities ivliicli occurs in the use of a fixed Collimator

   foi- the Verification of the Constancy of Position of an Azimuth Circle.

   By the Astronomer Royal.

The author said, his chief object in bringing this communication before the Sec-
tion was to obtain the assistance of its mathematicians in extricating him from a

difficulty, or at least a doubt, in which he found himself involved. In determining
an azimuth, say of the moon, or of any other object, there were three independent
elements which he used, and the probable errors of which he wished to compare with
each other. There was first the assumed fixity of the circle itself, when its zero of
azimuth was once determined ; there was next the indication of a fixed collimator,
which was used as an independent check when its position in azimuth was once
determined ; and thirdly, the daily observations of stars were used as a means of
obtaining the required azimuth. The object was to determine and compare the pro-
bable error of the zero of azimuth determined by each of these elements. Suppose

now that the zeros of azimuth determined by these three elements on any one day
were affected by the respective errors a-, y, z. The results for determined azimuth
of the moon on that day would be affected by the same errors x,y,z; but the com-

-- -- --parison of these results would not give us the numerical values of x,y, z, but of their

diiferences x y, x z,y z. These data however would suffice to give us the most
probable values of x, y, z for that day, if we had their probable values X, Y, Z.

(^We should only have to make the sum  .^/^V -j. /--\ minimum ; and this con-

dition, in addition to the equations given by the comparison of results above men-

tioned, furnished three equations to give the most probable values of x, y, z for that

day. But as the probable values X, Y, Z are yet unknown, the most probable values

X, y, z for that day must be expressed by means of the symbols X, Y, Z. Now

taking a series of such symbolical expressions for x, on a series of days, and treating

them by the ordinary rules of probabilities as if they were observed errors, there was

no difficulty in determining, from that series of errors, the probable error, still sym-

bolically expressed ; and making this equal to X, an equation was obtained between

X, Y, Z. In a similar way, by treatment of the values of y and of z, two other

1850.                                  B
                         --

2 REPORT 1850.

equations were obtained ; and from these, X, Y, Z were determined. The result
was very striking ; it was, that the probable error of the fixity of the instrument was

ten times less than that of the stars, which, however, included the personal equation
of the observer, errors of clock, transit telescope and others. The doubt, however,
which assailed him was, whether he was justified in applying the doctrine of pro-
babilities to obtain from those series the probable error of quantities which were not
themselves mere results of actual observation, in which case there would be no doubt
of its legitimate application, but where the quantities were, in each term of the series,

partly the result of observation and partly deductions of formulae. From this doubt
he requested their assistance, either to extricate him or convince him of the incor-
rectness of the method he used. Another question he begged to propose to the ma-
thematicians for their assistance. It was well known that an equation of any order,
containing only one unknown quantity, could be lowered one dimension, if one of its
roots could be obtained numerically. Now, the question he wished to propose
was, whether any mathematician knew any similar mode of lowering a system of
several equations of high degree, which involved the same number of unknown but

independent quantities ?

           On Polyzones inscribed on a Surface of the Second Order.
                      By Sir W. R. Hamilton, M.R.T.A.

                       On the Laios of the Elasticity of Solids.
    By W. J. Macquorn Rankine, C.E., F.R.S.E., F.R.S.S.A. ^c.

   This paper is intended to form the foundation of the theoretical part of a series of
researches connected with the strength of materials. Its immediate object is to in-
vestigate the relations which must exist between the elasticities of difi'erent kinds pos-
sessed by a given substance, and between the diflFerent values of those elasticities in

different directions.

   The different kinds of elasticity possessed by a solid substance are distinguished

--into three : First, longitudinal elasticity, representing the forces called into play in a

given direction by condensation or dilatation of the particles of the body in the same
direction. Secondly, lateral elasticity, representing those called into play in a given
direction by condensation or dilatation of the particles of the body in a direction at
right angles to that of the force ; and thirdly, transverse elasticity, or rigidity, being
the force by which solid substances resist distortion or change of figure, and the pro-
perty which distinguishes solids from fluids. The author's researches refer chiefly
to substances whose elasticity varies in different directions. His first endeavour is,
to determine the laws of elasticity of such substances, so far as they are independent
of hypotheses respecting the constitution of matter, a method which has not hitherto
been followed.

   The first theorem or law states the existence of three rectangular axes of elasticity
in each substance possessing a certain degree of symmetry of molecular action. The
elasticity of a body, as referred to these three axes, is expressed by twelve coeflScients,
three of longitudinal, and six of lateral elasticity, and three of rigidity, which are
connected by the following laws :

  --Theorem Second. The coefficient of rigidity is the same for all directions of dis-

tortion in a given plane.

  --Theorem Tfiird. In each of the coordinate planes of elasticity, the coefficient of

rigidity is equal to one-fourth part of the sum of the two coefficients of longitudinal
elasticity, diminished by one-fourth part of the sum of the two coefficients of lateral
elasticity in the same plane.

   The investigation having now been carried as far as is practicable without the

aid of hypotheses, the author determines, in the first place, the consequences of the
supposition of Boscovich, that elasticity arises entirely from the mutual action of
atomic centres of force. In the following theorems a. perfect solid means a body so

--constituted.
    Tlieorem Fourth. In each of the coordinate planes of elasticity of a perfect solid,
the two coefficients of lateral elasticity and the coefficient of rigidity are all equal to
each other.
      --

TRANSACTIONS OF ftlE SECTIONS.  3

  --Tk'eorem Fifth. For each axis of elasticity of a perfect solid, the coefficient of lon-

gitudinal elasticity is equal to three times the sum of the two coefficients of rigidity
for the coordinate planes which pass through that axis, diminished by three times

the coefficient of rigidity for the plane normal to that axis.
   Thus in perfect solids all the coefficients of elasticity are functions of three inde-

--J3ehdbnt boefficients those of rigidity. In no previous investigation has the num-

ber of independent coefficients been reduced below six.
   To 1-epresent the phsenomena of imperfect solids, there is introduced the hypothesis

of molecular vortices in addition to that of atomic centres ; that is to say, each atomic
centre is supposed to be surrounded by a fluid atmosphere, retained round the centre
by attraction, and diffused from it by the centrifugal force of revolutions constituting
heat. The author has already applied this hypothesis to the theory of the elasticity
of gases and vapours (Trans.' Roy. Soc. Edin. vol. xx. part 1). Applied to solids it

leads to the following conclusion :
    Theorem Sixth.-- In an imperfect solid, each of the coefficients of longitudinal and

lateral elasticity is equal to the same function of the coefficients of rigidity which

would have been its value in a perfect solid, added to a coefficient of fluid elasticity,

which is the same in all directions.
   Thus the number of independent coefficients for such substances is four. The

rest of the paper is occupied by the deduction from those principles of some im-
pbrtant consequences respecting coefficients of compressibility and extensibility, and
the elasticities corresponding to directions not coinciding with the three axes.

                      Light, Heat, Electricity, Magnetism.

         On a Methodfor computing Magnetic Charts of Declination.
                              By Samuel Beswick.

   I here exhibit a declination chart for the whole Atlantic for the epoch of 1840, the
lines of which have been computed by a theoretical formula which I will now de-
scribe. It is founded on a principle proposed by Prof. Gauss, which resolves the
magnetic force of the earth into two portions, one of which, X, acts in the direction
pf the geographical meridian, and the other, Y, perpendicularly to that meridian.

Now by a well-known law of the composition of forces, a resultant force is found

from the combined action of the above two portions of the horizontal force. But as
all places of observation must be situated between the two points of convergence of

--the horizontal force, it is clearly necessary that two such equivalent forces must be

found one for each hemisphere. These forces acting upon the needle at the place
of observation will produce an effect proportionate to their comparative angles of
distance ; which effect will be the declination of the needle for that place. Hence

arises the following formula :--

                          +c dy. a

+c y      =-x the declination.

By this formula t have computed tables of declination, from which has been formed

the large magnetic chart for the whole Atlantic, which I here exhibit. It presents

some striking features of comparison with a magnetic chart formed by Col. Sabine

from tables of observation. This chart is also for the vvhole Atlantic, and for the
same epoch, 1840. And the tables computed by this formula, compared with Sabine's

tables of observation, are so similar, that the differences are always within the range

of errors of observation.

 --The process for adapting this fbrmula to all epochs which is the grand deside-

--ratum in this department of science has been given in detail in the Phil. Mjig. for

March of the present year. The superiority of this method consists in its simplicity,

t)recision, and the exactitude of its results. It is capable of computing magnetic
charts for any epoch. By its means I traced the anomalous Asiatic line of no

declination for 1800, 1820, 1830, 1835, 1840, 1845, 1849, and 1850; and in each

case the results give but slight differences from observation. From the successive

                                                                      b2
--4 REPORT 1850.

applications of this theoretical formula to the Asiatic lines of declination, I have
discovered that the curves, which are concave to the north in the vicinity of the
Uralian mountains, are rising northwards ; the curves convex to the north in the
districts east of Asia are falling in a south-western direction, whilst the contiguous
curves convex to the Chinese Sea are rising and will ultimately form one class of

curves with those immediately north. These Asiatic curves may not be inaptly

compared to the undulations of a wave, or to a ribbon streaming in the breeze.

I am now engaged in the computation of a magnetic chart for the whole terrestrial

surface for the year 1851, and shall have great pleasure in exhibiting it to the Section

at the next Meeting.

Notice on ilie Artificial Magnets made by M. Logeman, Optician at Haerlem,

   by the process of M. Ellas. By Sir David Brewster, K.H., D.C.L.,

    F.R.S. Lond. ^- V.P.R.S. Edin.

   On my return from the continent in June, 1 received from M. Logeman a beautiful

horse-shoe magnet, weighing one English pound (0'482 kilogramme), which, if
loaded with suitable precautions, such as had been pointed out by Haecker in Poggen-
dorff's 'Annalen,' vol. Ivii. p. 375, is capable of supporting a weight of 28^ English
pounds, or 13 kilogrammes. M. Haecker has found, from numerous experiments, that

Nthe power P of a magnet weighing kilogrammes is P=10'33 ,^N-, but the mag-

nets executed by the best makers in Europe have not been found to possess this

power, or at least not greatly to surpass it. The magnet given me by M. Logeman,

is stated to possess twice the power indicated by the formula, and with a piece of
post paper interposed between the poles and their armature, to be still capable of
supporting a load equal at least to that supported directly by the best magnets

hitherto produced.

    M. Logeman mentioned that he could produce magnets of the same quality that
would support 400 and even 600 English pounds.

    Having seen the great interest which one of M. Logeman's small magnets excited
when exhibited at Lord Rosse's soiree in May, I was anxious to obtain from him,
and dispose of for his benefit, a magnet of great power, for the purpose of exhibit-
ing at the meeting of the Association. M. Logeman accordingly executed another
 magnet, which just arrived in time to be exhibited at one of the early meetings of the
 Mathematical and Physical Section.

    This second magnet weighed \1\ English pounds, or 5"729 kilogrammes, and
 could support a weight of 150 English pounds, or 68 kilogrammes. The price of it
 was 8^. sterling.

   After finishing this magnet, M. Logeman Mt a desire to submit a still more

 powerful one to the Association, and after great labour he completed it in proper
 time, but owing to gross mismanagement on certain railways, it was not delivered

to me till the meeting of the Association was over.

    This splendid magnet weighs fifty-two English pounds, or 28 kilogrammes, and
is capable of supporting. 430 pounds English, or 196 kilogrammes. The price is

 20Z. sterling.

    The permanence of the magnetism in these magnets is as remarkable as their great
 power. If the armature is torn away twenty or even a thousand times, it will still
 carry as great a weight as before.

    The process by which these magnets are made, is to make the magnet with its
 armature pass several times along a helix of copper wire traversed by a current of
 one or more elements of Grove's battery.

         On a 7iew Membrane investing the Crystalline Lens of the Ox.
By Sir David Brewster, K.H., D.C.L., F.R.S. Lond. S^ V.P.R.S. Edin.

The Ox from whose eye the lens was taken was killed on the 13th of December,

1838, and the lens was extracted on the 14th, at 11 a.m.

                                                          inch.

Its thickness was                                         0'507                           I
Its diameter
                                                          0702
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                    5

    After lying for a considerable time in distilled water, the capsule of the lens had
separated from the lens itself, the space between them being filled with albuminous
water of a greater refractive power than the distilled water. The capsule at last
burst near the vertex of the lens ; but a short time before this took place, another
capsule or bag was raised up by the expansion of the lens, and the space between it
and the lens filled with albuminous water of a still greater refractive power. This
water was contained in a membrane never before described, and investing the whole
of the lens within the capsule. This membrane, during the swelling of the lens, rose

to different heights in different places, giving the surface of the lens an irregular
appearance. This membrane was striated, but the striae gave no colours, while the

fibres of the lens immediatel}' below this membrane exhibited beautiful colours.
   The lens itself had two concentric polarizing structures, the central ones being

positive and the external ones negative.

On the Optical Properties of the Cyanurets of Platinum and Magnesia, and
  of Barytes and Platinum. By Sir David Brewster, K.H., D.C.L.,

   F.R.S.Lond.S)- V.P.R.S. Edin.

   The author gave a very general notice of the optical properties of these interesting
salts, which he had received from his friend M. Haidinger of Vienna. Although

these crystfds gave different colours by reflected and transmitted light, they were not

in the proper sense of the word dichroitic. In the general and remarkable property

of giving coloured pencils differently polarized by reflected light, they resembled

murexide and the chrysammate of potash, the optical properties of which were several

years ago described to the Association*. In these new salts the coloured reflected

tint is polarized in a plane perpendicular to the plane of reflexion, when the plane of

reflexion coincides with the direction of the principal axis, and in that plane v?hen

the plane of reflexion is at right angles to the direction of the principal axis. At in-

termediate directions the plane of polarization continues in the plane of reflexion, but

in passing from 0°to 90° of azimuth, the light of the principal coloured pencil passes

gradually into the other pencil which is polarized in the plane of reflexion, a small por-

tion of the former being still left at an azimuth of 90° polarized perpendicular to the

plane of reflexion. The cyanuretof barytes and platinum has a powerful double refrac-

tion and a high dispersing power. It has two axes, the principal one of which is

positive, like the axis of quartz ; and it possesses the property of internal dispersion,

the dispersed light being a brilliant green, while the transmitted light is yellow. The

colour of the pencil reflected from its surfaces in all azimuths is blue, but the strongest

of the reflected pencils, viz. that which is polarized perpendicular to the plane of reflex-

ion, is a brilliant blue near the maximum polarizing angle, becoming^HrpZe at greater,

Weand less blue at smaller angles of incidence.  have here then the remarkable phae-

nomenon of double reflexion, in which the principal coloured pencil is not only pola-

rized in a plane perpendicular to the plane of reflexion, but varies in intensity, at the

same angle of incidence, with the angle of azimuth which the plane of reflexion forms

with the principal axis of double refraction.

                       On the Polarizing Structure of the Eye.
By Sir David Brewster, K.H., D.C.L., F.R.S. Lond. 4- V.P.R.S. Edin.

   M. Haidinger of Vienna discovered the beautiful property of the eye, in virtue of
which it is able, without any assistance, to determine the plane in which light is
polarized, by means of two yellow brushes or pencils, as they have been called, or

sectors, as Sir David Brewster calls them, from their resemblance to the sectors of
circular crystals, as discovered and described by Mr. Fox Talbot. Viewing the
phaenomenon as one of circular crystallization, the author endeavoured to point out
the particular structures and membranes of the eye by which the phaenomenon of cir-
cular crystallization was produced in the polarized light, and the analysis effected.

                                                   * See Report for 1846, p. 7.
--6 IIB^ORT 1^50.

He was thus induped to ascribe the circular structure to the corne£i and the

--crystalline lens, in both of which he had found it to exist, the yellow tint tp the

elastic capsule which he had found when in a state of distension to depolarize the
required yellow tint, and the analysis to the different membranes, such as the hya-
loid, the membrane of Jacob, and other tissues which lie in front of the sensitive
layer of the retina. The difficulty however which beset this explanation was, that
the two yellow sectors, and the opposite pair of blue ones, should have been in-
clined 45° to the plane of primitive polarization, whereas they are parallel and per-
pendicular to that plane. In order to account for this part of the phenomenon, |t
is necessary to suppose that the particles or minute crystals which radiate from a

centre are inclined 45° degrees to the radial line.

       On some new Phcenomena in the Polarization of the Atmosphere,
By Sir David Brewster, K.H., D.C.L.,F.R.S. Lond. ^ V.P.R.S. Edin.

   In the brief notice given by the author of these phsenomena, he ascribed the phaeno-
mena of atmospheric polarization to the joint effect of the light polarized by reflexion
and by refraction, the light polarized by refraction compensating that polarized by
reflexion at the neutral points of Arago, Babinet and Brewster, and showing itself
separately when reflected from certain coloured clouds placed 90° from the sun.

   The author also pointed out, by means of a diagram, a method by which the pola-
rizing condition of the whole atmosphere might be determined by carrying round an
unobstructed horizon a set of polarized bands kept in a perpendicular position by a
level, and marking the azimuths of the different points where a compensation takes
place at different times. The distances between these points will give the altitude
of the neutral points, whether these points are above or below the horizon and

invisible.

            ^

              Notice regarding the recent Improvements in Photography.

By Sir David Brewster, K.H., D.C.L., F.R.S. Lond. &i V.P.R.S. Edin.

   Sir David Brewster exhibited to the meeting a series of Talbotypes executed by the
process invented by H. F. Talbot, Esq., and other processes which have singe come

into use.

   The earliest series of Talbotypes submitted to the meeting were a collection of one
hundred executed in Scotland by D. O. Hill, Esq. and Mr. Robert Adamson, and
which Mr. Hill had presented to Sir David Brewster. This series, and indeed aU
those taken under Mr. Hill's superintendence, are distinguished by the artistic
arrangements and drapery of the figures, a merit quite independent of their excel-
lence as photographs. Hence these Talbot)-pes have been greatly admired and
esteemed by artists, and have been justly regarded as valuable auxiliaries to art.

   The second series was executed by Mr. Talbot's process by an amateur, Samuel
Buckle, Esq. of Peterborough, and were distinguished by the fineness of their colour,
the minute perfection of the picture in all its parts, and the peculiar beauty of the
subjects which they represented. They consisted chiefly of views of Peterborough
Cathedral, and the buildings connected with it.

   The third series was executed by Messrs. Ross and Thomson, Edinburgh, photo-
graphers to the Queen, by the process in albumen invented by M. Niepce of Pari^.
They were the specimens referred to in the President's Address*, and consisted
chiefly of views of Edinburgh, and copies of pictures and statues. They were con-
sidered by all who saw them superior to any photographs that had been produced
either in this country or on the continent.

    In addition to these Talbotypes, Sir David Brewster exhibited two landscapes pro-
duced by the gelatine process of M. Poitpvin, which had been presented to him by
Jkl- Balard, Member of the National Institute of France.

            * See an earlier part of this volume.
                               ;:

TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  /

On the Effect of Height on the Diurnal Variation of the Horizontal Compk'

          ment ofthe Magnetic Force. By J. A. Broun, F.R.S.E.

On the Variation vnth Season of the Differences of tlie Mean Pressure at

         Oreentvich and Maberstoun. By J. A. Broun, F.R.S.E.

On Electrical Figures of Dust on Plate Glass. By J. A. Broun, F.R.S.E.

On the Effect of Height in the Atmosphere on the Diurnal Variation of Mag-
                netic Declination. By J. A. Broun, F.R.S.E.

    I brought before this Section at the Oxford Meeting, some notice of a series of

magnetical observations, made under my direction, at the expense of General Sir
Thomas Brisbane, for the purpose of determining the effect of height in the atmo-

sphere upon the diurnal variations of the magnetic declination and force. This
question is one of the greatest importance, as to the seat of the disturbing causes
which produce magnetic variations ; it is, however, one of the most diflScult kind for
a practical answer. Those acquainted with the working of magnetical instruments
know how rare it is to get two instruments of the same kind, and in the same room,
to continue, even for a short period, to tell the same story. If it is so in the same

building, it is evidently a difficulty of no common kind to obtain consistent compa-
rative results, when one of the instruments is placed on the summit of a mountain,
frequently enveloped in cloud, with no better cover than a rickety tent, which
threatens to fly away with observers and instruments in every blast that sweeps the

bare surface of the bill.

   The lower station occupied in this investigation was the Makerstoun Observatory,
the upper station was the summit of the highest of the Cheviot hills, about eighteen
miles E.S.E. of Makerstoun, and 2656 feet above the level of the sea, or 2440
feet, nearly half a mile, above Makerstoun. The stations were in sight of each

other. On the first occasion, in the beginning of June 1847, the same tent was
made to serve on Cheviot for observatory and residence. The frequent threats of the

wind, the shaking of the ground by the motion of the tent poles and accidental
touches of the instrument, from the proximity of the observers, rendered several of
the few days' observations obtained of indiflFerent value ; and I accordingly again

went to Cheviot after the meeting of the Association in the end of August 1847. On

this occasion I separated the sleeping apartment from the observatory, and rendered
the latter, to a considerable extent, independent of any gale that might blow. The top
of the hill has a covering of peat moss, in some places upwards of six feet thick. I
bad a trench of sufficient width cut into a bank of this moss, where it was about
four feet thick, clearing out the moss till the rock was rendered bare. The remain-
ing height of wall was obtained by large peat slabs, and the whole was roofed by
means of a wooden ridge pole and thick tent cloth. This observatory was very steady,
rather damp of course, but little else could be expected where thick clouds rest for
many days together, and almost always during the night. The instruments placed
in this observatory, were two portable magnetometers, the loan of which I owed to
the kindness of Mr. Jonps of London, the maker, and a barometer ; there were
thermometers outside. It is the results from the declination magnetometer to which
I wish to draw the attention of the Section at present. This instrument was placed
on a firmly braced tripod ; the value of the scale divisions was l''444, determined with
the greatest accuracy, by means of the horizontal circle attached to the instrument
the estimations were made by tenths of a scale division or 0'*14 : as an error of 0''1
in the mean of two readings was almost certain, this scale was evidently too small
in the mean of several observations, however, the probable error becomes very small.
The observatory declinometer was employed at Makerstoun, the scale of which can
be estimated with much certainty- to half a tenth of a minute. The observations
were made at both places at two minutes, and at one minute before each hour, of
Gottingen mean time at the hour, and one minute after it ; there were thus four

comparative observations obt^ed at each hour. On the 27th and 2Sth of August, the
----

--8 REPORT 1850.

day, during which continuous observations were made in all the magnetical observa-
tories in the world, was observed, in the same manner on Cheviot and at Makers-
toun. On Cheviot, observations of both the magnetometers were made every ten

minutes for the twenty-four hours of the term, by myself and my assistant, Mr.

Hogg. At Makerstoun, the observations were made by Mr. Welsh, with two
assistants. The times of the observations were strictly the same, as I compared the
chronometer on Cheviot with the observatory clock at Makerstoun, in the manner
which I described at Oxford. Mr. Welsh reflected the sun-light from a mirror at
Makerstoun upon our position on Cheviot, and he cut off the reflexion at previously
agreed on minutes and seconds of the observatory clock, by which means the error
of the chronometer on Cheviot was accurately determined. The large mass of com-
parative observations are only partially reduced, and it was only yesterday that, with
Mr. Welsh's assistance, 1 have been able to complete the reductions to a suflficient
extent to present some of the results to the Section. I omit any notice of the pro-
cesses employed in the reduction and combination of the observations.

   I have projected the hourly means from six days' simultaneous observations at
Makerstoun and Cheviot. The following are the conclusions which I have deduced
from these means :

    1st. The diurnal ranges of magnetic declination at Cheviot and Makerstoun in
the end of the month of August, probably do not differ one-tenth of a minute, the

difference of heights of the stations being nearly half a mile.
   The following are a few specimens of the simultaneous changes of declination at

the two places :

Difference of the highest and lowest hourly means, l Cheviot . .                                                                                                                                                        15'"42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15''41
from six days' observations, as in the curves . /Makerstoun                                                                                                                                                             12''58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12'"50
Differenceof six highest and six lowest hourly means, \ Cheviot . .                                                                                                                                                     IS'SO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13'"40
as in the curve                                                                                                                                                                                           j Makerstoun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20'*7l
Mean difference of a series of maxima and minima "1 Cheviot . .                                                                                                                                                         20'"62

occurring simultaneously during six days . . /Makerstoun

Greatest range in any of the six days occurring "1 Cheviot . .

simultaneously                                                                                                                                                                                            / Makerstoun

   In no case does the difference of ranges exceed one-tenth of a minute. As a
further evidence of the exactness with which the two magnets followed each other,
I may state that the differences of the change of declination at each station, for any
two hours of the same day, do not differ from each other more than can be explained
by error of observation, and by the apparent law, which I shall state immediately.

   This remarkable result for the ranges, differs from that which I conceived was
exhibited by the June observations ; they appeared to show a greater range at Ma-
kerstoun than at Cheviot, by nearly one minute. I have already mentioned the

sources of error to which the June observations were liable ; but I should also notice,
that the conclusion, as to the difference of ranges, was obtained from the mean
of only three days' observations, to which I have no hesitation in giving a much
smaller value than to three days in August. Besides this, however, upon taking five
of the greatest ranges obtained in the June observations, during which the instru-
ment seemed moderately steady, I find

Mean ranges from the June observations                                                                                                                                                              .  .  { MaStoun* 18'"?0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 .

or almost exactly the same. I consider, therefore, that the August observations

may be taken as conclusive, that the difference of ranges at the two stations is not

more than one-tenth of a minute, the greatest range probably occurring on Cheviot.
   2nd. The maximum of westerly declination occurs rather sooner, or nearer noon,

at the highest station.

   This conclusion was also arrived at from the June observations. I have projected

the differences of the ordinates of the curves for Cheviot and Makerstoun on ten
times the scale : from this projection it will be seen that the declination magnet
moves more rapidly westwards in the forenoon at the upper than at the lower sta-
tion, and that it begins to move eastward again at the upper station sooner than at
the lower, so that the difference of ordinates diminishes with the greatest rapidity
for two or three hours after the maximum. I have also projected the difference of
: :;

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                    9

the ordinates from the June observations, to show the agreement of both series in
the conclusion, that the maximum westerly declination occurs nearest noon at the

higher station.

   Observations were made both in June and in August at the foot of the hill, but
no greater difference from the simultaneous Makerstoun observations appeared than
could be explained by errors of observation.

On the Mechanical Compensation of the Bifilar and Balance Magnets for
   Variations of the Magnetic Moment with Temperature. By J. A. Broun,

   F.R.S.E.

   The bifilar magnetometer consists of a magnet suspended by two wires or threads,
by twisting which, the magnet is forced to a position at right angles to that which
it would naturally occupy, namely, at right angles to the magnetic meridian. The
equation of equilibrium between X, the earth's horizontal magnetic force acting on
m, the magnetic moment of the bar, and W, the weight of the magnet seeking the
lower position, from which it has been raised by the twisting of the wires, is as

follows

                                     9bX=W-- sinv,

where a is the interval of the wires, and I is their length, and v is the angle of twist.

If we suppose X, W, and v to be constant, then the magnet may change its posi-

tion from variations of m, a, and I, all of which vary with temperature. It is the
elimination of changes of position due to the variations of these three quantities

that is so essential to obtain from this instrument the variations of the horizontal
magnetic force. I shall not enter upon the troublesome, not to say inexact pro-

mcesses which have been adopted in order to determine the variation of with tem-

perature : the changes due to variations of a and I are computed from the known
coefficients of expansion of the metal which separates the wires, and of the metal of

the wires.

   Differentiating the previous equation, and reducing, we find the coefficient, q, for

the temperature correction to be

                      -- +q=. 2e-- e',
                                           m

where e is the coefficient of expansion for the metal which separates the wires, brass
and e' is the coefficient of expansion for the wires, generally silver : since when brass
and silver are the two metals, e is nearly equal to e', we shall have

                                 5= Am  ,
                                 m
                                        he,

where e may be supposed to represent the expansion of the interval of the wires at

the top, the expansion of the length of the wires being compensated by the expan-

Wesion of their interval below.  shall now make

                         --q^O when m = --e,

that is to say, when the interval of the wires at the top has a contraction coefficient

_^equal to the value of  for 1 ° Fahr. The physical explanation of this destruction

--of q is evident : the contraction of the interval of the wires diminishes the force

with which the north end of the magnet is kept /row the north, while the reduction
of the magnetism of the bar by the same increase of temperature diminishes the
force with which it is pulled to the north by the earth's magnetism.

 --The following is the process by which I obtain the required contraction Let the

upper extremities of the wires be attached to the ends of two brass rods, which ap-

proach each other within an interval equal to the diameter of the lower wheel
which separates the wires, and let the other ends of the brass rods he fixed to a beam
of wood, so that an increase of temperature will cause the /ree ends of the rods to
approach each other, by an amount equal to the difference of their expansion and
that of the wooden beam to which they are fixed ; the contraction required is ob-
                                                                    --

--JO REPORT 1850.

tained whpn a proper length of brass rod is employed. In the case of Sir Thomas

--Brisbane's bifilar  for 1° Fahr.^O"000266, the interval of the wires is nearly half
m

an inch, and therefore the brass rods would require to be each about 7i inches long,
in order that the interval be diminished 0"000266 of itself (the coeflScient of con-
traction), or 0'000133 inch, the difference of the coefficients of expansion of brass
and wood being assumed equal to O"OO00085. Magnets with a temperature coeffi-
cient of 0*0001 would require brass rods of 3 ipches in length, or smaller, ^s the
interval of the wires is less than half an inch.

   I propose the following process for the compensation of the balance magnet :
Let a brass rod he fixed to the magnet near its south end, but free to expand towards
the north, and having its centre of gravity near the centre of motion ; it is obvious
that when the temperature increases, the north end of the magnet rises, from the
diminution of its magnetic moment, but at the same time the expansion of the

brass rod towards the north end will tend to depress it ; by a proper regulation
therefore of the length and weight of this brass rod (which will depend upon the
weight of the needle and the distance of the centre of gravity from the centre of

motion), the two effects of temperature may be made to destroy each other. For

--the Makerstoun balance, for which ^0*00008, I have computed that a brass rod

                                           m

10 inches long, one-thirtieth the weight of the needle, placed as has been proposed,
would compensate nearly for the variation of the magnetic moment.

    In both cases such computation could only be considered as guides to the instni-
ment-maker, who, by experiments at different temperatures, might be able to attain

a very accurate compensation.
   These compensations, it is conceived, will be most useful, especially for self-re-

gistering apparatuses. For other instruments, should the compensation not be quite
perfect, while it would serve for all large variations, it might be insufficient for more
delicate investigations ; for these, however, the residual temperature coefficient could
be obtained from the observations themselves, by the process which I have adopted
in the correction of the Makerstoun observations.

On the Construction of Silk Suspension Threads for the Declination
             Magnetometer. By J. A. Broun, F.R.S.E.

   Till the year 1777 the magnetic declination was observed by means of a magnetic
needle balanced upon a steel pivot, as in the common mariner's compass ; the amount
of friction in this mode of placing the needle rendered it unfit for any delicate in-

vestigation, and the French Academy of Sciences, which had observed this deficiency,
proposed the improvement of the suspension as the subject of a prize. Coulomb, who

wrote one of the papers crowned, proposed in 1777 suspension by means of a thread
formed of the silk fibres from the cocoon. This suspension was adopted immediately

afterwards by Domenic Cassini, although the cup and pivot were used by others, as

by Gilpin, in the present century. The importance of the subject will be easily

understood when it is remembered that the labour of years and one of the chief ob-
jects in the formation of magnetic observatories, may be frustrated by a bad sus-

pension thread.

 --The suspension thread acts in the following manner : As the thread is composed

of a series of fibres more or less twisted, the plane of detorsion, that is the vertical
plane in which an unmagnetic bar will rest when suspended, is determined by the

composition of a series of opposing forces : if the torsion of the individual fibres be

at all considerable, very small motions of the magnet will cause them to occupy

slightly different positions, or moderate changes of humidity acting to a greater ex-
tent upon the external than the internal fibres, and upoq some of the external fibres

more than upon others, will change the plane of equilibriupi, and in this way force

the magnet from its true position.  »

    Cassini, in order to avoid these sources of error, formed his thread in the follow-

--ing manner : Having cut the fibre into proper lengths, he stretched them singly

by means of weights ; he then joined them together and passed the thread thus
               ---- --                                                                                     --

               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                               II

formed several times between bis fingers, which had been dipped in slightly gummed

water : after leaving the thread with a weight suspended for twenty-four hours,
he again passed the thread between his fingers, which were greased with tallow*.
Cassini's observations were made in the Paris Observatory and in the caves be}ow;
as far as can be judged from their monthly means, fhe threads seem to have per-
formed very indifferently. Since Cassini's time the improvement of the suspension

thread seems to have made very little progress ; in general the thread has been

formed by the combination of a series of fibres, or by a reduplication of the same

fibre, without any preparation, and just as it has been found on the reel. M. Kupflfer,

apparently despairing of satisfactory results from a silk suspension, substituted

silver wires in the Russian declinometers ; a similar suspension has also been

adopted by M. Quetelet at Brussels. This seems to me a step backwards. Indeed

M. Nervander of Helsingfors has found that such suspension cannot be trusted,
since the wires are so affected by temperature, that when an unmagnetic bar is sus-
pended it has a considerable diurnal motion ; a fact which I had suspected apd had

pointed out as a probable source of error in determining the temperature coefficient

of the bifilar magnet. M. Nervander has proposed to form the suspension thread

by moistening with hot water the fibre cut into lengths, and submitting each length

in this state to a considerable tension before combining to form the thread- I formed

the thread for the declinometer in Sir Thomas Brisbane's Observatory at Makers-

--toun in the year 1843 in the following manner : I had observed that the fibre,

which is wound on a reel and termed untwisted silk, has in reality a considerable

twist ; each fibre is not simple but compound, and the simple fibres are at first more
or less twisted around each other, as may be easily understood when the operation

of forming the compound fibre from the cocoon is considered ; the further process
of reeling also induces a considerable twist. I first, therefore, removed all twist
from the compound fibre by running as much as would form twenty-two times the
length of the required thread between the finger and thumb, and then wound the

continuous fibre on two smooth pins placed at the requisite distance, so that no

twist should be introduced in the act of winding ; after tying the extremities, a hook

carrying a weight was inserted in place of the lower pin ; the thread being formed

of one continuous fibre was thus free to move round the upper pin and the weight-

hook till each length bore nearly an equal strain. After the weight had been sus-

pended for some time, the fibres were tied firmly together at short intervals by small

pieces of cotton thread. This suspension has performed very well for seven years.

Up to the present time, however, I am unacquainted with any comparative observa-

tions with different!)' constructed suspension threads. In the end of June I requested
Mr. Hogg, an Assistant in Sir Thomas Brisbane's Observatory, to construct, as

carefully as possible, three threads ; one according to Cassini's process, one by M.
Nervander's, and one by my own. Each thread was formed of the same number of

lengths of fibre ; they were suspended in the same closed box with glass sides ; each
carried a weight of nearly a pound, with a small index for reading the variations of
the plane of detorsion. The torsion forces of the three threads were in the foUow-

ings ratios :  = UCassini : Nervander : Brown 12 : : Q.

From twenty-five days' observations the mean changes of the plane of detorsion from
day to day, independent of sign, were

               Cassjni 2°-5 ;  N?rvander 2°-l ;  Brown 2°0
                                                                                                        ;

or reducing to the same torsion force, the ratios of the variations of the plane of de-

torsion were   = = =Cassini 30 ; Nervander 23 ; Brown 12.

The differences of the variations of the plane of detorsion between 7 p.m. and 4 p.m.
are fully more marked ; when reduced to the same torsion force, the ratios were

               = = =Cassini 46 ; Nervander 37 ; Brown 14.

So that the thread prepared according to my own process is at least twice as good

               * Journal de Physique, t. xl. p. 344.
                        --;

--12 REPORT 1850.

as M. Nervander's, and thrice as good as Cassini's, when the variations from day
to day are considered. When however we consider the total difference of the ex-

treme positions of the weight-indexes during the whole period, the ratios for the

same torsion force are

= = =Cassini
                        26 ; Nervander  14 ; Brown            18
                                                                          ;

in which case M. Nervander's construction has the advantage ; it is my belief how-

ever that this advantage would not continue, and that when the threads have been

suspended for a longer period my own thread will show also less amplitude of the total

variation. I should remark, that I believe the conditions in the preparation of the

threads were as nearly as possible equal. IMr. Hogg had never made a thread

before according to either construction, and he removed the torsion from the fibre

for each of the threads, which was taken from the same reel.

--Photography. On a New Instrument called the Dynactinometer for com.'

   paring the Pmver of Object- Glasses, andfor measuring the Intensity of the

  Photogenic Light. By M. Claudet.

   The author announced several years ago (in 1844) that in achromatic lenses the
photogenic focus did not coincide with the visual focus. Until that discovery no
photographer was certain of obtaining a well-defined picture, because the image pro-
duced on the ground glass was no guide for the correctness of the photogenic image
which was at a different focus. Soon after M. Lerebours of Paris investigated the
subject, explained the cause of the difference, and indicated the means to avoid it.
Since that time opticians have endeavoured to construct lenses in which the two foci
agree, but M. Claudet proves that it is impossible to construct lenses in which the
two foci generally agree for all the distances of objects, and with all the modifications
and the quality of light. He has lately discovered that there is a continued varia-
tion between these two foci, and he enumerates a series of experiments which prove
the truth of this fact and render necessary new formulae for photogenic optical com-
binations. The author observes that a good telescope may make a very bad camera
obscura, and a good camera a very bad telescope. He has by many experiments
proved that the lenses the most active in the photogenic operation are those in which
the two foci are the most separated, and for that reason he prefers these last.

   In order to elucidate this phsenomenon and generally to compare the power of all
kind of lenses, he has contrived an instrument which he calls Dynactinometer, and
which fulfills this double object. The instrument is composed of two discs, one
black and the other white, each having a slit so arranged that the black disc can by
a gradual superposition cover the whole white disc ; this last is marked with divisions
like a watch-dial. In placing two cameras supplied with two different lenses before
the dynactinometer, and making it revolve gradually by the hand, two Daguerreotype
plates, placed one in each camera, receive at the same moment the image of the dial
and as the black disc stops the effect on the segment as long as it covers it, it is
evident that a greater power in one lens will show each corresponding segment more
intense than the other. These segments being numbered, it is easy, in comparing
the two segments on each plate, having the same intensity, to judge by the number

the proportion of the effect. This is the principle of the dynactinometer ; by it M.
Claudet has been able to observe that two spaces of the same area, taken one in the

centre and the other near the circumference of the lens, although giving the same
intensity of light, do not produce the same intensity of photogenic action, and also
that lenses do not always present the same comparative power. From these facts
he argues, that when the yellow rays are more or less abundant, they, by their known
antagonistic action, interfere more or less with the photogenic effect, and that they
destroy it when they are in certain proportions. This enabled him to offer an hy-
pothesis of the cause of the variations between the two foci. The central parts of
the surface of a lens concentrate with the photogenic rays more yellow rays than the
other parts, and when these yellow rays are in excess they neutralize the action of the
photogenic rays. In this case the centre does not operate photogenically, although

it contributes to the visual image ; the central photogenic rays being less refracted
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.          13

than the rays near the circumference, the mean refrangibility of the photogenic rays
alters according to the parts of the object-glass which operate photogenically ; hence

when the yellow rays are abundant the mean refrangibility of the photogenic rays is

proportionally increased, because the centre does not contribute to the photogenic
image. The colour of the glass of the lenses has also an influence in the concen-
tration of yellow rays, their chromatic correction another ; hence the anomaly of
the same light aifecting diiferently the separation of various object-glasses. The
dynactinometer can also be applied for measuring the intensity of the photogenic

light at any moment ; and as a regular motion is required for this object, the move-

ment is given to the black disc by means of clockwork.

Report of a Committee appointed to examine the Effects produced by Light-

    ning on a Tree near Edinburgh. By Professor Phillips, F.R.S.

   The tree in question stands in the grounds of Mr. Wauchope, at Edmonstone,
about four miles from Edinburgh, on the Dalkeith road. The surface slopes gently
to the north ; the substrata are part of the coal formation, and contain at a small
depth an abundance of the rich ' black band ' ironstone. The locality appears re-

markably liable to lightning strokes ; several other trees having been destroyed there

since 1834.

   The tree examined by the Commitee was struck on the 11th of June 1849, on a

still sultry day. It is an oak-tree ; it stood in rather a clear space, the surrounding

trees being chestnut, elm, &c. It was a large tree (14 feet in girth) ; but there were

others as high, and of rather greater diameter. When struck it was full of sap.

The mechanical effects of the lightning were violent. The main trunk of the tree,

which appears to have stood about 12 feet high before sending off branches, was

rent from top to bottom ; some of the branches were broken off; all were thrown

down and implicated together, and for some distance upward fissured and twisted :

some of the roots were split a yard or more from the stem. A large mass from the

northern side of the tree was driven out, and carried through the air 1 27 feet, in the
direction of the magnetic meridian, to N.N.W. Its weight was 2i cwt.

The main stem was entirely denuded of the bark, which was scattered widely

around, but most abundantly in a direction opposite to that in which the log of

wood was conveyed. Shreds of wood were carried to the north-west and left hang-

ing in the trees.

   What remained standing of the stem, as well as the parts which had been dis-

placed, was cleft into wedges, by vertical radiating fissures parallel to the laminae of

medullary rays ; and these wedges were again cleft by other vertical fissures con-

centric to the axis of the tree, and coinciding with the annual bands of large vertical
vessels, which are conspicuous in cross sections of the oak. Where these cleavages
produced the fullest effect, the wood was divided into long slender prismatic shreds
like lucifer matches. These split masses were much twisted.

   For all these pheenomena a simple mechanical cause appears sufficient, viz. an
internal expansion and bursting of the main stem of the tree, along the surfaces

which, by the structure of the tree, admitted of the most easy separation, and con-

tained at the time abundance of liquid sap, capable of assuming the form and force

of elastic vapour. Hence, in the first place, the destruction of the main stem by
explosion ; the projection of the bark and woody fragments, and the minute and
regular cleavage of the fibres. The stem being destroyed as a support, the branches

fell in ruinous aggregation round it.

   It appears that a laburnum-tree, situated about 12 yards to the east, had been
twice struck by lightning, first (I believe) in 1834, and again in 1844. It was split,

but not barked.

  An elm, situated about 100 yards to the north, was struck, and in like manner
split, but not barked. These differences may perhaps be due to the difference of
structure in the wood ; but in all cases, before attempting to explain the phsenomena

observed as the effects of lightning, it is desirable to be informed of the time of

year when the trees were struck.

The precise points of entrance and exit of the lightning cannot be stated in the

Acase now before us.  small quantity of black powder was found in the fissured
14 REPORT 1850.

parts of the wood, at the base of the twisted branches, but nothing was observed
which could determine the cause bt the chemical effects of the electrical agent*.

On Isoclinal Magnetic Lines in Yorkshire. By Professor Phillips, F.R.S.

   The author stated, that about fifteen years since, in the course of some experi-
mental researches on terrestrial magnetism, his attention was caught by the appa-
rently deep flexures of the isoclinal lines in Yorkshire, flexures certainly independent
of local magnetic polarities. As a general inference from his inquiries, he suggested
the dependence of these flexures on the physical configuration of the country, the
isoclinals advancing northward on and toward the hills, and retiring southward in
the valleys. (See Brit. Assoc. Reports for 1836, p. 51.)

   The observations on which this conclusion was based, were made by means of in-
struments which the author had himself constructed. For verification of these and
other results, he procured, in 1837, an excellent six-inch dip circle of Robinson, and
has now obtained an additional set of determinations with this new instrument,
which may be confidently trusted, with careful manipulation and in magnetic weather
not unfavourable, to one minute of a degree or less.

   The results, being collected either by combination into five lines nearly parallel to
the magnetic meridian, or into groups which represent separately the elevated and
depressed portions of the surface, agree with the inferences which were presented to
the Association in 1836 ; the isoclinals retiring southward in the vale of York, and
advancing northward both on the eastern and the western hills.

   The author showed the general probability of this result from other sources of
evidence, remarking on the fact, that in plain and evencountries thelocal isoclinals vvere
parallel to or deviated but little from the general isoclinals obtained by the rnethod
of least squares, while in the hilly districts, as the Curnbrian tract. North Wales,
South Wales, and the mountain tracts of Ireland, the local isoclinals were much but
still systematically bent from their general direction, and sometimes (as between
Criffel and Skiddaw) crowded together in a singular manner.

   He noticed as desirable, for the complete reduction of delicate observations of this
nature, a set (3f careful measures on the diurnal variation of dip. His own researches
on this point indicated a single daily progression, with a maximum at 9 a.m., mean
at 3 P.M., and minimum at 9 p.m. The hours however, and the amount of diff'er-
ence from maximum to minimum, appeared subject to much fluctuation. On an

average about three minutes appeared to be the difference (in summer) between
maximum and minimum.

   Possibly the deduction of this variation, by resolving the horizontal and vertical
forces in the direction of total force, would be preferable. [The late researches of

Mr. A. BroUn, by whom the periodical variations of the dip had been traced at

Makerstoun, were here referred to.] The dip at York appeared to be, on an average
of thirteen years, diminishing about 2'-3 in a year. The author proposed to increase
the number of stations to fifty before submitting the results to a final and rigorous
computation.

                 On the Refractive Indices of several Substances.
                By the Rev. frof. Baden Powell, F.R.S. 6fc.

   Having on former occasions endeavoured to extend the list of observed indices for
the standard rays of the solar spectrum given by prisms of different media, by means

of an apparatus described, along with the stdtement of the results, ih my report to
the British Association, 1839, 1 now beg to offer to the Association the indices in like

manner obtained for the four following media. The rare oil of spikenard I received

through a friend from the late Mr. Hatchett, by whom it was carefully prepared
perfectly pure ; for the other three I am indebted to Mr. Nevil Story Maskelyne.

The results in each case are the means of several repetitions. In two instances (the
oils of lavendar and sandal-wood), the absorption of the violet rays (as in so many

   * Since the Report was presfented, Mr. Wauchope has cleared a larger portion of the roots,
and has found them split and blackened considerably.
TRANSACTIONS Oli' Titfe SECTIONS.  15

Hothel- oils) was such as to t-ehder the line very indistinct ; its index is therefore

marked as doubtful.

                                                              ft for the standard rays.
--16 REPORT 1850.

ness of the field are preserved, and the achromatism is not disturbed. It is however
desirable to make the inner surface of the field lens a little convex, as the ray now
passes out of glass into water, and not into air. The Astronomer Royal of Scotland,
after trying the eye-piece upon Saturn, double stars and clusters, expressed a very
decided opinion as to its admirable performance generally, as well as the increased
blackness of the field, owing to the absence of all false light. To avoid some little
trouble arising from the use of water, the author proposes to substitute glass or
rock-crystal for the water, and to cement the surfaces together with Canada balsam ;
but in this case the inner surfaces of the eye and field lens must have a diminished
radius of curvature. It was added, that the use of an eye-hole, exactly as in the
eye-piece of a Gregorian telescope, is not only desirable, but for large object-glasses
indispensable. Without it, the aperture of an object-glass must be reduced to three
or four inches when turned upon the sun, or the dark glasses will infallibly be cracked ;
but with it, all injurious heat is stopped out, and the full aperture can be used as in
the case of a Gregorian of seven or eight inches in diameter. This arises from the
difi"erent refrangibility of the rays of light and heat. In the ordinary use of a prism,
it is well known that the rays of heat are less refrangible than the rays of light, and

are in fact at a maximum beyond the red rays of the spectrum ; but when the sun's
rays are brought to a focus by means of an achromatic object-glass, the author finds
that the point of most intense heat is within the focus of the compound lens. In a

direct experiment with a six-inch object-glass of Tulley's, he found that black glazed
paper was not burnt, but only smoked, when held two inches beyond the focus ; at
one inch it took fire in thirty-nine seconds, at half an inch in twenty-seven seconds,
at the focus in twenty-four seconds, at a quarter of an inchwithin the focus in eleven
seconds, at half an inch within in fourteen seconds, and at one inch within in nine-
teen seconds. Hence it follows, from the different position of the principal foci of
light and heat, that the eye-piece which makes the image rays parallel, leaves the
hot rays divergent and passing to some extent on the outside of the illuminating
rays, and the eye-hole becomes essentially important, not only for the general pur-
pose of stopping out false hght, but particularly for stopping out all injurious heat
during the examination of the sun with large telescopes.

On the Expansion of Solids by Heat. By Richard Roberts.

The author stated, that having some years since added the manufacture of clocks

to his business of machinist, he, in order to be able to construct a good and cheap

compensation pendulum, consulted tables of the expansion of solids published by

many eminent men of science, but found them to differ very considerably ; he there-

fore determined to make a series of experiments upon the various metals specified in

the annexed tables, in which the rods were all thirteen feet long ; the metal and
glass rods were three-quarters of an inch in diameter, whilst those of wood had a

cross section of an inch by one and five-eighths. The metal rods were wrapped in

listing to prevent, as far as possible, any change of temperature during their removal
from the stove to the measuring apparatus. The first experiment was made about

6 A.M., summer and winter, the rod being at the temperature of the atmosphere,

through having lain all night in a shed open at one side. The second experiment

was made about noon, the rods and thermometer having previously been three or

four hours in a stove over a steam-engine boiler. To ensure uniformity of expansion

throughout their length, the rods, whilst in the stove, were placed in a box, which

was suspended at different heights from the boiler, according to the degree of heat

required. The rods were taken out of the stove separately and measured, which

operation, as the apparatus was only a few yards from the stove, occupied only

forty seconds. The third experiment was made three or four hours later in the day,
the rods having again been stoved. The apparatus used for measuring was as

follows : on the outer side of a fire-proof brick building is a flight of steps, the hand-
rail of which is fastened to the wall (27 inches thick) at an angle of 40° to the

horizon, a little beyond the lower end of the hand-rail a piece of planed cast-iron is

wedged securely into the walls, and to it is fastened an angular piece of iron, likewise

planed, whose higher edge coincides with the middle of the first-mentioned piece,

Aand is at right angles to the wall and hand-rail.  little beyond the upper end of

the hand-rail another piece of cast-iron is wedged into the wall, upon which piece
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                    17

are two carriers, through which a micrometer-screw having ten threads to the inch

passes. On the screw, between the carriers, is a brass nut 3J- inches in diametei^,

whose periphery' is divided into a hundred equal parts, therefore the screw (being

prevented from turning by a pin projecting into a groove in the piece supporting the

carriers) will advance through a space equal to joVo^ of ^^ '^ch for each division
through which the nut shall be turned. Pieces of wood are placed on the hand-rail
to support the rod, in a direct line with the apparatus. The expansion has been
ascertained in each case from experiments made on the same day ; consequently the
apparatus could not have altered materially between the compared experiments. The
tables exhibited show the average expansion of the substances enumerated, deduced
from numerous experiments made at temperatures between 30° and 150°Fahr., but
as none of the materials expand in a uniform degree by equal increments of tem-

perature (in some of them the expansion is very anomalous), the author purposes
extending his experiments, with a view of ascertaining the amount of expansion due
to every 10° of temperature, from 30° to 130°, or 140°.

--Table I. Linear expansion for 1° (Fahr.) of the undermentioned materials, obtained at

                  temperatures between 30° and 150°. Average of 60 experiments.

Zinc, cast        ·21385  Bagnall's common iron            ·08503
Zinc, tube ....   ·17714  Daw's best ditto                 ·08481
Block tin, tube   ·19384  Low moor                         ·08452
Block tin, cast.  ·16280  Eglinton, Clyde, and Glenarnock  ·08108
Muntz's metal.    ·13737                                   ·07746
                  ·13200  Steel, cast                      ·07674
Brass, drawn .    ·12585  Steel, shear                     ·07581
Brass, watch .    ·12738                                   ·07499
Gun-metal         ·12132  Langloan (CI. No. 3)             ·05392
Copper, drawn.    ·12111  Langloan, ditto                  ·05144
Copper, cast .
                          Glass, solid
                          Glass, tube

                  Table 1L
 --18 REPORT 1850.

        The first five columns in Table II. show the linear expansion for 1° (Fahr.) of seven
     metals, at temperatures between 32° and 212°, extracted from the works of the author,
    named at the head of each. The last column contains the average linear expansion from a
     series of experiments between 30° and 130°.

                                                             Table IV.
         Amount of e.xpansion and contraction for 1° (Fahr.) of the wooden rods, obtained at

                                                 temperatures between 44° and 80°.

Pine, St. John's.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                              19

On the mode of Disappearance of Newton s Rings in passing'the angle of total

Internal Reflexion. By Professor Stokes, M.A.              \

When Newton's rings are formed between the under surface of a prism and the

upper surface of a lens, there is no difficulty in increasing the angle of incidence so

as to pass through the angle of total internal reflexion. When the rings are ob-

served with the naked eye in the ordinary way, they appear to break in the upper

part on approaching the angle of total internal reflexion, and pass nearly into semi-

circles when that angle is reached, the upper edges of the semicircles, which are in all

cases indistinct, being shghtly turned outwards when the curvature of the lens is small.

The cause of the indistinctness will be evident from the following considerations.

The order of the ring (a term here used to denote a number not necessarily integral)

to which a ray reflected at a given obliquity from a given point of the thin plate of

air belongs, depends partly on the obliquity and partly on the thickness of the plate

at that point. When the angle of incidence is small, or even moderately large, the

rings would not be seen, or at most would be seen very indistinctly, if the glasses

were held near the eye, and the eye were adapted to distinct vision of distant objects,
because in that case the rays brought to a focus at a given point of the retina would

correspond to a pencil reflected at a given obliquity from an area of the plate of air,

the size of which would correspond to the pupil of the eye ; and the order of the rays
reflected from this area would vary so much in passing from the point of contact

outwards that the rings would be altogether confused. When, however, as in the

usual mode of observation, the eye is adapted to distinct vision of an object at the

distance of the plate of air, the rings are seen distinctly, because in this case the rays

proceeding from a given point of the plate of air, and entering the pupil of the eye,

are brought to a focus on the retina, and the variation in the obliquity of the rays

forming this pencil is so small that it may be neglected.

When, however, the angle of incidence becomes nearly equal to that of total in-

ternal reflexion, a small change of obliquity produces a great change in the order of

the ring to which the reflected ray belongs, and therefore the rings are indistinct to an

eye adapted to distinct vision of the surfaces of the glass. They are also indistinct,

for the same reason as before, if the eye be adapted to distinct vision of distant objects.

To see distinctly the rings in the neighbourhood of the angle of total internal re-

flexion, the author used a piece of blackened paper in which a small hole was pierced

with the point of a needle. When the rings were viewed through the needle-hole,

in the light of a spirit-lamp, the appearance was very remarkable. The first dark

band seen within the bright portion of the field of view where the light suffered total

internal reflexion was somewhat bow-shaped towards the point of contact, the next

still more so, and so on, until at last one of the bands made a great bend and passed

under the point of contact and the rings which surrounded it, the next band passing

under it, and so on. As the incidence was gradually increased, the outermost ring

united with the bow-shaped band next above it, forming for an instant a curve with

a loop and two infinite branches, or at least branches which ran out of the field of

view : then the loop broke, and the curve passed into a bulging band similar to that

which had previously surrounded the rings. In this manner the rings, one after

another, joined the corresponding bands till all had disappeared, and nothing was

left but a system of bands which had passed completely below the point of contact,

and the central black spot which remained isolated in the bright field where the light

sufi^ered total internal reflexion. Corresponding appearances were seen with day-

light or candlelight, but in these cases the bands were of course coloured, and not

near so many could be seen at a time.

            On Metallic Reflexion. By Professor Stokes, M.A.

   The effect which is produced on plane- polarized light by reflexion at the sur-
face of a metal, shows that if the incident light be supposed to be decomposed into
two streams, polarized in and perpendicularly to the plane of reflexion respectively,
the phases as well as the intensities of the two streams are differently affected by the
reflexion. It remains a question whether the phase of vibration of the stream po-

larized in the plane of reflexion is accelerated or retarded relatively to that of the

stream polarized perpendicularly to the plane of reflexion. This question was first
decided by the Astronomer Royal, by means of a phenomenon relating to Newton's

                                                                                                     c2
--20 REPORT 1850.

rings when formed between a speculum and a glass plate. Mr. Airy's paper is pub-
lished in the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions. M. Jamin has since been led
to the same result, apparently by a method similar in principle to that of Mr. Airy.
In repeating Mr. Airy's experiment, the author experienced considerable difficulty in
observing the phajnomenon. The object of the present communication was to point
out an extremely easy mode of deciding the question experimentally. Light polar-
ized at an azimuth of about 45° to the plane of reflexion at the surface of the metal
was transmitted, after reflexion, through a plate of Iceland spar, cut perpendicular
to the axis, and analysed by a Nicol's prism. When the angle of incidence was the
smallest with which 'the observation was practicable, on turning the Nicol's prism
properly the dark cross was formed almost perfectly ; but on increasing the angle of

incidence it passed into a pair of hyperbolic brushes. This modification of the rings is
very well known, having been described and figured by Sir D. Brewster in the Phi-

losophical Transactions for 1830. Now the question at issue may be immediately

decided by observing in which pair of opposite quadrants it is that the brushes are
formed, an observation which does not present the slightest difficulty. In this way

the author was led to Mr. Airy's result, namely that as the angle of incidence in-

 creases from zero, the phase of vibration of light polarized in the plane of incidence

is accelerated relatively to that of light polarized in a plane perpendicular to the

 plane of incidence.

               Ok a Fictitious Displacement of Fringes of Interference.

                            By Professor Stokes, 3I.A.

The author remarked that the mode of determining the refractive index of a plate

by means of the displacement of a system of interference fringes, is subject to a

theoretical error depending upon the dispersive power of the plate. It is an extremely
simple consequence (as the author showed) of the circumstance that the bands are
broader for the less refrangible colours, that the point of symmetry, or nearest ap-

proach to symmetry, in the system of displaced fringes, is situated in advance of the
position calculated in the ordinary way for rays of mean refrangibility. Since an

observer has no other guide than the symmetry of the bands in fixing on the centre

of the system, he would thus be led to attribute to the plate a refractive index which

is slightly too great.

AThe author has illustrated this subject by the following experiment.   set of

fringes, produced in the ordinary way by a flat prism, were viewed through an eye-

piece, and bisected by its cross wires. On viewing the whole through a prism of

moderate angle, held in front of the eye-piece with its edge parallel to the fringes, an

indistinct prismatic image of the wires was seen, together with a distinct set of

fringes which lay quite at one side of the cross wires, the dispersion produced bj-the

prism having thus occasioned an apparent displacement of the fringes in the direc-

tion of the general deviation.

    In conclusion, the author suggested that it might have been the fictitious displace-
ment due to the dispersion accompanying eccentrical refraction, which caused some

philosophers to assert that the central band was black, whereas, according to theory,

Ait ought to be white.  fictitious displacement of half an order, which might readily

be produced by eccentrical refraction through the lens or eye-piece with which the

fringes were viewed, would suffice to cause one of the two black bands of the first

order to be the band with respect to which the system was symmetrical.

On Kaidinger's Brushes. By Professor Stokes, M.A.

It is now several years since these brushes were discovered, and they have since

been observed by various philosophers, but the author has not met with any ob-

servations made with a view of investigating the action of different colours in

producing them. The author's attention was first called to the subject, by ob-

serving that a green tourmaline, which polarized light very imperfectly, enabled him

to see the brushes very distinctly, while he was unable to make them out with a

brown tourmaline which transmitted a much smaller quantity of unpolarized light.

He then tried the effect of combining various coloured glasses with a Nicol's prism.

A Ared glass gave no trace of brushes.  brownish yellow glass, which absorbed

Aonly a small quantity of light, rendered the brushes very indistinct.  green glass

enabled the author to see the brushes rather more distinctly than they were seen in
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                             21

Athe light of the clouds viewed without a coloured glass.  deep blue glass gave

brushes of remarkable intensity, notwithstanding the large quantity of light absorbed.

With the green and blue glasses, the brushes were not coloured, but simply darker

than the rest of the field.

   To examine still further the office of the different colours in producing the brushes

seen with ordinary daylight, the author used a telescope and prism mounted for

showing the fixed lines of the spectrum. The sun's light having been introduced

into a darkened room through a narrow slit, it was easy, by throwing the eye-piece

a little out of focus, to form a pure spectrum on a screen of white paper, placed a

foot or two in front of the eye-piece. On examining this spectrum with a Nicol's

prism, which was suddenly turned round from time to time through about a right

angle, the author found that the red and yellow did not present the least trace of

brushes. The brushes began to be visible in the green, about the fixed line E of

Fraunhofer. They became more distinct on passing into the blue, and were parti-

cularly strong about the line F. The author was able to trace them about as far as

Gthe line ; and when they were no longer visible, the cause appeared to be merely

the feebleness of the light, not the incapacity of the greater part of the violet to

produce them. With homogeneous light, the brushes, when they were formed at

all, were simply darker than the rest of the field, and, as might have been expected,

did not appear of a different tint. In the blue, where the brushes were most distinct,

it appeared to the author that they were somewhat shorter than usual. The con-

trast between the more and less refrangible portions of the spectrum, in regard to

their capability of producing brushes, was most striking. The most brilliant part

of the spectrum gave no brushes ; and the intensity of the orange and more refran-
gible portion of the red, where not the slightest trace of brushes was discoverable,

was much greater than that of the more refrangible portion of the blue, where the

brushes were formed with great distinctness, although ccsteris paribus a consider-

able degree of intensity is favourable to the exhibition of the brushes.

These observations account at once for the colour of the brushes seen with ordi-

nary daylight. Inasmuch as no brushes are seen with the less refrangible colours,

and the brushes seen with the more refrangible colours consist in the removal

of a certain quantity of light, the tint of the brushes ought to be made up of red,

yellow, and perhaps a little green, the yellow predominating, on account of its

greater brightness in the solar spectrum. The mixture would give an impure yellow,

which is the colour observed. The blueness of the side patches may be merely the
effect of contrast, or the cause may be more deeply seated. If the total illumination

perceived be independent of the brushes, the light withdrawn from the brushes must

be found at their sides, which would account, independently of contrast, both for

the comparative brightness and for the blue tint of the side patches.

The observations with homogeneous light account likewise for a circumstance with

which the author had been struck, namely, that the brushes were not visible by

candlelight, which is explained by the comparative poverty of candlelight in the

more refrangible rays. The brushes ought to be rendered visible by absorbing a

certain quantity of the less refrangible rays, and accordingly the author found that

a blue glass, combined with a Nicol' sprism, enabled him to see the brushes very

distinctly when looking at the flame of a candle. The specimen of blue glass which

showed them best, which was of a tolerab'y deep colour, gave brushes which were

decidedly red, and were only comparatively dark, so that the difference of tint be-

tween the brushes and side patches was far more conspicuous than the difference

of intensity. This is accounted for by the large quantity of extreme red rays which

such a glass transmits. That the same glass gave red brushes with candlelight,

and dark brushes with daylight, is accounted for by the circumstance, that the ratio

which the intensity of the transmitted red rays bears to the intensity of the trans-

mitted blue rays is far larger with candlelight than with daylight.

An Attempt to explaiii the occasional distinct Vision of Rapidly Revolving
                Coloured Sectors. By Prof. Stevelly, LL.D.

   The author exhibited an instrument for whirling cards with coloured sectors on them,
devised by Mr. Grattan of Belfast, to teach his children the effect of combining colours.

He had shown this at the Natural History Society with an application for enabling

painters to determine, experimentally, the mixture of any number of colours, and
--22 REPORT 1850.

their relative proportions to produce the exact effect which they required. This
apparatus he had lent to Prof. Stevelly to show his class ; and while doing so he was

surprised to observe, that while the cards were revolving rapidly, if he suddenly turned

away his head he caught a distinct view of the individual coloured sectors at the

Ainstant he was losing sight of them by a side view.  few weeks before this he had

attended the lectures of Prof. Carlile, of Queen's College, Belfast, on the anatomy

of the eye and of the car ; and had then become aware of a circumstance connected
with the arrangement of the optic nerves and their relation to the retina, which

seemed to him to afford an explanation of this curious fact. The optic filaments

which originated in the right side of the brain and crossed over to the left eye, on

entering that eyeball, only expanded into that part of the retina which spread over

the portion of the eyeball next the nose ; and the similar portion of the retina of the

right eye was supplied by optic filaments which sprang from the left side of the

brain. These nerves, however, were united in their action by commissural fibres,

which stretched in an arch from the one to the other. The other and larger por-

tion of the retina of each eye, and that on which the images of objects as usually

seen were depicted, was formed by filaments which sprang from the brain in each

case on the side next the eye to which they went ; these, after accompanying the

optic filaments of the other eye to the place where they crossed the optic nerve going

to its own eye, turned round with a bend and accompanied the latter in its passage

into the eyeball. These portions of the retina of the different eyes were also united

into one nervous action by the commissure of the retina ; so that the retina of each

eye was divided into two portions,-- the portion next the nose, and the outer and

larger portion ; and these two portions of each eye were supphed by filaments
springing from opposite sides of the brain, and not united in their action by any

commissure or connecting nerve. Now, the consequence of the sudden turn of the

head was, to throw the image from its usual place on to the portion of the retina

next the nose, affecting a new and fresh part of the retina for an instant only, for

the motion of the head instantly interposed the socket of the eye and shut off the

object. The sectors therefore became distinct at that instant, for a similar reason
that in the beautiful experiment of Prof. Wheatstone the electric spark showed them

distinct, viz. the instantaneousness of the impression on a nervous expansion coming

from the opposite side of the brain, and having an entirely distinct action. Prof.

Stevelly hazarded a conjecture, that one use of this arrangement might be to arrest

the attention of the owner of the eye, and direct it from objects in the direction of

the optic axes to those moving objects on the side from which danger might arise.

The use of this to man in his less civilized state, as well as to the lower animals, is

obvious. The accompanying diagram from Mayo, was kindly furnished by Prof.

Carlile, and will render the above descriptions more perspicuous.

     abdc, a'b'd'c', optic tracts ; cfop,

c'f'o'p', optic nerves ; cpp'c'd'd, com-
missure of optic nerves.

    acf, a'c'f, external filaments of the
optic tracts and optic nerves, which
are expanded into the portions of the
retinae j fy,f'(j', most distant from the
nose.

    Mm! , Vim, central filaments of the
optic tracts and optic nerves, which
are expanded into the portions of the

retinae, m'n', mn, nearest to the nose.

    bdd'b', internal filaments of the
optic tracts, which join those tracts
together ; opp'o', internal filaments
of the optic nerves conjoining the
inner portions of the retincc, mre, m'n'.
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                         23

On tJie Theory of Magnetic Induction in Crystalline Substances.
                      By Prof. W. Thomson.

Pliicker's admirable discovery of the directive action experienced by crystals in a

magnetic field, renders it an object of the highest interest to establish a theory of

Amagnetic induction in crystalline substances.  theory founded on Poisson's ori-

ginal suggestion regarding the possible magnetic structure of crystalline matter,

which has exclusive reference to the hypothesis, now universally rejected, of " mag-

netic elements," each containing "northern and southern magnetic fluids" in equal

quantities, could not be received in the present state of science. The author of this

communication stated two principles, involving no physical hypothesis regarding the

ultimate nature of magnetization, which he considered to be a sufficient foundation for

a complete mathematical theory of magnetic induction. One of these, which he calls

the superposition of magnetic inductions, cannot be considered as fully established by

experiment ; but it is probably true, or approximately true, in a great variety of actual

cases, especially those in which the capacity for magnetic induction is very feeble.

On the other hand, it is not probable that it is even approximately applicable to soft
iron in a state of intense magnetization (such as may be produced by electro-mag-

netic means), since it is hardly to be conceived that iron in such a state could be as

open to additional magnetization from another magnet as non-magnetized soft iron.

The theory indicates with clearness and precision how any deviations from this

principle, which experiment may point out, are to be taken account of. The author

proceeded to indicate some of the conclusions which may be drawn by mathematical

reasoning, from the two principles which he had stated, and gave the steps of a demon-

stration of the existence of three axes at right angles to one another in every crystal-

line substance, possessing certain symmetrical properties with reference to inductive

magnetization, in virtue of which they may be called " principal axes of magnetic

induction."

   In conclusion the author remarked, that, although on first reading a paper "on
the Magneto-optic Properties of Crystals " by Messrs. John Tyndall and Hermann

Knoblauch, recently published in the Philosophical Magazine (July), he considered

that there would be some difficulty in reconciling the views of these writers with his

theory yet the opportunity the British Association had afforded him of discussing
                                    ;

personally with Mr. Tyndall some of the points of difference, gave him reason for

hoping that a complete agreement would ultimately be established.

On the Magneto- Optical Properties of Crystals. By John Tyndall.

                            Astronomy, Meteors, Waves.

    On a Sidereal Clock for showing the Arc of Right Asce?ision directly.
                         By Prof. Chevallier, F.R.S.

On the alleged evidence for a Physical Connexion betioeen Stars forming
  Biliary or Multiple Groups, deduced from the Doctrine of Chances. By
   James D. Forbes, F.R.S., Corr. Member of the Institute of France, ^c.

  An opinion has long obtained amongst astronomers that the great number of

cases which occur in the heavens of two or more stars being apparently very close
to one another (constituting what have been called double, triple or multiple stars),
constitutes of itself an argument for a more than apparent connexion between the
members of those groups.

   It is evident that two stars may constitute an apparently double star without

any real proximity between them, merely because a line passing through the eye of

the spectator and the nearer star may, if prolonged into space (no matter how far),

pass somewhere near a second star, whose position would therefore seem almost to
coincide with the first, although the distance which separates them might be indefi-

nitely great. Such stars are sometimes said to be " optically" double. On the other
--24 REPORT 1850.

hand, it may happen that the two stars are really as well as seemingly near, and may
act upon one another by their mutual attractions, after the manner of sun and planet.
Such stars are called " physically" double.

    Nearly a century ago the Kev. John Mitchell attempted to deduce from the theory
of probabilities, the chances against the fortuitous approximation of two or more
stars, supposing the stars generally to be " scattered by mere chance as it might
happen." He concludes that there is a probability of 80 to 1 that the two stars
^ Capricorni are physically connected, and above 500,000 to 1 that the stars of the
Pleiades are so. These results have been implicitly adopted by most subsequent
writers on probabilities and on astronomy.

    The author denies in toto the legitimacy of the influences and the possibility of
putting a numerical value upon such evidences of physical relation. As inductive
presumptions of such a connexion, he admits that they have a certain evidence in
their favour ; but one not more expressible by numbers than that of any physical
theory, such as that of gravity. The author endeavours to show that Mitchell has
confounded the mere expectation of an event which may or may not occur, with the
inherent probability that a particular event which /tns occurred, should happen rather
than any other possible event. He also shows that Mitchell's mathematical ex-
pression of the result of random scattering leads to absurd results, and must there-
fore be erroneous and delusive.

  --The following were stated to the meeting as the results at which the author had

at that time arrived :

    (1.) The fundamental principle of Mitchell is erroneous. The probability ex-
pressed by it is an altogether different probability from what he asserts. His cal-
culations are also apparently inaccurate, in some instances at least.

     (2.) All the numerical deductions of his successors are equally baseless.

   (3.) Were Mitchell's principle just, a perfectly uniform and symmetrical dispo-
sition of the stars over the sky would (if possible) be that which could alone afford no

--evidence of causation, or any interference with the laws of " random ; " a result

palpably absurd.

    (4.) Special collocations, whether («) distinguished by their symmetry, or (/3)
distinguished by an excessive crowding together of stars, or the reverse, inevitably

--force on the reasoning mind a more or less vague impression of causation ; an im-

pression necessarily vague, having nothing absolute, but depending on the previous
knowledge and habits of thought of the individual, therefore incapable of being made
the subject of exact (i. e. mathematical) reasoning.

     On the Distribution of Shooting Stars in the Interplanetary Spaces.
                              By Hexry Hennessy.

   The attention of the writer having been excited by the periodical return and other
remarkable circumstances connected with falls of shooting stars, he proceeded to
examine from the data already obtained, the laws of distribution of these bodies in
space. Adopting the opinion that these masses circulate either in rings or cloud-
like bodies around the sun, the possibility that their distribution may be also de-
pendent on their mean distances from the sun, is brought under consideration. The
position of the orbits of the known groups of aerolites, and also the comparative
numbers expressing the amount falling at different parts of the earth's orbit, would
assist in determining this point. Astronomers appear in general to agree that these
groups circulate within the earth's orbit, and from a calculation made by Kaemtz,
quoted by Dove*, it seems that the greater proportion of aerolites fall during that
half of the year when the earth is near its perihelion. It follows therefore that
shooting stars increase in number in going towards the sun. If this conclusion be
combined with the views of Colonel Portlock respecting fossil aerolites, as stated at
the Swansea meeting of the British Association, it would follow that the earth's mean
distance from the sun has been undergoing a secular diminution since the earlier
geological epochs. An interplanetary resisting medium would account for this
secular inequality, but as observation has not as yet detected it, the truth of the fore-

                                               * Repertorium der Physik, 1841.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  25

going results would require that the periods of geological time should be immense
compared to those of history. It is also evident that the explanation of the former
high temperature at the earth's surface would more than ever require the hypothesis

of its having been once in a state of fusion.

On the Structure of the Lunar Surface and its relation to that of the Earth.

                              By James Nasmyth.

   The subject was illustrated by a series of drawings which the author has executed
by the aid of a powerful telescope, which he has made for himself for the express
purpose of following up his investigations on the subject in question. These appear,
from the drawings exhibited and the description given by Mr. Nasmyth, to afford
striking illustrations of the nature and action of some of those agencies which in
remote periods of the earth's geological history has given to its surface man)^ of its
most remarkable features ; namely, as to the causes of volcanic action, the protrusion
of igneous rocks, the upheaving of mountain ranges, as well as the submersion of ex-
tensive portions of the earth's surface, all of which vast geological phsenomena Mr.
Nasmyth appears to assign to a few grand and simple prime causes, resulting from
the consolidation and alternate contraction of the crust and interior of the earth or
moon, both of which planets appear to have originally been in a molten condition.

   After drawing attention to the vast number and magnitude of crater-formed moun-
tains with which every portion of the moon's surface appears to be covered, Mr.
Nasmyth proceeded to give the reasons for the conclusion that these crater-formed
mountains are really the craters of extinct lunar volcanos pointing out the frequent

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;

occurrence of the central cone, the result of the last eruptive efforts of an expiring

volcano, a feature familiar to all those who have observed volcanic craters on the
earth's surface. This central cone Mr. Nasmyth showed to exist in the majority of
the lunar craters, and thereby drew the conclusion that they were the result of the
same kind of action which has produced craters on the volcanos of the earth.

   The cause of the vast numbers of such volcanic mountains with which the lunar
surface is bespattered was next considered, and traced to the rapid consolidation and
contraction of the crust of the moon, whose mass or bulk being only eV^h of that of
the earth, while its surface is the ^Vth, has in consequence of these proportions a
radiating or heat-dispensing surface four times greater than that of the earth in rela-
tion to its bulk. From this simple geometrical consideration Mr. Nasmyth explained
how it was that, by the rapid cooling and collapse of the crust of the moon on its
molten interior, the fluid matter under the solid crust was by this "hide-binding"
action forced to find an escape through the superincumbent solid crust and come
forth in the great volcanic actions which in some remote period of time have covered
its surface with those myriads of craters and volcanic i'eatures that give to its surface

its remarkable character.

    The cause of the vast magnitude of the lunar craters was next alluded to, and
assigned, as in the former case, to the rapid and energetic collapse of the moon's
crust on its yet molten interior. Tlie action as regards the wide dispersion of the
ejected matter was enhanced by the lightness of the erupted matter, the force of gravity
which gives the quality of weight to matter on the moon as on the earth being very
much less on the surface of the moon than on the earth, so that the collapse action
had to operate on material probably not half the weight of cork bulk for bulk.

    The causes of those vast ranges of mountains seen on the moon's surface were next
touched on ; and Mr. Nasmyth endeavoured to explain them by the continued pro-
gress of the collapse action of the solid crust of the moon crushing down or following
 the contracting molten interior, which by the gradual dispersion of its heat would
retreat from contact with the interior of the solid crust, and permit that to crush
down and so force that portion of the original surface out of the way, and in conse-
 quence of this action assume the form and arrangement of mountain ranges. Mr.
 Nasmyth, in illustration of this important action, adduced the familiar case of the
wrinkling of the surface of an apple, by reason of the contraction of the interior, and
the inability of the surface to accommodate itself to the change otherwise. The
 mountain ranges in question Mr. Nasmyth considers to be nothing more or less than
--26 REPORT 1850.

the material which in the original expanded globe formed the comparatively level
crust of the moon.

   The fall of the unsupported crust on the retreating nucleus was described to
yield a verj' probable explanation of the appearance of granitic and igneous centres
of certain mountain ranges, as well as the injection of igneous rocks in the form of
trap dykes and basaltic formations, which appear to have come forth in this manner
from below the crust of the earth, and to have overlaid formations of comparatively

very recent formation.

   The partial and gradual retreat of the molten interior or nucleus from the solidi-
fied crust was in like manner suggested as the most probable cause of the submer-
sion of large portions of what had previously been dry land, causing when on a
comparatively small scale " Bason formations," and when on a vast scale, and with
more sudden action, occasioning the influx of the ocean over the submerged conti-
nent, the waters hurling along with them fragments of rock, denuding the surface of
the submerged land, and scattering its surface with the wreck in the form of boulders,
gravel, sand and clay.

   Mr. Nasmyth suggests the above contracting theory to the most earnest and care-
ful attention of geologists, as the most probable and satisfactory explanation of the
cause of those vast torrents, of which the boulder and gravel-covered surface of ex-
tensive districts of the earth yield the most striking evidence. Thus have we then,
in this grand but simple action of the progressive collapse of the crust of the earth
following down after the retreat of the contracting interior, the cause of those tre-
mendous earthquakes, the evidence of which is so clearly indicated by faults and dis-

located strata.

   The origin or cause of those bright lines which radiate from certain volcanic centres
on the moon's surface (Tycho for instance) is alluded to, and illustrated by a very
striking experiment of causing the surface of a globe of glass filled with water to col-
lapse on the fluid interior by rapidly contracting the surface while the water has no
means of escape. The result was the splitting or cracking up of the surface of the
globe in a multitude of radiating cracks, which bear the most remarkable similarity
to those on the moon. l\1r. Nasmyth further illustrated this subject by reference to
the manner in which the surface of a frozen pond may be made to crack by pressure
from beneath, so yielding radiating cracks from the centre of divergence where the
chief discharge of water will take place, while simultaneously all along the lines of
radiating cracks the water will make its appearance ; thus explaining how it is that
the molten material, which had in like manner been under the surface of the moon
during that period of its history, came forth simultaneously up through the cracks,
and appeared on the surface as basaltic or igneous overflow, irrespective of surface
inequalities. INIr. Nasmyth concluded his address by an earnest appeal to his geo-
logical hearers to test the correctness of what he had advanced, by a careful inspec-
tion of those vast natural records of the changes which the earth's surface has under-
gone, of which our mountains, hills and valleys are the mighty monuments, and
which shadow forth in characters which science can trace, past events of the most
surpassing interest and grandeur, inasmuch as they are the evidences of the handi-
work of the all-wise Creator when preparing the earth for the advent of man.

On Atlantic Waves, their Magnitude, Velocity, and Phcenomena. By W.

   ScoRESBY, D.D., F.R.S. L. <^ E., Member of the Institute of France,

    Americaji Institute, Philadelphia, ^c.

    During two passages across the Atlantic in 1847-48, 1 had opportunities for inves-
tigating certain elements respecting deep-sea waves, more favourable than had ever

before occurred within my experience in navigation. These opportunities being

made available for investigation on every occasion presenting any matter of interest
within the time occupied by the steam-ships in which I sailed, 1 now give the results

--as a small contribution towards this branch of natural science the phaenomena of

great waves.
    These observations, it should be noted in the outset, and the results deduced from

them, were entirely uninfluenced by, and separate from, theory. They form but a
                                                                                                                           ;

                 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                             2?

contribution, as I have said, to this interesting branch of natural phsenomena, but

I offer them to the Section the more readily from the circumstance of their entire

independency and speciaHty ; and because of the testing which they may derive from
Mr. Scott Russell, now present, whose laborious and valuable researches on waves

have contributed so much to our information.

  On my outward passage from Ijiverpool to Boston, United States, in October

1847, we had a rather hard gale a-head, or nearly a-head, against which, however,
notwithstanding the high sea, we were always enabled to make a surprisiag degree
of progress. On this occasion we had a somewhat heavy sea. In the most elevated
position which I attained, the height of the eye being about 22 feet above the line
of flotation of the ship (the Cambria), the greater proportion of the waves did not

rise so high as to intercept the horizon ; the average height, consequently, (reckon-

ing from the hollow to the ridge,) was not so much as the elevation of my position.

A minor proportion, however, of the waves, comprising about one in four or five,

rose so high, in an extended range, as completely to conceal the horizon. These I

estimated at 4 or 6 feet above the horizon, giving 26 or 28 feet for their elevation.

And this, I apprehend, except in the case of incidental elevations in " topping" or

crossing waves, was the highest. But the mean elevation, during this really turbu-
lent sea, must have been very much less ; I should suppose scarcely reaching 18 or

20 feet.

   It was on our return voyage from America, however, that the highest seas occurred,
when the circumstances adapted for interesting observations were singularly favour-
able ; for, whilst the magnitude and the pecuUar construction of the upper works of
the ship, the Hibernia, afforded various platforms of determinate elevation above the
line of flotation for observations on the height of the waves, the direction of the

ship's course, with respect to that of waves, was generally so nearly similar as to

yield the most advantageous agreement or accordance for observations on their width

myand velocity. These observations I shall extract, in their order, from  journal kept

during the homeward passage.

My first observation, worth recording, is under the date of March 5, 1848, when
                                                                  38° 50' W.
the ship was in  latitude  about  51°, and  longitude  (at noon)                                                        ;  the wind

then being about W.S.W., and the ship's course, true N. 52° E. At sunset of the

4th the wind blew a hard gale, which, with heavy squalls, had continued during the

night, so that all sail was taken in but storm-stay-sail forward. The barometer

stood at 29-50 at 8 p.m. ; but fell so rapidly as to be at 28-30 by 10 the next

morning.
   In the afternoon of this day I stood some time on the saloon deck or cuddy roof,

a height, with the addition of that of the eye, of 23 ft. 3 in. above the line of flota-

tion of the ship, watching the sublime spectacle presented by the turbulent waters.

I am not aware that I ever saw the sea more terribly magnificent. I was anxious

to ascertain the height of these mighty waves ; but found almost evei-y wave rising

so much above the level of the eye, as indicated by the intercepting of the horizon

of the sea in the direction in which they approached us, as to yield only the mini-

mum elevation, and to show that the great majority of these rolling masses of water

possessed a height of onsiderably more than 24 feet (including depression as well as

altitude), or, reckoning from the mean level of the sea, of more than 12 feet.
   Exposed as the situation was, I then adventured to the port paddle-box, which

was about 7 feet higher, where the level (as ascertained afterwards at Liverpool,
allowance being made for the alteration in the draught of water of the ship) was

24 feet 9 inches above the sea. This position, with 5 feet 6 inches, the height of

my eye, gave an elevation altogether of 30 feet 3 inches for the level of the view then

obtained ; a level, it should be remarked, which was very satisfactorily maintained

during the instants of observation, because of the whole of the ship's length being
occupied within the clear " trotigh of the sea," and in an even and upright position,

whilst the nearest approaching wave had its maximum altitude.

   Here, also, I found at least one-half of the waves which overtook and passed the

ship were far above the level of my eye. Frequently I observed long ranges (not

acuminated peaks) extending 100 yards, perhaps, on one or both sides of the ship

the sea then coming nearly right aft, which rose so high above the visible horizon
as to form an angle estimated at 2 to 3 degrees (say 2^°), when the distance of the
--28 REPORT 1850.

wave summit was about 100 yards from the observer ; this would add near 13 feet
to the level of the eye. And this measure of elevation was by no means uncommon,

occurring, I should think, at least once in half-a-dozen waves. Sometimes peaks of
crossing or crests of breaking seas would shoot upward at least 10 or 15 feet

higher.

  The average wave was, I believe, fully equal to that of my sight on the paddle-

                      --=1530  feet, or upward ; and the mean highest waves, not in-

box, or more, that is

cluding the broken or acuminated crests, about 43 feet above the level of the hol-

low occupied at the moment by the ship.

Illuminated as the general expanse not unfrequently was, by the transient sun-

beam breaking through the heavy masses of the storm-cloud, and, contrasting its

--silvery light with the prevalent gloom, yielding a wild and partial glare, the mighty

-- --hills of waters rolling and foaming as they pursued us, whilst the gallant and buoy-

ant ship a charming " sea-boat " rose abaft as by intelligent anticipation of their

attack, as she scudded along, so that their irresistible strength and fierce momentum

--were harmlessly spent beneath her and on her outward sides, the storm falling

tiercelj' on the scanty and almost denuded spars and steam-chimney raised aloft,

--still indicating its vast, but as to ua, innoxious, power in deafening roarings, alto-

gether this presented as grand a storm-scene as I ever witnessed, and a magnificent
example of "the works of the Lord," specially exhibited to sea-going men, "and

His wonders in the deep."

In the afternoon of the same day the gale again increased, blowing, especially

during the continuance of a much-protracted hail-shower, terrifically, roaring like

thunder, whilst we scudded before it, causing the ship to vibrate as by a sympathetic
tremor, and the tops of rolling waves, too tardy, rapid as was their actual progress,

for the speed of the assailing influence, to be carried off and borne along on the

aerial wings in a perfect drift of spray ! But during the period of these most

vehement operations of nature I was fortunately enabled, from familiarity with sea

myenterprise, to pursue  observations with entire satisfaction.

The next day, March 6th, added to the interest of these investigations, by deve-

loping the character of the Atlantic waves under a long and fiercely continued influ-

ence of a little varying wind. It had blown a heavy gale, violent in the showers,

from the north-westward, from Saturday evening the 4th to the evening of Sunday,
from twenty-six to thirty hours ; during the night, too, of Sunday it had again blown
hard (abating towards the morning of Monday), and making a total continuance of

the storm, in its violence, of about thirty-six hours*.

   I renewed my observations on the waves at 10 a.m., the storm having been then

subdued for several hours, and the height of the waves having perceptibly subsided.
Still, I observed, when standing on the saloon-deck, that ten waves, in one case,

came in succession, which all rose above the apparent horizon, consequently they
must have been more than 23 feet; probably the average might be about 26 feet from
ridge to hollow. At this period I also found that occasionally (that is, once in
about four or live minutes) three or four waves in succession, as seen from the
paddle-box, rose above the visible horizon ; hence they must, like those of the pre-
ceding day, have been 30-feet waves. But one important difference should be noted,
viz. that they were of no great extent on the ridge, presenting, though more than

mere conical peaks, but a moderate elongation.
    Another subject of consideration and investigation, on this occasion, was the period

of the regular waves overtaking the ship, and the determination, proximately, of the
actual width or intervals, and their velocity.

    1. The ship was then going nine knots only, the free action of the engines being
greatly interfered with by the heavy sea running ; and the hues of direction of the
waves' and the ship's course differed about 22^ degrees, the sea being two points on
the larboard quarter ; in other words, the true course of the ship was east ; the di-

rection /ro?» whence the sea came was W.N.W.

   * The barometer on Saturday at 8 p.m. was at 29-50 ; at 6 a.m. of Sunday it had fallen
to 28-30, being 1-2 inch in ten hours ; at 6 p.m. of the latter day it had risen to 30-00

inches.
                     --

                     TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.           29

2. The periods of regular waves, in incidental series, overtaking the ship, were ob-

served as follows :        Waves.           Min. See. Mean.

                           20 occupied 5 30=16"-5

                           10 ,, 2 35=15 -5

                           10 ,, 2 50=17 -0

                           10 ,, 2 45=16 -5

                           8 ,, 2 16=17 -0

                           General average  16 '5

   3. The length of the ship was stated to be 220 feet. The time taken bj^a regular
wave to pass from stern to stem, appeared, on a mean of several observations, to be

about six seconds.

   Hence 6" : 220 ft. (the width passed over in that time) : : 16'5 to C05 feet (the
width passed over betwixt crest and crest). But this extent, by reason of the obli-

quity of the direction of the waves to the course of the ship, is found to be elongated
about 45 feet, reducing the probable mean distance of the waves to 559 feet.

   Independently of this process, I had previously estimated the distance of the
wave-crests ahead and astern, when the ship was in the hollow, as I stood near the
centre of the ship's length on the paddle-box, at 300 feet each way, by comparing

the intervals betwixt my position and the place of the wave-crest with the known

length of the ship. This comparison, frequently reconsidered and repeated subse-

quently, yielded, in much accordance with the former, a total width, in the line of

the ship's course, of about 600 feet.

   4. But the total distance betwixt the crests of two waves, thus reckoned at 559
feet, a distance passed by the wave in 16'5 seconds of time, by no means indicates,

it is obvious, the real velocity of the wave, as the ship meanwhile was advancing

nearly in the same direction at the rate of nine knots, that is nine geographical miles,

or (6075'6 feet X9=) 54680'4 feet per hour, or 15'2 feet per second. During the

time, therefore, of a wave passing the ship=:l6"'5, the ship would have advanced on
its course 16"5X 15-2=250-6 feet. Reducing this for the obliquity of two points,
we have 231*5 feet to be added to the former measure, 559 feet, which gives 790"5

feet for the actual distance traversed by the wave in 16'5 seconds of time, being at

=(3600"X 790*5 \
                     -^TT  ) 1725r7 feet, or32-67 English statute miles per hour.

   To know how far this result is but proximate, it should be considered that, of the

several elements employed in the calculation, all but one might be deemed accurate.

The interval of time occupied by the transit of a wave with respect to the position

of the ship, the direction of the ship's motion with relation to that of the waves,

and the speed of the ship through the water, may all be received as, essentially,
accurate. The element in doubt is that of the average distance, from summit to

summit, of the waves. This distance, it has been seen, was, by a twofold process
of observation or comparison, accordantly assumed. The value of the judgement de-

rived from rapid comparison of measures by an eye accustomed to such estimations,

is, it should be observed, far higher than might be generally considered. The prac-
tical military commander or engineer officer is able to make, by mere inspection of

the ground before him, remarkably close estimates of spaces and distances. When

engaged in the Arctic whale-fishery, I was enabled, from habit and comparison of
immeasured spaces with known magnitudes, to estimate certain distances with all
but perfect accuracy. Thus, as to a circumstance in which we were most deeply in-

terested, the near approach of a boat to a whale, I found it quite practicable,
whenever the pursuing boat approached within twice or thrice its length (except

when the position was near end on)-, to estimate the distance to less than a yard.

   Now the means of comparison, by the eye, as to the estimation of the breadth of
the Atlantic waves, was that of the ship's length of 220 feet. When the ship was

fairly in the middle of the depression betwixt two waves, it was assumed, with refer-
ence to this known measure, that something obviously less, but not greatly so, than
the ship's length was the distance of each of the two waves then contemplated,
giving a total width of about 600 feet. But the comparison of the time required by
a wave to pass from stern to stem, with the average time of transit of an entire

wave, yielded a much better result ; and, on much consideration of the subject, I am

incHned to believe that the estimate is a literally close approximation to the truth.
30 REPORT 1850.

It should be observed, too, that the headway of the ship, in the direction of ihe

course of the wave, being a known quantity, was favourable to the accuracy of the

estimate. For, assuming an error in thewidth of the waves to have occurred, say to the
amount of one-twelfth of the whole, or 49 feet, the effect upon the calculated velocity
of the wave would have been only about a sixteenth, or 2'16 miles per hour*.

   The form and character of these deep-sea waves became, at the same time, inter-

esting subjects of observation and consideration. In respect to form, we have per-

petual modifications and varieties from the circumstance of the inequality of opera-

tion of the jiower by which the waves are formed. Were the wind perfectly uniform

in direction and force, and of sufficient continuance, we might have, in wide and
deep seas, waves of perfectly regular formation. But no such equality in the wind

ever exists. It is perpetually changing its direction, within certain limits, and its

force, too, both in the same place and in proximate quarters. Innumerable dis-

turbing influences are therefore in operation, generating the varieties more or less

observable in natural sea-waves.

   In regard to my own observations of the actual forms of waves, nothing particularly

new, indeed, could be expected from an inquiry of this kind, in regard to phaenomena

falling within the perpetual observation of sea-going persons yet, at the risk of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;

stating what might be deemed common, I will venture to transcribe from ray notes

made with the phenomena before me, the leading characteristics which engaged my

attention.

   During the height of the gale (March 6th) the /orm of the waves was less regular

than after the wind had for some time begun to subside. Though in many cases,
when the sea was highest, the succession of the primary waves was perfectly distinct,
it was rather difficult to trace an identical ridge for more than a quarter to the third
of a mile. The grand elevation, in such cases, sometimes extended by a straight
ridge, or was sometimes bent as of a crescent form, with the central mass of water

higher than the rest, and not unfrequently with two or three semi-elliptical mounds

in diminishing series, on either side of the highest peak.
   These principal waves, too, it should be noted, were not continuously regular, but

had embodied in their general mass many minor, secondary and inferior waves.

Neither did the great waves go very prevalently in long parallel series like those re-
tarded by shallow water on approaching the shore, but every now and then changed

into a bent cuneiform crest with breaking accumulating peaks.

On the following morning, March 7, after a second stormy night, wind S.S.W.

(true), we had a heavy and somewhat cross sea (from the change of wind from

W.S.W.  to  S.S.W.)                                        But almost unabated magnitude of the more westerly waves
                                                        .

indicated a continuance of the original wind at some distance astern of us. The
gale had moderated at daylight, and the weather became fine ; but as the sea still
kept high, its undulation became more obvious and easily analysed. At three in
the afternoon, when about a third part of the greater undulations averaged about
24 feet from crest to hollow in height, these higher waves could be traced, right
and left, as they approached the ship to the extent of a quarter of a mile on an
average, more or less. Traced through their extent the ridge was an irregular round-
backed hill, precipitous often on the leevi'ard side, of waters. The undulations, in-
deed, as to primary waves, consisted mainly of these round-backed masses, broken
into or modified by innumerable secondary and smaller waves within their general
body.

   The time in which these waves passed the ship was now, on an average, about
fifteen seconds, the ship's speed being increased from nine to eleven knots, and the
obliquity of the ship's course to the direction pursued by the waves was three

points.

   On the 9th, two days after the above condition of the waves, whilst the sea yet

ran high, few waves could be traced, continuously, above 300 to 400 yards in ex-
tent along the same ridge. The crests often curled over, but none so as to reach
the height of a 30-feet wave, and broke for a wide space, estimated at 50 to 100
yards in continuity.

   * To show the effect of an extreme case, we shall assume an cn-or in the estimated width of
the wave of one-half, calUng it 279-5 instead of 559 feet. The resulting velocity of the wave
would still be 21'14 miles ; the error of one-half the width producing an error only of one-

third in the velocitv.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                  31

   The mode adopted in these researches of finding the height of waves, is, I beUeve,
quite satisfactory, and, observed with care and with relation to numbers or propor-

tion of waves, as accurate as reed be. The depression of the horizon in respect to
the elevation of the observer is too small to form even a correction. As the horizon

                  =30

from the paddle-box, -5- 15 feet, had only a depression of 3' 49", the distance of

the visible horizon, as seen from this elevation, would be 4'45 statute miles, and the
actual depression in feet due to the distance of the summit of the wave when the
ship was in the midst of the hollow, could only be 0-18 foot or 2-16 inches.

   Other modes of determining the width of a wave, or the extent betwixt summit
and summit, much preferable to that described (the only available one I could de-
vise), might easily be adopted where the management of the ship was in the hands
of the observer. In steam ships, the simplest mode for high seas, perhaps, would
be altering the speed of the ship when going in the direction of the wave or against
the wave ; the ratios of the times of transit of wave-crests under different rates of

sailing of the ship might yield very close results to the truth.
    In moderate-sized waves, the plan adopted by Captain Stanley, whose observa-

tions I did not meet with before this meeting, seems satisfactory. But in calms or
moderate weather, after a storm, that is for the determination of the velocities of

less elevated waves, a variety of processes might be available.
    The author referred, in conclusion, to the waves near shore, the effect of shallow

--water waves entering narrow channels betwixt smooth shelving shores, different

from waves entering betvyixt rocky (pointed) sides, such as Brassa 'Sound.

On Cometary Physics. By Prof. Smyth, F.R.S.E.

Account of the Edinburgh Observatory. By Prof. Smyth, F.R.S.E.

                                          Meteorology.

On the Attempts to resolve the Pressure of the Atmosphere into two parts, that
           of Vapour and Dry Air. By J. A. Broun, F.R.S.E.

On some extraordinary Electrical Appearances observed at Matichester on
          the 16th of July 1850. By Peter Clare, F.R.A.S. ^c.

   About four o'clock p.m., on the l6th of July, the weather having been fine and
warm for four days, the wind blowing from the north-east, and the clouds constantly
moving from the east, some dense clouds appeared in the east, north, and also to the
west, when one or two peals of thunder were heard at a distance. About this time
a violent storm of thunder, lightning and very heavy rain commenced at Bolton,
twelve miles N.N.W. of Manchester, extending westward and to the W.S.W. for
many miles, and continued for two or three hours.

    Afterwards the clouds extended to the south-west and south, and distant thunder
was heard over a considerable extent of country to the south-west of Manchester,

for several hours.

    About nine o'clock, the clouds being very dark to the west and south-west of
Manchester, but not so dense to the south and south-east, very frequent flashes of
sheet lightning were observed, whilst for a period of nearly half an hour there were

frequent coruscations of lightning observed between the south and south-west, all
moving in a direction from south-west towards south,at an elevation of from 14° to 20®
above the horizon ; sometimes the appearances were like the roots of a tree, and oc-

casionally with bright balls at the termination of all or some of the branches. On

several occasions, immediately after a stream of light seemed to pass from near the
 south-west towards the south, through a space of 10° or 12°, a luminous ball of
considerable size suddenly appeared and moved along the line of the stream with a
velocity so slow that its progress was easily observed, and this was repeated several

 times near the same place.
--32 REPORT 1850.

    Although these luminous appearances were frequently repeated, it was difficult to
 ascertain from whence they originated, as the clouds were much divided in that
 direction, and the lights became obscured without seeming to go behind the clouds,
 but had the appearance of being dissipated in the air. The author had been an
 attentive observer of thunder-storms for more than half a century, but had never

 witnessed similar appearances.

Remarkable Thermometrical Maxima at oi' near the Moon's First Quarter

   during the twelve years 1839-1850. By Richard Edmonds, Juii.,

     Penzance.

     In theBritish Association Report for 1845 (Sections, p. 20), the author has noticed
 a series of nine days, separated from one another by intervals of about four lunations
 each, and distinguished by earthquakes, extraordinary oscillations of the sea, or very

remarkable states of the atmosphere. The series extended to the 13th of June 1845. On
the 8th of October following, when another period of four lunations was completed,

the barometer at Penzance, near the close of a very violent storm of wind and rain
from S.S.W., reached a minimum of 28"75, lower than for at least six months before
and above a hundred days afterwards. Here the series, with intervals of four luna-

tions, terminates.

   On the 6th of November 1845 (exactly one lunation afterwards), the barometer

at Penzance, on the close of another violent storm of wind and rain from about south,
was at nearly the same minimum as on the 8th of October.

    Each of the phaenomena alluded to occurred within forty-eight hours of the
moon's first quarter. The following remarkable maxima of temperature, during the
last twelve years, were also nearer to the moon's first quarter than to any other,
except that of the 5th of July, 1846 ; but the great thunder-storm of that day com-
menced the preceding evening, when the moon was nearer her first quarter than any
other. These maxima (assuming that that for 1850 has already occurred) include
the annual maxima of the twelve years, except 1839, when the annual maximum
was one degree higher ; and except 1847, which laist, however, would scarcely be
regarded as an exception, if allowance were made for the early time of the year in
which the remarkable maximum occurred. Most of the maxima were accompanied
by thunder-storms or extraordinary oscillations of the sea.

Dates and Moon's Max. of

age at 2 o'clock iherm . at

p.m.  Chiswick.
                  TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                                       33

Dates and Moon's Max. of

age at 2 o'clock therm, at

p.m.          Chiswick.

1841, May 27 82 flashes bursting simultaneously from almost the whole cir-

  (6 days                   cuit of the heavens."
14 hours).
                              On the 29th of April (nearly a lunation before) the thermo-
                            meter at Pencarrow in Cornwall was 80°, the maximum for

                            the year there.

1842, June 13 90            The maximum for the year. At Boston in Lincolnshire,

(4 days                     the 14th was the hottest day of the hottest June since

16 hours).                  1826*.

1843, July 5                The thermometer in Brighton as well as Chiswick, was at

(7 days                     its maximum for the year. Extraordinary oscillations of the

19 hours).                  sea and great thunder-storms in different parts of Britain.

1844, Julv25 92             On the 23rd of the preceding month (the day of the

(10 day's).                 moon's first quarter) the thermometer at Chiswick was

                            at 91°, the maximum for the year, except that in the mar-

                            gin ; and in the evening an unusually severe thunder-storm

                            was felt in Cornwall and Dumfriesshire, and the following

                            morning at Boston and Liverpool. On the 23rd of July (one

                            lunation afterwards) it became very dark at Penzance, as if

                            another thunder-storm vv'ere approaching, and the barometer
                            fell to a considerable minimum, on which day there was

                            another thunder-storm in Dumfriesshire.

1845, June 12 85            At Penzance, as well as Chiswick, this was the hottest

(7 days                     day of the year (77°). except the 9th and 10th of September

13 hours).                  (three lunations afterwards), when it was one degree higher

                            (77° and 78°). On the ISthof June an extraordinary oscilla-

                            tionof the sea occurred at Folkstone, and a" terrific "thunder-

                            storm at Chatham.

1846, July 5  95 At Boston in Lincolnshire, this was the hottest day since
   (1 1 days
  20 hours).        the31stof Julyl826. A great thunder-storm passed through

                      Britain, having commenced in Mountsbay in the evening of

                     the 4th. On the 1st of August (nearly a lunation afterwards)

                            London was visited with a hail and thunder-storm more de-

                            structive than any there since the 18th of May 1809. On

                            each of these days (5th of July and 1st of August) there

                            was an extraordinary agitation of the sea in Mountsbay.

1847, May 23 89             The highest temperature for many years at so early a time

(8 days                     of the year. Extraordinary agitation of the sea along the

23 hours).                  coasts of Cornwall and Devon.

1848, July 6                Mr. Glaisher, of the Greenwich Observatory, remarks,

  (5 days                   that this was the hottest day of the year throughout the
16 hours).
                            country. Extraordinary oscillations of the sea on the fol

                            lowing day at Lyme, Dartmouth, &c. On the 11th of May

                            (nearly two lunations previously), and almost exactly twelve

                            lunations after the 23rd of May 1847 above mentioned, the

                            thermometer  atChiswick was  84°                 and  it  is  remarkable  that
                                                                          ;

                            the temperatures on the two last-mentioned days were not

                            only the highest for those years up to such times, but higher

                            than for exactly fifty days afterwards in each case, except
                            that on the fourth day afterwards in the one case, and the

                            fifth day in the other, it was one or two degrees higher.

* This day, and almost every subsequent day mentioned in the present communication, to

the end of 1845, have been before noticed by the author in his paper above referred to. The

days in 1S40, 1847 and 1848, have been also noticed by him in the Report for 1848 of the

Royal Institution of Gornvfall, p. 53.

1850.                                                                                     D
--34 REPORT 1850.

Dates  and  Moon's                                                                                                                                                                                           Max,  of
                                                                                                                                                                                                          !

age at 2 o'clock .therm, at

p.m.                                                                                                                                                                                                         Chiswick.

1849, June 24 89                                                                                                                                                                                                        Maximum for the year. On the 26th of July (a little more

(4 days).                                                                                                                                                                                                               than a lunation afterwards) London was visited with another

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        thunder and hail-storm more violent than any that had oc-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        curred there for many years, although not so destructive of

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        property as that of the 1st of August 1846.

1850, July 16 89                                                                                                                                                                                                        Maximum for the year at Chiswick and Greenwich.

(7 days).                                                                                                                                                                                                               The thermometer at Brighton was 80° on the 15th, and very

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        high also on the I6th and 17th. At Penzance it was re-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        markably sultry on the 15th, and the clouds, a little before

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        noon, gathered there from the south, as if a thunder-storm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        were approaching, and it rained most of the afternoon.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bristol, that afternoon, was visited by a terrific thunder-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        storm. On the following day (I6th*) equally fearful thun-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        der-storms occurred in Lancashire, and atChatham and Ro-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        chester ; and " several houses in Orleans were nearly de-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        stroyed by a waterspout." On the 17th similar thunder-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        storms were felt at Brighton, Reading, Guildford, and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        New Galloway, at which last place there was at the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        same time a waterspout (described with a woodcut in the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        'Illustrated London News' of the 27th of July). On the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        night of the 18th a terrific storm of wind and rain from the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        east was felt on the Atlantic shores of the United States,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        greater than any there for half a century. During all these

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        thunder-storms, which have proved unusually severe and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        fatal, the rain is described as of almost unexampled violence

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and descending like waterspouts.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           On the 19th of May (two lunations before) the thermo-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        --meter at Chiswick was at 72° higher than it had been pre-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        viously for the year, and it did not exceed that elevation for

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ten days afterwards.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        On the 18th of April (the day before the moon's first

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        quarter) the thunder and hail-storm at Dublin was the se-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        verest remembered there. This was a warmer day in Mounts-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        bay than any previously for the year, and for twenty-three

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        days after, the atmosphere in the evening being in a highly

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        electrical state. In London, for the week ending the 19th

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of April, the thermometer on every day was higher than the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        average of the same day for the last seven years, and the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        mean temperature of the week was 48°'9, being 3° beyond

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the average. In Scotland the air was equally sultry on the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18th, 19th and 20th. On the 20th, 1 0,000 trees were rooted

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        up by a storm at Strathspey in Invernesshire, and on the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        same day was a dreadful thunder and hail-storm at Dorking

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in Surrey.

On the Causes of the Rise of the Isothermal Lines (as represented on Professor
  Dove's Maps) in the Winters of the Northern Hemisphere. By Thomas

   Hopkins.

   In the winter of the northern hemisphere, when the continents of America and
Europe are cooled down to a low temperature, as shown by the isothennals for the

   * See, in this Report, Mr. P. Clarke's account of " some extraordinary electrical appearances
at Manchester on the 16th of July, 1850."
                         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                    35

month of January, the temperature is comparatively high over the sea in that part

of the Atlantic ocean that hes between these continents. But does this difference

correspond with the relative extents of land and water in such a way as to indicate

that they have the relation to each other of cause and effect ? The northern Pacific

ocean is about twice as broad as the northern Atlantic, up to ihe latitude of above 50°,

but the former is not proportionately warmer than the latter. Jt is, on the contrary,

colder, as may be seen from the isothermal lines over the two seas and adjoining

parts, the temperature that is found at about 58° of latitude in the Pacific being

carried as high as about 70° in the Atlantic.

If the breadth of the sea produced the effect under consideration, the isothermal

lines would be at the same height in the same latitudes over the land on each side of

the sea ; but it is well known that they are not. It is true the isothermals rise in

the winter from Siberia to the middle of the Pacific ocean, showing that the water
is there warmer than the land ; but they rise still higher as they approach the Ame-

rican coast, and attain the greatest height in that part near to or over the land in

America ; thus exhibiting the land in America, during the winter season, in the same
latitude, much warmer than it is in Asia. In the Atlantic too the same isothermal,

that on the American side is in the latitude of 42 or 44 degrees near Newfoundland,
reaches 70 degrees on the European side near Norway ; and that island is actually

colder than Iceland, which touches the arctic circle in 66" of latitude.

   Professor Dove speaks of the Gulf-stream of the northern Atlantic as materially
affecting the temperature of that locality up to a high latitude ; but it is not shown
to be the cause of the pheenoraenon under consideration. It is well known that the

Gulf-Stream is turned from its northerndirection off Newfoundland across theAtlantic

towards Ireland and the Bay of Biscay, and is even thrown back on the coast of

Africa. The frequent appearance of icebergs, far to the south in this ocean, indi-

cates that an oceanic current sets in here, not towards the north, but southward. It

is known too, from attempts that have been made to approach the north pole, that

a current sets from the Polar sea near Spitsbergen to the south. It appears, there-

fore, that the assumption that the Gulf- stream flows into a high latitude in this part,

and Warms it, is not merely unwarranted, but at variance with known facts.
   But if heither the proportional extent of the surface of the sea, as compared with

the land, nor the flow of a warm current of water carries high temperature to these
northern latitudes, what is the cause of such temperature being found there ? The

answer to this question has been substantially given where I have pointed out the

cause of all the great local heatings and winds that prevail over the globe. But a
reply is prepared by Professor Dove himself, where, in his remarks, he says, " This
surface," meaning the surface of the globe, " being a highly varied one, the sun's

influence on it is also constantly varying, for the impinging solar heat is employed

in raising the temperature of substances which do not change their condition of aggre-

gation ; but when engaged in causing the melting of ice, or the evaporation of water,
it becomes latent. When therefore the sun returning from its northern declination

enters the southern signs, the increasing proportions of liquid surface upon which it

shines causes a corresponding part of its heat to become latent, and hence arises the

great periodical variation in the temperature of the globe which has been noticed

above," meaning the difference of temperature of the northern and southern he-

mispheres.

  Why suppose that this effect of the evaporation of water is experienced only iu

the relative temperatures of the northern and southern hemispheres ? And why not

trace the effects of condensation of vapour, as well as of the evaporation of water ? It

is evident that heat is absorbed and made latent wherever vapour is produced, and it

is equally clear that that heat is given out and made active wherever the vapour is

condensed.

It does not appear from the atmospheric currents which prevail that any portion

of the vapour of the southern hemisphere passes into the northern to be condensed

within or near to the basin of the Pacific, and there is no reason to suppose that it

does                     but in the basin of the Atlantic it is sufficiently evident that vapour does not
                      ;

so pass. The vapour which passes over the northern Atlantic, and is condensed

beyond the British Islands and Norway, is supplied from the tropical and other seas

north of the equator. The West Indies constitute the principal point of departur/»

                                                                    d2
--36 HE PORT 1850.

of this vapour, and in the month of January it is carried by south-western and
western winds to those localities where the isothermal lines advance furthest towards
the pole. It is accordingly to the condensation of this vapour, and not to the
neighbourhood of the Atlantic ocean, in the latitude, that we are to attribute the high
temperature of this part of the world in the winter. The Atlantic ocean is as near
to Labrador as to Norway, but there is little condensation on the coast of the former,
whilst there is much about the latter. Indeed, as far as we know, condensation of
vapour is the only influence that operates exclusively on the eastern coasts of the
two oceans, the Pacific and the Atlantic, and therefore to it we may attribute the
warming of the localities, particularly in the Arctic ocean, as indicated by the iso-
thermal lines. Condensation we know furnishes a constant and abundant supply
of heat, not like diffusion by contact, nor radiation from surfaces nearly equal in
temperature, but by the energetic chemical action which converts an aeriform sub-
stance into a liquid, and consequently changes the heat from a latent to an active

state.

   The greatest irregular rise in the isothermal lines is found in the winter of the
northern hemisphere, just at the time that the condensation of vapour produces the
greatest effect on the temperature of the air. And the temperature rises the most
along that line or stripe where the largest amount of condensation takes place ; and
in that locality the same temperature reaches the highest latitude, showing that con-
densation of vapour is the cause of the rise of the isothermal lines in the parts.

On the means of computing the Qumitities of Aqueous Vapour in the AtmO'
        sphere at various places and heights. By Thomas Hopkins.

    The author stated that meteorologists usually estimated the total amount of vapour
in a vertical column of the atmosphere from the dew-point at its base, from which
they inferred its tension, and thence the total quantity. This he asserted was an
erroneous method, as it neglected the effort of the vapour expanding and forcing itself
upwards through the air, a colder medium than would exist in each successive foot if
nothing but the vapour itself were present. This opinion he illustrated by diagrams.

On the Daily Formation of Clouds at Makerstoun. By Thomas Hopkins.

   The author went into an examination of the meteorological registers kept at
Makerstoun for the year 1844, to prove that the facts registered were in harmony
with and tended to establish the theory he had advanced, that the horary fluctuations
of the barometer were attributable to the daily vaporization of water by the sun, and
the daily condensation of a portion of that vapour into cloud ; the great difficulty
being to account for the fall of the barometer from ten in the morning till four in the
afternoon. At Makerstoun, the state of the atmosphere as to cloud was registered
by noting an overcast sky by 10, a cloudless sky by 0, and intermediate states by
intermediate numbers. The state of the wet- and dry-bulb thermometers was also
regularly noted, showing both the activity of vaporization and the tension of vapour.

On Meteorological Observations made at Kaafjord, near Alien, in Western
   Finmark, and at Christiania in Norway. By John Lee, LL.D., F.R.S.,

    of Hartwell, Bucks.

  --Alien. Dr. Lee presented to the Association the meteorological observations

which had been lately received by him from Mr. J. H. Grewe at the Alten Copper
Mines in Norway.

    These observations are for twelve months, viz. from October 1848 inclusive to
September 1849 inclusive ; and although they form a continuation of previous ob-
servations extending over a series of eleven years, yet in consequence of the alteration
of the hours of observation, as also an additional number of daily observations (there
being five daily observations, viz. at 7 and 11 a.m., 3, 7 and 10 p.m., instead of

three, as formerly, at the hours of 9 a.m., 3 and 9 p.m.), they may be considered as
                                                --

                                       .

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                         37

 constituting a new series. These alterations have been made agreeably with the
 suggestion of Professor Hansteen of the Observatory at Christiania and Mr. Grewe,
 who, since the departure from Alten of his former colleague, Mr. J . F. Cole, had
 continued the observations alone, and has been kindly assisted in this new series by
 Mr. Ole Brochgrevink, a brother officer in the Company's service. As will easily be
 seen on reference to these observations, it has required extra exertion on the part of
 the meritorious observers, who have to baffle with a very ungenial climate for making
 meteorological observations, and more especially as their instruments are all placed
 in a small building about 100 yards distant from any dwelling-house.

     Three tables of results accompany these observations, namely
    1st. The monthly and quarterly means of the barometer at all the hours of ob-
 servation, as well as the monthly and quarterly results.
    2nd. The monthly and quarterly means of the thermometer, also at the hours of
observation, together with the monthly and quarterly results.
    3rd. The highest and lowest observed points of the barometer, as also the maxi-

mum and minimum of the thermometer, with the range of each ; a comparison of

the monthly means of the thermometer with the means as deduced from the maxi-

mum and minimum, and the monthly quantity of rain or melted snow.

  --Christiania. Dr. Lee also presented a series of meteorological observations for

the year 1849, made at Christiania, and which he had received from J. R. Crowe,
Esq., Her Britannic Majesty's Consul- Geneial of Norway. This series is a con-

tinuation of former observations presented to the Association, and consists of ob-
servations on the Barometer taken in Norwegian inches, and on the Thermometer
according to the Reaumur scale, as also the quantity of rain with the direction of
the wind. The hours of observation are 7 and 9 a.m., 2, 4 and 10 p.m. Some
useful and interesting comparisons may hereafter be made between these observa-
tions and those now in course of being taken at Alten.

                                                                                          London, July 27, 1850.

  --Sir, Agreeably with your request I have examined the Meteorological Observa-

tions made at the Alten Copper Works for the year ending the 30th September 1849,
as also the three Tables of results drawn up from these observations by Mr. Grewe,
which Tables I have reduced into English scales, for the better comparing them with
results obtained by other meteorologists with English instruments, or that may have
been reduced to English measures; and I have now the pleasure of sending you
herein enclosed copies of the Tables I have framed accordingly, and beg to add a
few remarks on their contents.

   One important feature in these observations, and which will at once strike the eye

on looking through them, is that no blanks occur ; and as they form the commence-
ment of a new series, the results may be therefore taken as faithfully representing
the various pheenomena at the hours of observation, which I may mention have

been changed from 9 a.m., 3 and 9 p.m. to 7 and 11 a.m., 3, 7 and 10 p.m., in con-

formity with the suggestion of Professon Hansteen of Christiania, thus giving five

--daily observations instead of three as formerly.
   Barometer. The results of the year's observations on this instrument show that

It rises from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m         0'00268 inch.
                                       0-00386 ,,
And falls from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m        0'00571 ,,
And rises from 3 p.m. to 7 P. M        0'00417 ,,
And also rises from 7 p.m. to 10 P.M.

   The means for the year of the 7 and 1 1 a.m. observations are below the mean of
the year, while the 3, 7 and 10 p.m. are above.

   The mean for the year of the 11 a.m. observations comes nearest the mean of the
year, differing only by 0'00028 inch, and of the monthly means that for March ap-
proaches nearest the mean of the year (as is the case in the former series of obser-

vations, embracing a period of eleven years), differing by an increase of 0'00l6l inch
above the mean of the year.

   The mean of the month of April, reaching 29*94907 inches, is the highest monthly
mean of the year, while that for February, reaching only 29'235]0, is the lowest.
The highest monthly mean for the eleven years previous (see British Association
Report, 1849, Transactions of the SectionSj p. 19) was in the month of May ; but
--38 REPORT 1850.

as will be seen in the present series, the means of the months of April and May

differ by only 0-00811 inch.
   Of the seasons in this new series, the mean for Spring is the highest and Winter

the lowest, while Autumn and Summer are nearly equal. The quarterly results show

that  -pi^g barometer rises from Winter to Spring  0'39657 inch.
                                                   0-13838 ...
      And falls from Spring to Summer              0-00528 ...
      Also falls from Summer to Autumn             0-25291 ...
      And again falls from Autumn to Winter ...

In the series referred to for eleven years, Spring gives the highest mean and Autumn

the lowest.

   Of the monthly observations in the new series, the greatest range takes place in
March, being 1 -92086 inch, whilst the least oscillation occurs in September, being

0-71378 inch.

The highest observed point for the year is 1848, December 19th, at  30-58419 inch.
    11 A.M., being                                                  28-45585 ...

And the lowest observed point is 1849, January 18th, 7 p.m            2*12834 ...
The difference between these two points is

which is therefore the greatest observed oscillation of the barometer for the year.
   The difference between the mean of the year and the highest observed point for

the same period is 0-92086 inch, and the difference between the mean of the year
and the lowest observed point also for the same period is 1-20748 inch.

   The result of the eleven previous years' observations on the barometer gives a
yearly mean of 29*75490, this year it only reaches 29-66333.

  --Thermometer. The results of the observations on the thermometer in this new

series present a very peculiar feature, the mean for the year of the 11 a.m. observa-
tions being actually the highest, and differing from the 3 p.m. by 0°156Fahr.

The yearly means show that the thermometer rises from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. 2*831 F.

And falls from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m                                     0-156 ..,

Also falls from 3 p.m. to 7 p-m                , , 2-682 ...

And again falls from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m                                   1-876 ...

   The 7 A.M. and 7 p.m. means for the year differ from one another by only 0°-007
Fahr., the 7 a.m. being that much the highest. The means for these hours, via.
7 A.M. and 7 p.m., are nearest the mean of the year; and of the monthly Ejeans.
those for October and April come nearest the mean of the year.

   The mean for July being 59°-707 is the highest monthly mean, while that for Ja-
nuary being 7°-268 is the lowest.

      The quarterly means rise from Winter to Spring ...  22-981 Fahr.
      And rise from Spring to Summer                      13-746 ...
      Then fall from Summer to Autumn                     31-138 ...
      And again fall from Autumn to Winter
                                                            5-589 ...

   The result of the eleven previous years' observations on the thermometer gives a
yearly mean of 34°-273 Fahr., but the mean this year only reaches 32°'932 Fahr.,
showing it to have been somewhat colder.

The maximum for the year was registered 1849, July l?th, at 3 p.m. 86-9O Fahr.
                                                                    -- 20-20 ...
And the minimum, 1849, January 14th, at 3 p.m

Making a total range for the year of                                107*10 ...

   The difference between the mean of the year and the maximum for the same pe-
riod is 532°-968 Fahr., and between the mean of the year and the minimum 53°- 132

Fahr.

   With reference to the thermometer falling to --20°- 20 Fahr., as has just been
remarked, allow me to state, that I well remember at such low temperatures the
instruments almost sticking to my gloves from the cold, as also the peculiar erack-
liog sound when walking over the snow, and the beautifully clear and bespangled

sky.

                                 I remain. Sir, your most obedient Servant,

John Lee, Esq., LL.D. 8(c. 8(c.                                     J. F. Cole.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  39
--40 REPORT 1830.
                    TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  41

S-SC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    --

--42 REPORT 1850.

              ByOh the British Meteorological Society,                                                                                                                  Dr. Lee.

    Dr. Lee presented to the British Association an address of the British Meteoro-
logical Society, explanatory of its formation and the objects which it has in view :

   The collection of correct manuscript observations.
   The publication of Tables.
   The Reduction of Observations to useful results.
   The distribution of Meteorological Papers.

   The examination and correction of Meteorological Instruments.
   The encouragement and promotion of Meteorological Science.
   The formation of a Library.

   The payment of Computers to reduce observations, &c.
   He stated that the Society at present consisted of 121 Members, and that the
Society was anxious to obtain the patronage of the British Association of Science,
and to act in connection with it and to promote its views.

      On some Phenomena of Mirage on the East Coast of Forfarshire.
                             By the Rev. C. F. Lyon.

   Mr. Lyon had noticed the Red Head at Montrose, distant twenty-five miles from St.
Andrews, assume a square form, then notched, then double-notched. 7'he outlines
of the sea had risen up with angular corners, and portions of the sea seemed raised
up as if seen through unequal glass. (Diagrams illustrated the communication.)

On Meteorological PhcEnomena at Huggate, Yorkshire, for 1849.
                       By the Rev. T. Rankin.

--The results may be thus abstracted : Thermometer, coldest day, January 3, night

thermometer, 19°; hottest day, July 12, thermometer, 71° ; lowest range (orchange),

June 11 and December 13, viz. 1°; greatest range. May 12, viz. 26°. Barometer,

lowest point, 28"20 in., January 10; highest, 30'42 in., October 29; lowest range,

O'Ol, January 17 and February 8 greatest range, 0"66 in., February 14. Hygro-
                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

meter, wet bulb, minus dry, lowest, 0°'5, March 23, June 5, October 25 ; greatest
depression of wet bulb, 8"5, June 27 ; during heavy rain and intense frost both are
nearly equal. The author found the cold water in the tube to affect by radiation the

dry bulb; but a sheet of paper interposed got rid of this source of error. Rain,

total, 29770 in., being 12-855 in. less than in 1848 ; least rain in February, 0-720 in. ;
most in July, 4-750 in. November Atmospheric Wave, edge of anterior trough,

29-95 in., barometer, on November 10, gentle breeze S. ; bottom of trough, 29'17 in.,

on November 15, wind W. ; crest of wave, 30-00 in. on the l7th, wind W. ; bottom
of posterior trough, 28-95 in., on the 24th, wind W. ; height of the edge, 29-87 in.,

on the 27th, wind N.W.; seventeen days passing, same as in 1848. Aurora on

August 12, resembling a fan ; on the 28th, perpendicular beams; December 23, sky
dappled in shape of a dome. Halo, a beautiful one, about 8° around the moon, De-

cember 26, between 9 and 10 p.m., moon nearly full, wind W. Hurricane, night of

December 26, about twelve o'clock, barometer fell from 29-80 to 29' 11 in. ; thermo-

meter, 34° ;  a hurricane from W. followed                                                                                                                previously large masses of cirro-cumu-
                                                                                                                                                       ;

lus had been flo;.ting about.   Winds,  E.,                                                                                                               6;  W., 44 ;  N., 2                             S., 15 ;  N.E., 31 ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;

N.W., 22; S.E., 15; S.W., 26. Thuof^er, April 28; June 14; July 18, 21, 30;

August 17, 18. Weather, 129 days clear, 66 days occasional rain, 22 days frost,

15 days occasional snow, 226 days wholly or partially dull : in 1848 there were 229

days wholly or partially dull.

               On the Passage of Storms across the British Islands.

                    By R. Russell, Kilwhiss, Cupar, Fife.

   Mr. Russell stated that there appeared to be two distinct classes of storms which
occurred in the British islands, but in both there were two currents in the atmo-

--sphere blowing in different directions : 1st, those in which the wind below veered
                                                                  ;

     TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                            43

ENfVernotmob2SsntedSrW;v.atltahittoootsneesNr .wtnWeo r.twehhioimsrcochNrl.ea.stshpetahrtewiHicuenupdlpaperowlriaynstcteuhedrearsoertunaettirnlabyyenfibnoeagrlnmoogwmeoanflweryisattloihlnrymatshf,erSoa.bmnWadrtohhmueeeptNpcee.rorW,nh.ctnuheorar-dt

XofeSsW dSSWg.sflwlywoswaTfbshceiruaacinnSotvuldctmresepurf^toraiedrhdltfodefScawisiTaottipvvtshinvnLeaoeedoriauIdnbitsrtteatoicohdtviocewenshetrkTaesrhcimuswiltreu.arnsihirdonoedrornhssfdmeellWitp;oJnyegeriiehtthtnesv,eteehovtaahxstecaunwpbetthclsrohoeeueeerdnivrnnr,aowreatccctryn;oheoaoaetgrnstfdeh;eadkwa-Bibstsawwirtuoutshiniesifteectttsoryhaotdhtnlitih'rensyhnaepewmrey,iawotetynsrsihih,raAtneaneepentetttddaarldlshgssslaaaerteysntltawestptamhwiwrherigeoanolireeceiyyfynvrwissdaotiefwntswivhnsoel,rieetd^atueernahostndlimdnetauhtotcstigtehaieinvtohgersmver-wttseretwihiolufayhniseyctrmslrsucesoaromdtrwosnuamurretandrmueygretsndpnwhleeatpdhytdnpseteuehTurhdrroernh^eeemicmcsbeorccgsrftoeguuioatsvbrrwoeiaerasittnnnterhhhnsyubnoeueetdretnmorfascsplafeofteorvetitraiarareeessemorsrnl-nstn,rteese

mLSSnlpysieShIm"mvneanuaarsTcnntShthoiecyacerodsbuatle^tlcoaaeaotfuradnutthdrephpieinsohno^ei'ratocisnteocnrtthifecnooeGxsasoterersTsomsimmiepi'egpootanrnbSlnhgteuauietvVrfboBtasonioyro.itceoitflstdcrrteihataenonEesihtm^vgnnihadedoigerrradonnslky?pueeateisrdhnwvtniredhieiabneinrofgyismbtnydsaee,stlltrfrshiahokfttmeneirositohdetucarehoatnambiabnttrdysfoolwelrotyphdirenfhpceaeacpotolfrecatslne,hreooeertefnebospttnboutrihcsfhhSnteeeeecceOrtionimtcvhptttoiaetowlr;ittoatostasitnbhthoohdneainueu.oraeo,sttrnnwhi1sdtraet8Nahlohad4tiafoet9ocnot,huEcvrnetdwnearohoroegreentumjlnd'obmmtastbtsoaonaos.fkurdyineteatnrech:vemnpmeexlodafphdadaeecntleecrlhaysteet

On Hourly Meteorological Observations made in Thibet at an elevation of

                   RM.J8,400/ee#. By Lieut. Strachey,

On Indian Hail-Storms. By Lieut.-Col. Sykes, F.R.S.

Z4mbef f^^^b^tTMlt.1oie7onuT8nglhs1oeulaaisrsnfetrodXelgls1cioe18vwha72eir82lnnc1.f^h.fiInoaidfBtnnihsdDbetbrlait.enlceeicarBsnletumsiiopasnfoltcafa.ctscoiiLreunxLedngt.mt'yDasio-".ront,knCeateooahblfcelhohaeBn2ioeu8lmIls-tnbshdtStaihoyoyaarkf.tnmesMsh,'haasaiMgyiloolhir-i1annse8ngt5ado0onsbr.rcmaiscblteekuhnwstetsearl-streeitenfsnhiausgieleshtaleaehosncaftedtedtdhbhedeefeerysuntoc^^hrm^di^^epo^a--t^

fstertvoreD^uiictst'hetehteboibimlniahcanabliatanacdnctosbuenhatassvtea(prEpaxreoeadlruystwoiixtb.neevsb. su2et5d.t)os.oubcfuhrtedqiiunseansttlr"yo-uvs^ere^ifff"eice^td-s i^n^^tIh-nejItsnadSci,rai,fihncoe wof

      vast destruction of property  tfwroomitnhstea-nc^e-s-lsa^id'^^-yyD"r.-^"^^"^^t.o^Vhave
     masses of ice which fall, in
Se and inthe
Buthailstonesor

     occult operations
     atmosphere, are not
exceeded a hundred-weight. The

f JXesuch masses of frozen water in the
                                    "«^"'^^                   sopecuu-
                                    less matt"e^rls'^for the

Allvf2iaeenetveriDitetnyvrlhe.aSeaoneibBfdmnpuuqttoniuuhedspieamitrwtnbysahsteera,oroadyff,ssasAt.2nopthdurheitientlhFrph,eNhreoyo1yofis3vsmiloecinacmintotcsbihMutteaeraurctdrc,lhvecioaeshu2atnr.0nnyt°ttd8h,fheore2itfenhfhqitooaunFhrieueeDlmnbg-aterhosltcuctyieajcoourmuwrnsybrmit,sre°tetfrh3aon.m"pcitlpentheehetJoaeefarnofnhtoreuartrowaiootblrphtiyihwenc.oasisstvtt6eatahonhtimiccnsaecl1sMuht0a.iav0ytivii0u.elUddfet3essoe2ut1rfo"ffmoJittc.uie7tmna,0he.ete0seo
"Jg"-sfAbwrbepuheeh'rlnoe,,oicl"wnleoe'fgdtC1kiha8hbsvera2yeirl2lsrift,aehccdaaoeehtnfradnarBtaoataathewccinedtcvng'eoaebsrutlsuy,nhortearhafsaeanori,cldfaleav-atriiswthghntaeeaoesssinsaaeleystcs-saws,op;rtvoueo«ea'mrdrlgp1msaeikoydwvkiseiednwlnnebsliate.eftdfdrhtooomrbTfmiealktronrEd;haseeyut.sericsonodapgmptaoIteyetmnlsaaeo,nsaaafsfntt^ttedhea^hsern^efk"ophtfm'ahu3"iean0hl^sd.a-0"stisytoeltyr;hsso.ae,,tn,rioewdtcsnjeshaerbesiiecenwaifschnieiigvsrecrclhoeaeutnp.mnhriufdjaeaeln-da-
--44 REPORT 1850.

half inches in thickness ; the hailstones were angular and oval, and some measured

three inches in diameter*."
   At Kamptee, on the 3rd of June 1 823, an officer writes, " the hailstones without

exaggeration were as large as pullets' eggs."
    At Bopalpoor, on the 9th of February 1825, an oflBcer writes, "the hailstones

were the largest and most extraordinary ever seen, some of them being as large
and as heavy as goose-eggs, which they resembled."

    At Serampoor in Bengal, on the 30th of March 1827, the European writer says,
" each of the hailstones was equal to the size of a goose's egg."

    At Kotah, on the 5th of March 1827, the hailstones were as large as a man's fist,
and the next day remained unmelted of the size of pigeons' eggs. Men, animals and
birds were killed ; in the village of Nauda alone six persons were killed and seven

others dangerously bruised.
    At Calcutta, on the 20th of April 1829, the editor of the Bengal Chronicle says,

" one of the hailstones brought to us was larger than a ducks' egg :" many of them
were angular fragments of ice, and several natives were killed.

   At Serampore the hailstones were as large as hens' eggs, and consisted of coats like
an onion ; the nucleus was whiter than the exterior.

   At Sylhet, on the 19th of February 1830, the hailstones were the size of the
largest potatoesf . Sheep and goats were killed. At Jubbalpoor, on the 9th of April
1831, the hailstones were the size of guinea fowls' eggs. On the 10th of April 1831,
at Kamptee, some of the hailstones measured from ten to twelve inches in circum-
ference; few or none were smaller than a hen's egg; five persons were killed in the
neighbourhood. At Alhahabad, on the 5th of May 1833, a hailstone weighed 6j
ounces troy, and measured ten inches in circumference. At Chunar, on the same day,

the gentleman writes, " blocks of ice fell ; I am really speaking within bounds when

I say a goose's egg was a trifle compared to some of the stones that fell ; one mea-
sured 111 inches in circumference." "I am informed," he adds, " one hailstone in
the bazaar weighed two pounds." On the 16th of March 1834, at Raneegunge,

a gentleman travelling in a palkee writes, " my palkee top yesterday was broke through
in three places by hailstones and one of my bearers knocked down by them." At

Pubna, on the 12th of April 1834, one of the hailstones measured a foot in circum-
ference, and another weighed eleven ounces. At Benares, in February 1836, some
of the masses of ice weighed two pounds. At Secunderabad, on the 30th of March

1837, some of the hailstones were two inties in diameter. At Dura Uum, the ar-
tillery cantonment in Bengal, on the 8th of April 1838, two hailstones were picked
up which measured sixteen inches in circumference and better than five inches in dia-
meter. At Jaulna, on the 14th of January 1849, the hailstones were as large as
billiard-balls. On the 5th of February 1850, at Gwalior, pieces of ice fell nearly two
pounds weight, and animals and some men were killed. At Condvviel, near Sattarah,
on the 7th of April 1850, some hailstones were as large as cocoa-nuts; the writer
saysj " 1 am within the mark when I say they were as large as cocoa-nuts."

   To the above. Dr. Buist adds Dr. Spilsburg's personal notes of hail-storms consisting
of thirty instances. He speaks of goats and sheep being killed, and on one occasion
of hailstones being as large as hens' eggs, and he mentions the unexampled fact of a
hail-storm in July in the midst of the monsoon. The above notices afford ample and

unimpeachable testimony to the extraordinary magnitude of the masses of ice that fall
in India in hail-storms. Colonel Sykes adds, that in a paper in the Philosophical

Transactions for 1835, he had spoken of the fall of masses of clear ice exceeding an
inch in diameter in hail-storms ; and on one occasion globular masses of clear ice fell
inclosing a central star of many points of diaphanous ice like ground glass, of which
he made drawings. Colonel Sykes suggested that the operations of nature producing
such instantaneous and intense cold in the atmosphere, whether by electrical or other

causes, and the singular aggregation of the drops of rain or particles of water to con-
stitute masses of ice in the air, had not received that attention from physicists which
the remarkable character of the phaenomena seemed to demand.

             * This was on the third day after the fall in the scorching month of April,
            t Potatoes in general are not much larger than hens' eggs in India.
       --

       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  45

                   Observations on the Climate of the Valley of the Nile.

By T. Spencer Weli.s, F.R.C.S., Surgeon Royal Navy. {Presented by

                             the Marquis of Northampton.)

   The following observations are only to be regarded as an attempt to determine in
some degree the nature of the climatal influences to which an invalid is subjected
during a winter voyage up the Nile.

   The observations extend from the 6th of December 1849 to the l6th of March 1850.
The instruments were kept in a cabin in the boat of an invalid. The cabia was 6 feet
high, 12 feet broad, and 10 feet deep. Its floor was from 1 to 2 feet above the level
of the river. The dry- and wet-bulb thermometer, and the barometer were fixed to
a beam in the centre of the cabin, where they were not exposed either to the direct
or reflected rays of the sun. There were six glass windows to the cabin, provided
with open blinds. Some of these windows were always open during the day, so that
the morning and afternoon observations may be considered to represent the tempe-
rature of the open air in the shade. Sometimes a window was open until after the
evening observation ; but more frequently this was not the case, and to this is ascribed

Athe fact that the mean of the evening observations is above that of the morning.

register night thermometer was fixed outside one of the windows, and the lowest
temperature observed each day is recorded. The barometer used was an aneroid,
corrected by a standard instrument at Cairo. Three daily observations were made at
the hours of 9 a.m., 3 p.m., and 11 p.m. The following Table is an abstract of these

daily observations :

Date.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              --

46 REPORT 1850.

bably about 0003 too great. These allowances being made, a close approximation

to the truth will be arrived at.

    The mean temperature of the air for the period of my observations at Greenwich was

39° 3'                               on the Nile it was 61°.
                                  ;

    The mean temperature of evaporation at Greenwich was 37°'4 ; in Egypt 55°;

    The mean temperature of the dew-point at Greenwich was 34° l' ; in Egypt 50°'8.

    The ?HeaH elastic force of vapour in Egypt was 0-384 ; at Greenwich 0214.

    The mean weight of water in a cubic foot of air in England was 3 grains ; in

Egypt 4^% grains ; but still, owing to the higher temperature, the air was much

drier in Egypt. At Greenwich the mean additional weight of water required to satu-

rate a cubic foot of air was only -rV "f ^ grain, while on the Nile it was If grain. If
we represent air completely deprived of moisture by zero, and air completely saturated

as unity, the mean degree of humidity on the Nile was 75 per cent., while at Green-
wich it was 85 per cent.

   The mean readings of the barometer in the two countries very nearly approach

each other ; in Egypt being29-99, at Greenwich 29'87. A glance attheTable,however,

will show how very small the extreme range of the instrument was on the Nile.

    The average weight of a cubic foot of air at Greenwich was 549 grains; in Egypt

527 grains.

    Rain fell in various districts of England on averages from thirty-one to sixty-one

days ; while in Egypt it only fell on five days, and on three of these a shower was
of but a few minutes' duration. On two days rain fell heavily at Cairo for several hours.

    The mean daily range of the                                                                                    temperature of                                                                    the air at Greenwich was  ir37                           in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;

Egypt 1031                                                    but while the mean                                                                                                         extreme range in  Egypt was 38,  at Greenwich it
                                                           ;

was but 29, the mean extreme range in the cabin being only 7 degrees below that

on the grass at Greenwich in the open air.

    Fog was occasionally but rarely observed. It was general in the Delta in the early

morning, but above Cairo it was only observed on three occasions.

                                     Oti the Six Climates of France. By Dr. C. Martins.

    The author stated that France partook of the climates both of continental and

s6a-girt countries. He wished at present to consider six climatal subdivisions, viz.

1.  the                              north-east               or  Vosgian                                          2. the north-west or Sequanian ;                                                                       3. that of the
                                                                                                                ;

west or Armorican ; 4. the south-west or Girondin; 5. the south-east or Rhoda-

nian ; 6, and finally, the Mediterranean or Provencal chmate. Upon each of these

subdivisions he enlarged, detailing the features of the country, the rivers, mountain-

ranges, sea-coai3ts, geological structure, differences of level, and state of cultivation

in each case, with the prevailing and most important features in the actual climate

of each. Dr. Martins exhibited a map of France with these six regions distinguished.
He stated that hitherto the labours of the meteorologists of France had no channel

of publicity at their command, but that a journal devoted exclusively to meteorology

was about to be established.

    Mr. Follett Osier exhibited Papers containing Registers from his new Integrating

AAnemometer.                                                  sheet of \Aain paper placed in the instrument under a registering

pencil is moved forward by rotating hemispherical fans, at the rate of one inch for

every ten miles of air that passes                                                                                                                                                       this  same  pencil,  having a lateral motion given
                                                                                                                                                                                      ;

to it by a vane, records the point of the compass from which the wind blows ; and

a clock hammer descending every hour, strikes its mark on the margin of the paper

--to express the time. Thus, in a single line, are given, 1st, the length of the cur-

rent ; 2ndly, the direction of it; and 3rdly, the time occupied in passing a given

station marked hourly, or at any shorter interval that may be desired.
                                                                                                                                       ;

               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                                       47

               CHEMISTRY.

On the Action of Oxidizing Agents on certain Organic Banes.
              By T. Anderson, M.D., F.R.S.E.

The author commenced by remarking, that the past year had formed an important
epoch in the history of the organic bases, and had been distinguished by a variety of

researches which had gone fal- towards the estabUshmeiit of the true constitution of
the artificial volatile bases. The extreme complexity of the natural fixed bases, and
the slender success attending their investigation, had hitherto prevented chemists

paying much attention to the action of different reagents upon that class of bases,

although there could be no doubt as to the importance of the results to be obtained.

The recent investigations of the volatile bases had however removed many of the dif-
ficulties besetting that of the more complex class ; and we might now with justice

expect the speedy determination of their constitution also.
   In the course of some experiments, made with another object, the author had had

occasion to observe some remarkable facts, which had led to an extended examination
of the general action of oxidizing agents on the organic alkalies, and seemed likely to

throw some light upon their constitution.

When codeine is treated with very dilute nitric acid, a substitution base, nilro-

codeine, is obtained, which the author had described in a paper which would be pub-

lished in the next part of the Transactions of the Royal Society  of  Edinburgh                                                    but
                                                                                                                                ;

when the acid is of moderate strength, very violent action takes place, with the evo-

lution of nitrous fumes and the production of an orange solution, from which water
throws down a resinous acid, sparingly soluble in water, readily in alcohol. The

analysis of this substance had not yet been fully completed ; but the results obtained

indicate a formula derived from that of codeine by the substitution of more than one

equivalent of NO4 and the addition of several equivalents of oxygen. When mixed

with water, and dilute solution of potash added, it dissolves with a dark red colour

and by boiling the solution, a volatile base, possessing a strong peculiar odour, is
evolved, and by distillation obtained dissolved in the water in the receiver. The
fluid which distils is strongly alkaline ; and when Saturated with hydrochloric acid
and evaporated on the water- bath, yields a highly crystalline salt, which dissolves
readily in absolute alcohol, and gives, with bichloride of platinum, a fine yellow salt,

insoluble in alcohol, but soluble in water. The salt so obtained gave on analysis

Nresults corresponding to the formula Co Hj HCl PtClj ; and the base is consequently

the meiliylamine of Wurtz, the formation of which by the action of a mixture of lime
and potash on codeine had been determined in the paper already referred to. Me-
thylamine however appears to be the sole product of the action of potash upon the
yellow resin ; but when potash-lime acts upon codeine, it is accompanied by propy-

lamine, Ce Hg N, and ammonia,
    Nareotine gives with nitric acid a variety of products, depending upon the con-

centration of the mixture. If the acid is dilute and the temperature employed low,

derivative bases are obtained, which have not yet been examined in detail ; but with

stronger acid a yellow resinous acid is obtained, which by treatment with potash

yields a volatile base, the platinum salt of which also gives results corresponding to

methylamine.

Morphia and strychnia, by similar treatment, both give volatile bases.

   Piperine, when treated with nitric acid, is rapidly acted on, with the evolution of

Anitrous fumes, accompanied by an odour resembling that of oil of bitter almonds.

brown resin is obtained as the result of the action, which dissolves in potash with a

magnificent blood-red colour, and on ebullition evolves a volatile base with a peculiar

and somewhat aromatic odoiu'. This base gives with hydrochloric acid a beautiful salt,
crystallizing readily from alcohol in needles nearh' an inch long; and with bichloride

of platinum, a salt in beautiful orange prisms, which on analysis yielded results cor-

Hn Nresponding to the formula C,o  HCl PtCP, that is, to a base diflPering from vale-

ramine by Hj.

   Nicotine undergoes very violent decomposition with moderately strong nitric acid,

and red fumes are given off in large quantity. When dilute acid is employed, how-

ever, and the temperature is kept just below the boiling-point, no nitrous acid is ob-
--48 REPORT 1850.

Atained, but the distilled fluid contains a large quantity of hydrocyanic acid.                              vola-

tile base is obtained by supersaturating with potash the residue in the retort, but in

so small a quantity that it has been as yet impossible to ascertain whether or not it

may not be a small quantity of unchanged nicotine, although the experiments made

render that improbable.

                       On a Compound of Iodine and Codeine.
                   By Thomas Anderson, M.D., F.R.S.E.

   The author commenced his paper by referring to the constitution of codeine which
he had determined by his previous investigations, and referred in detail to the com-
pounds and products of decomposition which had enabled him to fix its formula as

C36 H21 NO,-,.

   The compound of iodine and codeine which formed the special subject of his com-
munication is obtained by mixing together alcoholic solutions of equal quantities of
codeine and iodine, and leaving the mixture to spontaneous evaporation, when the
new compound is deposited in crystals. The compound is insoluble in water, spa-
ringly soluble in cold alcohol but readily in boiling, and it is again deposited in small
triangular plates as the solution cools. Its crystalline form has been determined by
Prof. Haidinger of Vienna, who finds it to belong to the doubly oblique system. The
crystals have a fine diamond lustre and a deep purple colour by reflected, and ruby-
red by transmitted light. In powder its colovn* is cinnamon-brown.

   The analysis of this substance had been attended with considerable difficulty from
the very large amount of iodine it contains, but the author had been enabled to de-
termine its formula to be C36 H21 NO^ I3.

    Its alcoholic solution is decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen, and the solution
contains hydriodate of codeine. Nitrate of silver poured upon the pulverized sub-
stance immediately produces iodide of silver ; but in this way the author found that
the whole iodine could not be separated, but that the iodide of silver obtained was
variable in different experiments, and always fell 13 or 14 per cent, short of the cal-

culated quantity.

   The optical properties of this substance have been examined by Prof. Haidinger of
Vienna. When examined with the dichroscopic lens by transmitted light, the ordi-
nary image is seen of a colour varying according to the thickness of the crystal from
honey-yellow to blood-red, while the extraordinary image begins with blood-red and
soon becomes black as the thickness of the crystal increases. By reflected light the
one image presents a brilliant ultramarhie-blue, the other a ruby-red. The former
of these however varies with the angle of incidence, and passes into violet, and with
 very high angles of incidence into bronze yellow.

Remarks on some Chemical Facts connected with the Tessellated Pavements

      discovered at Cirencester. By Prof. Buckman, F.L.S., F.G.S,

--In this paper it was shown that the materials of which pavements are composed
are of two kinds :  the first,  derived from rocks  of the  district,  and termed                            natural
                                                                                                                                          ;

the second, composed of clay, fictilia and glass, artificial tessellae. The natural

tessellae, many of which are so altered by chemical manipulation as to cause them

to be referred to foreign rocks, consisting of bits of stone from the chalk, oolite,

lias, and red sandstone formations, were clearly referred to their origin, and the pro-

cesses by which they were prepared for pavements was pointed out. Thus, a gray

colour was produced from a cream-coloured oolite, the change of colour being caused

by a process of roasting. This is dependent upon the fact, that the oolite bed of

which they are made contains iron and organic matter, the latter of which prevented

the iron peroxidizing, and thus the gray was due to a protoxide of that metal.

The artificial  tessellae  from pottery consist  of shades  of red     and  black                            the reds
                                                                                                          ;

all being due to a peroxidation of the iron in the clays from which they were made,

whilst the blacks were the result of baking in "smother furnaces," as long since

pointed out by Mr. Artis, so that the carbonaceous matter of the fuel with which the

baking was effected was prevented from escaping ; and, as he would lead us to infer, the

black smoke penetrates the clay, and thus blackens it. The author however showed
                                                                                                                                                                                         ;

                         TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                                                                                                                   49

that this smoke acted chemically, by preventing the oxidation of the iron ; and thus
the change from the dark colour of the clay to red, which usually occurs in burning

pottery and bricks, was prevented.

    Reference was then made to a medallion of the pavement representing Flora, in

the first drawing of which the head-dress and flowers held in the hand were coloured

verdigris-green, the hue these objects presented on being exhumed ; but as this was

unsatisfactory in chromatic arrangement, the author suspected some subsequent che-

mical change; and on scraping away the green from the surfaces of the tessellas in

question, a beautiful ruby glass presented itself. New drawings (which were also

exhibited)  were then made, with ruby instead      of green  colour                                                                                                         the  residt  of which
                                                                                                ;

was, that what was before inharmonious in colour and grouping, at once assumed

harmony in these respects, and became perfectly intelligible. An analysis of the

glass, made by Professor Voelcker, showed the cause of change from ruby to green

to have been due to the fact, that the antique ruby glass had derived its colour from

peroxide of copper, and that the tessellae had become covered with carbonate of copper

from a decomposition of their siu-faces.

On the Action of the Soap-test upon Water containing a Salt of Magnesia
  only, and likewise upon Water containing a Salt of Magnesia and

  a Salt of Lime. By Dugald Campbell, F.C.S.

   Experiments were first made upon water containing a salt of magnesia alone in
different proportions, in order to ascertain if the soap-test acted throughout with mag-

nesian solutions as it does with lime. For this purpose, 1 9-2 grains pure dry sulphate

of magnesia (MgO, SO^), the equivalent quantity of that salt to 16 grains carbonate

of lime, were dissolved in a gallon of distilled water. This solution was considered

as a standard of magnesia of 16° hardness. Fifteen other standards were prepared
from this by proportional dilution with distilled water, in the same way as the stan-

dards of lime are recommended to be prepared by Professor Clark in the specification

of a patent printed in the ' Repertory of Patent Inventions' for ISll.

    The action of the soap-test in producing perfect lathers with these standards coin-

cides, or nearly so, with the action of the soap-test upon like standards of lime up to

the sixth degree ; but from that point the magnesian standards begin not to require
so much soap-test as the lime ; and as the standards increase, this difference in soap-

test increases till the magnesian standard of 16° requires only 19-6 soap-tests, whilst

the lime standard of 16° requires 32.

    Standard solutions were prepared containing 16°, 12°, 8°, 6°, 4°, 2° lime in a gallon

plus 1°, 2°, 3°, 4° magnesia, and so on up to 16°.

    Less soap-test is requisite to cause a perfect lather in most of these solutions than

is  requisite  for  the  standard  of lime  alone  contained in them                                                                                                        or, in other words,
                                                                                                                                                                         ;

the magnesia appears to soften the lime standards, and this peculiarity increases as

the magnesia inc-eases ; for example, a standard of lime of 16° takes 32 test measures
a standard of lime of 16°-|-1° magnesia takes 31-6, and a standard of lime of 16°+16°

magnesia, 27*9.

    As the standards of lime decrease, the action of a few of the lower degrees of mag-

nesia in softening is modified, till solutions of the standard of lime of 2°, plus the first

4° of magnesia, take nearly as many soap-test measures as if they were entirely lime

solutions.

   In a number of these standard solutions, when a perfect lather had been produced
by a minimum quantity of soap-test, the addition of a small quantity more reduced
the lather to a curd great agitation produced the lather again, and stronger than it

                                                                                                         ;

was before the last addition of soap-test. If beyond a certain amount of soap-test
however had been added, a new action showed itself, which was that the lather cannot
be restored properly again until a certain amount of soap-test had been added. The
additional quantities of soap-test were in every case noted when this peculiarity was

observed.

 --The inferences drawn from the experiments are as follows: 1. That water con-

taining sulphate of magnesia alone acts towards the soap-test in producing with it a
perfect lather, similarly or nearly so, as does water containing a lime salt alone, but

    1850.                                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;

--50 REPORT 1850.

only when the equivalent of magnesia salt does not exceed 6 grains of carbonate of
lime in a gallon of water.

  --2. That the degrees of hardness of an ordinary water cannot be inferred by the

rule, "compute the grains of lime, magnesia, oxides of iron, alumina, in a gallon of
water, each into its equivalent of chalk. The sum of these equivalents will be the
hardness of the water."

    3. That the degrees of hardness of a water containing magnesia and lime salts, as
shown by the soap -test as it is now applied, cannot, in almost every case, be taken as
representing the amount of these salts in the water ; nor, in nearly every instance, can
it be considered as giving the amount of lime in a water when magnesia is present.

    4. That water might show by the soap-test a small degree of hardness in compari-
son to the considerable quantities of salts of magnesia and of lime it might contain
and trusting to this method of analysis alone, when selecting water for ordinary use
and for steam purposes, might lead to a water being selected which might not be
conducive to the general health, and which would leave considerable deposit in vessels

--in which it was boiled a great deterioration to its use in steam generating.

         Remarks on the Isomorphotis Relations of Silica and Alumina.

                   By Prof. Chapman, Univ. Coll., London.

   In this paper the author endeavours first to disprove the hypothesis, adopted by

certain chemists, that 3 atoms of alumina are isomorphous with 2 atoms of silica. He
shows, that, on this supposition, the formula RO, R'^ O^, which represents the highly-

--natural group of aluminates, ferrites, chromites, and their isomorphs, comprising the

well-established monometric or regular forms, spinel, gannite, magnetic iron ore,

--chromic iron, &c., should be isomorphous with 3RO, 2SiO^, the formula of a remark-

able division of monoclinic or oblique prismatic silicates, including augites, Wollasto-

nite, and other kindred forms. The minerals of these respective groups, however, do
not bear the slightest analogy to each other.

   The author then proceeds to examine the opinion which makes alumina isomor-
phous with silica atom for atom. He shows, that, according to this view, the above
formula, RO, R^O', of the spinels, magnetic iron ore, &c., should be equivalent to
3R0, SiO^-f-Al^O^, SiO', the formula of the garnets. Here the included minerals
belong equally to the monometric system ; and although the spinel group affects
octahedral forms, whilst the garnets usually crystallize in rhombic dodecahedrons,
yet certain members of the series offer transitions from one to the other ; magnetic
iron ore, for instance, which occurs both in octahedrons and in rhombic dodeca-

hedrons.

   Allusion is then made to the statement of Berzelius, that he had analysed speci-
mens of magnetic iron ore united crystallographically, as it were, to specimens of
garnet, the two constituting a single crystal ; also to the fact, that the author had

--seen rhombic dodecahedrons of garnet in which each of the three-sided angles the
--positions of octahedral faces consisted of magnetic iron ore. These facts, tending

in a manner to confirm the second hypothesis, are met b}' the circumstance, that
unions of a somewhat similar kind between minerals of dissimilar crystallization are
not unknown, as in the familiar disthene-staurolite crystals from St. Gotthardt;
although, in this latter case, the two crystals might be referred to the same group, by
considering monoclinic forms as hemihedrons of the trimetric system, according to
the views of Professor Weiss.

   The angles of the principal monometric forms, however, being necessarily constant,
no matter what the nature of the substance may be to which these crystals belong, the
isomorphism of the two formulae cannot be absolutely proved from the spinel and
garnet minerals. The author therefore relies more particularly, in confirmation of
this view, upon the crystallographic relations exhibited by two other minerals allied
by their composition to the above. These minerals are the Hausinannite and the

--Jdocrase, the first having the composition MnO, Mn* O^, and consequently belonging

to the spinel series ; and the second having the general composition of the garnets.
Both crystallize in the dimetric or square prismatic system, the Hausmannite occurring
in only three forms, square-based octahedrons. Taking the more frequent of these
--

TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  51

to represent the protaxial form, and designating it by the symbol X, to avoid em-
ploying any particular system of notation, we obtain the axial ratios of the three
forms as given in the following Table ;
--52 REPORT 1850.

and the West Indies. I am promised specimens from tlie Red Sea and the Indian

Ocean, but these I have not yet received.
   The character and composition of the incrustation, whether formed from deposition,

from water of narrow seas, or of the ocean, I have found very similar, with few ex-
ceptions crystalline in structure, and, without any exception, composed chiefly of
sulphate of lime, so much so, indeed, that unless chemically viewed, the other ingre-

dients may be held to be of little moment, and rarely amounting to five per cent, of

the whole.

   From two specimens of incrustation from the boilers of steamers crossing the At-
lantic, one of which you sent me, in which you had detected a notable portion of
fluorine, judging from its etching effect on glass, I also procured it ; it was in com-
bination with silica ; and I procured it also so combined from two obtained from
steamers navigating our own seas, one between Dundee and London, the other be-
tween Whitehaven and Liverpool. Of this I had proof by covering with a portion of
glass or platina-foil a leaden vessel charged with about 200 grs. of the incrustation
mixed with sulphuric acid, and by keeping the glass cool by evaporation of water from
its surface, and by supplying moisture for the condensation of the silicated gas by a
wet band round the mouth of the vessel. After about twenty-four hours under this
process, a slight but distinct deposition was found to have taken place, corresponding

--to the margin of the vessel a deposition such as that produced by silicated fluoric

acid gas vmder the same circumstances ; thus it was not dissipated by heat nor dis-
 solved by water, and yet admitted of removal by abrasion, either entirely or in great
part; the former in the instance of the platina-foil, the latter in that of the glass.
Besides the ingredients above-mentioned, I may add that in many instances oxide of
 iron, the black magnetic oxide, was found to form a part of the incrusting deposit,
 collected in one or more thin layers ; and further, that in some, especially of steamers
navigating the narrower and least clear part of the British Channel, the deposition
 presented a brownish discoloration, produced by the admixture of a small quantity of
muddy sediment; incrustations so discoloured, I may remark, are reported to be
most difficult to detach.

     I have said that the incrustations, with few exceptions, were similar in their struc-
ture, and that that was crystalline ; it was not unlike the fibrous variety of gypsum
of the mineralogists. The specimens received, as might be expected, varied very

 much in thickness, viz. from one line and less to half an inch. 1 have endeavoured,
 by a set of queries which I had distributed, to obtain information respecting the e.xact
 time in which the incrustations were formed, and under what circumstances, but with
 partial success only, owing, it may be inferred, to a want of exact observation. In
 one instance, that of the North American mail steam-ship " Europa," which arrived at
 Liverpool on the 15th of November, at 4 p.m., having left Boston on the 7th of the
 same month, at 9 a.m., an incrustation was found in her boiler of about one-fiftieth
 of an inch in thickness ; and it is stated that an incrustation of about the same thick-
 ness was formed on her outward voyage. This example may aid in giving some idea

 of the degree of rapidity with which the incrustation is produced, at least in the
 Atlantic, with the precaution of " blowing off" every three hours, and with the
 " brine-pumps " kept in constant work. In other seas, especially contiguous to shores,
 and more especially of shores formed by volcanic eruption, it is probable that, cceteris
paribus, the rate of the deposition of the incrusting sulphate of lime will be more
 rapid. The results of the trials of several portions of sea-water taken up on the
 voyage from the West Indies to England, noticed in the paper of mine already re-

 ferred to, are in favour of this conclusion.

    To endeavour to prevent the deposition of the incrusting matter, or to mitigate the

--evil, various methods it would appear have been had recourse to, some of a chemical

 kind, as the addition of muriate of ammonia and sulphate of ammonia to the water in

--the boiler, without success, as might be expected ; others, of a mechanical kind, with
--partial success, as the introduction of a certain quantity of sawdust into the boiler, or

 the application of tallow, or of a mixture of tallow and plumbago to its inside, to pre-
 vent close adhesion and the more easy separation of the incrusting matter, either by
 percussion, using a chisel-like hammer, or by contraction and unequal expansion by
 means of flame kindled with oakum after emptying the boiler and drying it. Of all the
 methods hitherto used, that of " blowing off," that is, the discharging by an inferior
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  53

stopcock a certain quantity of the concentrated water of the boiler by the pressure of
steam, after the admission above of an equivalent quantity of sea-water of ordinary
density, appears to be, from the reports made, the most easy in practice, the least un-
successful, and the most to be relied on. But, as in the instance given of the North

American steamer, ic can be viewed only as a palUative.
   Considering the composition of the incrusting matter, and the properties of its

principal ingredient, the sulphate of lime, a compound soluble in water and in sea-
water, and deposited only when the water containing it is concentrated to a certain
degree, there appears to be no difficulty theoretically in naming a preventive. The
certain preventive would be the substitution of distilled or rain-water in the boiler
for sea-water ; of this we have proof in the efficacy of Hall's condenser, which returns
the water used as steam, condensed, after having been so used : but, unfortunately
for its practical success, the apparatus is described as being too complicated and ex-
pensive for common adoption. Further proof is aiTorded in the fact that the boilers of
steamers navigating lakes and rivers, in the waters of which there is little or no sul-
phate of lime, month after month in continued use, remain free from incrustation.

This I am assured is the case with the steamers that have been plying several sum-
mers successively on the lake of Windermere. And, it may be inferred, that in sea-

going steamers, in which sea-water is used in the boiler, or indeed any water containing

sulphate of lime, the prevention of deposition may be effected with no less certainty
by keeping the water at that degree of dilution at which the sulphate of lime is not
separated from the water in which it was dissolved. From the few trials I have made, I
may remark, that sulphate of lime appears to be hardly less soluble, if at all less, in
water saturated with common salt than in perfectly fresh water. This seems to be a
fortunate circumstance in relation to the inquiry as to the means of prevention, and

likely to simplify the problem.
    If these principles be sound, their application under different circumstances, with

knowledge and judgement on the part of the directing engineer, will probably not be
difficult. His great object will be, in sea-going steamers, to economize the escape of
water in the form of steam, and thereby also economize heat and fuel ; also, when
fresh water is available, to use it as much as possible ; and further, to avoid using
sea-water as much as possible near coasts and in parts of seas where sulphate of lime

is most abundant.
   From the incrustation on the boilers of sea-going steamers, the attention can

hardly fail to be directed to that which often forms, to their no small detriment, in
the boilers of locomotive railway engines, and of engines employed in mines, and in
the multifarious works to which steam-power is now applied.

    These incrustations will of necessity be very variable, both in quantity and quality,
according to the kind of ingredients held in solution in the water used for generating
the steam. Hitherto I have examined two specimens only of incrustations from the

--boilers of locomotive engines, and a single one only from the boiler of a steam-engine

employed in a mine a mine in the west of Cornwall. The latter was fibrous, about
half an inch thick, and consisted chiefly of sulphate of lime with a little silica and per-
oxide of iron, and a trace of fluorine. The former were from one-tenth of an inch in
thickness to an inch. They were laminated, of a gray colour, and had much the ap-
pearance of volcanic tufa ; they consisted principally of carbopate and sulphate of
lime with a little magnesia, protoxide of iron, silica, and carbonaceous matter ; the 'two
last, the silica and carbonaceous matter, probably chiefly derived from the smoke of
the engine and the dust in the air. From the engineer's report, it would appear that
the thinnest, the incrustation of about one-tenth of an inch, had formed in about a
week, during which time the locomotive had run about 436 miles, and consumed

 about 10,900 gallons of water.

  On a peculiar Form produced in a Diamond when under the Influence of
                  the Voltaic Arc. By J. P. Gassiot, F.R.S.

    M. Jacquelin was the first to show that when the diamond is submitted to the high
 temperature and influence of the voltaic arc, it quickly becomes converted into a
 black carbonaceous matter, having all the appearance of coke. The diamond, when
 in a native state, is an insulator or non-conductor of electricity, but when thus changed

 into coke it becomes an excellent conductor.
                                                                                                             --

--34 REPORT 1850.

   At the Chemical Section of the British Association, held at Oxford in 1847, Dr.
Faraday exhibited some specimens of the diamond coke which had been forwarded
to him by M. Jacquelin ; and subsequently, on the 16th of June 1848, he publicly
showed the experiments in London in the theatre of the Royal Institution.

   On repeating the experiments a short time since before a few private friends, I
obtained a product so totally different from that of M. Jacquelin, that I am induced to
bring the subject before this Section, in the anticipation that it may tend to elicit
some observations on a phaenomenon which at the time attracted the attention of many

electricians.

    The apparatus I used in this experiment consisted of forty series of the usual size

of  Grove's    nitric  acid  battery                                    the terminals were  made  from  two  pieces  of well-
                                                                     ;

biu-nt boxwood-charcoal, that attached to the positive or platinum end of the battery,

being formed in the shape of a small cup or crucible, in which the diamond was

placed ; to the negative or zinc end of the battery a piece of the same charcoal (but

pointed) was attached.

    The experiment was then made in the same form as described by M. Jacquelin, by

first making contact with the two charcoal terminals, then bringing the flame in
such a position as to cause it to surround the diamond ; in less than one minute the
diamond as well as the electrode became in a state of intense ignition ; the diamond
gradually increased in size, rolling about in the heated crucible, when it suddenly
expanded, forcing itself upwards on the negative terminal, at which moment I sepa-

rated the electrodes.

   The diamond, which was in a state of intense ignition, remained attached to the

negative terminal. When cool, it exhibited the same state as it now presents; it was

expanded to eight or ten times its original bulk. Instead of becoming a black car-
bonaceous substance and a good conductor, it has a vitreous, white, opake appearance,

and remains a non-conductor. It has also a deep circular cavity on that portion
which was opposite and nearest to tlie positive electrode, that part which was in con-
tact with the negative electrode being clearly discernible by a small portion of the
boxwood- charcoal remaining attached to it. The centre of the cavity appears to be
still brilliant, as if that portion of the diamond had not been in a complete state of

fusion.

  In one or two other experiments the diamond disintegrated, the fragments remaining
in a carbonaceous state ; since which I have not had the opportunity of repeating the

experiment.

        Observations on the Groioth of Plants in Abnormal Atmospheres,

             By Dr. J. H. Gladstone and Mr. G. Gladstone.

   Though oxygen is the most important constituent of the atmosphere, so far as ani-
mal life is concerned, it is upon the carbonic acid, ammonia and aqueous vapour that
the vegetable world is mainly dependent.

   The question arises. Do the oxygen and nitrogen of the air play no important part
in the process of vegetation ? The following preliminary experiments, with a view

to the solution of this and similar inquiries, were detailed by the authors :

  A pansy lived for the length of twenty-four days in an atmosphere of hydrogen

containing 5 per cent, of carbonic acid; one similarly placed in an atmosphere of

common air remained healthy for a longer period.
   Five onions, just commencing to sprout, were severally placed in carbonic acid,

carbonic oxide, coal-gas, air containing 8 per cent, of light carburetted hydrogen, and
ordinary atmospheric air. The germination of the two first was entirely stopped,
while the hydrocarbons appeared considerably to accelerate the growth of the vege-
table. The plants in each instance lost weight.

  A pansy in flower, a young stock and a grass plant were placed in pure nitrogen

gas. The two former soon died, but the grass was left growing a month after the
commencement of the experiment.

    Another pansy was placed in a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen gases in the pro-

portion requisite to form water. In order to imitate the balance that obtains in
nature between animal and vegetable life, some flies were introduced, along with
some sugar, to serve as their food. The experiment was commenced a fortnight
since; and the plant, when last observed, was in good condition. Owing to the low
          --

                       TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                         55

specific gravity  of the mixed gases, the flies were   unable to mount on the wing, or
                  buzzing noise; but the substitution   of hydrogen for nitrogen in the
make thi usual
atmosphere had no marked effect upon their breathing ; thus confirming the observa-

tions of M. Regnault by an instance drawn from the Articulata.

                                On the Sulphite of Lead.

          By William Gregory, M.D., Professor of Chemistry.

    In Dr. Scoffern's  process  for purifying and extracting sugar, the albuminous matters
are precipitated by    acetate  of lead, and the lead remaining iu solution is thrown down

                       as insoluble sulphite.

                       being found in the sugar thus prepared, and it
                       be found, owing to imperfect filtration, it must
by sulphurous acid gas                                                            appears that a
    In the event of lead                                                          be the form

mminute trace may thus
               and I thought it most desirable to examine the properties of this             salt.
of sulphite :  of lead is one of the most insoluble salts knovvn, far more msoluble
                                                                                             than
The sulphite
the sulphate; indeed it may be called absolutely insoluble. As the sulphate has
paliolkiwesawoyinssienbgperebonyvelceoianndesriotd.nertehTdisoiantceercstot,utnhatin,sduitpiantpdopeeeaadrceesrdutlampihonusrptiocipnrtao,cbiaIdbplrieseptuahsareteddthaaesquasaunnltpaihntitytiedoofwtopeuulrtdeo
sulphite of lead, and gave it, in the moist state, to rabbits and dogs with their tood.
The animals all took it readily and throve upon it, although large doses were daily
given for periods varying from three to six weeks. The rabbits, being well-fed, be-

came very fat. and     continued quite healthy.   carbonate     .  .,     wh, en  ,long        ^- j
   It is well known    that very minute doses of                                         continued,
                                                             of    lead,

produce poisonous efi'ects. I had not the opportunity of testing the effect of very
minute doses of the sulphite for very long periods ; but I think it reasonable to con-
elude, that as the large doses, continued for six weeks, had no deleterious action
whatever, the sulphite of lead is essentially inert and innocuous. Besides its insolu-
bility, it is remarkable for stability; and so strong is the action of sulphurous acid on
the salts of lead, that it changes the black sulphuret into a white powder. In pre-
sence therefore of an excess of sulphurous acid, no lead can be left in solution. _
In conclusion, sugar prepared by Dr. Scoffern's process, and probably contaming
as much lead as was found in the samples analysed by the Commission, has been used
for months by families without any bad results. As long then as no such results,
have been observed, and my experiments tend to show that they are not to be ex-
pected, it would be wrong to reject the very great improvement of Dr. b. merely be-
cause a trace of lead (and that, not as carbonate, the truly poisonous compound) has
been found in the sugar prepared by his process. It may also conhdently be expected,
that, by improved means of filtration, even the minute trace of sulphite of lead, hi-

therto found, will be entirely got rid of.

                  On some Amalgams. By J. P. Joule, F.R.S.

The author had procured an amalgam of iron by precipitating it on mercury by
                            He had subsequently pursued the research with a view to
the electrotype process.  by a simple chemical or mechanical process. When mercury

form definite amalgams
was made negative under a solution of sulphate of copper, an amalgam of copper was
formed, which, when fully saturated with copper, was found to be represented by the

formula Cu-J-Hg.       exhibited a small apparatus  whereby  amalgams     could          ,   mad,e to
   The author also
                                                                                         be

endure a pressure of 60 tons per square inch of surface. The superfluous mercury
was thus expelled through the openings in the sides of the press, leaving an amalgam
of definite chemical composition. In this way he had procured the following com-

pounds :

                                Pt-h2Hg

                                 Ag-|-2Hg

                                 Cu+ Hg
                                 Fe-f- Hg
                                2Zn-f Hg
                                2Pb-h Hg

                                7Sn+ Hg.
                                                                                 --

--56 REPORT 1850.

Neto Researches on the Conductibility of the Earth. By Prof. Matteucci.

Although the good conducting power of the earth is at present generally admitted,

and is advantageously applied to the construction of electrical telegraphs, it must be

confessed that nothing has been hitherto known of the laws and theory of this sin-

gular phaenomenon. In England, Germany and Russia, it has been found advisable,

for several years past, to form the telegraphic circuit partly with the earth and partly

with a metallic wire, instead of forming the whole circuit with metal wire only. I

was, I believe, the first to show by exact experiments made in 1844 at Pisa, and by

others performed according to my propositions at the Scientific Congress of Milan,

that the resistance of the earth to the passage of the electrical current, which is
sensible in short distances, ceases to increase, and remains constant when the distance

between the electrodes plunged in the earth has attained a certain length. Having

latterly renewed my studies on this subject, I have confirmed and extended, in a com-
plete and general manner, the conclusions drawn from my former researches ; 1 have

also demonstrated the principal result, given above, by different experimental pro-

cesses. I have compared the resistance of a mixed telegraphic circuit with that of

an entirely metallic circuit, containing a length of wire twice as great as that em-

ployed in a mixed circuit. I have also formed metallic circuits of very fine brass

wires, having the same resistance as the metallic portion of a very long mixed tele-

graphic circuit; and finally, by making use of long metal wires covered with gutta

percha, I liave been able to compare the resistance of an entirely metallic circuit with

that of a mixed circuit, in which the metallic portion remained constantly the same,

and to which were added diftevent lengths of earth. The following are the principal
conclusions drawn from experiments which have occupeid me for about a year:

   The resistance of a layer of earth to the . passage of the electrical current varies
according to the quantit)' of water contained in the earth of which it is composed;

according to tlie specific gravity of that earth ; according to its depth beneath the

surface ; and according to the nature of the electrodes and extent of their surface.

This resistance does not inci-ease with the increased length  of  the  layer of earth
                                                                                                                                       ;

on the contrary, beyond a certain limit of length, which varies according to the dif-

ferent circumstances just indicated, but which in all cases is of little extent, the re-

sistance of a layer of earth remains constant, whatever be its length. Tt is unnecessary

to say, that I could not prove this fact bj' experiment on circuits exceeding eighty

miles in length; such being the average of the telegraphic circuits in Tuscany.

In making the experiment near the surface of the soil, it is diificult to plunge the

electrodes in earth of exactly the same conducting power; different portions of the
surface of soil possessing either better or worse conductibility than that on which we

begin to operate, it follows that in increasing the distance between the electrodes,

we may find either an increase or diminution in the resistance of the earth. Like-

wise, in operating on a long mixed telegraphic circuit, which is not perfectly isolated,

owing to the effect of the different derived circuits formed between the posts and the

earth, the electric cun-ent is stronger liear the pile than at a distance, and stronger

than in a ciucuit which is formed onlj' of metal wire equal in length to that which

enters into the mixed circuit. This explains the results which I had obtained from

my former uncompleted experiments. The resistance of a layer of earth appears to

diminish, as its length increases, only in case we meet with other layers of better

conducting power.

In every layer of earth of a certain constant conducting power, the resistance,

·which at first increases very feebly with the increased length of the layer, becomes

very soon constant, and continues the same for all the subsequent lengths, however

great, on which expeiiments have been made. Now it is evident, that, as the increase

of resistance in a long metallic circuit is scarcely perceptible when we add to the
circuit, by means of two large electrodes, a. thin stratum of water, so we ought to

find in the long mixed telegraphic circuits, that the resistance of the eai'th is null, or

nearly so, since it is equal to that of a thin stratum of water of a very large section.

The law of the conducting power of the earth being established, it remains to give

the theory of this phtenomenon. The opinion of the scientific world is divided on

this point. Some explain the good conducting power of the earth by the almost infi-

nite section of the earth compared with the distance of the electrodes ; others again

suppose that the electricities at the two extremities of the pile are dissipated in the

earth in the same manner as the electricity of the conductor of an electrical machine.
                    TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                      5f

This second explanation will not bear the slightest examination, nor can it be made

to tally with the results of the most elementary experiments relative to the conduct-

ing power of the earth. In fact, one cannot on this supposition explain why the

resistance  of the  earth  increases  at first with the length of the  layer                           why it varies
                                                                                                    ;

with the depth and the degree of moisture of that layer; why it changes if the mass

of earth interposed between the two electrodes happens to decrease, or to be wanting,
as I have proved by experiments made in mountainous districts; why the interposi-

tion of a portion of earth of a different conducting power produces a variation in the

resistance of the entire mass ; why the resistance becomes infinitely greater when we

keep this layer in a wooden trough separate from the earth, but in communication

with it by means of large metallic plates. According to this explanation, the resist-

ance of the metallic part of a mixed circuit ought to disappear, a thing which never

happens.

   I think that I may be able to give a satisfactory explanation of the good conduct-
ing power of the earth, founding my assertions on very simple experiments, and on
theoretical views already known. As long ago as 1837, I proved, in a memoir

published in the ' Annates de Physique et de Chimie,' that in operating on a certain
liquid mass, very considerable compared with the distance of the electrodes plunged

in it,//ie length of the intermediate liquid stratum has no sensible influence on the in-

tensity of the current.
   I have recently verified this result on a very large scale. I had a wooden case made,

7 metres in the side ; I keep this case isolated from the earth, and filled with water.
Operating on this mass of water, we find that the resistance of a certain stratum of
water, variable within certain limits, is independent of its length. In like manner,

in studying the conducting power of spherical masses of water varying in diameter

from 2 centimetres to 30 or 40 centimetres, I have found that the resistance of these

spherical masses of water was the same, and independent of their diameter.

I have already said, that this result may be deduced from the theory, and this is

done as follows. From the same diff^erential equations, given first of all by Fourier

Ohmin his celebrated theory of heat, and which  has applied to electricity, suppressing

in the latter case the terms which expressed the dispersion of heat in the air, are

deduced in the case of the sphere, the results which I have obtained by experiments

on the propagation of electricity in the earth. Although we are as yet ignorant of

Uthe physical value of that variable which figures in the fundamental equation of

Ohm in three partial diflTerentials, which is the same as that of Fourier in the propa-

gation of heat, and although that equation would really be more applicable to the

case of the metallic wire, which communicates at one extremity with the conductor

of an electrical machine in action, and at the other extremity with the earth, than to
the case of the electrical current definedhy its electro- chemical and electro-magnetical
action, it is no less true, that a certain number of the phaenomena of the electrical
circuit are explained by representing the propagation of the electrical current by the

same equation given by Fourier in his theory of heat. Among these phaenomena

may be placed, the fundamental law of the propagation of electricity in metallic wires

according to their section and length ; and the other more general cases of the pro-

pagation of the electrical current, and of derivation, in large metallic plates, or in

MM.spherical masses, and in the earth, such as they have been found by                                 KirchhofF

and Smaasen in Germany, and in Italy by my friends Ridolfi and Felici.

On the presence of Carbonates in Blood. By Prof, G. I. Mulder, of Utrecht.

   In this paper Prof. Mulder proves experimentally that blood contains carbonic acid,
not merely in solution, but also in chemical combination with bases and organic sub-

stances, as globulin, albumin, &c. When blood is mixed with water, boiled, filtered,

and the clear liquid evaporated to dryness, and the residue redissolved in a little water,
it will be found that acetic acid does not disengage any appreciable quantity of car-
bonic acid, though carbonates are present in the blood. This circumstance, which led
several chemists to infer that blood contains no carbonates, finds its explanation in
the fact, that the presence of organic substances in the blood gives rise to the decom-
position of the carbonates. In order to prove this experimentally, Prof. Mulder
treated blood in the manner described, with the addition of carbonate of soda, but he
                                                --

--58 REPORT 1850.

could nevertheless not detect any appieciable quantity of carbonic acid ; addition of

acetic acid to the residue left on evaporation of the blood serum.

Another source of error in determining the quantity of carbonic acid in blood, is

found in the greater power of absorbing carbonic acid which acetic acid possesses in

comparison with that of water. According to Mulder, 100 vol. of acetic acid of a

specific gravity of  1-070 absorbs 350 vol. of carbonic acid.

Acetic acid of 1-()G4 ,, 300                    ,,
      ,, 1053 ,, 130                            ,,

     ,, 1-028 ,, no

The author disagrees with Liebig, who, as it is well-known, explains the fact that

blood absorbs much carbonic acid by the presence of the tribasic phosphate of soda in

blood, with which salt, according to him, carbonic acid enters into chemical combi-

nation, and mentions some experiments, which are intended to prove that no chemical

change taiies place when carbonic acid is passed through a solution of tribasic phos-

phate of soda; on this occasion Mulder found that tribasic phosphate of soda simply

possesses a greater power of absorbing carbonic acid than water. This however he

found to be the case with other salts likewise phosphate of lime particularly is men-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;

tioned by the author as a salt which absorbs half more of carbonic acid than water.

For these reasons Prof. Mulder considers it illogical to ascribe solely to phosphate of

soda, a function in blood which it shares with several other combinations, both or-

ganic and inorganic, which are found in blood.

On a new and ready Process for the Quantitative Determination of Iron.
  By Dr. Frederick Penny, Professor of Chemistry in the Andersonian

   Institution, Glasgow.

   In this paper the author recommends the employment of the chromale and bichro-
mate of potash for the estimation of iron in the common ores of the metal, and espe-
cially for tlie analysis of the clay-band and black-band ironstone of this country.

He was led to the application of these salts in the course of certain investigations

upon the materials and products of the manufacture of alum from alum-shale, in
which he was much retarded by the want of a ready method for estimating the oxides
of iron. After trying various modes, and also Marguerite's process with the per-
manganate of potash, he decided on the chromates of potash, which give very exact
results, and possess the great advantage that a much larger quantity of material may
be operated upon than can be conveniently treated by the usual methods. For prac-
tical purposes, he says, the bichromate is to be preferred. The process requires no
other apparatus than that commonly used for Centigrade testing, which is familiar to
all persons engaged in chemical pursuits. It may be easily and rapidly executed,
occupying only a fraction of the time required for the process of estimating iron by
precipitation as the sesquioxide ; and it is not interfered with by the presence of alu-
mina and phosphates, which usually exist in the ore. The method is based upon the
well-known reciprocal action of chromic acid and protoxide of iron, whereby a trans-
ference of oxygen takes place, the protoxide of iron becoming converted into sesqui-
oxide, and the chromic acid into sesquioxide of chromium. The following equation

will serve to exhibit the general nature of this reaction :

                                2Cr03+6FeO=Cr 0-|-3Fe'^0.

   The following is an outline of the mode of operating in the case of clay-band and
black-band ironstone. The test solution of bichromate of potash is first prepared by-
putting into a common alkalimeter 44-4 grains of the salt in fine powder, filling to
zero with tepid distilled water, and agitating until the salt is dissolved and the solution
is of uniform density throughout. 100 grains of the ironstone, previously pulverized,
are dissolved in hydrochloric acid, and the solution diluted with water, and filtered in
the usual manner. To this filtered solution the test-liquor in the alkalimeter is now
added, until, on testing a portion of the mixture with red prussiate of potash, a blue
colour is no longer produced, but a reddish tinge communicated. The operation is
then finished, the number of divisions of test-liquor consumed carefully read oflT, and
this number divided by two gives the amount per cent, of metallic iron in the ore.
Dr. Penny gave the results of numerous experiments made with pure metallic iron,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SKCTIONS,  59

and with protosulphate of iron, for the purpose of ascertaining the exact quantity of
bichromate of potash corresponding to a certain weight of iron. The mean of all his
experiments gives 100 of iron to 8 8' 7.5 of bichromate. In the analysis of those varie-
ties of ironstone which contain an admixture of peroxide of iron, Dr. Penny recom-
mends the employment of sulphite of soda, by which the peroxide is speedily reduced
to the minimum state of oxidation, and then the bichromate may be applied as before
indicated. The only precaution to be observed is to use the sulphite of soda in suffi-
cient quantity, and to take care to expel the excess of sulphurous acid by brisk ebul-
lition. Dr. Penny likewise noticed several objections, which appear to militate

against the accuracy of this method of analysis. He showed that no error jcould

arise, during the performance of the experiment, from the oxidation of the proto-
compound of iron in the hydrochloric acid solution by the oxygen of the air, as no

appreciable change can be detected even after the lapse of several hours. And he

also satisfied himself that hydrochloric acid exerts very little influence upon dilute
solutions of the chromates, so that no inaccuracy could be produced by this action.

    In conclusion, Dr. Penny remarked, that his paper might be much extended by
showing the application of this process to the analysis of other ores of iron, as well as
its availability for the examination of alum liquors and copperas liquors, and other
products of the arts ; but such applications can easily be made by any one ordinarily

acquainted with practical chemistry.

            Phophorescence of Potassium. By William Petrie.

    It was not accident that led Mr. Petrie to observe the fact of the phosphorescence
of potassium, but while speculating on the consequences of tlie dynamical theory of
heat he was led to the conclusion that cold potassium ought to be found luminous, and
further, that it ought to be only about a tenth part as luminous as phosphorus.

   On testing this experimentally, as soon as opportunity allowed, with the precautions

for sensitive vision which the anticipated feebleness of the light indicated to be neces-
sary, the result was, that on dividing a bit of potassium (which was quite dry, being
protected only by a coating of bees'-wax) the halves showed two distinctly luminous
sections, the light being about a tenth of that from a similar surface of phosphorus.
The light diminished naturally as a protecting coat of oxide was formed, but remained
just perceptible to the most sensitive sight as long as half an hour.

   The outline of the considerations which led theoretically to this fact may be worthy

of a brief notice. Light from electricity or from combustion is due to the intense
heat produced by the electricity or by the chemical combination ; in other words, the
transfer of electric power in the one case, or, in the other, the violent impulsion of the
atoms of carbon and oxygen, by affinity, from their natural atomic distances towards
each other, produces atomic motions, which (having nothing to absorb the dynamic
force invested in them) must continue as a state of intense vibration, causing the phae-
nomena of heat. Some of the vibrations communicated to the surrounding aether are
of a transverse order, and some of these are of that intensity which affects the eye with
the sensation of light.

   But, such being the cause of light, how can phosphorus emit light when not warm}
Because the few individual atoms which are at any moment in process of oxidation
must necessarily be at the instant thrown into the full state of vibration due to the
force of affinity acting during their transit onward from the distance ordinarily sepa-
rating them from those of the oxygen, and this vibration must continue until it is
gradually expended in imparting vibrations of radiant heat and light to the surround-

ing (Ether, besides gradually dividing its force into slighter vibrations in all the adja-

cent atoms of its own substance, that is, raising its temperature in a minute degree.
The heat of so few atoms vibrating intensely is scarcely perceptible, while another
substance may have all its atoms in a state of general vibration such as to be much
hotter, and yet not one of them vibrating with sufficient intensity to produce light.

   Now it is clear that the greater the number of vibrations which each of the few

combining atoms can make and communicate to the surrounding eether, before the
atom loses its motion, by gradually imparting it to all the surrounding atoms of the
substance, so much the more light will each of the combining atoms have produced,
on the whole.

   In the case of phosphorus, a large portion of the motion of any vibrating oxidized
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;

--60 REPORT 1850.

atom becomes expended in producing radiant heat and light before the atom can di-
vide its motion among the adjacent atoms of phosphorus, for they are so connected
that they do but slowly and imperfectly communicate their vibrations to each other,
which is the theoretical way of saying that the substance is a bad conductor of heat.
The amount of light, therefore, produced by the oxidation of a newly-exposed cold
surface of any substance having sufficient affinity for the surrounding gas will be less,
as its conducting power is greater.

    These considerations indicate that potassium (and of course sodium, calcium, &c.)
must be phosphorescent, though less so than phosphorus itself, and experiment has
fully confirmed these anticipations.

          On the Condensation of Volume in highly hydrated Minerals.
                       By Lyon Playfajr,P^.Z>., F.R.S.

    Dr. Lyon Playfair has been for some time engaged in a series of investigations
having particular reference to the atomic constitution of bodies. This communica-
tion was in continuation of this subject. It was shown that the water in hydrated
minerals was, by some peculiar molecular force, subjected to extreme condensation
that it occupied only the space of the solid matter of the mass; and on dissolving
any salts containing water of crystallization, it was found that they only increased
the bulk of the water by the quantity of water they contain, the solid matter appearing
to occupy no space.

                   Observations on Ropy Bread. By George Read.

   During the summer and autumn of 1846, the bakers of London made many com-

plaints repecting a disease in their bread termed ropiness. Having, at the request of

many bakers, investigated the subject, the author offered the various statements which
he had collected, and some results of personal observation, for the consideration of
the Section. Among other facts, he mentions, that on examining some specimens of

diseased bread with a powerful microscope, he found that the whole of the cellular
portion of it was destroyed, and its appearance was that of a peculiarly white, lumi-

nous substance, somewhat resembling the granules of starch. One or two of the
specimens which he examined were found to be con*pletely covered with fungi.

On the Sugar Produce of the South of Spain, chiefly in connexion with the em-
   ployment of Acetate of Lead and Sulphurous Acid as Purifying Agents.
   By Dr. Scoffern.
   On the southern coast of Spain, in a region limited by Almeria on the east and

Malaga on the west, bounded on the north by mountain ranges and on the south by
the Mediterranean, is a tract of land which, so far as its climate and productions are
concerned, may be aptly denominated tropical. In it the date, palm, indigo, cotton,
and sugar-cane flourish with vigour, yielding products equal both in quantity and

quality to those of the tropics themselves.

   The sugar-cane, first introduced by the Arab conquerors, is not only consumed in
large quantities as a dessert, but also gives rise to a considerable manufacture of raw
and refined sugar, a circumstance which beyond Spain itself seems to be very little
known.

   There is perhaps no example on record of any operation involving a commercial
result, attended with such an enormous destruction of material as the operation of
extracting sugar from the cane. One portion of this loss is due to mechanical, another
to chemical causes.

   The sugar-cane has been stated by most writers who have found opportunities of
practically examining the subject, to contain no more than 10 percent, of solid non-
saccharine matter, leaving 90 per cent, of juice to be extracted. Of this 90 per cent,
most writers concur in testifying, that in practice scarcely 50 per cent, are actually
obtained, at least in the British West India possessions. Cane-juice itself has usually
been stated to contain from 17 to 23 per cent, of crystalHne sugar, of which scarcely
7 per cent, in practice were actually extracted.

   Considerable doubts having been expressed as to these statements of the amount of
             TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                61

juice in the cane, and sugar in the juice, I have lately gone through a series of ex-
periments having for their object the settlement of the doubt, and with the result of
amply confirming the testimony of other experimenters. Having operated on canes
from various parts of this district by slicing them, exhausting first by hot water, then

by hot alcohol, and finally drying, I obtained as my mean result about 10 per cent, of

woody or insoluble matter, whilst the sugar extracted and crystallized ranged from
17 to 23 per cent., as had previously been stated. It would consequently appear that
40 per cent, of juice is actually lost in the practice of our West India workings ; and
now arises as a most important consideration, the question as to what extent this loss
is inevitable, and to what extent it might have been obviated by altered machinery or

improved manipulation.
   Instead of 50 per cent, of juice extracted, 70 per cent, is much nearer the average

amount yielded by the sugar-mills of this coast, although occasionally the result is as
high as 75 per cent., and this in some cases with mills of very inferior construction.
The cane however is passed between the rollers of the mill four times, until the refuse
or megass, as the pressed cane is called, has been reduced to a state of disaggregation
resembling ground tan, whereas the West India cane refuse is represented to be in
the form of long strings, a suflScient proof that the pressure applied has been very

inadequate.

After the cane has finally left the mill, it is immediately, in the Spanish sugar re-

gions, subjected to the operation of pressing, sometimes by the agency of a screw, but

in many cases by hydrostatic force. By the latter method I have seen 13 per cent,

of juice extracted from megass which had already yielded up 73 per cent, of juice to

the mill, thus elevating the total quantity extracted to 86 per cent, out of the original

90, and consequently, as a manufacturing operation, leaving very little more to be

desired. The hydrostatic press I consider to be an apparatus which is indispensable

to the oeconomy of every sugar estate : not only does it largely contribute to the

amount of juice extracted, but what is most remarkable, the juice resulting froni hy-

mydrostatic pressure of megass, is invariably, so far as  observations have gone, richer

in sugar than juice yielded by the mill, a fact which seems to be only explicable on

the supposition that the hydrostatic press, in virtue of its great power, is enabled to

extrude those particles of sugar which microscopic examination demonstrates to exist

in the cane in the solid and crystalline form.
   The subsequent stages of the sugar manufacture, as carried on in Spain, do not

materially differ from those in operation in Cuba and many other tropical countries.
The juice is defecated or purified by lime, skimmed, evaporated to the requisite de-
gree, and poured into earthenware moulds, the contents of which are finally exposed
to the operation of claying. In one manufactory, however, witnessed by me, at
Almunecar, lime is no longer used, on account of its well-known injurious effects on
sugar, no other agent having been substituted in its stead, but sole reliance being
placed on the coagulation by heat of albuminous matters present in the juice, and
their final removal by skimming. Under this system of manufacture, the sugar pro-
duced is light-coloured but badly grained, and the unseparated albuminous matters

are present in such quantity, that every 103 parts of the concentrated saccharine
juice, as it comes from the teache or last evaporating pan, only yields 40 parts of

crystallized sugar on cooling, the other 60 per cent, remaining in the condition of
molasses, perfectly uncrystallizable until some adequate means for defecation be had

recourse to.

   The chief object of my residence in this sugar district was to superintend the erec-
tion of machinery for manufacturing sugar by means of my own process. The site

of our operations is Motril, about fortj'-five miles south of Granada, in a manufactory

furnished with apparatus of the rudest character. Up to this period (July 9th), our
own vacuum apparatus has not been sufficiently advanced to enable us to pursue our

operations by its aid ; nevertheless, owing to the superior defecating power of the sub-
acetate of lead, we have, even with the old and rude machinery, obtained a result of
more than 16 instead of 7 per cent, of sugar. Our striking teaches or final evaporating
pans we were under the necessity of removing, in order to afford the requisite space
for our own machinery ; hence we were reduced to the necessity of concluding our
process of concentration in a brass pan of conical form and holding about 600 imperial

gallons, thus materially increasing the difficulty of the evaporative process. Hitherto

only one-sixth per cent, on the juice, of subacetate has been used, but I imagine the
62 REPORT--1850.

quantity may be advantageously increased. As filtration is indispensable to the con-
ducting of this process, considerable fear was entertained lest fermentation might

supervene. This fear, however, practice has demonstrated to be groundless, inasmuch
as we possess in sulphurous acid an agent most antagonistic to fermentation. Another
speculative fear was, lest danger might arise from the lead employed : this fear, too,
practice demonstrates to be entirely without foundation, for not only is the sulphate
of lead most easily removed, but even were it to remain, no injury could supervene,
inasmuch as this agent is as harmless as chalk.

On the Tetramorphism of Carbon. By Henry Clifton Sorby.

The object of this paper was to show that the great difference between the various

states of carbon is produced by its existence in different crystalline forms and volumes.
   First, we have diamond, crystallized in the regular system, its primary form being

the regular octahedron, and having a specific gravity of 3-.521 ; and graphite, crystal-
lized in regular hexagonal prisms, with a specific gravity of 2* 177 when in fine powder,

due allowance being made for the ashes. But besides these, the author had found,

by the microscopical examination of the fine powders of coke, anthracite and charcoal,

that there are two other modifications which have not hitherto been distinguished.

Coke is crystallized in the regular system, its primary form being a cube, and its den-

sity quite different from diamond, viz.  1'891                         and its properties varying  so  much  in
                                                                    ;

other respects, that it is obviously a totally different modification of carbon. The

specific gravity of coke and that of graphite are however related to one another in the

ratio which mathematical calculation shows they ought to be, if they are supposed to

consist of spherical atoms of precisely the same size, arranged in the different man-

ners indicated by their respective crystalline forms. Their relations to heat and elec-

tricity also agree with that supposition.

Anthracite and charcoal have a form and volume differing from any of the others,

being crystallized in the square prismatic system, the axes being to one another as

5, 5 and 3, and the specific gravity being ]"773, or one-half that of diamond ; whereas

its specific heat is double. Anthracite, lamp-black and charcoal belong to this form;

and when tlieir specific gravities are determined with proper precautions, they agree

very closely, that of anthracite being 1-760, lamp-black 1'774, and charcoal 1"784.

   The properties of this form are dift'erent in important particulars from those of any
of the others, the most marked between it and coke being, that it is very much softer
and a much worse conductor of electricity. By exposure to a low red heat, no change

is produced in it ; but when heated to a bright red or white heat, its change in pro-

perties shows that it is converted, as far as regards its ultimate atoms, into the coke

form, but not in its crystalline structure or specific gravity, and it is therefore

pseudomorphous.

On a direct Method of separating Arsenious from Arsenic Acid, and on its ap-
  plication to the estimation of Nitric Acid. By James Stein, of Glasgow.

   Chemists have not as yet been supplied with a method for the direct separation of
arsenious from arsenic acid. In the course of an investigation on the salts of arsenious
acid, with which he was lately engaged in Prof. Liebig's laboratory, the author ob-

served a fact which led him to a solution of this problem. He found, that, on adding
arsenite of ammonia to a solution of sulphate of magnesia, no precipitate was formed
in the presence of free ammonia or chloride of ammonium, provided these bodies were

present in sufficient quantity ; and further, that a previously-formed precipitate was

redissolved by these reagents. Now Prof. H. Rose has given us a very exact method

of estimating arsenic acid by precipitation as ammonio-arseniate of magnesia, similar
to the process usually employed for the determination of phosphoric acid. M. Stein
accordingly found that arsenic acid might be precipitated from a fluid containing arse-
nious acid, while the latter remained in solution and was easily filtered off. lie did
not think it necessary to make any quantitative separation of these acids, as he con-
sidered that if the arsenious acid were thoroughly washed out, the completeness of
the separation would be apparent from Prof. Rose's paper. The evidence, however,
that it was so, he has also indirectly supplied in testing the following process for the
estimation of nitric acid, to which he soon perceived the above might be applied.
                     --;

TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                    63

    Owing to the fact that nitric acid forms no insoluble compound, its accurate deter-
 mination has been accompanied with considerable difficulty, and its amount was at
 no distant period only determined by very uncertain and difficult processes. The
 author having referred to the processes employed for this purpose by M. Crum, M.
 Pelouze, and Prof. Penny, proposes the following process :

  --The process is generally this : nitric acid has the power of oxidizing arsenious acid,

 and it is from the amount of arsenic acid formed that I propose to calculate its amount.
    It was however necessary to determine how much arsenious acid a certain quantity

 of nitric acid could oxidize. In experiments for this purpose, I found that I obtained
 one equivalent of arsenic acid for every equivalent of nitric acid used, showing that
two atoms of oxygen had been transferred from the nitric to the arsenious acid.

    After various trials, which I need not here describe, I fixed upon the following
method as the best.

    The nitrate to be analysed is mixed with three times its weight of pure arsenious
 acid, and concentrated hydrochloric acid is poured over it, in a small flask or basin.
It is then cautiously heated and evaporated slowly, almost todryness. When cool, water
is added and the whole transferred to a beaker-glass. The fluid is now rendered al-
kaline by ammonia, and a considerable amount of chloride of ammonium is added, and
subsequently sulphate of magnesia. The precipitate is allowed to subside, and is then
collected on a weighed filter. It is washed on the filter with water containing am-
monia and chloride of ammonium, till all traces of arsenious acid are removed, after
which ammoniated water only is used, till all the chloride of ammonium is washed

out. After this it is dried at 212° Fahr. till it ceases to lose weight.

  --I have also used a modification of the above process, as follows : The dry nitrate

was mixed with rather more than three times its weight of pure arsenious acid, and
the mixture very cautiously heated in a covered porcelain crucible, till the nitrate
began to melt, when copious red fumes were disengaged. The heat was continued
till these had entirely ceased. Towards the end, the temperature was slightly ele-
vated to ensure the thorough decomposition of the nitrate. This mode, however,
required much caution, on account of the vapour of arsenious acid which was given
off, and it could not of course be performed in the open laboratory, but under the
hood of a chimney.

    In experiments to test the accuracy of the process, I obtained the following results:
·436 grm. of nitrate of potash yielded 'SIS grm. of ammonio-arseniate of magnesia,
dried at 212° Fahr., and -5745 grm. gave l'07l grm. of that salt. The formula of

the ammonio-arseniate of magnesia, dried at 2 12° Fahr., is 2MgO NH4 O, As O^, HO,

and these numbers consequently indicated respectively 52-995 and 52-985 per cent, of
nitric acid in the saltpetre. This is slightly less than the theoretical amount.

    It is evident that this process cannot be applied in the presence of phosphates or
lime, as these bodies would also be precipitated, and would therefore require to be
previously removed. I hope, however, to be able to apply to it a method of Centi-
grade testing which will get clear of this difficulty, and at the same time render it
more expeditious.

      On the Chemical Composition of the Rocks of the Coal Formation.
                              By Henry Taylor.

On the Proportion of Phosphoric Acid in some Natural Waters.

By Dr. A. Voelcker.                                           \

   The object of this paper was to draw attention to a natural source from which many
of our fields may be oeconomically supplied with phosphoric acid. Prof Fownes has
shown that traces of phosphoric acid are met with in many rocks of igneous origin

but also in stratified rocks, particularly in limestone rocks, the presence of phosphoric
acid has been indicated by several chemists. The author found the proportion of
phosphoric acid in great oolite from the neighbourhood of Cirencester amounting to
0-124 per cent., equal to 0-260 of bone-earth, and in Stonesfield slate from the same

locality amounting to 0117, equal to 0-244 per cent, of bone-earth. As water charged

with carbonic acid is capable of dissolving bone-earth, this important fertilizing sub-
--64 REPORT 1850.

stance is found in many natural waters, percolating rocks which contain phosphoric

acid. Such waters therefore may be applied with advantage for irrigation. The ad-

vantages derived from this too-often neglected natural source are strikingly exhibited in

the irrigated meadows in the neighbourhood of Cirencester ; and it is the opinion of the

author, that one of the chief causes of the beneficial effects which follow the applica-

tion of the water for irrigation in this locality is to be found in the phosphate of lime

it contains. In a tea-kettle incrustation, formed in a short period by this water, the

proportion of phosphoric acid was found to amount to 1'25 per cent, showing a con-

Asiderable quantity of this acid present in the water.  very hard water from Edin-

burgh was likewise proved to contain phosphoric acid; but its proportion was not so

large as that in the Cirencester water, the quantity of phosphoric acid in a boiler-in-

crustation formed by this Edinburgh water being only 0'427 per cent. Sea-water also

Acontains phosphoric acid, but the proportion of the latter amounts to mere traces.

quantitative determination of (ihosphoric acid in the boiler-deposit of a Canada steamer

gave only 0"OoOG per cent., and that in a boiler incrustation of a steamer plying be-

tween Dublin and Liverpool 0-0424, as the per-centage of phosphoric acid. In con-

clusion, the author recommended Svanberg's test, molybdate of ammonia, as a ready

means for detecting the presence of phosphoric acid in natural waters.

On the Per-centage of Nitrogen as an Index to the Nutritive Value of Food.

                             By Dr. A. Voelcker.

The object of this paper was to show, that the usual estimation of the nutritive

qualities of an article of food is frequently attended with inaccuracies, which render

Ait desirable to modify our present methods in this respect in many cases.  circum-

stance which leads to considerable errors, is the presence of ammoniacal salts in the

juices of plants. Having examined several vegetables, and constantly found a con-

siderable amount of ammoniacal salts in the sugary extracts of the juices of plants,

from which all soluble proteine-compouuds had been previously separated, the author

inferred that the nutritive value of various vegetables had been overrated, as the

amount of nitrogen they furnished on combustion with soda-lime was taken as the

index to their nutritive value. If the whole amount of nitrogen in juicy vegetables

is assumed to exist in the plant in the form of albuminous substances, and calculated
accordingly, a considei-able excess will be found in summing up the results of the

analysis ; which proves indirectly that the whole of the nitrogen in vegetables is not
contained in them in a form in which it can be considered to add to the nutritiveness
of the vegetable. In cauliflower, and in the leaves of the same plant, an excess of
nearly 12 per cent, was experienced in the proximate analysis, by calculating the
per-centage of proteine-compounds from the amount of nitrogen obtained by direct

combustion.
    In order to prove experimentally the presence of ammoniacal salts in larger quan-

tities than hitherto suspected, and to avoid the objection that they might result from

a partial decomposition of albuminous substances during the analysis, the author
chose fungi for his experiments, which are rich in nitrogen, and known as being

highly nutritious, and which, growing abundantly on the Cirencester College grounds,

immediately adjoining the laboratory, could easily be got in the perfectly-fresh state.
The species used was Agaricus prunellus, a species which is edible, and remarkable

for forming most beautiful fairy-rings. After having separated all soluble proteine-
compounds by means of basic acetate of lead, which reagent throws down these com-

pletely, the amoimt of nitrogen still present in the juice of these Agarics, in the form

of ammoniacal salts, Avas found to be 0*204 per cent, for the fresh fungi, or 1"82 per

cent, for the dry fungi.

   The whole amount of nitrogen in the same Agarics, collected at the same time,

determined by combustion with soda-lime, was found to be 0*74 per cent, for the
fresh fungi, or 6-61 per cent, for the fungi dried at 212° F. Deducting from the last-
stated numbers the quantity of nitrogen found to exist in the juice in the form of am-
monia, we find that only 0"536 per cent, of nitrogen in the fresh, or 4-79 per cent, of

nitrogen in the dry fungi, exists in the state of proteine-compounds, and that nearly
one-third of the niti'ogen obtained by direct combustion exists in the form of am-

monia in the juice, or at all events in a form in which the nitrogen adds nothing to
       TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.     65

the nutritive value of the fungi. The nutritive value of fungi has thus been over-
rated considerably ; and tliere can be little doubt that the same is the case with many
vegetables, which, according to the author's experiments, contain sometimes consider-
able quantities of ammonia in the form of ammoniacal salts.

 Results of a Research on jEtherification. By Prof. A. W. Williamson.

   The process by which this remarkable transformation of the elements of alcohol is
effected has been the subject of much discussion among chemists; of the two theories
which have been devised to explain it, each counts among its supporters many first-

rate chemists.

   The facts upon which the contact theory lays peculiar stress are more physi-
cal than those to which the appropriately-designated chemical theory refers for its
evidence. But there is one point upon which the two differ essentially, and that is
the composition of alcohol ; the one maintaining that the two products, aether and
water, are made from 2 atoms of alcohol ; the other, that they are both produced from
I atom of double size. This is a difference of fact, and is therefore susceptible of
being decided by experiment, as it requires nothing more than a direct evidence of
the relative atomic weights of alcohol and aether.

   An experiment was accordingly devised, of such a nature as to give a result according

to the simple, differing from that according to the double atomic weight of alcohol.
It consisted in making aether from alcohol by a new process, in which the various steps
of which it consists were performed separately. One-sixth of the hydrogen of alcohol
was first expelled by the action of potassium ; this compound differs from aether by

having half as much carburetted hydrogen as that body to an equivalent weight of po-
tassium to the other half, or by doubling its atomic weight, may be supposed to contain
aether and potash. By double decomposition with iodide of sethyle, this substance was
converted into aether, and not into a body of double the atomic weight of aether, which
would have been the case according to the chemical theory of setherification. By
acting upon the same potassium compound with other iodides, new aathers were ob-
tained, which to 1 atom of oxygen contained two different carburetted hydrogen atoms,
one of which was contained in the alcohol, the other occupied the place of the hy-

drogen of that body.

   In the common process of aetherification, sulphovinic acid is known to be the im-
mediate product of the action of the sulphuric acid upon the alcohol. Now this sul-
phovinic acid is strictly analogous to iodide of aethyle and iodide of hydrogen. To

convert alcohol into aether, it has merely to exchange its aethyle for the hydrogen,
which in the preceding experiment was expelled by potassium. It is thus reconverted
into sulphuric acid, to recommence a similar circle.

   The continuous action of the reagent sulphuric acid, of which a given quantity is
known to be capable of converting an unlimited amount of alcohol into aether and
water, is thus owing to an exchange of analogous molecules in alternately opposite
directions, and is distinctly different from any effect of chemical affinity.

On the Influence of Sunlight over the Action of the Dry Gases on Organic
                 Colours. By Geokqe Wilson, M.D., F.R.S.E.

   The object of this communication is, to report the result of a series of experiments
made this summer, on the effect of sunlight in modifying the chemical action of eight

different dry gases, viz. chlorine, sulphurous acid, sulphuretted hydrogen, carbonic
acid, a mixture of sulphurous and carbonic acid, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen on

organic colouring matters. I had ascertained the action of the gases mentioned

already, on vegetable colouring matters, so arranged, that both colouring matter and

gas should be as dry as possible, the aim of the inquiry being to elucidate the theory

of bleaching, by accounting for the inaction of dry chlorine upon dry colours. In the
course of this inquiry, I ascertained that in darkness dry chlorine may be kept for
three years in contact with colours without bleaching them, although when moist it

destroys their tints in a few seconds, and I thought it desirable to ascertain whether
dry chlorine was equally powerless as a bleacher when assisted by sunlight. The

1850.                                 F
6 REPORT-^1850.

general result of the inquiry was, that a few weeks sufficed for the bleaching of a body
by chlorine in sunlight, where months, and I may even say years, would not avail in

darkness. I had not been able, however, to watch the stages of the actinic bleaching

by chlorine, and I returned to the inquiry this summer, with a view to ascertain this,

and subjected at the same time all the gases upon which I had previously experi-
mented to the influence of sunlight. The results of this inquiry I shall now briefly
state to the Section, and the method of procedure may be best illustrated by a special

reference to the most important of the bleaching gases, chlorine. P'our tubes were con-

nected together so as to form a continuous canal, through which a current of gas could

be sent. Each tube contained a small glass rod, on which seven pieces of differently

coloured paper were spiked or impaled. Three of those papers were tinged with the

colouring matter of the wallflower, which I expected to prove very sensitive to actinic

action. This colouring matter, as extracted from the petals by diluted alcohol, colours
paper of a grayish blue or slate colour ; this formed one tint. The same colouring
matter reddened by an acid, gives a bright crimson, much more vivid than the tint

of reddened litmus ; and when treated by ammonia, gives a pure bright green. Each

of those wallflower-tinted papers was introduced into every tube, and, in addition, a

piece of blue litmus paper, a piece of red litmus paper, a piece of alkaline or brown

rhubarb paper, and a piece of yellow rhubarb paper. All the tubes thus contained

seven different coloured papers, of different origins, and easily distinguished by the

eye. They were arranged in the same order in each tube, and were prepared as

nearly as possible of the same shade.

The papers were first dried in a current of desiccated air, passed over them for some

hours, and a current of the gas to be experimented on was then passed through the

tubes for five minutes, after which they were sealed hermetically, whilst full of the

gas. One of the four tubes was placed aside in darkness, the other three were ex-
posed to sunlight. This exposure was not commenced till the 1st of last June, when

four tubes having been filled with each of the gases to be experimented on, three in

each case were exposed to sunlight. Two of the tubes were hung up on the inner

side of a window having a western exposure ; the third tube was attached to a frame
and exposed in the open air on a wall looking directly south. The exposed tubes

were in this way subjected to the light of the sun, as well as to that of the other

heavenly bodies, so far as they could influence them, from the 1st of June to the 27th of

July, a period of eight weeks. I have now arranged the four tubes, which were filled

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '

with each gas, on one sheet of pasteboard ; the upper tube was that left in darkness ;

the two middle tubes were placed in a western exposure behind glass, and the lowest

was turned to the south in the open air.

I shall now describe the effect of sunlight in each of the gases. In the dark chlorine

tube, the colours are very little altered, and would probably have been altered less,

had the tube not been frequently exposed to light for the sake of examination. In

the western tubes, the originally gray and green wallflower papers have become

bright crimson ; the blue litmus is bright red, and the brown rhubarb has become

yellow. The whole chlorine has apparently entered into combination with the co-

louring matters, for the yellow tint of the gas has totally disappeared. In the southern

tube, on the other hand, the colour of chlorine can yet be seen, and the reddening
action is less decided, whilst the bleaching action is much more powerfully evidenced.

1 was led, from the appearances in the western tubes, to infer that I had employed too
small a volume of chlorine, and I began a new set of experiments on the 1st of July,
with a larger quantity of the gas, the results of which I now exhibit to the Section.

A month's exposure to direct sunlight has not sufficed to effect the full bleaching of the

colours, nor have those which have paled in tint changed in the way they should have

done if an acid had been developed.     This, I confess, has surprised me for theory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

would lead us to expect that when chlorine bleaches, it should form hydrochloric acid,

and the reddening observed in the exposed tubes seemed entirely to confirm what

theory indicated. The general result, however, of my inquiry has been, that the

action of sunlight in increasing the bleaching power of chlorine is less uniform than

might have been expected ; for whilst some tints have rapidly disappeared under its
action, these colours have remained unaffected in apparently the very same circum-
stances. I propose accordingly to continue this inquiry. I shall describe much more

briefly the effect of the other gases.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  Bt

   Sulphurous acid, when moist, acts powerfully as an acid on vegetable colours,
and bleaches the more fragile among them. If thoroughly dried, it may be
kept for months in contact with dry colours without altering them. Under the
influence of sunlight, however, it recovers to some extent its bleaching power, so
far as the wallflower tints and the litmus are concerned ; but on the yellow rhubarb
paper it has acted Uke an alkaH, and changed it slightly to a brown.

   Sulphuretted Hydrogen acts as a weak acid, and readily as a bleacher when moist,
but becomes inactive in both respects if made dry and kept in darkness. With the
assistance of sunlight, it recovers in no inconsiderable degree its bleaching power,
especially over litmus, and like sulphurous acid, it changes the yellow rhubarb paper,

like an alkali, to a brown.
   Oxygen is a well-known bleacher when moist, and especially when nascent, but

when dry, its action on colouring matter in the dark is extremely slow. In sunlight,
howevei-, it recovers its bleaching power, especially upon litmus.

   Carbonic Acid, when moist, acts as a weak acid ; when dry, it loses all action upon
colouring matter, but with the assistance of sunlight, it acquires a slight power of

bleaching.
   Nitrogen has no appreciable action, whether moist or dry, upon colours ; but a faint

bleaching action is exerted by it under exposure to sunlight.
   Hydrogen is without any action, when dry, upon colours, and is the least increased

by the influence of sunlight in bleaching action, but does acquire a slight decolorizing

power when exposed to sunlight.

  A mixture of Carbonic and Sulphurous Acid acts like sulphurous acid alone.

   The general result of this inquiry, so far as it has yet proceeded, is, that the
bleaching gases, viz. chlorine, sulphurous acid, sulphuretted hydrogen and oxygen,
lose nearly all their bleaching power, if dry and in darkness, but all recover it, and

chlorine in the most marked degree, by exposure to sunlight.
   The second result, which must however be considered less certain than the first, is,

that the southern tubes, which were exposed directly, exhibit bleaching action more
decidedly than those hung within a room where the light had to pass twice through

glass before reaching the colour.
    Whether the bleaching observed in the case of nitrogen and hydrogen was owing

to any chemical action of those bodies, or was only such as might have occurred in a
vacuum, I cannot determine. The experiments I have described can be considered
nothing more than the commencement of what cannot but prove a protracted inquiry,
which ought further to include the remarkable substance ozone, which ranks next to

chlorine as a bleacher.

                     On the presence of Fluorine in Blood and Milk.
                         By George Wilson, M.D., F.R.S.E.

   The author having resumed the examination of this subject in the present summer,
on a larger scale, and by simpler processes than he had employed for his communi-
cation to the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1846, has presented the following sum-
mary of his results.

   In my former examination of blood, I obtained a good result only when the serum
alone was employed. This summer however I have employed the fresh-drawn
blood of the Ox. About twenty-six imperial pints or three gallons of blood were made

use of. This was obtained from different animals in quantities of about nine pints at
a time, as this was as much as could be conveniently evaporated at once. The re-
duction of the blood to ashes was a tedious and not very pleasant process, but with

the help of a powerful furnace and the active cooperation myof assistant, Mr. Ste-

venson Macadam, who took great pains with the whole process, I succeeded in the
course of a month in reducing the whole quantity to well-burned ashes. These ashes
contained some unburned charcoal, but not in large quantity, and presented the
appearance of two distinct substances ; the one a dark red mass, owing its colour to
the peroxide of iron; the other a white fused salt, having a strong pure saline taste,
and consisting in greater part of chloride of sodium. The presence of this substance
interfered with the detection of fluorine, by evolving a large volume of hydrochloric
acid, when the ashes were treated with oil of vitriol, which carried away any hy-
drofluoric acid evolved simultaneously. It was necessary accordingly to remove the

                                                                       f2
--68 REPORT 1850.

chloride of sodium before seeking for fluorine, and to avoid the risk of introducing

the substance sought for, by the employment of reagents which might possibly con-

tain it : I effected the removal of the chloride of sodium by simply digesting the

ashes in a minimum of distilled water. This risked the removal of a little fluoride of

calcium or any other soluble fluoride which might be present, but precluded the

possibility of any such compound being added to the ashes. After being washed ac-

cordingly they were simply dried and warmed with oil of vitriol, in a lead basin

covered by a square of waxed plate glass, which had the words " Blood, 5th July

1850," traced on it by a blunt style in the ordinary way. The whole of the ashes

was employed, but as the vessel could not contain the entire quantity, it was divided

into two portions, the first of which remained for five days in the basin and was then re-

placed by the other half. The glass was thus exposed for ten days continuously to

the vapour arising from the acidified ashes. They effervesced very slightly when

treated with sulphuric acid, but evolved a sharp acid odour. The lead vessel was

kept at a temperature of about 150°Fahr. during the day, and fresh quantities of

oil of vitriol were added at considerable intervals, and the contents of the basin occa-

sionally stirred. The glass, which was cooled on the upper surface by the frequent

renewal of a stratum of cold water, slowly became dim, and slightly opalescent where

the letters were traced, in consequence no doubt of the separation of silica, for the

letters appeared deeply etched when the wax was cleaned oflT. From the large scale on

which the experiment was conducted, and the simplicity of the process followed, the

evidence in favour of the presence of fluorine in the blood of the Ox seems unex-

ceptionable                                                     andj it cannot be doubted that the blood of other animals will be found
                                                             ;

to contain the same element. I presume it to be present in the state of fluoride of cal-

cium, and that its amount is very small, but I have not attempted its quantitative

determination.

Milk was examined in a similar way, but its reduction to ashes was much more

easily effected than that of blood. I failed however to obtain other than the faintest

indications of fluorine from the ashes of about twenty imperial pints of cows' milk.

It was from a town dairy, and left a suspiciously-small residue of solid matter. The

main cause of the failure however 1 believe to have been, the neglect to deprive the

milk ashes of the chlorides they contained. The experiment was repeated with nine

imperial pints of rich milk from a country farm, the ashes of which were washed with

a minimum of water and then dried and treated like those of blood. The vapour

which they evolved etched glass distinctly. The ashes of 12 lbs. of new skim-milk

cheese, made this spring, treated in the same way, occasioned deep etching of glass.

The ashes of four imperial pints of whey, treated in the same way, have barely marked

glass, so as to show the faintest outlines when breathed upon. In all probability the

fluoride of calcium is associated with the phosphate of lime, and when milk is coagu-

lated, separates along with the caseine.

Fluorine was long ago detected in another of the animal fluids, as well as in the

skeletons, both external and internal, of all classes of animals. Some difficulty was

found at one time in accounting for the presence of fluorine in the animal tissues and

secretions. But when we learn that fluoride of calcium is soluble in water, and is
present in many natural waters, and that it or some other salt of fluorine exists in the

two great formative liquids of the animal organism, milk and blood, we shall cease to

wonder at its presence in the animal sohds and fluids and begin to inquire what its
function may be.

The author added, in conclusion, some suggestions to chemists who desire to con-

tinue the investigation.

 On the extent to which Fluoride of Calcium is soluble in Water at 60° F.
                        By George Wilson, M.D., F.R.S.E.

   The author, referring to his previous experiments on this subject, and taking into
consideration the possibility of silicon having been present in some form, thought it
well accordingly to repeat the results with solutions made in metallic vessels, and
never allowed to come in contact with silica in any shape.

 --One set of trials was made last summer in the following way : Well-crystallized

transparent fluor-spar was boiled for some hours in a platinum basin with pure hy-
drochloric acid, so as to secure the conversion of any silica possibly present into fluo-
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                               69

silicic acid, and remove any metallic oxide, sulphate of lime, carbonate of lime, or

other foreign matter present in the spar and soluble in the acid. The purified fluor

was then washed in the same vessel by copious affusion with warm distilled water,
and in this state employed for the solutions to be evaporated. An aqueous solution

of fluor-spar was prepared by boiling distilled water on the salt contained in a plati-

num basin, and the liquid was then transferred to a pewter vessel, in which it was

collected, and left for some days at the temperature of 60°, that it might deposit the

excess of fluor it had dissolved at 212°. The clear liquid was then filtered through a

tin funnel, with the neck partially choked by zinc filings ; and the filtrate was mea-
sured in a pewter vessel, which had been carefully graduated, so as to contain, when

nearly full, 7000 grains of the solution. The liquid thus obtained and measured, and

which had never come in contact with silica, was then evaporated to dryness in a

platinum capsule, and the amount of residue ascertained. Six careful trials were

made, and gave as a mean 0*25166 gr. as the amount of fluoride of calcium soluble

in 7000 grains, or 16 fluid ounces, i. e. a pint apothecaries' measure. This result

approaches so closely to that previously obtained with glass vessels, that the number

found must be considered as making a near approximation to the truth.

A similar series of observations was  made this    summer                                   but the fluor-spar, which
                                                                                         ;

was of great apparent purity, as furnished through the kindness of Mr. Tennant

of London, was not subjected to any preliminary treatment with hydrochloric acid,

but simply boiled with distilled water, and the solution collected and cooled as before

in a pewter vessel. The liquid was allowed thus much contact with silica that it was

passed through a paper filter placed within a tin funnel. Few however will suspect

that it can have transferred to itself any silica from the saline constituents of the

paper. Six trials were made in this way, the mean of which gave 0-26 gr. as the

quantity of fluoride of calcium soluble in 16 ounces of water. The numbers of which

this is the mean, like those obtained in the previous determinations with metallic

vessels, difl^er more from each other than the numbers did in the first series of expe-

riments, where the solutions were made in glass flasks. This however was to be ex-

pected, for the liquid employed in the first series was prepared at once to the extent

of many pints, and the uniform composition of the whole secured before any of the

solution was evaporated. In the case of the metallic vessels, on the other hand,

owing to their smallness, each pint had to be prepared separately, and its evaporation

completed before another was procured. The numbers therefore could not but difier

more in the second and third determinations than in the first. The highest number

Wewas 0-28, the lowest 0*2 1.  may therefore consider 0-26 as sufficiently nearly

representing the true solubility of fluor-spar, so that pure water may be considered as

able to dissolve ^gl-a^-rd part of its weight of this salt. The residue of 16 ounces of

the solution etches glass rapidly and powerfully.

The amount of solubility observed, though comparatively small, is large for a salt

reputed quite insoluble, and is plainly sufficient to occasion an appreciable error in

the quantitative determination of fluorine by the ordinary process, since as much as

a pint of water, and that perhaps at the temperature of 212°, must often be employed

in washing a precipitate of fluoride of calcium.

       A few unpublished particulars concerning the late Dr. Black.

                    By George Wilson, M.D., F.E.S.E.

   The object of this communication was to lay before the Section a few characteristic
incidents concerning Dr. Black, gathered from Mrs. Elizabeth Wordsworth, who was

a servant in his household during the last five years of his life.
   The facts recorded do not admit of abridgement, but they completely confirmed the

accounts contained in the published biographies of Black concerning his valetudina-
rian and methodical habits, whilst they gave no countenance to the statement which
had been credited in some quarters that the great chemist was an avaricious or penu-
rious man. Some interesting particulars were adduced illustrative of the amiability
and gentleness which characterized Dr. Black ; and the author concluded by noticing
that an error had been committed as to the date of the philosopher's death, which was
not the 26th of November 1799, as stated by Robison, but the 6th of December of
that year, a fact which Mr. Muirhead first pointed out (Watt Correspondence, p. xxii.),
and which is confirmed by the newspapers of the period. (Vide Edinburgh Mercury
of the 14th of December 1799.)
                             --

--^0 REPORT 1850.

            GEOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY.

           On the Possil Fishes and Yellow Sandstone of Dura Den.
                                     By Dr. Anderson.

Dura Den occupies a central position in Fifeshire, and consists of the upper old red
sandstone formation. The geological relation of the beds is well-marked and defined.
They repose on reddish strata, of a fine as well as conglomerate texture, similar to

those which occupy the basin of the Tay, and which are charged with organisms of
the same character. The carboniferous deposits overlie and crop out in the im-
mediate vicinity. The irruptive rocks form the line of separation, which have tilted
up the latter to an angle of 26°, while the yellow sandstone is nearly horizontal, or
inclining to the S.E. at an angle of 6° to 8°.

    This interesting deposit traverses the valley of Stratheden, in the district of which
Cupar, the county town, forms the centre, and rises to the height of 500 or 600 feet
on the ridge of hills which skirt the valley on the south. The colour of the sand-
stone is grayish-yellow, often iron-shot, and exhibiting in some localities a deep red-
dish tinge. Some of the beds are coarse and gritty, and occasionally pass into a
conglomerate ; but for the most part they are of a fine texture, and extensively used
for building purposes. The whole are interstratified with thin micaceous flaggy beds,
which pass into a kind of shale or marl, and being of various colours, as red, blue,
and white, give to the face of the rock a variegated appearance. The coloured marl
beds are, some of them, four feet thick, and entirely destitute of organisms.

    The organic remains are chiefly confined to the lower beds, and consist, according
to Agassiz, of the following kinds : Holoptychius Andersoni and Flemingii, Glypto-
pomus minor, Platygnathus Jamesoni, Pantphraclus hydrophiltts and Andersoni (the
Ptei-ichthxjs of Sir Philip Egerton). In addition to these, the same eminent ichthy-
ologist has marked on specimens in the author's collection, a Diplopterm, new
species ; Glyptictis, new genus, of which there are two species; and Dipterus, new
species. The specimens presented along with the paper contain two or three entirely
new generic forms. This remarkable deposit is, in many places, filled to repletion
with these fossil remains, which are all in the most perfect state of preservation, and
start from the matrix on the slightest stroke of the hammer. The author concluded
 a long and interesting paper, by calling upon the Chairman, Sir R. 1. Murchison, to
assign to one of the new and undescribed fossils the specific name of Dalgleisiame,
 in honour of the proprietor of Dura Den.

      On a Fossiliferous Deposit underlying Basalt in the Island of Mull.

                             By the Duke of Argyll.

    It occurred on the headland of Ardtun, in the S.W. end of the island. The
 headland is about 130 feet high, and is composed as follows, reckoning from the top
 downwards.

     I. Basalt, rudely columnar.
      II. First leaf-bed.
     III. Tuff, or volcanic ashes, being thickly disseminated with while lapilli, imbedded
 in a pumiceous ashy paste.
     IV. Second leaf-bed, about eighteen inches thick, and consisting in its lower part
 of pure compressed vegetable matter.

   AV. second bed of tuff, or volcanic ashes, passing into a conglomerate of flints,

 water- worn, and containing some organic remains of the chalk flints.
     VI. Third leaf-bed, thinner than those above.

   VII. A thick bed of amorphous, amygdaloidal basalt.

     VIII. Basalt, beautifully columnar; the columns being smaller, but as regulaf aS
 those of Staffa, and dipping into the sea.

    The leaves found in the fossiliferous deposits thus situated are of a considerable
 variety, being for the most part dicotyledonous plants. Many of the finest specimens
 obtained are of the Platanus family. Good specimens of the Pine-tribe also occur.
 Associated with the leaves, especially in the lower part of the second leaf-bed, many
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  7^

specimens of the Equiseia occur, a circumstance which, together with the absence of
branches or larger twigs, and the full extension of the largest palmated leaves, seems
to indicate that the vegetable remains had been accumulated in a marsh or shallow

water, when overflowed by the volcanic matter.

          On Recent Changes of Sea-level. By Robert Austen, F.R.S.

       In the present state of our knowledge, it is no longer sufficient to refer all changes
    of level, of apparently recent date, to the general head of "Raised Marine Beds or
   Beaches," inasmuch as many phjEnomena, which were originally so classed, are now
   known to be referable to distinct periods of time. Yet, though thus much has been
   ascertained, we have not hitherto been informed as to what may have been the
   exact nature and amount of oscillation recorded at any one particular spot ; and it
   is only by observations to be made at, or on, the same vertical line, that this ques-
   tion can be conclusively settled ; for such recent changes having taken place since
   the marine fauna was such as it is at present, its remains afford no assistance j and
   different levels, if observed at separate places, may possibly, on the assumption of

  unequal movements, belong to the same period. My object therefore in the present

   short communication, is to describe some sections which I have recently had an op-
   portunity of observing on the south coast of Cornwall, whereby to define the order
   of some recent changes. It is only under certain conditions that the evidence in
   question is clearly presented, the oscillation having been of small amount ; all traces
   of former lower levels of the land have disappeared along the whole line of the
   yielding strata of our southern shores j and along the greater part of the line of
   transition slates, the planes of bedding or cleavage, dipping at high angles south-
   wards into deep water, offer but a few spots for the accumulation of beaches ; the
   favourable conditions seem to be such as are presented by such situations as the
  headland west of Falmouth Harbour, and which may be taken as an illustration of

  them all.
· The slate strata at this place are nearly vertical, and are composed of beds of un-

  equal hardness, so that the action of the sea on their edges wears them out into a
  serrated surface of troughs and sharp ridges, from high-water mark to some depth
   below ; at which depth is the usual accumulation of coast sand and shingle.

   --The rise of the tides at the spot in question is about 18 feet, and the lines which

  the coast presents at low water are, 1st, that which defines the upper limit oiFucus
  vesiculosus, which everywhere clothes the rocks in thick masses ; and 2nd, a line
   defining a zone parallel with the former, presenting a perfectly clean surface of rock,
  and which represents the highest reach of coast waves, and along which their full
  power is exerted : the troughs of this zone are occasionally occupied by sand and
  large rolled blocks ; these two zones are to be seen at places as far as the eye can
   reach, bearing a constant relation to the present sea level, and everywhere present-
   ing a like character as to the form in which its surface is abraded : from the upper

  zone commences the rise, more- or less steep, of the cliffs or wall of coast line.
      At the place in question, however, a still higher zone is to be observed, and the

  foregoing detail has been required, inasmuch as this zone, in all its features, is an
  exact counterpart of the upper portion of the lower one, and must have been formed
  when the action of the line of breakers reached such level. This zone consists of
  bare rock, but the surface of the slates, instead of being clean, is covered with a

  growth of gray and orange lichens ; whilst in the clefts and troughs are masses of
  sea-pink {Armeria maritimd), Plantago maritima, and grasses. This zone is now

  constantly beyond the reach of the sea. At its upper limit, rises a vertical cliff of

  variable height, which must have been produced when the sea-level reached its base.

     We have in this zone a clear indication of a change of level ; the most recent, so

  far as elevation is concerned, which we find recorded, and the amount of which has
  not exceeded, or may be equal to half the present interval between high and low

  water.

     The line of vertical cliff which here and in other places overhangs this raised

  marginal sea zone, consists of an accumulation of variable, but often of great thick-

  ness, on the nature and origin of which we need not now enter ; but at its base, and

  extending inland beneath it, are marine beds of sand and shingle, corresponding
                                            --

--72 REPORT 1850.

exactly in composition with those of the present beach, and which, from their thick-
ness, must have been accumulated about the level of low water.

  We have thus presented on a vertical section (Fig. A) :

   1st. Zone (d) composed of division (a) covered with Fucus vesiculosus, and divi-
sion (i) above the former, and extending to the upper limit of the present tides, or

the actual tidal zone.

   2nd. Zone 2, which represents the upper portion of a former tidal zone when the
coast was at a lower level, and when the sea reached the base of the cliff B.

   3rd. The still lower level indicated by the marine beds at the base of cliff, (wiiich
underlie the accumulations (X) and the marginal), and the upper limit of which is
to be found at some distance from the present coast line, at D.

I do not propose to offer any relative geological dates for the accumulation X, nor

for a bed containing marine pebbles on its upper surface, nor yet for the underlying

beds at C, D. The most recent change is obviously that indicated by zone 2, a

movement of no great amount (8 to 10 feet), but of which we find evidences where-

Aever the nature of the coast admits of it.  depression of the land of such like

amount would convert many of the present river-valleys of the south of England into ·

estuaries. The valley of the Exe, much to the east of the spots whence the forego-

ing observations have been made, as also that of the Ouse on the Sussex coast (vide

Mantell), present mud-beds with modern estuary shells, at slight elevations above the

present sea-level ; these and such deposits I would refer to zone No. 2 on the line
of section here described, as a first step towards disentangling the very complicated

phaenomena which the younger accumulations seem to present ; and should this be

correct, we may infer thsft the latest change of level was extended to the whole

length of our chaimel with a like amount of effect.

           On the constant Increase of Elevation of the Beds of Rivers.
                              By Dr. Ludwig Becker.

   Assuming as acknowledged facts frequently observed, that the older buildings in
towns situated on the banks of rivers appear as if they had partially sunk into the
ground, the germs of churches, the basements of the gates of towns, of towers, of an-
cient walls, all giving evidence of this kind, while old pavements, and steps down
from quays are no longer visible, the author endeavours to account for these phae-
nomena. Choosing Mayence, from its ancient importance, and its situation on one
of the greatest of rivers, the Rhine, he shows the depth of ground which has been
accumulated in layers, by the destruction of human habitations in Roman, Mediaeval,
and modern times. In one case, three layers, six feet each, occurred in the centre of
Mayence. Close to the river banks, and forming a portion of the city walls, is the
Fish-gate, which was built in 1050.

   1. Excavations lately made by the side of this gate, brought to light the covered
street-pavement of the time of 1 050, and with it the basements, or, architecturally,
the socle of the stone gate-pillars themselves. The pavement thus discovered was very
nearly six feet deeper (5'9) than where the carriages travel in the present day.

   2. On repairing the river quay in the vicinity of this gate, the workmen got down

to two distinct layers or strata of road-paving, one two and.a-half feet, and one six
feet below the level of the present causeway.
                                                                     --

                                      TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                              73

   3. The old wall of the quay was discovered, which in the year 1750 was buried

Aunder the rubbish originating from the destruction by fire of the cathedral. small

stair descended from this wall to the Rhine ; the two uppermost of these bore signs
of having been much trodden ; the third appeared to have been less so, while the
lower one showed no injury from the impress of the foot.

4. In the neighbourhood of the St. Signaticus Church, a small brook, the Filgback,

flowed in the eleventh century into the Rhine, at a level six feet lower than it does

at present. The lately-discovered remains of buildings, which enclosed the sandy bed
of this little brook, give evidence of that period. The average level of the waters of
the Rhine at Mayence has been long held as being five feet above the zero of the
Pegel there. [By Pegel is meant a fixed point taken about a hundred years ago, as
being at that time, and indeed since, a mark of the depth of the water, and therefore

a guide to the boatman.] In the year 1750, the point ofthis Pegel, and at the same
time the mean level of the waters of the Rhine, were 8f inches deeper than now,
which agrees tolerably well with the half-trodden condition of the descending stairs

just mentioned.

It is not to be supposed that the body of water in the Rhine has since then in-

creased                               but the increased  height  of its waters may be naturally  accounted  for  by
                                   ;

the facts just mentioned, which show the increasing height of the level of its bed.

This height increases, according to these facts, 8f inches in a century.

  We therefore arrive at the following figures :

                                      The Rhine in 1050          Eng. ft. in.
                                                                      13 4

                                      1750                       59

                                      1850                       8f inches deeper than in 1 A.D.

   These standards seem to agree together, as the remains of Roman structures in
the neighbourhood of the water are to be found thirteen feet under the mean level

of the streets, and are not found higher. Again, the ruined basements (in architec-

tural terms "socle") of buildings of later centuries are found less and less deep as
the date of their creation comes nearer and nearer to the present century.

   To suppose that the bed of the river has not become considerably higher, would be
to conclude that the architects of earlier times were far from what we are accustomed
to believe of them. A foundation for the Fish-gate could hardly have been attained

even with the water at its present middle height ; whilst we further notice, that on
occasion of a very moderate increase of water, the lower part of the town would have
been wholly overflowed. The rings set in for the purpose of securing the boats, and
even the architectural ornaments, would only have been seen and available when the
water was accidentally at the lowest. But, in a word, the bed of the river has risen,
and man has been obliged to evade the progress of the waters by raising from time to

time the surface of the bordering lands.

   If, then, the surface of the river-bed does become elevated, and in the proportion

of 8f inches every century, the protecting dams must be made to rise in the same
proportion. The surrounding grounds cannot, however, rise in that proportion, and
it consequently occurs, that land under cultivation lies lower than the water, and
therefore, in case of flood, is the more exposed to danger, should the defensive dams
be broken down.

        Remarks as to the earlier Existence of the Binnen or Inland Lake.

                           By Dr. Ludwig Becker.

   In the year 1846, some buildings were undertaken in Mayence on the spot where
an ancient Roman castle formerly stood. For this purpose the side of a sloping
hill had to be lowered. The formation I found to be of the more modern tertiary
chalk. At the depth of fifty feet I found innumerable remains of fishes in a stratum
of clay. Agassiz travelled with me about this time, being on his way to North
America, and I let him see these fossils. He recognized amongst others, a Perca, to
which Herr Von Meyer gave the name of Perca Moguntina. 1 also found fragments

of Crocodiles, Tortoises, Microtherium, &c. At the depth of fifty feet there is a
great deposit of plastic clay, over which are broken strata of chalk and PaludiuEe.
The surface-water, which had easily found its way down to these, had given the clay
                                                   -- --;

 74 REPORT 1850.

 (which dipped considerably down town towards the horizon) a slippery surface, thus
 occasioning many splits and separations of the above-resting strata, some remaining
 on the saTne elevation as before, others having sunk down or broken off, as it were, so
 that the strata no longer fit together, and there is a split between. These divisions
 or gaps, which were of a surface breadth of from ten to thirty feet, and in depth
 from twenty to fifty feet, were filled with sand, flint-stone, and pebbles. Amongst
them I found remains of the Horse, the Marmot, the Deer, and others. The other
parts consisted of the fragments of broken rock from either side, unmixed with
diluvial remains or any foreign substances. This enabled me to perceive that nature
had by these means preserved the mark of what the water-level had been in an an-
terior period. It is usually held as true, that once the Valley of the Rhine, from
Strasburg to Bingen, was under water, and known as the Binnen or Inland Lake. The
indubitable traces which the waters of this lake have left behind them, support this
theory. It has not, however, till now been easy to decide what their surface level
was. The above-mentioned crevices in the hill-side, however, seem to offer a de-
cided clue. The upper crevices, those, namely, filled with diluvial remains, are but
fourteen feet lower in level than the other ones which contain only the materials of
the tertiary formation. The water may have had its normal level at the middle'
height of the two formations, which then would give it 115 English feet higher than
the present Rhine bed. In proof of this, other appearances offer themselves. The
precipices of the mountains which must have surrounded this lake, present, at this
elevation, a direct line of precipice of about ten feet up and down, which seem to
tell of the washing of the waves, the collision of ice-blocks, &c. Again, for the
length of about 100 English miles, we find, but never above the height of 115 feet,
diluvial loam, flint-stone, and rolled stones. All the sand above this is desert or
moveable sand.

   The outlet of this lake was apparently at Bingen, and it is probable that its waters
descended by a considerable waterfall. At a later date it seems that the natural
dam has given way, and that a mighty mass of water has all at once flowed down.
Some time ago boring experiments were entered upon at Mayence,at the confluence
of the Maine and Rhine, but at a depth of 240 feet down no rock was to be found
alluvial formation was alone to be met with.

Remarks on the Stonesfield Slate at Collyweston, near Stamford, and the

    Great Oolite, Inferior Oolite and Lias, in the Neighbourhood of Grantham.

  By tlie Rev. P. B. Brodie, M.A., F.G.S.

The author presents the following notices of the Collyweston beds :

                                                      ft. in.

1. Rubble, consisting chiefly of broken slate               5
2. Sand
                                                      A few inches.

3. Hard slate (ragstone)                              4

4. Yellow sand                                        3

5. Slate                                              1

6. Yellow sand                                        1

7. Blue stone, with traces of vegetable matter in 1   i«
                                                      3
fragments                                          J

8. Slate

Further on some inferior strata are visible, viz.     18 6
              9. Sand
              10. Ferruginous oolite                   4
             11. Clay                                 14

                          Total                       36 6

   No remains of insects, fishes or reptiles were noticed, and other diflferences appear

zoologically, between the slaty beds of Collyweston and Stonesfield, thougii their
mineraiogical characters and geological position are similar. The Gollyweston
                                            --

TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                                                                                          ^5

deposit is conjectureidd to have been formed in deeper water, aanncd at a greater distance
from land, than the Stonesfield slate in Oxfordshire and Glloouuccestershire*.

   The great oolite of Ancaster gives the following section :

                                                                                                                              ft. in.

1. Blue clay, in which I could detect no fossils ; near

the top it is traversed by a thin dingy white

kind of marl, with a few imperfect impressions

of plants                                               12

May this not be the representative of the Bradford clay which in Wilts imme-

diately overlies the great oolite, and often separates the minor subdivisions ?
--2. Ragstone coarse shelly hard oolite
                                                        5

3. Sandy, soft (rarely shelly) oolitic freestone, va-

riously coloured, yellow, pink and white, which,

from its variegated hues, gives it a beautiful ap-

pearance. This constitutes the serviceable build-

ing stone, and yields very large blocks                 17 6

4. Hard shelly oolite, generally of a blue colour, not

worked                                                  16

5. Soft white stone below, depth uncertain

                    Total feet                          60 6

    In an adjoining quarry the strata above the freestone are thicker, the blue clay
(No. 1) amounts to a thickness of twenty feet, and is succeeded by a hard blue
stone, containing many shells, especially a large species ot' Avicula, and broken frag-
ments of carbonized plants, but too imperfect to determine. There is a soft, yellow
sandy band at its base, also full of similar vegetable remains : the total thickness of
these two beds does not exceed two feet. The white rag, equivalent to No. 2 in the

previous section, is only 1 foot 3 inches thick, and reposes on the freestone. The
frequent remains of plants, and their rarity in Gloucestershire and Somersetshire, in
the great oolite, seem to indicate a closer affinity, zoologically, with the Yorkshire
oolites. Mr. Lycett and Mr. Morris identify very few of the great oolite fossils of

the north with those of the south of England.

   The inferior oolite offers in particular places much analogy to that of Gloucester-

shire. Green's quarry at Denton, near Grantham, gives the subjoined section :

                                                        ft.  in.

1. Rubble (about)                                       2

2. " Oolite marl "                              4 or 5

3. Soft, shelly, white and yellow, though sometimes

brown oolite, not quarried deep.

   The oolite marl (No. 2) is nearly identical with that near Cheltenham, though
rather darker in colour, and much reduced in thickness. It is loaded with corals as
inGloucestershire, and many of the species, as far as could be judged, seem to be iden-
tical. Some parts of the bed are softer and full of shells, among which were procured

several species of Cerithium, Nerinece, Natica and other genera. Natica macrostomaf
is abundant, and a species oi Rostellaria occurs, though rarely; the edges of the beds
have been much watei-worn, probably by currents, and the shells are exposed in relief
and are much weathered. Mr. Lycett examined the small collection procured, and
he states, that although the greater number were new to him, yet the tendency of
the others was decidedly towards the inferior oolite, and agree specifically with some

wrhich are common in the Cotswolds; such, for instance, as the Natka adducta
(an oolite marl shell, but also found in the great and inferior oolite of Yorkshire),

Trigonia striata from the freestone and gryphile grit; while at the same time there is
a new species of Acteonina, Monodonta, &c.

. In the inferior oolite of the Cotswold Hills, corals are more or less distributed

   * I had not read Captain Ibbetson's and Mr. Morris's paper on the CoUyweston slate,
published in the Reports of the British Association for 1847, until after the present notice
was drawn up, and it appears that we had independently arrived at the same conclusion.

   t Mr. Lycett considers this to belong to a new species, which is a highly characteristic

one in the oolite marl of Gloucestershire.
                 --

--76 REPORT 1850.

throughout the whole, but no one stratum contains them in greater abundance
than the oolite marl, the upper division of which has at one spot in particular been
correctly denominated ' the coral bed,' and evidently formed an extensive coral reef
beneath the ocean ; but with the exception of the Pisolite, we have no other evidence
of such reefs in any of the other subdivisions. Hence the abundance of corals in
the oolite marl near Grantham, coupled with other facts, such as the frequency of
NerinecB, which are usually found associated with corals, and are believed to have
inhabited shallow sea^, tends to support tlie probability that the marl in Lincolnshire

was deposited under similar conditions to the marl in Gloucestershire.
   One of the numerous trial borings for the railway now in progress on Harroby Hill,

near Grantham, gives the following section :

Soil                                                ft. in.

                                                          6

Rubble                                              6

Inferior oolite                                     40 6

Lias (blue bind) (continued downwards)              10

The junction of the inferior oolite and upper shale may be observed near Stam-

ford, where many of the characteristic fossils have been noticed. The upper lias also

crops out at the base of some of the numerous valleys which traverse the oolitic

district round Grantham. A few miles on the north-west a low and extensive flat is

occupied almost exclusively by the middle beds of the lower lias, so largely developed

in the Vale of Gloucester, and in no respect differing from them. In that neighbour-

hood the marlstone abounding in fossils forms a range of low hills, and is exposed

again in the descent from Denton Hill into the valley in which Grantham stands.

It there occupies the same relative position, and presents the same geographical

Afeatures as it does in Gloucestershire, Warwickshire and Somersetshire.  railway

cutting through Gonnerby Hill, close to Grantham, has laid open the top beds of

the lower lias undistinguishable, either lithologically or zoologically, from their equi-

valents at Hewletts and Robinswood Hills, near Cheltenham and Gloucester, and at

Chipping Campden in the north-eastern extremity of Gloucestershire*.

  The lower lias generally may be best studied N.W. and W. of Grantham ; the

oolitic Wolds in their range N.E. and S.W., rarely display the upper lias at their

base. West of the town towards Nottingham the junction of the red marl and lias is

probably visible, though the author did not see it j at all events, the insect limestone

occurs at Granby, between Denton and Nottingham ; for in the Grantham Museum

there is a beautifully preserved fish, apparently a Dapedium, from this stratum ; the

structure of this limestone being so peculiar, that in the absence of insect remains,

Mr. Brodie had no difficulty in recognizing it. In this case, this is the farthest point

northwards in which it has been hitherto detected.

On Striated and Polished Rocks and "Roches Moutonnees" in the Lake
      District of Westmoreland. By James Bryce,jm»., M.A., F.G.S.

   The discovery of these rocks is due to the active zeal of Edward Wakefield, Esq.
of Birklands, near Kendal. Knowing that the surface of the rocks had been laid
bare in many places along the line of the Kendal and Windermere railway, he insti-
tuted a careful search in May last, and was so fortunate as to discover two extremely
well-marked cases. These he showed to the author in July; other examples were
afterwards observed by them jointly. The author has visited almost all the loca-
lities in Scotland in which scratched rocks have been found, and he has perused
the accounts of others ; he considers that those now to be described are by far the
most perfect specimens yet discovered in these islands. The best marked case occurs
about one mile south of the Staveley station, fifty yards from the railway on the N.E.
side, and on the northern edge of a wood called Jacob Wood. Here a surface 53ft.

  * My friend Mr. G. E. Garey, the intelligent engineer on the Oxford and Worcester Rail-

way now in progress at this place, has discovered many rare and interesting fossils in this
division of the lower has, especially some new species of Asterias (Tropito^er, Forbes),
Pentacriuites, and Crustacea.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  77

by 16 ft. of the Lower Ludlow Rock was exposed two years ago by the removal of the
covering of till and boulders in opening a new road; it was intimated that the
rock should be removed, but it turned out to be so hard and tough, that it could
not be quarried without great expense and loss of time, and hence the preservation
of the scratched surfaces. The striae are extremely numerous and generally very
fine ; but there are also many coarser striae, and also grooves of various widths.
The greater part of these markings are in the direction of 10° west of magnetic
north, or 34° west of true north, taking the present variation at 24°. They thus
point almost exactly towards the opening of Kentmere. The surface is divided into
three or four rounded eminences, smooth and polished to a high degree, and pre-
senting exactly the character of the most perfect specimens of the " Roches Mou-
tonnees," so well described and figured by Agassiz, and considered by him as the

most decisive evidence of glacial action.
    Another example is to be seen at the Birthwaite station, where a large extent

of surface of the same rock is rounded, polished and striated in a manner exactly
similar. The striae and grooves run in the direction of the valley, or very nearly
magnetic north and south, that is, rather more to the south than in the former case.
Other examples occur at Birthwaite Church, within the enclosures, and at several
points near J and also in the valley between Staveley and Birthwaite, in all of which
the direction of the striae is the same as at the Birthwaite station. The Grasmere
valley. Raise Gap, a portion of Thirlmere valley, and the sides of Helvellyn, were
afterwards traversed without finding any additional cases ; but the examination was

 rather cursory.

    With respect to the cause which gave origin te these striae, the author observed
 that they might certainly have been produced by glaciers; but as the agency of ice
 is insufficient to explain all the erratic phacnomena of the lake district, for ex-
 ample the dispersion of the Shap granite, besides others, it is unnecessary to have
 recourse to it at all ; he would refer them to the action of the waves and currents
 charged with detritus, which, according to the elevation theory so ably developed by
 Mr. Hopkins and Professor Whewell, in several most valuable memoirs, must have,

 at many different epochs, proceeded from the centre of this district. In confirma-

 tion of this view, it was shown that the striae conform in their direction, so far as yet
 examined, to the lines of the great radiating faults, and the valleys diverging from
 the central group of mountains, whose first formation is probably due to the exist-
 ence of these faults, and along the lines of which the transported materials would be
 conveyed with the greatest facility and in greatest quantity, on each successive

 disturbance of the waters by the elevating forces. In exact agreement with the faults,

the striae at Jacob Wood have more of an easterly tendency than further west, and

 the gravel ridges in the open country southwards to Kendal, &c. have a correspond-

 ing direction, while they contain detritus from rocks existing only to the north. It
 would be interesting to ascertain, as bearing upon the theory of Mr. Hopkins, whether

 this partial conformity is really an isolated phaenomenon, or is part of a great
 system of diverging striae, marking the quaquaversal direction of the denuding and

 transporting forces. It is highly desirable that the valleys descending towards the

 N.E. and N.W., and opening in the direction of Penrith and Cockermouth, should
 be carefully examined with reference to the existence of such markings upon the

  rock-surfaces.

          On the Lesmahagow and Douglas Coal-field in Lanarkshire.
                     £y James BRTCE,_/Mn., M.A., F.G.S.

   The author stated, that he had undertaken an examination of this field in conse-

--quence of its being hitherto undescribed, the inquiry being entered upon, many pecu-

liarities were noticed. The coal district of Scotland, ranging from Ardrossan to near
St. Andrews, is but a single field, the older rocks on which the coal measures repose,
nowhere rising so as to form independent basins. It is indeed pierced through trans-
versely to its length, on the borders of Lanark and the Lothians, and again on the
borders of Lanarkshire and Ayrshire, by high ridges of trap rocks ; but these do not
wholly interrupt the continuity of the coal measures. The coal-field in question was
found to be an exception ; it is cut off on the one hand from the Clyde basins, and
78 REPORT--1850.

on the other from those of the east of Ayrshire, by ridges of Devonian rocks, amid

which igneous products are variously intercalated. On the S.W. side this separation
does not take place, as we should be inclined a priori to expect, at the highest part

of the ridges forming the watershed between the two systems of river drainage; on
the contrary, the strata of the Muirkirk field in Ayrshire rise up over this ridge at
the height of 1000 or 1200 feet, and pass down into the basin of the Clyde, where
they rest upon a narrow band of Devonian rocks. The boundaries of the field on
the east reach out to near the base of Tinto. There is no great body of carboniferous
limestone at the base of the series, but several beds of limestone are interstratified
with the coal, of great continuity, and containing a complete suite of fossils of true
carboniferous types. The coal shales, sandstones and ironstones, afford similar re-
mains in abundance ; and there can be therefore no doubt that the coal of this field
is of the same age as that of the Clyde basins. It is worthy of remark, that several
species of Trilobites occur in the shales and limestones, far up in the series ; that a
white grit, resting on one of the lower limestones, contains a prodigious quantity of
fish remains, and corresponds, apparently, with the great " fish-bed " of some English
fields; and that from one of the middle shales a fossil has been obtained agreeing
exactly with the Serpulites longissimus of the ' Silurian System,' pi. v. fig. 1. The
field contains fifteen seams of coal, whose thickness varies from 2 ft. to 13 ft., the
aggregate amounting to about 65 feet of workable coal. There are black band and
clay band ironstones, the principal seam of the former averaging 1 1 inches ; but
neither these nor the coal beds have yet been worked to any considerable extent,
owing to the greater accessibility of the fields further down the Clyde. The im-
portance of this field to the south-eastern districts of Scotland was pointed out, and
the attention of capitalists invited to its more thorough examination.

   The author exhibited a coloured map, with numerous sections, showing the inter-

nal structure of the field.

On the Glacial PhcBiiomena of the Neighbourhood of Edinburgh, with some
  Remarha on the General Subject. By Robert Chambers, F.R.S.E.

This paper opened with a description of the local phaenomena, partly with a view to

the gratification of the strangers present at the meeting of the Association. The Cor-

storphine Hill is a stratum of trap resting on sandstone, and dipping to the west, with a

cliff in aline north and south. In its crest, which rises to 470 feet above the sea, are

Onfour transverse clefts.  the west surface of the hill, the rock, wherever it is ex-

posed, is found to be rounded {motdonnee), smoothed, and grooved. The grooves and

the clefts in the crest of the hill all lie in one direction, viz. directed to a point north

of east. There are also, to the east of the hill, long hollows v.ith intervening swells,

and these run in precisely the same direction. At various places, in this region east

of the hill, are seen sandstone surfaces worn down to a remarkable flatness and

smoothness, and in several instances marked with striae, all pointing in the same di-

rection.

   Throughout the valley of the Forth, from the Pentlands to Fife, from Linlithgow to
Dunbar, the sandstone surfaces, wherever they come up, are likewise smoothed, and in
many instances striated, the striae all pointing to the E.N.E., or thereabout, such being
the general direction of the valley itself. The trap hills rising in this valley are all
long and narrow, generally free from abruptness on the sides, often abraded on the
west, and generally sloping away gently to the east; the direction here also is always
E.N.E. Surfaces on the Pentlands and in Fife exhibit striation precisely conform-

able. In short, if a deep ice-flow passed through this valley, it might be expected to
produce precisely the phaenomena which have been observed.

   The similar markings in other districts of Scotland were shown, for the most part,
though not without striking exceptions, to be directed towards the east and south,
Mr. Chambers adverted to the theory o( debacles, which was started to account for
the appearances, as now nearly given up. Ice was generally acknowledged as con-,
cerned in producing them, because the appearances were precisely those which exist-
ing glaciers produce. But there was great room for speculation as to the circum-
stances under which the presumed glacial agent was applied. Mr. Chambers declined
theorizing on the subject, but pointed out various conditions which any theory on
          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                               ' 79

the subject must explain. 1. How ice could move over so large a portion of the

North Ameiican continent, in a direction admitted to be tolerably uniform, allowing

for slight deviations easily explicable as owing to irregularities in the original surface,

Howand this without any mountain chain to give it forth. 2.  this ice was capable

of ascending slopes and topping mountains of considerable height. 3. How, in such

a valley as that of the Forth, there could be an ice-torrent of undeviating flow for

many miles, and deep enough to envelope hills many hundred feet high

Gold Mines oftKe Isthmus of Darien, Emigration to New Granada, and
        Canalization of the Isthmus of Darien. By Dr. Cullen.

   Mr. John Hogg in reading this paper, stated that the author (Dr. Edward Cullen,
of Dublin) intended to publish a new map of the Isthmus of Darien on a large scale,
which would be of advantage to our knowledge of the geography of that part of

America.

The paper commenced with a geographical account of that Isthmus, which forms

a territory of the Republic of New Granada ; the most important part of which is

that portion included between the Gulf of Wraba, or Darien, on the Atlantic, and

the Gulf of S. Miguel del Ballano on the Pacific. In the author's opinion, nature

had marked out this portion as the true medium of communication between the two

Aoceans.  minute description then followed of this entire district, which enumerated

some of the chief geographical characters.
   The gold mines of that Isthmus were likewise noticed. On the banks of the Cana,

a branch of the river Tuyra, is situate the Mina Real, in the Cerro del Espiritu
Santo, the richest mine that was ever worked. Dr. Cullen said, that for a number

of years, the sums transmitted to Spain for the king's Veintavo from that mine,

averaged upwards of 3i millions of dollars per annum, giving upwards of 70 millions
of dollars per annum for the whole produce. This he considered as a prodigious

return, which completely throws into the shade the recent gold digging in Cali-

fornia, where the produce seldom reaches one million of dollars per month. Besides
the Cerro del Espiritu Santo, there are many mountains near Cana, very rich in
gold, which have never been worked. Also, the author found in the Isthmus of

Panama, auriferous soil in many places.

   As a suitable district for emigration, the territory of Darien was detailed as offer-

ing brilliant prospects, and possessing excessive fertility combined with great geo-

graphical advantages. The lands set apart by the Republic of New Granada for

colonization, consist of the table-lands and elevated valleys of the Cordilleras of the
Andes, where the soil is very rich, and the climate temperate ; the thermometer

during the year ranging from 50° to 80° Fahrenheit.

   The paper concluded with some observations on the canalization of the Darien

Isthmus, and Dr. Cullen stated that on his return from the interior of Darien, he

ascended the Chuquanaqua and Savana Rivers ; these, but more particularly the
latter, in his estimation, afford the most direct and feasible mode of communication

with the Atlantic, No bar exists at the mouth of the Tuyra, or of the Savana ; nor

is there any difficulty in the navigation of the Gulf of San Miguel on the Pacific, nor

on the coast of the Atlantic.

On the Succession of Strata and Distribution of Organic Remains in the
         Dorsetshire Purbecks. By Prof. Edward Forbes, F.R.S.

   During the autumn of 1849, Professor E. Forbes was deputed by the Director-
General of the Geological Survey, Sir Henry De la Beche, to examine the organic

remains of the Purbeck strata in Dorsetshire, and to investigate their distribution in
situ, acting in cooperation with Mr. Bristow, the officer engaged in constructing the

geological map of the district. The results of this inquiry were so novel and curious,
that it was thought by the Director-General desirable, before publication in an ex-
tended form, to lay them before the British Association, in the hope that- by such a
course attention may be directed to similar phaenomena in freshwater formations in
other districts. Our knowledge of the Dorsetshire Purbecks has been derived chiefly
from the memoirs by Professor Webster, Dr. Fitton, Sir H. De la Beche, Dr. Buckland,
                                  --

    80 REPORT-- 1850.

    and Dr. Mantell. With the exception of certain vertebrata (reptiles and fishes), we
    owe to Dr. Fitton our information respecting the fauna. No minute investigation

    of the strata, in connexion with their organic contents, had, however, been under-

    taken, nor had the latter been collected to any extent, as may be seen when the pub-

    lished lists, including about twelve species of MoUusca and Crustacea from these
    beds, are compared with those now submitted to the Section, in which more than
    seventy members of those classes are enumerated. This increased catalogue is not

    merely of value on account of the great numbers of species, it is remarkable on ac-
    count of the new and interesting light it throws on the distribution of freshwater

    creatures during the oolitic period.

    The points at which these observations were made were Lulworth Cove and the

    neighbouring bays, Warbarrow Bay, (on one side of which, at Meup's Bay, is the
    clearest and most complete of all the Purbeck sections,) Osmington, Upway and
    Ridgeway, between Weymouth and Dorchester, and Durlestone Bay, near Swanage.

    Subsequently the base of the Purbecks exposed in the great Portland quarries at

    Swindon, a section which had previously been examined and accurately described
    by the Rev. P. B. Brodie, was visited, and found to correspond exactly in mineral

    characters and organic contents with the beds at the base of the Purbecks in Dor-
    setshire. From all these localities ample collections were made, in which the author
    had the assistance, for several months, of Mr. J. Capper, of the Geological Survey.
    The results of these researches, whether new or confirmatory of older observations,

    may be stated briefly as follows :

    1st. There is no passage from the Portlands into the Purbecks. The top beds of

    the Portland stone are purely marine : the lowermost beds of the Purbeck are purely

    freshwater, containing Cyprides, Valvata and Limneus. At Meup's Bay, these lowest
    freshwater beds, forming the " cap," occupy a thickness of a little more than eight

    feet, and are surmounted by the great dirt-bed, containing the stools of Cycadeeee.

    A little above this dirt-bed is a second, less developed, and a similar one occurs ia

    many places below it.

    Above the highest dirt-bed, the Cypridiferous shales which follow are strangely

    contorted and broken up in all the sections at the west end of the Isle of Purbeck.

    These are capped by undisturbed beds full of Cyprides, succeeded by twenty feet

    or more of shales, calcareous slates, marls and limestones, with occasionally siliceous

    bands, all for the most part deposited in brackish water, and filled, in many places,

    with Rissoce of the subgenus Hydrohia, and a little Cardium of the subgenus Proto-

    cardium.

    Many of these beds abound in a species of Serpula, closely allied to, if not identical

    with, Serpula coacerviies of the German Purbecks. There are above thirty feet of

    these brackish water-beds at Meup's Bay. They are capped by purely freshwater

    marls, containing the same species of Cypris, Valvata and Limneus, as occur in the

    lowest beds of the Purbecks.

    ASuddenly, without any disturbance, a change takes place.  very thin band of

    greenish shales, full of impressions of leaves like those of a large Zostera, and with

    traces of marine shells, cuts olF the freshwater strata. Immediately, however, new

    freshwater beds succeed, filled in many places with fossils, species of Cypris, Valvata,

    Paludina, Planorbis, Limneus, Physa and Cyclas, all different from any we had pre-

    viously seen in the Jower beds. Thick bands of cherty stone, filled with these fossils
    in a beautiful state of preservation, occur, and among them are for the first time in

7-  the oolitic series, Gyrogonites, the spore vesicles of Charte. Immediately above these

    interesting bands (in which many remains of fish were also found) is the great and

    conspicuous stratum long familiar to geologists under the local name of" Cinder-bed,"

    formed of a vast accumulation of Ostrea dittoria shells. In this bed the author dis-

    covered the first Echinoderm ever seen in the Purbecks. It proved to be a species of

    Hemicidaris, a genus characteristic of the oolitic period ; it was accompanied by a

    species of Perna. The cinder-bed is succeeded by limestones and shales, partly of

    fresh water aTid partly of brackish origin. In these the same species of Cypris

    occur which mark the shaly bands near the chert below the cinder. Many fish,

    especially species of Lepidotus and Microdon radiatus, are found in these bands ; and
    in the fine collection of Mr. Wilcox of Swanage, are the heads of two magnificent

    species of the reptile Macrorhynchus, from this horizon in the Purbecks. Among the
                         ----

       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                               81

mollusks a remarkable ribbed Melania, of the section Chilina, is found here. After

the deposition of these strata, there came another powerful influx of the sea, intro-

--ducing marine species Pectens, Modiola, Avicula and Thracia all undescribed

forms. Brackish-water strata full of Cyrena, and traversed by bands abounding in

CorbulcB and Melanice, are next in order ; in them is a Protocardia, but quite distinct

from its representative species in the lower portion of the Purbeck limestones.

Cyprides, turtles and fish, crown these brackish-water bands, and are specifically

connected with the beds of the middle Purbecks below them.

Lastly, a third series of freshwater strata commence with a new series of fossils

Cyprides, Paludinee, Physa, Limneus, Planorbis, Valvata, Cyclades and Unio, and

fresh forms of fish. These continue until they merge into the base of the Hastings

sands, and the Purbeck series is completed. The total thickness of all the Purbecks

at Meup's Bay is about 155 feet. Of this one-half is occupied by the lower portion

of the series, and the remainder is divided between the middle and upper portions,

the former being rather the more extensive. At Swanage the thickness is greater.

It is very remarkable, that whilst we can strictly divide the Purbecks into upper,

middle and lower, each marked by a peculiar assemblage of organic remains, the lines

of demarcation between these sections are not lines of disturbance, nor indicated by

striking physical characters or mineral changes. The features which attract the eye

in the Purbecks, such as the dirt-beds, the dislocated strata at Lulworth and the
cinder-bed, do not indicate any breaks in the distribution of organized beings. The

causes which led to a complete change of life three times during the deposition of

the freshwater and brackish strata of the Purbeck series, must be sought for, not

simply in either a rapid or a sudden change of their area into land or sea, but in the

great lapse of time which intervened between the epochs of deposition at certain pe-

Ariods during their formation.  most striking feature of the raolluscan fauna of the

--Purbecks is this so similar are the generic types of these mollusca to those of tertiary

freshwater strata and those now existing, that, had we only such fossils before us,
and no evidence of the infraposition of the rocks in which they are found, we should
be wholly unable to assign them a definite geological epoch. An examination and

comparison of these Purbeck fossils with the collections from the Hastings sands and

Wealden in the Museum of the Geological Society (to which they were chiefly pre-

sented by Dr. Fitton), and in the cabinet of Dr. Mantell, leads the author to believe

that the fauna of the middle and upper divisions of the Wealden series is, so far as

species are concerned, almost entirely distinct from that of the lower or Purbeck di-

vision. Many of the species reputed to be common to the whole series, are found
on inquiry to include more species than one under one name ; whilst some other

forms recorded as Wealden, but so far as the author has observed, peculiar to the

upper Purbecks, and occupying only a limited horizon in that part of the series, are

derived from certain anomalous strata near Tunbridge Wells, which the author be-

lieves will prove, on closer examination and accurate survey, to be Purbeck strata,
brought up among the Wealden clays by faults. The excellent monograph on the

Wealdens of North Germany, by Dunker and Von Mayer, in which a vast number

of species of animals and plants are described and accurately figured, affords the
strongest confirmation of this view, and shows that while the faunas of the German
Weald clays and Hastings sands correspond in essentials with that of the same for-

mations in Britain, the Purbecks of the continent, just as here, differ from the su-

perior beds almost entirely in their organic contents, and correspond with similar

beds in our own series.

The marine or brackish-water bands in Germany containing Ostrea Fittoniana,

appear to be represented in England by corresponding bands with the same fossil,

accompanied by species of Corbula, Cardmm and Melania, in the upper part of the

Hastings sand at Swanage. All the investigations of the author, so far, have gone

to indicate the probability of the presence of several distinct assemblages of organic

remains (similar to those which he has shown to exist in the Purbecks) in the higher

portions of the Wealden series of formations, whilst the true position of the strata,
now described, is shown without a question to be in connection with the ooUtic or

lower, and not with the cretaceous or upper division of the secondary rocks.

1850,
--82 REPORT 1850.

BriefNotices of Earthquakes in South America in 1 Si*, 1 845, 1 84-6 and 1 847.

                         By Mathie Hamilton, M.D.

    In the preliminary part of his paper, the author mentions, that, having placed a
mountain barometer in good condition at Tacna in 1843, it was found to be hardly

at all aifected by the ordinary earthquakes which were observed there. The pendu-
lum of the seismometer which he employed, was of little use for ascertaining the

direction of one earthquake shock ; but the sand-glass instrument acted well. It is
for moderate shocks that instruments of this description are required, for in violent
convulsions, even things the most ponderous act as seismometers, and it often occurred
at Tacna, that in shocks there considered moderate, the bell in the tower of the
church was tolled by lateral movements.

   Whoever would devote attention to the observation of phaenomena concomitant
on earthquakes in Peru, should, in addition to other necessary instruments, have an
efficient electrometer, if such can be obtained; also an anemometer of simple and

delicate construction.

   On the 18th of October, 1844, the provinces of Salta Tucuman, Santiago delEstero,

and others, were convulsed by a terribly destructive earthquake, which was felt over
an extent of territory above 1000 miles long from N.to S.,and several hundred miles

wide. When notice of the calamity reached Tacna, I transmitted to Salta a few

queries ; and in reply received a document, from which a translation of some para-
graphs is here offered. This horrible earthquake happened at half-past ten p.m.; there
is not a house in Salta which is not damaged, and many have fallen ; our estate has
suffered much, for the tanks which contained the ' Miel ' (cane-juice) all gave way
during the earthquake. These tanks are subterraneous, and each of them held about
 1000 arobas, i. e. 25,000 lbs., which burst into one another, forming a pool of miel.

   In the districts of Xuxuy and Tucuman, the earthquake happened at the same
time as here, reducing these towns and other places to a similar state of ruin. There
were two earthquakes or great movements; and in the suburbs of Salta, as in various
places more distant, the earth opened and threw out quantities of water and sand of
various colours, with explosions as if from volcanoes. During the night of the earth-

quake, from the time of the first shock till sunrise, heavy rain fell. Prior to the
concussion being felt, dogs began to bark, while beasts of burden and others, if
moving, were observed to stop, and so place themselves as to prevent their falling
by the coming movements of the ground. Also it was noted by people in Salta, that
previous to the first great shock, there was a profound calm in the atmosphere.

    Numerous shocks which occurred at Tacna and Arica within the four years above
noted, may be passed over without notice *. On the 26th of Nov. 1 846, a new volcano in
Chili appeared in action ; its first eruption was preceded by many land reports, which
were heard over a circumference of twelve leagues. It is on one of the highest
points of the Cordillera, that known as the ' Cerro azue,' blue mountain, which is
distant thirty leagues from Talca, at which distance the sulphur thrown out from the
volcano is smelt. Talca is about midway between the cities of Talcahuana and San-
 tiago*. 1847, Jan. 19th f: a severe earthquake was felt at Copiapo, which threw
down a number of houses, and damaged nearly all the town ; fourteen other shocks
occurred within four hours from the first one. They were mostly vertical, and were
considered the worst there which had happened since 1822t. The same paper of the
26th of May, notices a violent movement of the sea in the harbour ofCallao, when three
vessels anchored near the shore were in danger of being lost, in consequence of com-
motion in the water, a phaenomenon rarely seen there. The following explanation
was at the same time offered : " The origin of what has been stated above was a furious
 submarine earthquake, which was felt by the captain of the American Whale Frigate
* Acushuett,' when distant about sixty miles W.S.W. from the island of San Lorenza,
 at 3 A.M. of the 24th. The movement of the water in the bay ofCallao lasted several
 hours, and the three vessels were saved from being carried on shore by assistance
 from the English and French ships of war." In that paper of the 4th of June, it is stated
 that an officer of the army had written from Ayacucha on the 10th of May, stating
 that at the town of Huancarania an earthquake had occurred which lasted four days,

                              * Vide Mercury of Valparaiso of 19th January 1847.
                             t Vide Comercio of Lima of 11th February 1847.
                                   ;;

TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  83

that the earth had opened and destroyed various animals, and that Talavera with

other places had suffered.

   On the 28th of June, 1847, a severe earthquake happened at lea, which continued
at intervals during two days. The shocks were both vibratory and vertical, and did
much damage to the town : one writer complained of heavy loss from the fracture of

large jars in the ground which contained liquors. Tacna, 10th September, 1847,
10 P.M. : rain has fallen all day, which is rare here; also the sun has not been seen
since yesterday; barometer has fallen ^Vth since morning, night very dark. 11th,
3 A.M. : awakened by a violent earthquake, which lasted I think half a minute; others
say it continued two or three minutes. The motion was both vertical and in oscil-
lations, with land noises more like a succession of reports or explosions, than the
usual subterranean rumble; little damage was done beyond cracking some walls;
immediately I examined the barometer, which was as at 10 p.m., rain still falling,

atmosphere thick and heavy, sand in tube fallen.

   It appears from Ee Comercio of Lima, of 8th October, that two strong shocks of

earthquake were felt at Arequipa, on the 1 1th ultimo, one at five minutes before
3 A.M., i. e. about the time of that above noted at Tacna and Arica ; the distance in a
direct line from Arequipa to Arica is about 200 miles.

   On the 8th of October, 1847, an earthquake was felt throughout Chili, from N. to S.,
and more severely at Melepilla, which is between Valparaiso and Santiago ; at Mele-

pilla, the earth was shaking or swinging during two days, within which time several
hundred shocks were experienced, the convulsion havhig been the worst here since

that of 1822.

   Though no certain indications of an approaching earthquake can be noted, yet I
have heard persons in Arica and Tacna affirm that previous to heavy shocks, they
were often sensible of a peculiar disagreeable smell or state of the atmosphere, which
they assert maybe considered a precursor of a coming shock. Between 1843-48, the
said odour was more rarely referred to in that quarter, which may have resulted from
the greater paucity of earthquakes there within that period. In 1826 and following
years, prior to some severe shocks there, my olfactory organs were affected by the
invisible agent above noted, which was something different from the eiHuvia emana-
ting from decaying animal and vegetable matters. Native Peruvians call it *01or de

 tierra,' smell of the earth.
    Another indication of a coming earthquake, in the opinion of the people there, is,

that when the atmosphere is profoundly calm or stagnant, an almost imperceptible
movement of it, a breath, as it were, of wind is felt, so gentle as to affect only the
faces of persons who are peculiarly sensitive. These, and other alleged precursors
 of severe earthquakes, such as movements of the lower animals, should be diligently
 watched by those who would study these so often dire visitations ; which, though no
 human power can avert, yet perchance may, in some cases, be made less destructive
 as, with the aid of properly adapted instruments and other means, attentive observers
 may obtain, not only a solution of the problem as to the causes of these terrestrial
 convulsions, but also a knowledge of their premonitory symptoms, if any, which
 would be of vast importance as affecting precautionary measures for saving life and

 property.

On the Position of the Footsteps in the Bunter Sandstone of Dumfries-shire.
                                  By Robert Harkness.

   The Bunter sandstone occupies four separate portions of the county of Dumfries :
one occurring in the north-west, in which as yet no footprints have been discovered
another is found filling up the flat parts of the Vale of the Annan ; the third is met
around Dumfries ; and the fourth stretches east from near the village of Cummer-

trees along the shore of the Solway, and occupies the lower part of the parish of
Cannobie. It is in that portion which lies in the low part of the Vale of the Annan
that impressions of footsteps occur in the greatest abundance. At Corncockle, and
also at Templand quarries in this district, and likewise at Locherbriggs, Craigs, and
Green Mill, in the sandstone of Dumfries, footsteps are met with. At the former of

mthese places they are found more commonly and in greater variety, as well as

better state of preservation than at the other localities. The nature of the sandstone

which affords the tracts, is to a great extent similar ; and the direction of the dip is

                                                                   g2
--84 REPORT 1850.

generally uniform. At Corncockle the sandstone consists of beds of rock of varying

thickness, having laminae which are better developed in the upper than in the lower

parts of the stratum. In some cases the beds are separated from each other by thin

layers  ot  clay                on these, and also on the  upper surface of some of the strata, the im-
                             ;

pressions abound ; those on the rock being more perfect than what the clay beds

aflbrd, owing in some cases to the thin layerof clay being completely pressed through,

and the less yielding sand having confused the impression. Of the general charac-

ters of the steps from Corncockit, Templand, Locherbriggs, and around Dumfries,

there is such a resemblance between them as to show that the position of the strata

at each of these localities is similar, and the general agreement in the composition

of the sandstones also bears out this opinion. In the area occupied by the Bunter
sandstone about Annan and the neighbourhood of the Solway Firth, we find con-

siderable difference, both in the composition of the sandstone, and also in the nature

of the footsteps. At Corse Hill, which may be taken as a type of this deposit about
Annan, we have beds of clay about nine inches in thickness, interstratifying the sand-

stone; and the general appearance is such as to show that here the deposits are not
far removed from the Keuper. The upper surface of these clay beds is commonly
marked by vermjcular-like ridges, which appear to have resulted from the erosion of

currents on the soft surface of the clay. Amongst these markings, impressions of

the footsteps of the Cheirotherium are sometimes met with, and in some instances
marks of desiccation occur.

In the districts about Corncockle and around Dumfries, above the beds which con-

tain the impressions, coarser sandstones are met with which exceed a thickness of 100

yards ; and above this coarse sandstone a thick deposit of conglomerate of more than

that thickness is also found. Resting upon this conglomerate, we have beds which

represent the lower portion of those which occur in the neighbourhood of Annan.
But in this latter locality we have fully 100 yards of beds exposed, and consequently,

connecting the whole thickness of the beds together, from the lower portion of Corn-
cockle Muir to the beds which afford the steps of the Cheirotherium at Annan, we

have a thickness of about 300 yards : as however the conglomerate would accumu-
late much more rapidly than a common sandstone, by excluding this deposit, we

should have more than 200 yards of sandstone, through which different impressions

of footsteps are met with.

As regards the different kinds of footmarks, we have associated at Corncockle the

steps of what has been termed a small tortoise, with at least the impressions of three

other animals. This small tortoise-like impression also occurs at Weston Point in

Cheshire, where it is found in company with the steps of the Rhynchosaurus ; but as
no traces of this latter animal have been met with in Dumfries-shire, we may infer

that it was not called into existence when the sandstone of Corncockle Muir was

being deposited ; and moreover, inasmuch as we have no traces of the other three

animals coexistent with the little tortoise, we may infer that these animals had disap-

peared before the creation of the Rhynchosaurus. As before stated, the Cheirothe-

rium steps are found near Annan, and the general character of the beds here shows

that they are nearly related to the Keuper. At Stourton, and also at Lyran, both in

Cheshire, the footsteps of this animal occupy a high position in the Bunter sandstone.

AtBemburg wefind the Labyrinthodon also occurring in the higher beds of the Bunter;

and Dr. Lloyd considers that the Labyrinthodon Bucklandi belongs rather to the

higher portion of this deposit than to the lower beds of the Keuper.

Considering the footsteps of the Bunter sandstone, we have in the highest portion

the impressions of the Cheirotherium. Below these the footmarks of the Rhyncho-

saurus occur associated with what are termed the steps of the tortoise ; and at a

depth of about 200 yards from the highest part of the Bunter, we have the tracts of

several other animals, amongst which the small tortoise, which coexisted with the

Rhynchosaurus, also appears. Mr. Harkness exhibited a drawing of the steps of a

biped from Western Point, the first which has been noticed in this country.

On the Representatives of the Mountain Limestone as they occur in Dumfries-
                             shire. By Robert Harkness.

    After describing the relative position of this limestone to the other geological
formations, the author proceeded to point out the district occupied by it, and also
                                                                 ;;

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                    85

its peculiar character. The lower beds, which consist of white grits, having their
upper parts interstratified with beds of red, blue and black shale, are most abundantly
developed in the neighbourhood of Langholm, and have a thickness exceeding 300
yards. Above this lower bed deposits of limestone, ironstone, sandstone, and shales
of various colours occur, having in some instances a bed of coal about four inches
intercalated in them. These deposits are best seen at Couthart Burn, near Eccle-
fechan, where they have been perforated to the depth of about 100 yards in search
after coal ; and in this portion of the representatives of the mountain limestone,

the lime quarries of the southern part of Dumfries-shire are worked.

   The whole thickness of this second portion of the formation appears to exceed
150 yards in thickness, and abounds in fossils common to the mountain limestone.
Above this, a higher series of beds are found, consisting principally of variegated

grits, having in their lower parts shale beds; these giits are generally of a reddish
colour, and in them Producti and Terebratulce occur : and in some places portions of

coal planes. This higher series of grits is best developed at Brown Muir, Wood-

cockair, and Repentance Hill, and they seem to have a thickness exceeding 200 yards
the whole representatives of this formation, as it occurs in Dumfries-shire, being more
than 650 yards in depth.

   These representatives of the mountain limestone appear to occupy a low position
amongst the deposits which constitute that formation, the whole of the fossils being
such as to indicate rather that they are equivalent to the great Scar limestone of the
north of England, than to either the Yoredale rocks or limestone shales ; since, with

the exception of one or two species of Goniatites which are met with at Kilnhead, we

find no traces of the fossils which indicate the higher portion of the mountain lime-

stone formation.

   The district of country occupied by the representatives of the mountain limestone
is strongly marked, and tlie contrast between it and the Silurians, which lie to the

north thereof, is so great, as at once to point out the different formations, the former
consisting of flat-topped hills of coraparativelylowelevation covered by coarse herbage,

while the Silurian hills are round, and have hummocky sides clothed with that fine
vegetation which so well adapts them for sheep-walks; and to them the south of

Scotland owes its pastoral beauty.

ByOn the Erosions of the Earth's Surface, especially by Rivers.  the Rev.

Edvtard Hitchcock, D.D., LL.D., President of Amherst College, Mas-

sachusetts, and Professor of Geology.

   The evidences of extensive erosions exist in the enormous amount of gravel, sand
and loam on the surface ; in the rounded and striated appearance ofmountains in high
latitudes ; in the marks of erosion in goi-ges and valleys, and in the loose materials
along rivers ; and, above all, in the vast extent of strata that must be supplied to fill

up deficiencies.

  --1. The agents of erosion are first, atmospheric air; second, carbonic acid; third,
--water : the latter the grand agent, 1, as vapour ; 2, as water ; 3, as ice.

 --It (water) operates, first, chemically as a solvent of great power,at high temperature
--especially ; second, mechanically ; first, as running water ; second, by its expansive

power, as ice; third, by the movement of masses of ice, as glaciers or icebergs. The

--results of these agencies are seen first, in the encroachments of the ocean on the

land; second, in the erosion of hills and mountains, when the land was beneath the
ocean, or rising from it.

   2. Long and straight gorges, called durgatories in New England, as in Newport

R. Island, 7 rods long, 70 feet deep, and 8 feet wide; second, in Sutton, Massa-
chusetts, half-a-mile long, and 60 to 80 feet deep, and 50 feet wide ; third, in Great
Barington, Mass., 80 rods long, 60 feet wide, and from 60 to 80 feet deep ; fourth,
Dixrille Notch, N. Hampshire, 500 feet deep.

    3. Drift Agency, or the joint action of ice and water.
    4. The erosive agency of rivers, which is chiefly considered in this paper. Drift

--agency and sluice action may be distinguished, first, by the direction of the force;

second, drift agency has rounded and smoothed the northern sides of hills : it has

 not conformed, like river action, to the sinuosities and anfractuosities of the rocks
                                     --

--86 REPORT 1850.

third, it has striated the surface, as rivers have not done ; fourth, it has operated up-
hill extensively, as rivers have not.

  --Specific Effects of River Action. First, pot-holes, sometimes twenty or thirty feet

deep, and ten feet diameter ; second, rounding the edges of the strata ; third, the
drift materials are less rounded than those by rivers.

  --Distinction between Oceanic and Fluviatile Action. First, the latter produces pot-

holes, but not the former ; second, the gorges made by the ocean are usually straight,
those by rivers usually sinuous; third, rivers cannot produce wide valleys, as the
ocean can ; fourth, the force of the ocean is directed towards the axis of mountain
chains ; fifth, steep-worn cliffs, with no opposing cliffs, are due to the ocean ; sixth,
several parallel valleys of erosion on the crest of a mountain evince oceanic agency.

  --Mode and E.vtent of Erosion hy Rivers. First, when they began to flow, they would

 choose the lowest portions of the surface, and probably form a chain of lakes at first j
 second, as the barriers wore away, the lakes would at the same time be filling with
detritus ; third, deltas, constantly increasing, prove that the excavation exceeds the

filling up (the Mississippi carries to its mouth one cubic mile of mud in five years);

fourth, rivers passing through loose materials have high banks, and are sinking deeper
and deeper ; fifth, at cataracts, the water-worn appearance of the walls proves exca-

--vation; sixth, rivers evade their beds, first, by solution; second, by friction; third,

 by producing disintegration; fourth, by freezing in crevices; fifth, by ice floods;
sixth, at cataracts chiefly do we see rivers lowering their beds.

  --Modifying Circumstances. First, the older i\ieTocV.{ccBteris paribus) the greater we

 should expect the erosion ; second, the position of the strata in respect to the cur-

--rent ; third, in similar rocks the amount of erosion would depend considerably first,

upon the chemical composition ; second, upon the presence or absence of some pecu-
liar mineral {ex. gr. sulphuret, ot carbonate of iron) ; third, upon the relative posi-
 tion of the strata and the current.

    In applying these principles and means of discriminating the effects of river action,
the author referred to numerous examples of erosion, chiefly in gorges, which he
 supposed were the result of river action. In gneiss and mica-slate he pointed out
 eighteen cases, one of which was on Deerfield River, a tributary of the Connecticut

in New England, where a gorge, called the Ghor, several hundred feet deep, cuts

 across mica-slate eight miles, and through a hill 400 or 500 feet high, eighty feet of
 which has been excavated since the drift period, although, probably, the river does
not now lower its bed an inch in 100 years. In another case, he showed that Con-
 necticut River was once 682 feet above its present bed, and that the barrier through

which it has worn its way shows marks of river action to that height. He pointed
 out eleven examples in Silurian and newer sandstone rocks, among which were the
 Niagara river, that has run back seven miles, Geneva River, and Oak Orchard Creek,

 that have worn an equal distance in the same rocks essentially. In limestone he
 quoted ten examples, including the natural bridges of Virginia and Armenia. In un-

stratified rocks, he referred to twelve examples. He distinctly disclaimed referring
all valleys to erosive action of any sort, much less to river action. He contended

 only, that the gorges to which he referred were thus produced; and that the rock
 was of enormous magnitude, although but seldom recognised in the writings of geolo-

gists. He never had recognized them himself, till by learning how to distinguish
river action from all other agencies, he had, as it were, acquired a new set of eyes.
The paper closed with the following inferences :

     1. Rivers in general, for the greater part of their course, have ceased to lower
 their beds, and in many places are filling them up.

    2. But wherever there are cataracts, the work of erosion is still going on.
    3. In many cases streams have worn backward through a succession of barriers,
 with intervening basins, and the sum of erosion through these barriers gives us its true
 amount, rather than the distance worn into the highest one.
    4. In some instances the gorges of rivers have been modified by vertical move-
 ments, and such cases should be omitted as examples of erosion.

   5. We ought to expect not a minute, but only a general resemblance between

 erosions in different parts of the globe.
    6. Yet the facts detailed show nearly the same amount of river erosion in different

 parts of the globe.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  87

   7. The commencement of this action may run back to the time when the rock
was consolidated, and was first elevated above the ocean.

   8. The regions where these erosions have taken place, may have been once or
more beneath the ocean after the work commenced ; and the action of the ocean
during these vertical movements may have modified the gorge.?.

   9. The period requisite to produce the erosions that have been pointed out, must
have been inconceivably long, corresponding to the other facts of geology, but more
easily understood by men generally than other evidence derived from organic re-

mains.

 On Terraces and Ancient Sea Beaches, especially those on the Connecticut
   River, and its Tributaries in New England. By the Rev. Edward
    Hitchcock, D.D., LL.D., Pres. Amherst Col.., and Prof. Geol.

  --The classes of terraces and beaches that are formed of loose materials on the

 globe are three: 1. River terraces. 2. Ancient beaches around ponds and lakes.
 3. Ancient sea beaches.

    Those described in this paper are all more recent than the drift, though tertiary
 strata sometimes have a terrace form.

  --The materials of the post-diluvian terraces are derived 1st, from drift, modified

 by subsequent aqueous or glacial agency ; 2nd, from the erosion of the solid rocks
 by water and ice.

   The sides of the valleys of the rivers of New England, and eminently those of Con-

 necticut River, are composed at the surface as follows, beginning at the top of the

--hills: 1. Unmodified drift, sometimes pierced by rock in places. 2. The same ma-

 terials more rounded, yet coarse, and disposed somewhat on a level, especially in the
directions of the valley, resembling a modern sea beach. 3. The materials not only
rounded, but more or less sorted into layers of gravel and sand, forming fringes on
the sides of the valley, and sometimes showing irregular mounds on the top, analogous
to moraines. 4. Terraces of rounded and sorted materials, gravel, sand and loam,
with level tops. 5. Alluvial meadows, sometimes overflowed.

  --Means of distinguishing between Drift and Modified Drift. 1. Unmodified drift

contains the greatest amount of angular blocks. 2, It is also usually unstratified,
though limited spots in it sometimes show lamination; whereas modified drift is usually
more or less sorted anfl stratified. 3. The former conforming to the surface, unless
too steep, the latter more or less level-topped.

  --Character and Position of the Materials. Usually the highest beach or terj-ace

consists of coarse materials, such as gravel, often very coarse ; the next lowest, of
coarse and fine sand ; the next, of clay ; and the lowest, of loam, or a mixture of
sand and clay.

  --Means of distinguishing between Sea Beaches and Terraces. 1. The lowest shelves

are usually the most perfect, having an appeai'ance highly artificial, and forming, in
fact, the sites of some of our most beautiful villages. 2. As we ascend, the tops of
the shelves become more and more broken and irregular. 3. At length we reach re-
arranged and modified materials, that are not level-topped, except lengthwise of the
valley, and are more or less rounded towards the valley: these resemble beaches.
4. But whenever these materials lie along the banks of a river, or the former bed of
a river, so that they might have been deposited by that river at a higher level, when
its barriers might have been blocked up, they constitute terraces. But when they
exist where water, standing at that height, must have communicated with the ocean,

they are beaches.

  --P'arieties of River Terraces. 1. Tlie lateral terrace, occurring only along the sides

of rivers where there are meadows. 2. The delta terrace, existing at the mouths of
tributaries : generally the delta terraces are fringed by lateral terraces. 3. Thegorge
terrace, found sometimes at both ends of a gorge, cut out by a river. 4. Glacis ter-
race, occurring in the form of a glacis in alluvial meadows.

   Here the author introduced many details of the terraces in the valley of Connecti-
cut River and its tributaries, where they occur in several basins, which might have
been more or less separated since the drift period by gravel or ice ; as these wore away,
the terraces were produced. Drawings of 154 of these terraces and beaches were
                     --

--88 REPORT 1850.

exliibited, which the author had measured, mahily with a common levelling instru-
ment, so as to show their heigiit above the rivers and above tiie ocean. They varied
in height above the rivers, from 7 *eet to 1882 feet ; and above the ocean, from 36 to

--2022 feet. These details cannot here be given, but they formed the basis of the fol-

lowing conclusions :
    All the beaches and terraces described in this paper were formed subsequent to the

drift, since they lie above the reniodified drift and the scratched surfaces of the rocks.
The process of rounding, sorting, and re-arranging the materials (drift chiefly) has been
going on ever since the drift period. As high as we find such processes to have gone

on, we must infer the presence of water. Hence we may be sine, that smce the drift

period, water has covered tlie valley of the Connecticut to at least 1200 feet above
tide water, since we find distinct beaches (in Shutesbury) at that height; also less
modified shelves (in Shutesbury, Pelham, Heath, Washington, and Peru), 1237, 1590,

1658, and 2022 feet. It is the ocean which has covered the greater [lart of New

England since the drift period, for there could be no basins to hold bodies of fresh
water at such a height.

   To account for the effect by barriers of ice in the region under consideration, would
have required the improbable supposition of ice more than 1000 feet thick. The

author added various ap|)lications of these views to explain the formation of deltas,
by a quiet and equable process, free from sudden or paroxysmal efforts and alternating
pauses ; the occurrence of many lateral terraces at successively lower levels, and

the downward slope of these terraces. He allows of paroxysmal movements in the

case of Glen Roy, whose phaenomena are of a different order, anil admits the occa-

sional evidence of floating ice on the irregular mounds of the upper terraces. On the

distinction between drift and modified drift, the author rests some conclusions regard-
ing the lapse of time in the production of particular [ihaenomena. Thus Deerfield
River has worn 80 feet into very bad gneiss since the date of the drift ; the occurrence
of man's remains is limited to the most recent terraces of modern river action ; the
evidence of modern organic forms on the area of North America is in like manner
limited to a period since the drift. Drift is regarded by Prof. Hitchcock as mainly pro-
duced under an ocean crowded with great icebergs, derived from corresponding gla-
ciers, which ocean has been gradually withdrawn.

            Oil the Dispersio7i of Granite Blocks from Ben Cruachan.

                     By William Hopkins, M.A., F.R.S.

Remarks on the Central Heat and Density of the Globe, as also the C'aiises of

       Volcanic Phaiiomena. By Stevenson Macadam, Edinburgh.

   The object of the present paper is to substitute for the commonly received theory
of a central heat, one which will demonstrate that a cool external crust is quite com-
patible with a hot central mass. The author admitting, with geologists in general, the
gradual augmentation of heat d()wnward from the surface, finds no necessary con-
nexion between this fact and an internal fluid nucleus, on the orilinary laws which
regulate the movement of heat. The view which he pro]joses is foiuided upon the
assumption by matter when raised in temperature of the peculiar state distinguished
as the spheroidal. The author describes the state of knowledge on this subject, for
the greater part of which we are indebted to M. Boutigny, who made similar
 observations upon water and other liquids, as well as on various solids, and arrived at

 the following conclusions:
    1st. That all bodies can pass into the spheroidal state.
    2nd. That the temperature of bodies in the spheroidal state, whatever he the tem-

 perature of the vessel which contains them, is invariably inferior to their point of

 ebullition.

    3rd. That there is no contact between bodies in the spheroidal state and the sur-
 faces of the heated vessels on which they are placed.

     4th. That bodies in the spheroid-il stale exhibit absolute reflexion in regard to heat.
    Referring to the several modes of experiments from which these conclusions have
 been derived, the author proceeds to tlie more immediate object of this paper, viz.
--

TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTIONS.  89

the application of the results of observations on bodies in the spheroidal state to

the physical constitution of the globe. He assumes that our globe at the present

time consists essentially of three distinct portions :

   A1st. central nucleus in a state of igneous fusion.
  2nd. A crust at a comparatively iovir temperature, the inner side of which is in the

spheroidal state.

  A3rd. space between the crust and central nucleus, possibly filled with vaporized

mineral matter.

   The arrangement of these several portions, and their connexion one with another,
may be better understood by reference to the constitution of an egg, which bears a
strong analogy to it, in point of arrangement, though differing in shape. The yolk
of the egg represents the mass of matter in a state of igneous fusion ; the white of
the egg the space between the heated mass and the crust ; and the shell of the egg the

crust of the globe. When referring to the experiment with the platinum rod, he

stated, when it was heated to the required temperature and plunged into water,
that the liquid did not touch the rod, it was seemingly repelled by it, and that there-
fore a space intervened between the rod and the water. Jn the proposed theory, no
difference is made in point of arrangement, merely the substitution of one kind of
matter for another. In the experiment, there is the heated rod, the space and the

water in the spheroidal state ; in the theory of the globe, there is the hot sphere, the

space and the matter, the inner surface of which is in the spheroidal state. The
crust of the globe under these conditions is influenced by two great forces, viz. gravi-
tation and spheroidal repulsion, the former tending to draw the crust towards
the central nucleus, the latter repelling it from it. The crust will therefore have
assumed the position where the equilibrium of the two forces is established.

   To account for a fluid internal nucleus at a higher temperature than the solid crust

of the earth, the author applies that remarkable property which bodies in the sphe-
roidal state present, of total reflexion of the heat incident upon them. The effect
of this property must be to make the inner surface of the crust of the globe (which
it will be remembered is in the spheroidal state) equivalent in every direction to an
immense concave mirror, whose temperature will be very slightly affected by the heat
which falls upon it. Such a condition of matters is manifestly compatible with the
presence of a much higher temperature at the central nucleus than at the inner sur-
face of the crust, and necessitates a much lower cooling of that crust, and conse-
quently of the nucleus which it robs of heat, than would be the case if the power to

reflect heat were not characteristic of the spheroidal condition of matter.
   The author then draws attention to the applicability of this hypothesis to explain

the density of the earth (5'67 according to Baily), which should have been much
greater than it is were the globe wholly a mass of liquid and solid matter. When the
space between the liquid and solid portions is taken into consideration, there is
ample room afforded, by which the density of the globe, as a whole, might be more

or less lowered.

    In applying the observations upon matter placed in the spheroidal state to explain
volcanic phajnomena, it is assumed that there exists, contiguous to the volcanoes of
 our globe (either formed, or in the act of formation), basin-shaped cavities, more or
 less deeply seated, the under part of which is composed of metallic bodies at a
 high temperature. Water, either from lakes, &c,, at the surface or from subterranean
 reservoirs, finds access to one of these cavities. The first portion which descends
 instantly assumes the spheroidal condition ; more water enters, and still it is sphe-
 roidized ; the stream continues, till in course of time an immense volume of water
 is there rolling about, but not yet touching the metallic surface ; ultimately, however,
 the balance is overturned; the liquid, by robbing the metal of a sufficiency of heat, is
 enabled to touch the metallic basin; an immense volume of water is thereby instantly
 converted into steam, while at the same moment chemical action on a large scale
 speedily ensues between the liquid and metallic bodies, the latter action giving rise
 to heat quite sufficient to fuse large portions of mineral matter. The almost instan-
 taneous generation of large volumes of vapours and gases, and these promptly aug-
 mented in bulk for some time, would soon produce a force quite able to raise large
 tracts of land ; and when a vent was made or obtained, would eject the fused mass,
 as seen to happen from our volcanoes.
--90 KEPORT 1850.

                  On Traces of Ancioit Glaciers in Gletimessan.
                               Bij C. Maclaren, F.R.S.E.

    Certain deposits of clay and gravel in Glenmessan (Argyleshire), resembling the
moraines of glaciers, were described in this communication. The valley of Glenmessan
is about three miles north-west from Kilmun. The upper part is narrow and steep
in the sides, and bounded on the east and west by mountains probably 1500 feet in

height. Two ridges of clay and gravel, lying side by side, cross this part of the valley

at right angles to its length, the one 77, the other 40 feet in height above its bottom.
The northern one is about 350 feet long, the southern and higher 320. Both seem
at first to have extended completely across the valley, the river Messan having sub-
sequently cut a narrow passage for itself between their east ends and the rock. The
two ridges are similar in shape, and both are covered with herbage. Externally, each
resembles the roof of a long thatched barn or row of cottages. At the truncated
ends, the materials are seen to consist of clay and gravel with a few considerable
blocks of stone intermingled, and without any apparent trace of stratification. Below
these ridges the valley widens, and its bottom assumes the form of an undulating
plain, on the surface of which, half a mile southward, four detached eminences pre-

sent themselves. Two of them are sharp ridges 200 feet long and 30 feet high, and

stand transversely to the direction of the valley ; the other two are in the form of
flattish mounds, from 20 to 30 feet high, and are placed obliquely to the line of the
valley. Several large boulders rest on the surface of these ridges and mounds, and
their materials, position and appearance suggest the idea that they are remnants
of terminal moi-aines formed during the gradual and final retreat of the glaciers from
the v.iUeys of the Grampians. It is confirmatory of this conclusion, that the rocks
on the sides of the valley exhibit most distinct marks of powerful abrasion. Some-
times they present a smooth and a rough side, the former always facing the head,
the latter the foot of the valley ; sometimes they are cut into vertical planes 50 or
100 feet in height. These planes run across the laminae of the slate, are as smooth
as a wall of dressed masonry, and at many parts show well-marked horizontal stria
and grooviiigs, such as are seen on rocks in contact with the sides of glaciers in the
Alps. It seems scarcely possible to account for the abraded and striated surfaces
of the rocks and ridges and mounds of gravel, except upon the hypothesis that they
have been produced by glaciers at an ancient epoch.

Parallel befweeti the Superficial Deposits of the Basin of Stvitzerland and

   tliose of the Valley of the Po in Piedmont. By Dr. Charles Martins

    a7id B. Gastaldi.

    1. Ancient Moraines (part of the Terrain Cataclystique of Necker).-- In proceeding
from the higher to the lower ground in both basins, we find great accumulations in
the form of ridges, composed of erratic blocks, sand, angular gravel, of striated peb-
bles, derived from the Alps, and of clay (lehm), all mixed together, and without any
 trace of stratification, indicating the long existence of glaciers at the localities. In
 Switzerland, the towns of Berne, Zurich, Sursee, &c. are built on moraines ; also the
moraine of Mont Sion, between Geneva and Annecy, and finally the great moraine
of the ancient glacier of the Rhone, which extends from the Fort de I'EcIuse to
Soleure, along the eastern declivity of Jura. In Piedmont there is the moraine of
Rivoiri at the opening of the valley of Susa j that of Ivrea formed the ancient glacier,
which, descending from Mont Blanc, Mont Rose, and the mountain of Coyne, filled
 the valley of Aoste, and extended in the plain as far as Calosso.

  --2. Scattered Erratic Formation (part of the Terrain Cataclystique of Necker). It

is composed of gigantic angular blocks brought from the Alps, of gravel comijosed of
 striated angular pebbles, and of lehm or glacier mud. These materials have been
brought by the glaciers at the period of their greatest extension, and show that they
 had not remained long at the place where the materials are found. In Piedmont the
scattered erratic formation forms a band round the moraines, and is seen on the hill
 of Superga. In Switzerland it covers all the plain from the lake of Geneva to the

--lake of Constance, and penetrates into the valley of Jura.
    3. Glacier Diluvium. This great formation is formed of rolled and rounded
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                          91

pebbles, but never striated, coming from the Alps, sometimes stratified, but without

fossils. In Switzerland this formation covers a great part of the basin, and it is of

Wegreat depth round Geneva and Berne.  think it is owing to the fusion of gla-

ciers at the period of their oscillations. The glaciers of the Alps, those of Grindei-

wald, of Bosson, and of the Aar, produce a similar diluvium at present, but upon a

small scale.

 --4. Ancient Alluvium with bones of Pachydermata. In the two countries this allu-

vium is composed of rolled pebbles of moderate size, which do not come from the

Alps situated in front. There are found in it bones of the Elephas Primigenius^

{Mastodon angustidens), Rhinoceros Tichoritius, Bos Piiscus, Cervus Euryceros, &c.
This formation is altogether aqueous, and has nothing in common with those of the

glacial epoch. In Switzerland this alluvinm rests on the miocene molasse, and in

Piedmont on marine pliocene beds.

If a parallel is attempted to be drawn between these formations and those of Scan-

dinavia, Scotland, and North America, it should not be forgotten, that since the

glacied epoch the coasts of these countries have been submerged beneath the sea and

again raised above it, from which it follows that ver}' recent marine deposits would

take place, contemporary with or posterior to the scattered erratics.

On certain extraordinary Peculiarities of Structure in the more Ancient
                  Ganoids. By Hugh Miller, Edinburgh.

   Mr. Miller began by stating, that it was his purpose to introduce to the notice of the
Association in his paper a curious suite of fossils from the lower old red sandstone
of Scotland, many of which were still without duplicate in the public museums of the
empire, and but imperfectly represented in those of Russia. In one important respect
there attached to them a peculiar interest. They belonged to the earliest animals of
the vertebral division, of which our knowledge is not rather inferential than direct.
The most ancient fishes known to the geologist are the Placoids of the Silurian
system ; the next most ancient, the Placoids and Ganoids of the lower old red
sandstone. Of the Placoids, howevei', little comparatively could be known ; from
their perishable cartilaginous structure, an entire species might be represented by
but a few spines, teeth, or shagreen points ; whereas the Ganoids, from the peculiar
armature of solid bone in which they were enveloped, continued to exist, not as mere
ichthyic fragments, but as ichthyolites. Hence our absolute knowledge of the ancient
forms and mechanism of ichthyic life was mainly to be derived from the study of the
first Ganoids. In illustration of this remark, Mr. Miller submitted to the meeting two

-- --sets of specimens, the one consisting of minute toothed ichthyodorulites, those of

the Homocanthus arcuatus, a Placoid of the lower old red sandstone, and a larger

spine belonging to another old red Placoid, the Haplacanthiis Marginalis ; while in

--the other set, consisting of ganoidal remains, there occurred a specimen specially
--referred to by Agassiz in his great work which exhibited a considerable part of an
--old red Ganoid, the Osteolepis Microlepidotus. The Homocanthus and Haplacanthus,

which, though previously known in the old red of Russia, had been only recently
added to the fossil fauna of Scotland by the researches of Mr. Robert Dick of Thurso,
were represented in the specimens by mere spines whereas the Osteolepis was in such

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;

a state of keeping, that Agassiz, from the very specimen before the Association, had

--determined that the creature was possessed of the sense of smell, nay, he had even

detected it in a certain peculiarity in the structure of the nostrils, restricted in the

--present time to those of a single fish, the Lepidosteus of the American rivers. Under

one occipital plate on the table there might be seen the remains of not only the upper
part of the brain-pan, but also marked indications of auricular chambers, resembhng
those of the sharks andof some of the reptiles. Some of the other specimens exhibited
the openings through vvhich the eyes had once looked out. In a Dura Den specimen

-- --of Pterichthys, the property of Mrs. Bonar of Cupar-Fife, the very capsules of the

eyes were preserved ; and we had thus evidence of at least the three senses with
which these earliest of the Ganoids took note, in an incalculably remote period, of the
sights, sounds and odours of the material world.

    There was a peculiarity in the mouths of some of the existing Placoids, to which
Mr. Miller begged leave to call the attention of the Association. In some of the
                                                                                 ;

--92 REPORT 1850.

sharks we find teeth taking exactly the form of the external shagreen. This is the

case in the angel fish (Sqiiatina), the whole of whose palate within the teeth proper is

covered by a shagreen undistinguishable from that which covers its back. The same

peculiarity occurs, too, in the mouth of the Port Jackson shark (_Cestracion), imme-

diately within the pavement teeth. Now, in the palate of the Dipterus, we find, ap-

parently on a similar principle, the dermal enamel of the external plates and scales of

the creature completely reproduced. The xkin within the mouth, if one may so speak,

Wecompletely corresponds with the skin outside.  find it bearing the same rich gloss,

and punctulated by the same thickly-set microscopic tubes. There occurs what

seems to be a similar reproduction of dermal peculiarities within the mouth of the

Asterolepis. Immediately behind its reptile teeth we find the surface roughened on

a base of bone with osseous tubercles, that in some places seem elongated into squat

teeth, and in some assume the characteristic stellar shape, but which present ge-

nerally the appearance exhibited by the tubercles which fret the external plates of

the cranium, especially as these appeared in the young animal, and ere they attained

to their normal star-like form. This tendency of tubercles to assume the form of

teeth in the ancient Ganoids, and of teeth to assume in some of the existing Placoids

the appearance of shagreen, seemed a curious and not uninstructive circumstance

and thiew light on some otherwise puzzling peculiarities in the dental structure of

ichthyolites, such as the Coccosteus and Asterolepis. The teeth of the former,

especially those placed so uniquely in the symphysis, and all the ichthyic teeth of the

latter, seem to be nearly as much mere continuations of the osseous plates on which

Athey are based, as the external tubercles of these same plates.  very different state
--of things obtains among our ordinary fishes of the present time ; the teeth are of a

different formation from the bone on which they rest ; but be it remembered, that as

in the existing Placoids, teeth and shagreen are alike of dermal origin, so in not a

few of the ancient Ganoids teeth and tubercles were alike of dermo-osseous origin.

The plates on which they grew acted as jaws or portions of jaws, but they also re-

presented skin, and differed very materially, in consequence, from the skin-covered

jaws of the ordinary fishes. Mr. Miller had lately succeeded, he said, in procuring

a cerebral plate of the Asterolepis, that presented one of the sockets in which the

under jaw of that animal had acted, and which in one respect resembled the sockets

--of the jaw of the Lepidosteus of America, one of the few reptile fish which still

continue to exist. It contained two antagonistic processes, placed on opposite sides

of the socket ; on one of which the condyles had acted every time the jaw opened

or shut ; whereas the other merely served as a check, which prevented the jaw from

opening beyond a certain width. In the under jaw of a large Thurso ichthyolite of

the reptile family, still unnamed and undescribed, and some of whose internal bones

could not at the present stage be distinguished from those of Asterolepis, the under

--jaw seemed to consist of five pieces, first of a central key, like that of the Dipterus

in its foetal state; next, of two side bones, that were united to it; and lastly, of two

slender bones, that seemed to occupy a similar place in the under jaw of this fish that

the intermaxillary bones do in the upper jaws of most other fishes.

Mr. Miller next pi'oceeded to describe the under jaw of the Coccosteus as one of the

most extraordinary of the period, or perhaps of any period. It consisted of two bones,

one on each side, which were furnished each with its group of from six to eight teeth,

placed exactly where in the human subject the molars occur. And these groups seem

to have acted against corresponding groups in the upper jaw. But at right angles with

these molar groups, exactly in the medial symphysis, there was another group of teeth

from three to five in number ; and these could not have acted against teeth placed in

--the upper jaw, but were directly opposed, the terminal group in the one bone of the

nether jaw to the terminal group in the other bone. Mr. Miller stated, that about nine

years ago he had called the attention of palaeontologists to something very peculiar in

the jaws of the Coccosteus, and had solicited inquiry respecting them ; but the restora-
tion of Agassiz, who had been misled by imperfect specimens, several of them derived

from Mr. Miller's own collection, had been regarded as settling the point the other

way; and it was only during the last season that Mr. Miller was enabled to demon-

strate, from newly-found specimens, that the peculiarity had really existed. One of

these specimens he owed to a lady of Cromarty (Mrs. James Hill), an intelligent geolo-

gist and successful collector. The teeth of the Coccosteus, viewed as prepared trans-
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  93

parencies in the microscope, were singularly instructive and beautiful. They were
formed of true bone, and thicicly speckled over towards their bases with the charac-
teristic life points, whereas towards the apex they abounded in anastomosing canals,
which, throwing out to the sides and point of each tooth numerous minute parallel
branches, gave to the bone in these parts a structure very much approximating to
that of ivory. It would seem as if in these ancient teeth we had caught bone passing
into that finer substance of which the teeth of all the higher vertebrata are composed.
From the character of the surface of the jaw of Coccosteus on both sides, it seems to
have been covered, said Mr. Miller, like jaws of the more modern type, by integu-
ments. It was altogether an internal, not a dermal bone, and was probably the oldest
internal bone that had as yet presented its structure to the microscope. And it is surely

--not uninteresting to see the osseous substance, destined to perform so important a
--part in the animal oeconomy, presenting in this early age its distinguishing charac-

teristics, especially those numerous life-points from which its organization begins,
and which still remain open as the sheltering cells in which vitality should reside.

Was it impossible, in the nature of things, that life should be equally difTused over
hard and rigid earth, built up into this new animal substance, bone ? and was it there-

fore merely thickly sown over it in hollow microscopic points ? Is bone rather strongly
garrisoned by vitality than itself vital ?

    Mr. Miller then went on to exhibit several specimens of a well-marked though doubt-
fully interpreted bone, which, in all the ordinary fishes, and in almost all the Ganoids,
forms the largest and most important part of the scapular belt or ring, and which
appears first in the lower old red sandstone. The gill-cover also appears in the
same deposits for the first time ; and Mr. Miller went on to show how they are ne-
cessarily connected in the scheme of creation, and that the one of necessity accom-
panies the other. At the close of his paper, Mr. Miller exhibited a set of the remains
of Asterolepis, and made large acknowledgments to Mr. Robert Dick of Thurso, to

whom he owed all the finer specimens, and whose labours had done more to introduce

this fish to the palaeontologist than those of any other man, whether in Russia or our
own country.

On peculiar scratched Pebbles and Fossil Specimens from the Soulder
    Clay, and on Chalk Flints and Oolitic Fossils from the Boulder Clay in

   Caithness. By Hugh Miller, Edinburgh.

   Mr. Miller began by stating that, when examining, a good manyyears ago, the boulder
clay of Ross and Cromarty, in the vain hope, as it proved,of finding in it organic remains
belonging to itself, he was struck by a peculiarity in the dressing of the smaller
pebbles which he had not seen described or adverted to by any writer on the subject.
He was aware that many of the larger boulders which it contains are scratched and
polished like the rocks on which it rests, but he was not prepared to find the smaller

pebbles scratched scarce less characteristically than the larger ones in every case in
which they were not of too coarse a grain to retain the markings, or of too hard a
quality to receive them originally. If of limestone, or of a coherent shale, or of a
close, finely-grained sandstone, or of a yielding trap, they are scratched and polished
invariably on one, most commonly on both their sides ; and it is a noticeable circum-

stance, that the lines of the scratchings occur, in at least four cases out of every five,

in the lines of their longer axes. When decidedly oblong or spindle-shaped the

scratchings run lengthwise, preserving in most cases on the under and upper sides a
parallelism singularly exact ; whereas when of a broader form, so that the length and

--breadth nearly approximate, though the lines generally find out the longer axes and
--run in that direction, they are less exact in their parallelism, and are occasionally

traversed by cross furrows. Of such general occurrence is this longitudinal lining on
the softer and finer-grained pebbles of the boulder clay, that it forms the special cha-
racteristic of the deposit on which the geologist can with the greatest certainty rely

for purposes of identification.

   Though in many cases, as on the western coasts of the mainland of Scotland, in
the islands of Skye and Rum, with several of the other Hebrides, in Sutherland-
shire, and in various localities in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh, Mr. M. had
found the scratched and polished surfaces dissociated from the boulder clay, in no
--94 REPORT 1850.

instance had he ever found the boulder clay, if not, as in the case of our common

brick clays, a re-formation, dissociated from the scratchings and polishings. Every
rock on which the clay rests in situ, if of a quality capable of bearing these mark-
ings, is seen when newly uncovered to bear them. The more impressible pebbles
and boulders, too, from top to bottom of the deposit, are similarly lined and polished ;
and both rock and pebbles, when first laid bare, are as sharp and well-defined in their
grooves and lines, even to the slightest scratch, as if the work of wearing them down
had been performed but a day previous ; though when subjected to the weathering
influences, the exposure of a few months, or at most of a few years, serves to efface

the marks.

   Now, from these data the inference seems unavoidable, first, that the rock on
which the clay rests was scratched and polished either at the time when it was

receiving its first coating of the clay, or so immediately before, that the markings
were not in the slightest degree effaced when it was covered up ; and, second, as
the pebbles in the entire thickness of the deposit are also Scratched and polished, that
it was not before, but at the time ; seeing that the process of scratching and polishing
went on during the entire period of the formation, beginning with its lower layers,
and not terminating until its uppermost were cast down. The dressed surfaces and
the boulder clay are contemporary phaenomena. Further, it is a significant circum-
stance that small pebbles of only a few ounces are scarce less distinctly marked than
the larger stones; it is further not less significant, and bears apparently in the same line,
that in the preponderating majority of cases, at least, the smaller and flatter stones
are marked in the lines of their longer axes.

   The agent which produced such effects could not have been simply water, whether
impelled by currents or by waves. No force of water could have scarred with such
distinct, well-marked lines, such small stones. The blacksmith, let him use what
strength of arm he may, cannot bring his file to bear upon a minute pin or nail, until
he has first locked it fast in his vice, and then, though not before, his tool bears
upon it, and scratches it as deeply as if it were a beam of iron of a ton weight. The
smaller stones must have been fastened ere they could have been scratched. Even,
however, if the force of water could have scratched and furrowed them, it would not
have scratched and furrowed them longitudinally, but across. Stones, when carried
down a stream, or propelled upwards on a beach by the waves, present always their
broader and longer surfaces to the moving force ; and the broader and longer these
surfaces are, the further are the stones propelled. They are not launched forwards, as
a sailor would say, end'on, but tumbled forwards broadside. They come rolling down
 a river in flood, or upwards on the shore in a time of temnest, as a hogshead rolls
down a declivity. In the boulder clay, on the contrary, most of the pebbles that
 bear marks of their transport at all were not rolled but slidden forward in the line of
 their longer axes. They were launched, as ships are launched in the line of least
resistance, or as an arrow or javelin is sent in its course through the air. Mere
water could not have been the agent here; nor yet an eruption of mud propelled
 along the surface by some wave of translation produced by the sudden upheaval of

 the jjottom or shore of the sea.

    When a large raft of wood, floated down a river, grates heavily over some shallow

 bank of gravel and pebbles resting on the I'ock beneath, it communicates motion, not
 of the rolling, but of the launching character, to the flatter stones with which it comes
 in contact. It slides ponderously over them, and they, with a speed diminished in
 ratio from that of the moving power, in proportion to the degree of friction below or
 around, slide over the stones or rock immediately beneath. And thus, to borrow the
 terminology of our Scotch law courts, they are converted at once into scratchers
 and scratckees. They are scratched by the grating raft, which of course moves quicker
 than they move ; and they scratch in turn the solid mass or imbedded fragments

 along which they are launched. A vast number of rafts dropping down some river

 from day to day and year to year, and always grating along the same ledges of sand-
 stone, trap or shale, would at length very considerably wear them down ; even the
 continual tread of human feet in a crowded thoroughfare soon wears down the trap
 or sandstone pavement and converts the solid stone into an impalpable mud ; and the
  materials of the waste, more or less argillaceous according to the quality of the rock,
  would be deposited by the current in the pools and gentler reaches of the stream.
                                                                                    ;

TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                95

Further, the colour of the mud or clay would correspond, as in the thoroughfare or

public road, with the colour of the rocks or stones which had been ground down to

form it. Now for rafts of wood we have but to substitute rafts of ice, a submerged

land, covered by many fathoms of sea, for the shallows of the river, and some powerful

ocean-current, such as the Gulf or Arctic Stream, for the river itself, and we at once

arrive at a theory of the boulder clay and its origin, which seems to account more

satisfactorily for the various phaenomena of the deposit than any of the others. It is

a theory that plays so easily along the intricacies of the various wards of the locked

mystery, that Mr. M. had come to regard it as the true key.

There is a peculiar kind of clay which forms on the surface of a hearthstone

or piece of pavement under the hands of a mason's labourer engaged in rubbing

it smooth with water and a polisher of gritty sandstone. It varies in quality and

colour with ihe character of the stone ; a flag of Arbroath pavement yields a bluish-

coloured clay; a flag of the lower old red sandstone, a reddish-coloured clay; a flag

of Sutherlandshire oolite or of the upper old red of Moray or Fife, a pale yellowish

clay. The polishing process is a process which produces clay out of stones as various

in tint as the colouring of the various stones which yield it ; and in almost every
instance does the clay thus formed resemble some known variety of the boulder clay.

The boulder clay, in the great majority of cases, is in colour and quality just such a

clay as might be produced by this recipe of the mason's labourer from the rocks on

which it rests. The rerf sandstone rocks of Cromarty, Moray, and Ross, are covered

by red boulder clay, and a similar red boulder clay overlies the red sandstone rocks

of Forfarshire. Again, in the middle and north-western districts of Caithness, where

the prevailing flagstones render the average tint of the rock a sombre gray, the

boulder clay assumes, as in the neighbourhood of Wick and Thurso, the leaden colour

of the bed which it overlies ; while over the coal-measures of the south of Scotland,

--as in East and West Lothian and around Edinburgh, it is of a bluish-black tint ex-

actly the colour which might be anticipated on the polishing theory from the large

mixtures of shale-beds, coal-seams and trap rocks which occur amid the prevailing

light-hued sandstones of the deposits beneath.

Another circumstance specially worthy of remark, is the general direction of the

grooves and scratchings on the dressed surfaces of the rocks in situ. With slight

divergences in various localities towards the south or north, they run generally from

west to east ; and this westerly direction seems to be exactly that, which, reasoning

from the permanent phaenomena of nature, might be premised. There must have

been trade-winds in every period of the world's history in which the earth revolved

from east to west on its axis, and with trade-winds the accompanying drift-current

and of consequence, especially ever since the existence of a great western continent,

stretching far from south to north, there must have been also a Gulf-stream. The

water heaped up against the coasts of this western continent at the equator by the

drift current ever flowing westwards, must have been always, as now, returning east-

wards in the temperate zone, to preserve the general level of the ocean's surface.

Ever, too, since winter took its place among the seasons there must have been an

Arctic current. The ice and snows of the higher latitudes that accumulated during

the winter must have again melted in spring and early summer, and a current must in

consequence have set in as the seasons of thaw came on, just as we now see such a

current setting in, in those seasons in both hemispheres which bears the ice of the

Antarctic circle far towards the north, and the ice of the Arctic circle far towards the

south. The point at which, in the existing state of things, the Gulf-stream and the

Arctic current come in contact, is that occupied by the great bank of Newfoundland,

and by some the very existence of the bank has been attributed to their junction and

to the vast accumulations of gravel and stone cast down year after year where these

two great tides meet and jostle. That the point where the Gulf and Arctic currents

come in contact should now lie so far to the west, is a consequence of the present

--disposition of the Arctic and western continents perhaps, also, of the present posi-
Ation of the magnetic pole.  different place and disposition would give a difl^erent

p^int of meeting, and it is as little improbable that they should have met in the remote
past some two or three hundred miles to the west of what is now Scotland, as that

in the existing period they snould meet some two or three hundred miles to the east

of what is now Newfoundland, The northern current would be deflected by the
--06 REPORT 1850.

more powerful Gulf-stream into an easterly course, and would go sweeping over the
submerged land in the direction indicated by the grooves and scratches, bearing with
it every spring its many thousand gigantic icebergs, and its fields of sheet ice many
hundred square miles in extent. And these, by grinding heavily along the buried
surface, would gradually wear down the upper strata of the softer formations, leaving
the clay which they had thus formed to be deposited over, and a little to the east of
the rocks that had produced it. It is in further accordance with the theory, that in
this part of the country the deeper deposits of the boulder clay occur on the eastern

line of coast.
    Mr. Miller, at the close of his paper, exhibited a collection of Boreal shells, with

fragments of oolitic fossils, chalk, and chalk flints from the boulder clay of Caithness,
and referred to the meritorious labours of Mr. Robert Dick of Thurso, the original
discoverer in that county of the oolitic fossils and the chalk, and the collector of most

of the shells.

On the Discovery of Palceozoic Fossils in the crystalline chain of the Forez in
  France, and on lines of dislocation between the Lower and Upper Carbo'

  niferous Deposits of France and Germany. By Sir Roderick Impey

   MuRCHisoN, President of the Section.

During a visit this summer to the baths of Vichy, in the department of the Allier

(France), the author had great pleasure in revisiting the tertiary lacustrine deposits

of the Limagne d'Auvergne, which occupy the low and undulating country between

the mountains of the Puy de Dome on the west, and the Forez on the east. He was

also led to pay some attention to the structure and age of the last-mentioned cry-

Nostalline chains.  French geologist had noted the occurrence of a fossil in them,

but on his first visit to the banks of theSichon, a tributary of the Allier, Sir Roderick

discovered that certain peculiar and hard grits of the tract contained encrinites,

and in a second examination he further detected in the schists a few remains of bi-
valves, univalves, trilobites, and corals. The form of one of the best preserved of these

bodies has a resemblance to a Silurian Leptaena, or Chonetes ; but the occurrence of
a Productus of a form very nearly allied to P.fimhnatm (Sow.), (identified by M.

de Verneuil), leaves no doubt that the deposit belongs to the lower part of the

carboniferous epoch. Another fossil resembles the palseozoic Cypricardia, but ap-

proaches nearest to the Pleurophorus costatns (King) of the Permian system, A

portion of the head of a Trilobite belongs to the genus Phillipsia (Portlock), so cha-

racteristic of the British mountain limestone ; and thus the age of these rocks is de-
termined. In the geological map of France these strata are placed as old transition
and crystalline ; and for such, or for the lowest Silurian rocks, they might un-
questionably very well have passed, if lithological structure and aspect had alone de-

termined their age.

   The slaty schists, porphyritic grits and other varieties of the sedimentary portion of
these rocks, as well as the various porphyries by which they are penetrated, are
indeed well depicted by M. Dufrenoy in the ' Memoires pour sefvir' ; and the very
locality in question was specially described by M. Visquesnel*. These authors having

never observed fossils, and judging from mineral character only, naturally assigned
too high an antiquity to the rock. Sir Roderick having ascended the Sichon from
the castle of Busset for some leagues to near its source (Ferrieres), found that owing
to the eruptions of the porphyry (often very granitiform) the schistose rocky grits
were usually so metamorphosed and dislocated, that he was wholly unable to
attempt to define anything like a descending series from the above-mentioned lower
carboniferous rocks to others which might be considered Devonian and Silurian.

Besides fossils, he observed two thin bands of scaly, hard, subcrystalline limestone,
associated with the schists of Cusset. In truth, the limestones increase in volume near
Ferrieres, where they are in the state of marble, of grayish, reddish, veined, and even
of white colours. In order to satisfy himself whether the loftier and bolder portion
of the chain of the Forez belonged to the same class of rocks as those he iiad ex-
amined in its lower and northern end, Sir Roderick made an excursion to Thiers.
There he recognized precisely the same phaenomena (but on a grander scale, and in

* Sur les environs de Vichy, Bull. Soc. Geol. France, vol. iv. 1st series, p. 145.
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.      97

 broken and picturesqne gorges) wliicli he had witnessed along the banks of the
 Sichon and around the castle of Busset.

    Towering masses of dark gray and reddish qiiartziferous porphyry, with veinstones
 of quartz (occasionally very like granite), have there penetrated in every direction the
 mutilated schists and grits, which can notwithstanding be recognized as fragments of
 the very same strata as those of the Sichon ; although the graywacke schist has in
many parts become a crystalline, amphibolic schist, and the grit has been converted
 into quartz rock.

    In examining the granitic and schistose chain of the west of the Limagne, the author
 was disposed to think that parts of it (particalarly near Ebreuil) will eventually
be assigned to the palaeozoic deposits also ; but the engagement to return to the
meeting of the British Association prevented the completion of researches to establish

this point.

    In the mean time he calls attention to the importance of the discovery of Lower

Carboniferous fossils in rocks of so crystalline a nature as those of the chain of the

Forez. It has long been known that small but true coal-fields occur in many parts of
Central France, some of which the author described long ago in conjunction with
Sir C, Lyell ; but at that time no geologist could have dared to think that any portion
of the crystalline or slaty schists of the adjacent mountains could also pertain to
the Carboniferous system. Yet such is the fact. For independent of this discovery
in the chain of the Forez, M. de Verneuil had observed, that the "Producti" and
other fossils found at Regny, near Roanne, in a system of hills parallel to the Forez,
and of very similar composition, unquestionably placed such rocks in the Carboni-
ferous or Mountain Limestone group of the Carboniferous system. These facts, as
well as the occurrence of numerous true carboniferous Producti at Sable in Britanny,
where these rocks are unconformable to overlying coal-fields, have, it is understood,
induced M. Elie de Beaumont to renounce an opinion which he formerly entertained,

in considering the inclined formations as belonging to a different natural group to
those which are horizontal. In their exploration of the paiasozoic rocks of Germany,
Professor Sedgwick and Sir R. Murchison long ago indicated that the true carbo-
niferous limestone with large Producti, near Hof, had been raised up conformably

with underlying Devonian and Silurian rocks (see Trans. Geol. Soc. New Ser. vol. vi.

p. 298. pi. 23. f. 15), the adjacent Bohemian coal being horizontal. Although this
indisputable fact, since confirmed by a subsequent visit to the tract, was at the time
received incredulously, it is now sustained by independent evidence in France. The
conclusion, therefore, is, that very powerful continental dislocations have operated
both in Germany and France, after the close of the deposits of the mountain or car-
boniferous limestone, and before the accumulation of the great overlying coal-fields.
Seeing the facts in this light, and M. Elie de Beaumont having now introduced a
new epoch of disturbance into his classification. Sir Roderick considered this subject
to be one eminently meriting discussion at a meeting of the British Association, in
order to test the application of such periods of dislocation to the carboniferous series
of England, Scotland and Ireland, it being understood that in many tracts of Britain
no appaient unconformability had yet been observed between the carboniferous lime-
stone and the overlying coal-fields. The existence of such dislocations in some
regions, and their non-occurrence in others, bear out, he maintains, the view he has
long contended for, that all dislocations are local only when viewed in a general sense.
Phaenomena, for example, which are true in France and Central Germany, do not
apply to Russia or the British Isles.

Review of the Labours of M. Barrande in preparing his important work " The

  Silurian System of Bohemia." By Sir Roderick Impey Murchison,

    G.C.St.S., F.R.S. President of the Section.

The Silurian rocks of Bohemia offer, on the whole, a striking analog)^ to those of

the classical region or type of the same deposits in England and Wales. The same

two chief divisions, though easily distinguished from each other, as in the British Isles,

by local circumstances, are in the one country, as in the other, so bound up together,

as in reality to constitute, in the opinion of M. Barrande, one inseparable 'system'

only. The lower Silurian rocks reposing upon granite and gneiss, are composed of

1850.                                 11
--98 REPORT 1850.

powerful masses of semi-cn'stalline schist (a great thickness of the lowest deposits
being azoic or without fossils] , covered by other masses of argillaceous schist, conglo-
merates and quartzose rocks (quartzites), alternating with each other and occasionally
swelled out bj- contemporaneous igneous rocks. Whilst little or no calcareous matter
occurs in the lower division, limestone constitutes nearly the whole of the upper
Silurian rocks, argillaceous schists appearing principally at their base and summit.
Notwithstanding this contrast in the petrographical characters of the two divisions,
it is the decided conviction of M. Barrande, that they form hut one uninterrupted
sequence of deposits ; for all the formations exhibit a conformable stratification
throughout their succession, and the two halves of the basin are arranged with a
synclinal inclination in reference to its longitudinal or major axis.

   The palfeontoiogical distinctions between the two divisions are scarcely less stri-
king ; since in each we find a special fauna which alone distinguishes them sufficiently
if compared in their general character. M. Barrande has, however, discovered a suf-
ficient number of species, common to his upper and lower Silurian rocks, to prove,
that in Bohemia they are as much united in one natural system as in England. He
estimates that already 40 to 50 species (possibly many more) are common to the two

divisions.

   The manner in which the species common to the upper and lower Silurian rocks
occur, has occasioned M. Barrande to point out a new and remarkable fact. At
about 3600 feet below the limit between the upper and lower Silurian rocks, and
therefore at a considerable depth in that part of ihe lower division, which he says

represents both the Caradoc and Llandeilo formations of Britain, he discovered a
mass of peculiar strata regularly and conformably intercalated in the vertical series.
They differ entirely in their lithological nature and in their fauna from those of the
lower Silurian division, in which they are enclosed. These beds, having a geographical
range of from 2000 to 3000 feet only, and parallel to the axis of the basin, reoccur

symmetrically on each side of that axis ; so that they constitute a large, lenticular-

shaped mass, whose maximum thickness is about 300 feet. Now, the rocks which

compose these strata are exactly the same as those which form the base of the upper
Silurian division ; i. e. black schists with graptolites, alternating with trappsean layers,
and containing many spheroidal concretions of black limestone. Further, all the
fossils of this mass are identical with those which characterize the base of the upper
division, and are almost entirely the species common to the two divisions. None of
the forms which really characterize the lower division are present, though that fauna
is abundaBtly developed both abore and below this interpolated mass. It also ap-
pears, that no mixture has taken place between the animals belonging to the insu-
lated mass and those of the inferior division which surround it.

   M. Barrande has given the name of" colony" to the peculiar fossils thus buried at

--great depths in the lower Silurian rocks a denomination which at once indicates his

opinion of their origin. He conceives, that the animals deposited in the interpolated

graptolite schists have been derived from a centre foreign to the Silurian basin of
Bohemia. Having existed for a lapse of time in seas lying to the N.W., these animals
were, he conceives, introduced into Bohemia by favouring circumstances, such as cur-

rents carrying with them calcareous mud. When these conditions ceased, the asso-

ciated animals perished. Their remains were then covered by deposits of an entirely
different nature, enclosing the relics of creatures inhabiting the surrounding Bohemian
sea, whose aborigines regained possession of all the area, from part of which they
had been so long excluded. After a lapse of time represented by 3600 feet of marine
deposit, this ancient or lower Silurian fauna was itself entirely destroyed by sudden
eruptions of igneous matter which spread out over the tract. The sea of Bohemia
being deserted after this local revolution, was re-inhabited by a new immigration,
proceeding from the same centre of creation which had furnished the colonies of a
former sera. But on this occasion the new comers occupied all the Silurian sea in
Bohemia, and continued to propagate during the whole of the deposit of the upper
Silurian rocks ; constituting a very emblematic and separate fauna, in harmony with
the corresponding divisions of England, Sweden, &c.*.

   The fact of the Silurian colonies of Bohemia leads to the belief, that in the older

    * See the final views of the classification of the Silurian rocks, by Murchison, Journ.
Geol. See. ^ond., vol. i. p. 467 ; and especially in the work Russia in Europe, vol. i. chap. 1.
                        TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.            99

palseozoic times there was a coexistence of different centres of creation, analogous to
those with which we are acquainted in the present day. Geological science ought
therefore (as M. Barrande has well said) to lay due stress on this coexistence of
different creatures, in comparing formations more or less typified by analogous faunas,
but separated by notable geographical spaces.

    The simple form of the Silurian basin of Bohemia, the regularity, in a horizontal
sense, of the concentric deposits of which it is composed, and the order of their
superposition when vievved vertically, have enabled M. Barrande to recognise in the
clearest mannei', the order of succession of different partial faunas which characterize
each of the stages of his basin.

    The fauna, which in Bohemia he names ' primordial', is composed almost entirely
of Trilobites (Paradoxides, Conocephalus, Ellipsocppkaltis, Sua, &c.), an Orthis, and
two species of Cystidese. The trilobites which then predominated are all distinguished
by the common character of the great development of the thorax, as contrasted with
a very slender pygidium. This primordial fauna of Bohemia is represented, according
to M. Barrande, in our country by the beds containing the Olenus in North Wales,
and near the south-western extremity of the Malvern Hills, where those minute tri-
lobites were discovered in lower Silurian rocks by Professor John Phillips. Now,
the Olenus is found with species of Lingula in the lowest fossiliferous beds of Britain,
associated with trappsean ashes and with the Paradoxides, &c. Again, the same ge-
nera, Olenus and Paradoxides, reoccur in the lowest fossiliferous formations of Scan-
dinavia, as well as in Britain and Bohemia. Thus, in the North of Europe, three
countries, remote from each other, confirm the denomination of primordial given by
M. Barrande, and sustain the published opinion of Sir Roderick Murchison, that the
lower Silurian rocks contained the first created animals, which we can now recognize

or describe*.

   The Silurian basin of Bohemia explored by M. Barrande during more than twelve

years, and at a considerable expense, exhibits a richness of fossils of the older rocks
hitherto quite unknown. That author estimates 1100 species at least; whilst the

distinct forms now assembled in his own cabinet, and the following list, indicate the
manner in which the different classes are represented.

             Crustaceans, nearly all Trilobites (about)   250
                                                          250
             Cephalopoda          ,,
                                                             25
             Pteropods            ,,                       140
                                                           140
             Gasteropoda          ,,                      200
                                                          100
             Acephalous Mollusks  ,,
                                                         1105
             Brachiopods          ,,

             Echinoderms, Zoophytes, &c. ... ,,

                                  Total fauna (about)

Tlie state of preservation of these fossils, and the great number of specimens of each

species collected by M. Barrande, have enabled him to throw much new light on the

fauna of the most ancient (recognizable) inhabitants of our globe ; and thus zoology
will not less profit than geology by his labours.

At the preceding meeting of the British Association held at Birmingham, Sir

Roderick Murchison communicated one of the facts the least expected in the natural-

history of Trilobites. M. Barrande had then established the metamorphosis of three

or four species of that family, and had sent one of the plates of his work in which

--were figured twenty distinct forms, all belonging to one species, the Sao hirsuta

Afrom the embryo to the completion of the individual f.  similar mode of transfor-

mation has now been recognized by M. Barrande in nineteen forms of Bohemian

trilobites, thus enabling the author to reduce considerably the number of supposed

species j:.

   * See chap. i. of Russia and the Ural Mountains, 1845, and Journ. Geol. See. Lend. 1845.

   + See the commendation then bestowed on M. Barrande's discoveries by the eminent
naturalist M. Milne Edwards. Report of the Brit. Assoc. 1849, Transactions of the Sections,

p. 59.

   X The feet of the metamorphosis of a British trilobite, the Ogygia Portloc&i, has since
been recognized by Mr. J, W. Salter.

                                                                 h2
--100 REPORT 1850.

The  results of  the researches of  M.  Barrande will  soon  be  published  in  extenso
                                                                                                             ;

and Sir Roderick Murchison concluded his review of them by exhibiting several

plates of the forthcoming work, with the accuracy of which he had made himself

well acquainted by visits to Bohemia, and which he had no doubt would take its

place as one of the most remarkable geological productions of our century.

Notes on the Geology of the Southern Extremity of Cantyre, Argyleshire.

   By James Nicol, F.R.S.E., F.G.S., Professor of Geology, Queen's Col-

    lege, Corh.

   The peninsula of Cantyre is very remarkable both for its geographical and geological
peculiarities. Its general direction from north to sonth differs widely from the usual
N.E. to S.W. range of the Scottish mountains. At Tarbet, it is connected with the
mainland by an isthmus only a miie in breadth, and a depression of the land for a
few feet would convert it into several detached islands. The great formation of
mica-slate which runs nearly S.W. along the border of the Grampians, through the

whole of Scotland, in this place seems to turn to the south ; whilst the ciay-slate
resting upon it disappears on the east side of the granite of Goatfell in Arran. The
geology of this district has, however, been scarcely noticed, except in some incidental
remarks in the works of Professor Jameson and Dr. Macculloch.

   The oldest or fundamental rock of the district examined is mica-slate, forming the
wild country round the Mull of Cantyre, the mountain Bengollion near Campbeltown,
and most of the high ground north of that town. It is generally a light gray, arena-
 ceous rock, often more resembling a micaceous sandstone than the typical mica-slate
of the northern Highlands. The beds are also less contorted, and dip at a low angle,
 or about 30° on the average to the east, or correctly to E. 8" S. Occasionally it is

 connected with a dark-coloured, large-grained, crystalline limestone, in several beds.
 In Knock Scalbert, north of Campbeltown, this limestone group differs in direction
 from the mica-slate, the beds dipping more to the south (E. 33° S.), and hence it

 may perhaps form a distinct part of the series. The primary rocks are followed by
 red sandstone and conglomerate, which often rest almost conformably on the older
 strata. This parallelism is seen in Knock Scalbert; on *the north shore of the
 harbour; very markedly in Glenramskill Burn ; and at the south of the peninsula
 near Keills. In all these places the dip and direction of the two formations ap-
 proximate as closely as those of the separate beds in each. The conglomerate is
 often of immense thickness, and consists of rounded blocks, var}ingin diameter from
 a few lines to three feet or upwards, imbedded in a red ferruginous, sandy basis.
 The blocks have a very local character, being in some places almost exclusively a

 clove-brown porphyry ; in others, hard sandstone or hornstone ; in others, again,
 quartz or trap rocks. It is remarkable that no fragments of the mica-slate on which

 they rest, or of other primary rocks, were observed in these conglomerates. The
 red sandstone on the east and south-east coast of the peninsula is often almost a
 tufa, and consists merely of the materials of the claystone porphyries, with which it

  seems in part at least contemporaneous.

    To the west of Campbeltown, in the low valley named the Laggan of Cantyre, coal
 has long been wrought. The true character of these beds, as a portion of the great
  central coal-field of Scotland, was pointed out by Prof. Jameson in his ' Mineralogical
 Travels.' Dr. Macculloch, in his ' Western Isles,' seems to have adopted the same
  opinion, but afterwards, in his map, coloured this region as Has. The remains of Le-
 pidodendrd, Sigillarice, StigmaricB, and other plants found in the coals, as well as in

  the connected shales and sandstones, prove the true age of these beds, and no trace
  of lias fossils was anywhere seen in this place. The coal is broken up by dykes; and
  in Tirfergus Burn, where some fine sections are exposed, they are seen to rest upon,
  and to be overlaid by trap. The igneous rocks are chiefly claystone and felspar por-
  phyries, some of them, like those in Davar island, of great beauty; others, as at Kil-

  kivan, containing large fragments of jasper or altered shale. Augitic trap rocks also
  occur, especially to the east of Southend, and connected with the limestone series

  north of Campbeltown. In the cliffs south of Losset, veins of trap are seen rising
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  101

up through the strata, both of niica-slate and of carboniferous sandstone and lime-
stone, and resting on the latter in vast beds. The igneous rocks, mixed with frag-
ments of sandstone and altered limestone, form a broad band across the country from
the coast near Lossel to Macharioch, in the region coloured by Macculloch as mica-
slate. They are evidently of very diverse ages, veins of one kind often intersecting
masses of another. Thus, at Kilchousland, a vein of dark greenstone, divided into
nearly horizontal columns, intersects a mass of light gray trap, often highly concre-
tionary, and in one place forming vertical columns, like a miniature Giant's Causeway,
the intervals between the prisms being filled with veins of calcspar, haematite and

malachite.

   The next deposit is the red boulder clay or till, containing striated blocks, and
forming low hills in the Laggan of Cantyre. On this rests shingle beds, composed
of rounded water-worn stones, gravel and sand, usually more or less stratified, and
forming several low terraces. In the hollows among these masses, beds of peat con-
taining large trunks of trees, apparently oak and birch, with nuts and leaves of the
hazel, alder and other trees, occur, resting on red clay, and overlaid by other beds of
white and red clays. This deposit seems lacustrine, and resembles the recent tertiary
beds with lignite on the coast of Norfolk, with which it probably agrees in age. The
lake was perhaps drained during the recent elevation ol the land, marked by a line
of cliff round the whole peninsula. In this cliff are many large caves, of which two,
130 feet long and meeting in the interior, cut in the hard por[)hyry of Davar island,
show the long period the sea must have remained at its former level.

   Some of the general results of this investigation are interesting. The peculiar

arenaceous character of the mica-slate intermediate between the crystalline rocks of
the north Highlands and the Silurian beds of the south of Scotland, the amount of
limestone beds in some parts of the series, the diversity in its dip and direction from
the mica-slate of the more northern Highlands, indicate that it belongs to a different
group. In a paper read to the Geological Society of London, the author formerly
stated that the mica and clay-slates on the southern border of the Grampians were
probably the northern synclinal of the great trough in which the central coal-fields
of Scotland were deposited, and of which the Silurian strata of the south were the
other side. These beds are chiefly of lower Silurian age, and hence the author
infers that the metamorphic schists of Cantyre are probably altered Upper Silurian
or Devonian strata, and that the great mica-slate formation of the Scottish High-
lands will eventually require to be divided into several subordinate groups. The in-
troduction of the large overlying mass of trap and sandstone, covering many square
miles of the region coloured by Macculloch as mica-slate, renders this part of Can-
tyre closely analogous to the south of Arran. It also completes the great band of
trap, which,' commencing on the shore of the German ocean near Montrose, is now
seen to extend across the whole of Scotland to the Atlantic, and even into the north
of Ireland.

On the Gradual Subsidence of a Portion of the Surface of Chat Moss, in

       Lancashire, hy Drainage. By G. W. Ormerod, M.A., F.G.S.

   This paper was in continuation of a communication to this Association, made by
Mr. Ormerod at the Swansea meeting. The result of a series of levellings taken
by Mr. Ormerod during the last four years over an extent of about 200 acres, where
drainage was carried on, proved an average subsidence at the rate of one foot per
annum.

Notice of the manner 171 which Trap or Igneous Rocks intrude into the Sand'

  stone and Cunqlomerate near North Berwick. By Lt.-ColoneI Portlock,

   R.E., FR.S., Pres. Geol. Soc. of Dublin.

    Lieut. -Colonel Portlock observed that two classes of phasnomena engage the atten-

--tion of geologists, 1st, the vital phsenomena of the earth as exhibited in the organic

remains of its past inhabitants ; 2, the physical phsenomena, as exhibited in the effects
produced by the action of igneous rocks, and of other agents.

   It was his object to draw attention in a few brief remarks to the latter, as they were
--102 REPORT 1850.

so widely and so strikingly exhibited in Scotland. North of the Friths of Forth and
of Tay, there is a band of old red sandstone; and a broken band of similar sandstone,
doubtful, |)erhaps, in position, though by m:iny considered also old red, occurs
south of the Frith of Forth, the carboniferous strata between being dotted by detached
masses of igneous rocks. Near North Berwick a small patch of the sandstone and
conglomerate occurs, separated entirely from either of the great bands, and totally
isolated from even the carboniferous strata by a great mass of trap rock, rendered
remarkable from the eminences of North Berwick Laiv, and the Bass Rock. Proceed-
ing from Tantallon Castle towards North Berwick, the first remarkable fact con-
nected with this association of igneous and secondary rocks occurs on the shore
about one mile from Tantallon Castle, where a conglomerate rock appears enveloped
in the trap, a low ridge of which borders on each side a mass of the conglomerate,
fifty yards wide, and about the same number of yards long. This conglomerate is
due to igneous intrusion, and contains fragments of various sizes of the secondary
rocks, sandstone, limestone, &c., arranged promiscuously, the larger axis of some
being in one and of others in another direction, and all manifestly much affected and
altered by the contact with a trap rock. Leaving this locality, and advancing towards
North Berwick, conglomerate occurs again, which has been much altered, or rather
mixed up with igneous matter, until near North Berwick the rocks appear in their

natural state.

    Taking these circumstances into consideration, and combining them with the
isolated position of the secondary patch, Lieut.-Colonel Purtlock is disposed to believe
that this position itself is also due to the action of the igneous rock, which has raised
up the sandstone and conglomerate, and disconnected them from the great body of

the old red sandstone.

MmaiOn the Geological Position of the Black Slates of  Straits, 8fc.

By Professor Ramsay, F.R.S., F.G.S.

   The author briefly stated some of the details of work that led the Geological Survey

of Great Britain to certain conclusions respecting the age of the black slates of
Menai, &c. These slates had previously been considered by Professor Sedgwick to
underlie the purple and green sandstones and slates of Llanberis and Harlech, and
therefore to be the lowest member of the Cambrian group of Wales. Mr. Sharpe in-

cluded them with a part of the Upper Silurian strata. It was now shown that they
belong to the Lingula beds, the lowest member of the Silurian series, these gradually
folding round the purple sandstones towards Aber, in a dome-shaped form, when
they are cut ofTby a N.E. fault throwins; them down on the N.W. ; from thence to

the neighbourhood of Caernarvon, interrupted by intrusion traps, and the second

outcrop of the Cambrian purple beds near Bangor.

   He next showed that the rocks of the higher part of Snowdon, kc. are the equi-

valents of the Bala limestone and its underlying volcanic ashes (proved by a series of
outliers, &c.), the igneous portion of these beds prodigiously thickening out from the
neighbourhood of Bala to the N.W., whereas the underlying igneous series of Merio-

nethshire (Cader Idris, Aran Mowddwy, &c.) thins out and disappears before reach-

ing the parallel of Snowdon.
   The greenstones are not of a contemporaneous origin with the ordinary strata,

though apparently interstratified with them in the same manner as the felspathic
traps and ashes. They were thrust in between the lieds before the main disturbance,
the whole having been subsequently redisturbed together. There are other masses
of intruded felspar trap of a granitic character of later date (Llanberis, Caernarvon,

the Rivals, &c.), for various reasons of detail, probably all older than the old red

 sandstone.

Notice of the recent Discover?/ of Plumbago or Graphite in the Island of Mull,
 Hebrides. By Alexander Rose. Communicated by Professor Fleming.

   This deposit of plumbago, or as it is more vulgarly named black-lead (the graphite
of mineralogists), was discovered in the month of June last, by Charles Murray
Barstow, Esq., of Jndia Street, in the estate of Killimore, on the northern side of
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  103

 Loch Seriden, Isle of Mull. It immediately occurred to Mr. Barstow, that advantage
 might be taken of his discovery for the interest of the estate, and I was appointed
 by him to visit professionally the deposit, and to report on its probable quantity and
 quality. I accordingly went, and arrived about the beginning of July.

    The locality of this deposit is about two miles from the head of the Loch. It is
 bounded on the south by the sea, from which it rises by a pretty rapid ascent to the
 north. The plumbago occurs in detached masses from one or two inches in dimen-
 sions to a foot or eighteen inches, imbedded in the rock, no vein having yet been
 discovered. Neither are the including masses continuous, but isolated, and every-
where surrounded by trap rocks of various kinds, which constitute the great forma-
tion of the island. The extent of the plumbago-bearing rock cannot, in tiie present
state of the surface, be ascertained, much being covered by si^il and vegetation, and
much proba'ily overlaid by trap; but may safely be estimated at half a mile square

in horizontal direction, and in thickness from the level of the sea, gradually rising to

at least 150 feet above it ; and it is extremely probable that much is overlaid by trap
beyond those limits.

    Having directed the proper operations to be made, the result has at once happily
justified expectation. At one of the blasts, a large mass was thrown out (now upon
the table) weighing above thirty pounds, while the fragments of the same mass weigh
as much more ; but it is of much more importance to ol)serve that the quality is of
that description of which the finest drawing-pencils are made.

 On the Geological Strttcture and Relations of the Frontier Chain of Scotland,
                  By the Rev. Professor Sedgwick, F.R.S. 8fc.

                                      § I. General Remarks on the Chain.

    This chain, as is well known, extends from St. Abb's Head, on the east coast, to
the Mull of Galloway, on the west coast of Scotland ; and it reappears, with iden-
tical mineral composition and in the line of its strike, on the east coast of Ireland.

Whatever, therefore, may be proved respecting the general relations of the chain in
 Scotland, must apply to, at least, a considerable portion of the prolonged chain iu

 the north of Ireland.
    Leaving out of account all igneous and intrusive rocks, the chain is essentially-

composed of a peculiar form of grauwacke, often coarse and sometimes, though
rarel}', passing into a very coarse conglomerate, not unlike some of the conglomerates
among the old rocks of South Wales. These hard, coarse beds alternate indefi-
nitely with a peculiar soft, earthy and often pyritous alum-slate, which frequently
has undergone such compression and induration that it passes into an earthy flag-
stone, and, more rarely, into a pretty good roofing-slate ; but in no instance is the
slaty structure distinct from the stratification in any quarries that are worked for

use.

    From one end of the chain to the other the beds are highly inclined, strike gene-
rally in the mean direction of the chain, and are thrown into contortions and undu-
lations. The great protruding granitic masses never form any true mineralogical
centre, though producing, as might be expected, considerable local derangements,

local changes of structure ; and, in a few instances, they are accompanied, near their
junction, with the phsenomena of mineral veins. The axis of the chain, the centre of
the vast undulations, seems to be very ill defined ; and the difficulty of determining
this point is greatly increased by the bogs and extensive vegetable accumulation by

which the sections are much covered.
   The author crossed the chain in \8il with Mr. J. Carrick Moore (now one of the

Secretaries of the Geological Society of London); and in 1848 he again crossed it,
both on the western coast line and on two other traverses, in the hopes of determi-

ning (on the principles laid down by Professors Rogersof America) the line from which
the undulations had originated. He also (being himself crippled in 1849) employed
Mr. John Ruthven in making out a detailed section on the line of the railroad from

Carlisle to Edinburgh (carefully noting the steep sides of the successive undulations)
and in collecting fossils. The evidence of the coast sections of St. Abb's Head, the
author has not examined personally since 1830, and dares not therefore pronounce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ;

--104 REPORT 1850.

any decided opinion on their bearing on the question of the mineral axis of the

chain. On the whole of the evidence he however proposes fnot without much doubt

and hesitation) to separate the chain into the following groups, beginning with the

lowest.
                                 § II. Successive Groups in ascending order.

  A(1.) great group, always in a highly inclined position (and often so nearly per-

pendicular that it is very diifficult to know whether we are reading off the details in
an ascending or a descending order), in which a pyritous alum-schist abounds, some-
times so much that the coarse hard arenaceous beds become subordinate to it. In
other places the schist becomes subordinate, indurated, and passes into a coarse
slate or flagstone. The group ranges from the neighbourhood of Lockerby till it is

succeeded by a superior group (north of Moffat) on the line of the railroad. It
stretches into the high hills connected with Harter Fell, and into the ridges forming
the water-shed of the Moffat water and the Yarrow. But its limits to the N.E. and
S.W. are not ascertained. Through the alum-slates of this group (the Moffat group)

are innumerable graptolites, well preserved and of many species. Its whole thick-
ness is great, but the estimate is made difficult by the undulation.

  A(2.) great arenaceous group with bands of earthy flagstone and coarse slate, a

part of which is well exposed, in numerous undulations, in the cuttings of the rail-
road. The author thinks that this second great group passes into Peeblesshire and
the upper parts of the valley of the Tweed, and that it thence extends to St. Abb's

Head. He wishes also (but not without hesitation, and on very inadequate evidence)

to spread this group through a considerable part of the coast of the Mull of Gallo-
way, and over the great promontory of Barrow Head. If this view be correct, the
graptolite bands on the shores of Loch Ryan, and in other parts of Wigtownshire,

must be referred to this group. He states, however, that this great group is provi-
sional and very ill-defined, and that it may admit hereafter of new subdivisions and
a more definite arrangement.

   After examining the valley of the Tweed, the author is very doubtful about the
true place of the slate beds (with innumerable impressions of annelides) at Thorneyley
on the Tweed, and of the slates of Grieston near Inverieithen (which contain many
fine graptolites as well as impressions of fucoids and annelides) ; but he puts them
provisionally in this second group.

   Two miles north of Peebles are some concretionary calcareous bands, associated

with very coarse conglomerates of considerable thickness, and containing a few
obscure traces of encrinites ; and about two miles further north are some brecciated
beds with veins of quartz and calc-spar ; and associated with them are slaty and
more earthy bands, with concretions of rottenstonc and calcareous veins. These
beds are perhaps but a repetition of the conglomerates last noticed, for the whole
system undulates and is very highly inclined. Traces of calcareous bands appear
also on the hill above Stobo House further up the Tweed ; and they finally are seen,

along with a well-defined bed of limestone, at Wrae quarries, and in another quarry

on the south bank of the Tweed, at Pretsell near Drumminelzier.
   The associated beds near these two old quarries are made up of very coarse grey-

wacke, of shale with calcareous concretions, and of one subordinate bed of limestone,
varying from ten or twelve to twenty feet in thickness. The calcareous shale with
concretions is almost identical with similar shales above noticed to the north of

Peebles ; and a line drawn from the calcareous bands north of Peebles to Wrae and
Pretsell quarries, is veiy nearly in the strike of the country. The author is anxious
to put this calcareous range nearly on the same parallel with the limestones of the

Stincher ; while he admits that the physical ami zoological evidence to prove this
point is at present defective, especially as it is difficult to procure a good series of
organic remains from this limestone. The author procured a few fossils from it
but a much better series has already been described by Professor Nicol.

  --(3.) South Girvan group. This is a very complicated group, and though spread

over a wide surface by repeated undulations between Girvan and the valley of the
Stincher, is of great thickness. The most remarkable beds are in the valley of the
Stincher, and are composed of hard arenaceous bands sometimes passing into a very
coarse conglomerate, and associated vvith them are calcareous shale and masses of con-
cretionary limestone of considerable thickness, which in the lower part of the Stincher

                       A
                               ;

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  105

are nearly continuous. They are well seen at Colmonel, Daljeric and Aldens ; also

north of the valley on the Knockdolian estate, and at Loch Tor.

    Further up the valley of the Stincher the same series (of limestone, shales and
conglomerates) is seen at Barr and along the Gregg vi^ater. The conglomerates

contain fossils and limestone bands. North of Barr is the Craigwell limestone un-

derlaid by calcareous concretionary shale and a great conglomerate two or three

hundred feet thick ; and a little above the limestone is a conglomerate with a cal-

careous band about seven feet thick. Lastly, on the road a few miles south of

Straiton, is a limestone twelve feet thick imbedded in a conglomerate. This
Stinchard limestone is the most important calcareous zone among the rocks of the

chain ; and it is probably overlaid in its further range towards the N.E. by the car-

boniferous series of Dumfriesshire.

   The coarse conglomerates remind us of some very coarse conglomerates associated
with the Llandeilo series in some parts of South Wales. That the Stincher lime-

stone is repeated in almost vertical undulations at Knockdolian farm and Loch Tor,
is, the author thinks, undoubted : he thinks also that the same may be said of a
limestone that appears on the neighbouring coast, near Bennan Head, associated

with dark indurated shale and conglomerate.

    Still higher in the group here described (at Ardwell, on the coast south of Girvan)

are hard, greenish-gray, coarse flagstones, with graptolites, and orthoceratites (of a
Trenton limestone species). The whole series forming this third group ends (as

seen on the shore near Girvan) with a great mass composed of greenish, arenaceous

slate in thin bands, alternatin.g with greenish bands of hard quartzose sandstone, and
occasionally with irregular beds of conglomerate, much contorted here and there,

but on the whole dipping N.W. at a great angle. The beds last noticed are erro-
neously coloured in M'Culloch's map as old red sandstone.

  --(4.) North Girvan group. This last (and the author thinks the highest group on

the north flank of the chain) rises from beneath the carboniferous rocks of Girvan

water above Dalquharran, into a rudely dome-shaped mass about three miles long,
and extends to a great concretionary and highly inclined mass of limestone at Craig
Head, which is near the S.W. end of the group. This limestone is associated with,
and partly penetrated by, a great mass of trap ; and its structure is partly metamor-
phic, so that good fossils can only be procured from its more earthy associated beds.
The whole group (to which the limestone seems subordinate ?) is overlaid by trap
rocks, by the carboniferous rocks of the coast of Ayrshire, and partially also by the
conglomerates of the old red sandstone. It seems also to be underlaid by indurated
shales and flagstones, which contain numerous trilobites. Its prevailing character
is, however, that of a shelly sandstone, like that which in South Wales separates the
Llandeilo flag from the tile-stone and the old red sandstone ; and this is the geolo-
gical place which the author gives it, both on what he considers good physical and

zoological evidence.

  --(5.) Balmae group. Under this name is included a group of rocks which, near

Balmae farm, bound the S.E. extremity of Kirkcudbright Bay. The group is essen-
tially composed of a hard, coarse and thick-bedded greywacke, alternated with flag-
stone in thin beds, and with thick masses of indurated slate containing septaria and
other calcareous concretions. In some of these beds are numerous graptolites ; and
associated with the calcareous concretions were corals, orthoceratites and shells,
both bivalves and univalves. The fossils are not easy to procure ; but a good series,
submitted to the Geological Society of London by Earl Selkirk, was collected by
Messrs. Underwood and Fleming, and they appeared to belong to a deposit of the
age of the W"enlock shale. Knowing this apparently decisive zoological evidence,
the author went round Barrow Head and some other parts of the neighbouring coast,
in the hopes of seeing some physical evidence for the existence of an upper group
but he was disappointed. The rocks along the neighbouring coast have the average
character of the rocks he includes in the second group of the chain. They are very
highly inclined and thrown into great undulations, and the Balmae group is involved
in these undulations without any material change of structure that (independently
of fossil evidence) would in any way suggest the existence of a new and upper group.

A little way along the coast, towards the N.E., these rocks are overlaid by the old

red sandstone ; and still further to the N.E., beyond the old red sandstone, calca-
reous bands appear among the slate rocks, but apparently without fossils.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;

--106 REPORT 1850.

                                              § III. Concluding Remarks.

    In concluding this summary the author remarks, that the chain above described is
the true connecting link between the older rocks of England and Scotland. In
comparing it with the Grampian chain, we have hitherto been deprived of all fossil
evidence ; but a careful examination of the zone of unaltered slates, that is packed
between the metamorphic slates of the Grampians and the old red sandstone, might
lead perhaps to the discovery of graptohtes ; and graptolites are found in all the
groups 01 the frontier chain from the highest to the lowest.

    Granite breaks out in (at least) five places in the frontier chain. Three are laid

down (though very inaccurately) in M'Culloch's map ; a fourth was found by Mr.
J. C. Moore on the western shore of the Mull of Galloway ; and a fifth mass (as
shown by Mr. Stevenson) breaks out to the north of Dunse, near the junction of the

greywacke and the old red sandstone. It is clear that these masses form no mine-
ralogical centre, and that we have no reason to attribute the great undulations of the
chain to their immediate agency, but to some more widely acting cause. Enormous
masses of trap, sometimes associated with trappean breccias and conglomerate (and

generally unmarked on the geological map of Scotland), break out in various parts of
the chain from one end of it to the other, and sometimes pass into a form of serpen-
tine. Many dykes, both felspathic and augitic, are seen in the cliffs and quarries
and we occasionally find bands of porphyry alternating with the slates ; but in no

instance did the author find any good example of that singular combination of
porphyry, trappean shale (schaalstein), and slate, which gives such an impress to
the higher mountains of Cumberland.

    This fact explains the great difference in the features of the neighbouring Scottish

and Cumbrian chains, and may perhaps help us in explaining the almost entire

absence of slatv cleavage in the former.

   The lowest fossils in the two chains appear to be graptolites. To this fact the
author's attention was often called ; but he does not pretend to identify the pyritous
Moffat slates with the Skiddaw slates. The present evidence is not sufficient to bear
out such a conclusion : and the whole Moffat group is only provisional.

   On the second group he, from defect of evidence, makes no comparative remarks.
The South Girvan group is compared with the Bala and Coniston groups, and the
Stinchard limestone with the Bala and Coniston limestone. The North Girvan group

is compared with the grits and shelly sandstones which overlie the Llandeilo lime-
stone. The evidence for these conclusions will be found in the following list of

fossils.

   The Balmae group is arranged provisionally as the fifth and highest, on evidence
formerly laid before the Geological Society of London ; but from physical evidence,
as well as from the list of fossils which (with the kind assistance of Messrs. Under-
wood and Fleming) he derived from the shores of Kirkcudbright Bay, the author
would rather place this Balmae group on a lower parallel, and perhaps lower than

the Stincher limestone.
    Lastly, the author remarks, that the Grampians had probably their greatest ele-

vation after the period of the old red sandstone, which is of enormous thickness and
thrown oflF vertically from the older rocks of the chain ; but the undulations and
principal elevations of the frontier chain were produced before the deposit of the old
red sandstone. For the old red sandstone, with a comparatively low angle of in-
clination, rests on the edges of the older rocks, and runs up the deep bays and hol-
lows of the frontier chain ; and (as shown by Mr. Stevenson) in one or two in-
stances passes almost continuously through it. Similar phsenomena are seen among
the mountains of the great Cumbrian group, which were probably elevated contem-
poraneously with the frontier chain of Scotland.

   This chain does not appear to have undergone any great elevation during the whole
carboniferous epoch ; for the new red sandstone, after this epoch, plays the same
part that was before played by the older red sandstone, viz. it rests unconformably on
the older rocks and runs up their deep indentations and hollows, sometimes so as
almost to traverse the whole chain, a fact which has led to much misapprehension

and many false colours on the Scotch geological map on which the old and new red

sandstone have often been confounded.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ; ;;

                                                                                                          TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ' lOf

                                                       List of Organic Remains. By Professor M'Coy.

                                                                                                              First or Moffat Group.

Graptolites Sagittarius, Lam.; G. tenuis. Port.; G. convolutus. His.; G. milli-

peda, M'Coy, n.s.                                                                                         G.  lobiferus,                                              M'Coy,      n.s.,  common                                                                              G. Sedywickii, Port,
                                                                                                       ;                                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   j

Diplograpsus                                           rectangularis,                                         M'Coy,                                                  n.s.,  common;     Z). ^m/js. His., common                                                                                                                                                                                               D.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

--folium, His. ; Protovirgularia dichotoma, M'Coy.
    Localities. East and west of the road from Lockerby to Moffat, Harter Fell,

Moffat water Head, &c.

                                                                                                                                                                      Second Group.

Myrianites tenuis, M'Coy, common                                                                                                                                             Graptolites tenuis. Port. ;                                                                                                                                                                                                       G. Sedgwickii,
                                                                                                                                                                        ;

I\)rt.                              G. Ludensis, Murcli.
                             ;
--Locality. Grieston on the Tweed.

--Crossopodia Scotica, M'Coy, very common.

Locality. Thorneyley on the Tweed.

   Diplograpsus mucronatus. Hall {Diplograpsus is a new genus proposed for the
double-celled Graptolites; D. sextans, Hall, very common (an Utica slate species)
D. pristis. His.

 --Locality. Cairn Ryan.

                                                                                                          Third or South Girvan Group.

Orthis                              (large species allied to O.flahellum), very common                                                                                                                                                                                       Orthoceras, traces of;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;

IllcBnus latus, M'Coy.

 --Locality. Wrae on the Tweed.

Murchisonia angustata. Hall, Chazy limestone species; Ecculiomphalus Scoticut,

M'Coy                               Orthis confinis. Salt., common ;                                                                                                         Illeenus    latus, M'Coy                                                                                                                                                                                                          Maclurea magna,
                                 ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

--Le Sueur, a Chazy limestone species.
   Locality. Bugan near Knockdolian on the Stincher.

--Maclurea magna, Le Sueur ; Cytheropsis, n.s.

Locality. Aldens on the Stincher.

   Orthoceras annellatum. Hall, a Trenton limestone species ; Orthis ? simplex, M'Coy;

Graptolites, traces of.

 --Locality. Ardwell on the Stincher.

--Orthis confinis. Salt. ; Orthis, a species allied to undulata.

Locality. Colmonel on the Stmcher.

Orthoceras politum, M'Coy; Orthis iestudinaria,I)a.\. ; 0. simplex, M'Coy ; Lep-

--iana sericea. Sow.                                                                                      Trochus lenticularis. Sow.
                                                                                     ;
Locality. Glenquhapple, Upper Stinchard.

Atrypa hemisphmrica. Sow. ; A. pulchra. Sow. ; Tentaculites annulatus, Schlot.

--Ptilodictya {Stictopora) costulata, M'Coy.
   Locality. Half a mile east of Girvan.

                                                                                                          Fourth or North Girvan Group.

Ecculiomphalus Scoticus, M'Coy ; Bpllerophon dilatatus. Sow. ; Murchisonia can-

cellalula. M'Coy                                                                               M. simplex, M'Coy ;                                                           Euomphalus tricinctus, M'Coy ;                                                                                                                                                                                                    Trochus
                                                                                            ;

Moorii, M'Coy                                                                        T. helicites, Sow. ;                                                             Modiolopsis semisulcata. Sow., sp.;                                                                                                                                                                                                      Orthis re-
                                                                                  ;

versa. Salt.                                           0. tesiudinnria, Dal.                                                                                          O.filosa ;  Atrypa hetnisphcerica. Sow., and some
                                                    ;                                                                                                              ;

Cnew species; Illa-nus Ilosenbergii, Eich. ; Calymene diademnta,Ba.v. ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tuberculosa.

Salt.;                          Pal<Bopora subtilis, M'Coy                                                                                                            P. tubulosa, M'Coy ;  P. favosa, M'Coy ;                                                                                                                                                                                                 Petraia
                                                                                                                                                       ;

wquisulcata, M'Coy; P. subduplicata, M'Coy; Ptilodictya {Stictopora) costulata,

M'Coy.

Localities.-- BaXquha-Tran, MuUoch, Drum Muck, &c.

Madureamacromphala, M'Coy, very common; Palceopora favosa, M'Coy; Atrypa,

n.s.                  Leptmna, allied to alternata, Trenton limestone species ;                                                                                                                                                                                              Orthis, aUied to pec-
                   ;

tinella, Trenton limestone species.

  --Locality. Craig Head Quarry.

                                                                                                              Fifth or Balmae Group.

Murchisonia, allied to M. gracilis, a Trenton limestone species                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Atrypa drculus '!,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;

Hall, a Trenton limestone species ; Orthis lynx, Eich., var. ; Leptmna alternata,

Trenton limestone species ; Orthouota inornata, Phill. ; Graptolites Sagittarius, Linn.

C. Ludensis, Murch.
--108 REPORT 1850.

 Notice on the Geological Structure of Spain, to explain an Outline General

               Map of the Peninsula. By INI. E. de Verneuil.

    Sir Roderick Murchison presented the first sketch of a geological map of the sedi-
 mentary deposits in Spain, communicated to him by M. de Verneuil, who has lately
made two excursions in the Peninsula, and who, by his own observations, as well as
 through the information given to him by the Spanish geologists, has cleared up the
 distribution of the principal masses of rocks. The Portuguese portion of the Penin-
 sula is coloured by Mr. D. Sharpe, whose viewsrespecting the geological structure

 of large portions of Portugal have already been published in the Journal of the
 Geological Society.

   On the mere inspection of the map, it is easy to remark that the central part of

 Spain is distinguished by three chains of mountains which constitute the skeleton
of the country, the Guadarrama, the Monies de Toledo, and the Sierra Morena.
Having emerged before the secondary period, these ridges formed islands, around
which were accumulated the Jurassic and the cretaceous deposits. They have about

--the same direction, and strike W. and by S., E. and by N.
    Primary rocks. The highest of these, the Guadarrama, is principally composed
of granite, gneiss and other crystalline schists. Towards the east, in the vicinity of
Atienza or Siguenza, these primary rocks disappear under the secondary formations,
whilst to the west they seem to proceed to the frontier of Portugal. The primary
rocks are not limited to the Guadarrama, but occur in two other and very distant
parts of Spain. According to the little map of Gallicia by M. Schulz,- Inspector
General of the Mines, that province is principally composed of granite, gneiss and
mica-schist occasionally surrounding patches of slate and limestone, in n'hich no
fossils have yet been found. There is no doubt that these rocks are of great anti-

quity, situated as they are at the extremity of the palaeozoic chain of Cantabria, of
which they form a sort of expansion.

   Such is not the case with the Sierra Nevada S.E. of Granada, which offers another
example of a great mass of crystalline schists. The axis of that bold, high, but not
extensive chain, striking from E. to W., is composed of mica-schist, the age of which
appears rather doubtful. The abundance of garnets in the mica-schist, the cry-
stalline structure and magnesian condition 'of the thick band of limestone which sur-
rounds the central part, indicate the energy of the meiamorphic action which has taken

--place in this part of Spain.
   PalcBosoic rocks. M. de Verneuil paid more attention to the palaeozoic rocks than
to the others, studying their distribution and collecting their organic remains. The
Sierra Morena is the only tract in which Silurian fossils have been discovered. The
Silurian rocks are said to constitute the Montes de Toledo (or the Montes Carpen-
tanos) and the Sierra Morena, but the fossils seem to be restricted to the last chain.
This range, of moderate height, is composed of slates, psammites, quartzites and
sandstones, the real order of which can be unravelled only by the study of their
organic contents, in a country where very violent dislocations have often placed the

strata in a vertical position.

   Making a section across the chain from Almaden to Cordova, M. de Verneuil

ascertained, that, proceeding from north to south, the formations are observed to suc-
ceed each other in an ascending order. The oldest or lowest traces of life are
trilobites. They occur in black shivery slates, and belong to species very well known
in the lower Silurian rocks of Brittany and Normandy. The most common, the
Calymene Tristani, was up to the present time the only known Silurian fossil in Spain.
It has been found at Santa Cruz de Mudela by M. Paillette, and at Almadenejos,
near Almaden, by various Spanish geologists. These two places being situated
about fifty miles from each other, in a direction nearly east to west, mark with some
precision the true direction of the strata. M. de Verneuil, assisted by M. Eusebio
Sanchez, Director of the Mines of Almadenejos, discovered also Cheirurus Tournemini,
Illoenus, near to T. Lusitanicus, Sharpe, Oyygia Buchii, Phacops, Bellerophon hilo-
hatus, &c., associated with the Calymene Tristani and C. Arcgo ; all species peculiar
to the lower Silurian slates of Angers, Vitre, and other places in Brittany. It is
worthy of notice, that these trilobites, though the lowest in Spain as well as in France,
are not the earliest in the order of creation ; they correspond only to the second fos-
                                                                                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                                                      109

siliferous group (stage D) discovered in Boheraia by M. Eariande*. The lowest
group, characterized in Sweden, N. Wales, the Malvern Hills, and in Bohemia by

the Paradoxides, is wanting both in Spain and in Brittany, an analogy which proves
the intimate connexion which exists between the palaeozoic rocks of these two

countries.

   The upper Silurian rocks appear to be poorly represented in the Sierra Morena.
In a single spot about twenty miles N.E. of Cordova, M. de Verneuil saw bitumi-
nous schists with spheroidal calcareous concretions very similar to those which exist
at St. Sauveur le Vicorate, FeugueroUes and St. Jean sur Erve in Western France,
and which occur also in Bohemia. In this last country M. Barrande has paid much

attention to such bituminous beds, as they there occur both in the lower and upper

Silurian rocks, and, though separated by more than 2000 feet of strata, contain the
same group of fossils. In Spain these concretions contain, as in many other tracts,

Cardiola interruptu, Orthoceras styloideum, and 0. Bokemicumf.

The Devonian rocks are fully developed in the Sierra Morena north and south of

Almaden, and it is possible that even the quartzites and schists, in which the cele-

brated mines of mercury are worked, belong to that period + : the Devonian fossils

occur   generally in                                                       sandstones  or  in  very                              small      bands  of impure  limestone                                       the  most
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;

characteristic are Producius snbamleatus, Leptcena Dutertrii, Spirifer Verneuili,

S. Archiaci, S. Bouchardi, Orthis striatula, Terebratida reticularis, T. Orhigniana,
T. concentrica, Phacops latifrons.

   The carboniferous deposits of the Sierra Morena are situated towards its southern
part. They contain generally great masses of limestone, in which occurs the Productus
semireticiilatus, so characteristic of the mountain limestone of England, Belgium,
Russia as far as the neighbourhood of Archangel, and even of Spitzbergen. Such
a vast distribution of the same species over areas which at the present day present
so great a diflference of climate, is one of those phsenomena which specially deserve

the attention of philosophers.

The best coal-fields of the Sierra Morena are those of Belmez and Espiel on the

Guadiato, and those of Villanueva del Rio, twenty miles N.N.E. of Seville. The

first is about twenty-seven or twenty-nine miles long ; the strata are vertical, and

some are very rich ; but the difficulty of the communication and the total want of

roads have limited the working to some local uses. The coal tract of Villanueva del

Rio, situated near the valley of the Guadalquivir, is more valuable.

If Silurian fossils are as yet known only in the Sierra Morena, it is not so with

the Devonian fossils. The two sides of the Sierra Cantabrica in Leon and the Astu-

rias, present one of the richest developments of the deposits of that age. Thanks to
MM.the researches of
                                                                                Paillette and Casiano de Prado, many Devonian fossils have

been discovered                                                            and  M. de Verneuil having                                       himself visited the  localities, has de-
                                                                        ;

scribed or given a list of more than sixty species. Sabero in the kingdom of Leon,

and Ferrones in the Asturias, ought really, he says, to be places of pilgrimage for

all palteontologists. These Devonian rocks constitute the axis of the Sierra Canta-

brica on its southern side, and are covered in the Asturias or on the north by the

richest coal-field of Spain. In general the carboniferous strata are vertical, as in the

Sierra  Morena                                                             but  this disadvantage is                             lessened by the   mountainous   relief of the
                                             ;

country, in some parts of which the beds of coal can be worked 1200 or 1300 feet

above the level of the streams. There being more than eighty workable beds, the
depth of the whole system must be very great, and may be estimated at 10,000 or
12,000 feet. At the base is a thick mass of limestone with Productus : but most of

the carboniferous mollusca are to be found in bands of limestone alternating with

the inferior strata of the great coal deposit. Among the fossils worthy of notice,
are the Fusulina cylindrica, till now found only in Russia and in the United States^

* See the review of M. Banande's labours which follows.

t The same fossils occur in Catalonia near San Juan de las Abadessas, where they have
been discovered by                                                         M. Amalio
                                                                                      Maestre                                    they have  been   quoted by Prof. Leymerie near St.
                                                                                                                              ;

Beat on the north side of the Pyrenees, and exist also in Sardinia.

   X Tlie mercury of Almaden is not in veins, but seems to have impregnated three vertical
strata of a quartzose sandstone associated to slates rather carbonaceous. The association of
mercury with carbonaceous rocks is still more remarkable in Asturias, where mines of mer-
cury are worked in coal-measures.
110 REPORT-- 1850.

together with the usual species well known in Belgium and England, such as Pro-

ductus semiretkulatus, P. punctatus, P. cura, Spirifer Mosquensis, &c.

The existence in Spain of the Permian system is still a problem, as no fossils of

that age have ever been found. Led, however, by the analogy of rocks and strati-

graphical indications, Professor Naranjo y Garza lias referred to that formation the

red magnesian limestone and the gypsiferous marls of Montiel and of the lakes of

Ruidera, where the river Guadiana rises. In the same group this author includes

the famous cave of Montesinos in La Mancha, described by the immortal Cervantes

as explored by Don Quixote.

  --Secondary rocks. Though equally deprived of fossils, the Trias is perhaps better

known than the supposed Permian system. From the Pyrenees, where it is de-

scribed by M. Dufresnoy, it may be traced to the provinces of Santander and

Asturias, as well as to the kingdom uf Leon, on both sides of the Cantabrian chain.

It does not contain the three series of rocks from which the name originated ; and

the muschelkalk being entirely wanting, it is reduced to marls and sandstones of

red colour placed between the lias and the carboniferous strata. According to M.

Casiano de- Prado, the same rocks occur in the mountains to the east of Madrid,

where the Tagus has its source.

The Jurassic and cretaceous formations extend over most of the eastern and

southern part of Spain, covering vast areas in Catalonia, Aragon,.Valencia, Murcia,

Malaga and Ronda ; lying upon the red sandstone, they constitute most of the high

lands and mountains which to the east of Madrid make the divortia aquarum be-

tween the Atlantic and the Mediterranean sea. In fact, they surround the central

and more ancient parts, and may be traced to Portugal, where, according to Mr.

Sharpe, they are principally confined to the littoral region. Along the Guadarrama,

however, the chalk penetrates into the very heart of the country, extending south-

west to Segovia, and ciossing the high road from Madrid to Bayonne.
   M. de Verneuil thinks it will prove a haid task to separate the Jurassic and creta-

ceous  rocks  of  Spain                               especially in  the  south, where  the  metamorphic action  has
                                                   ;

produced so many alterations in the rocks, and has so obliterated the fossils. The

difficulties will be about the same in the south of Spain, as those which have met

the Italian geologists, and the districts of Malaga and Ronda seem to possess a geo-

logical constitution very analogous to that of the Venetian Alps. In effect, beneath

miocene and nummulitic rocks, rises a compact white limestone not to be distin-

guished from the Itahan scagliu and biancone, succeeded near Antequera and other

places by a marble of reddish colour full of Ammonites, which may be compared

to the Oxfordian Ammonitico rosso of the Italians. It is much used as an orna-

ment in the churches of Malaga and Granada.

In the eastern regions the task is more easy ; and M. Casiano de Prado, by col-

lecting good fossils, has already laid the foundations of a great work. Appointed

by the Government to make a geological map of the province of Madrid, this ardent

geologist has extended his investigations in the mountains in which the Xalon,

the Tajuna, the Tagus, and the Guadalaviar rise, and has ascertained that these

mountains, more than 5000 feet high, are composed of triassic, Jurassic, and creta-

ceous rocks. The greatest part of the Jurassic fossils, as for instance at Siguenza

and Alcolea, belong to the upper lias ; viz. to beds characterized by the Ammonites
Walcotti and Spirifer verrucosus. It is remarkable that most of the known Jurassic

deposits of Spain belong to that subdivision. It is the case, for example, with those

of the Sierra de Moncay, in the province of Soria, and with those of the neigh-

bourhood of Burgos. Little time has elapsed since the Jurassic group has been

known in Spain, and for the progress of our knowledge respecting it we are spe-

cially indebted to the researches of M. Ezquerra del Bayo and M. Schulz. In pre-

paring a magnificent geological map of the Asturias, this last geologist had many

opportunities of studying the Jurassic beds, which, being the prolongation of those

of Santander and Bilboa, belong also in great part to the upper lias.

The Oxfordian Jura occurs also in some provinces, as at Teruel ; but at present

the upper part of the oolitic series, or the Portlandian group, is unknown. The same

may be said of the Neocomian rocks. The chalk of Spain appears to consist only
of the hippuritic limestone (or beds equivalent to the lower chalk of England and

France), and of a lower member, which, largely expanded in the provinces of San-
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  Ill

tander and Biscay, seems to correspond with the upper greensand, but not with the
Neocomian or lower greensand. M. de Verneuil speai<s only of what is known in

the present stale of the geology of Spain, for it is probable that future researches
will indicate the existence of the Neocomian formation in the peninsula.

   The above-mentioned upper member of the cretaceous group is widely spread
over Spain as well as over Portugal, where it has been described by Mr. Sharpe.
From the province of Santander it extends to the Asturias near Oviedo, and to Bonor
and Sabero (Leon). The same hippuritic limestone is known in the neighbourhood
of Burgos, near Tamajon, in the province of Guadalajarra and not far from Segovia.
One of the most common fossils of these beds is the Exogyra flahdlata known at
Teruel, Titaguas, Tamajon, Burgos, &c.

   Above the chalk, and, having, apparently been submitted to the same disturbances,
lie the nummulitic rocks, which most geologists now consider to be true eocene.
They are very well exposed at Columbres (province of Santander). With Nura-
mulites of all size, some being gigantic, occur the Conoclypeus connideus and the
Serpula spirulxa. Much uncertainty still reigns concerning the nummulitic tracts in
Spain, for the double reason that Orhitolites have been sometimes mistaken for
Nummulites, and that in other cases true Nummulites have been confounded and
mapped with cretaceous rocks upon which they lie, but into which they never descend;
thus according with the position they have been shown to occupy in the Alps, Apen-

nines and Carpathians, by Sir Roderick Murchison. Among other places where
Nummulites are known, the French geologist quotes the neighbourhoods of Malaga,
Gualchos, Motril, Tarragona, Geronse, Olot, &c. At Malaga a great discordance
may be observed between the nummulitic limestone and the miocene deposits, the

first being highly contorted and the second slightly elevated. Judging from the few
fossils collected by M. Ezquerra del Bayo, the lignites of Utrillas in Arragon must

--belong, like those of Entrevernes in Savoy, to the nummulitic period.
    Tertiary roclcs. These rocks cover vast areas in Spain. Being generally hori-
zontal and extending in vast plains, they contrast strongly with the secondary and
nummulitic beds, which are always contorted and form undulating or mountainous
countries. All the great valleys of the Ebro, the Douro, the Tagus, the Guadiana
and the Guadalquivir, have been bottoms of seas or extensive lakes. The freshwater

deposits Cover a larger area than the marine ones, extending over Old and New

Castile from the Cantabrian chain to the Guadarrama, and from the Guadarrama to
the Sierra Morena through the great plains of the Mancha. In some places these
deposits reach the altitude of 2500 feet ; thus proving how great elevation Spain has
suffered even in recent times ; recent in effect, if we judge by the freshwater fossil
shells which are said to be identical with those living now, and by the bones of great
mammoths discovered in the Cerro San Isidro near Madrid. Most of the marine
deposits, and especially those of the basin of the Guadalquivir, are- miocene, and upon
them lie here and there some small pliocene, or newer pliocene deposits, formed on
the littoral shore and composed of pebbles and fragments of an Ostrea resembhng
the living species. Cadiz is built upon such rocks, which are also well-knovfn in
Algeria.. The Mediterranean coast presents many instances of small miocene de-
posits, some of which have been disturbed and support horizontal newer beds.

   It was probably in the most recent of these periods that the extinct volcanos of
the Peninsula broke out. Three foci of eruption are known ; one at the cape of
Gata, the other in the neighbourhood of Ciudad Real, and the third near Olot in

Catalonia.

   The geology of Spain is not sufficiently advanced to attempt a classification of its
mountains considered with respect to their periods of elevation. It may, however,
be said, that the Sierra Morena, though a low range, is the most ancient; for on
both its sides the tertiary strata in contact with the old rocks are horizontal. Near
Cordova, for example, the miocene beds with the huge Clypeaster altus are to be seen
in that position, and on the northern side at Santa Cruz de Mudela horizontal bands
of freshwater limestone loaded with Helix, lie upon highly inclined, trilobite Silurian
schists. More recent movements have taken place in the Guadarrama ; since at the
southern foot of that high range, and on the road from Madrid to Burgos, the same
freshwater limestone is slightly elevated. In the Pyrenees, as well as in the moun-
tains which rise in the most southern part of Spain) the subsoil has been tormented
--112 REPORT 1850.

 by violent and recent disturbances. The tertiary formations of the Ebro, and those
 of Leon along the Cantabrian chain, are often much elevated. In Leon they are even
 vertical near the chain, but soon resume their horizontality to range over the great

 plains of Castile.

   Postscript to Mr. Bryce's Paper on Striated Rocks in the Lake District,

                                                                 p. 76.
    In the first paragraph of this paper it is stated that " up to this time striated
rocks have not been noticed in the lake district." This is a mistake, which the author

very much regrets ; he had overlooked, when the account was drawn up, a paper by
Dr. Buckland, in which the e.\istence of scratched rocks in Westmoreland is alluded
to. The passage occurs in the ' Proceedings of the Geological Society of London,'

--vol. iii. part 2. p. 347, under date of Dec. 2nd, 1840, and is as follows : " Dr. Buck-

land had no opportunity of seeking for polished and striated surfaces in the high
mountain valleys of the lake district ; but he found them on a recently exposed sur-

face of greywacke in Dr. Arnold's garden at Fox Howe near Ambleside ; likewise

near the slate quarry at Rydal ; and on newly-bared rocks by the side of the road

ascending from Grasmere to the Pass of Wythburn ; he is also of opinion that many
of the round and mammillated rocks at the bottom of the valley leading from Hel-
vellyn, by the above locaUties, to Windermere, owe their form to glacial action."

       BOTANY AND ZOOLOGY, including PHYSIOLOGY.

                                                Botany.

     Om Anachdris Alsinastrum. JBy C. C. Babington, M.A., F.L.S.

                       On the Grass-Cloth (Chfi Ma) of India.
                    By Dr. H. Cleghorn, Madras Army.

   The author stated that several species of plants belonging to the order Urticaceas
were employed in Hindostan for the purpose of yielding fibres used in the manufac-
ture of textile fabrics. He exhibited several articles of dress veiy white and light,
which were manufactured from the fibres of the Bishtneria nivea of botanists, the
Uriica tenacissima of Roxburgh (Fl. Indica, iii. 590). The plant is cultivated in
Sumatra, where Marsden says, " the shoots are cut down, dried and beaten, after
which the rind is stripped off^;" the fibres so obtained are of very great strength
and fineness. In Penang it is likewise cultivated ; the Malay name in that island
is Rami. Specimens sent to the Agricultural and Horticultural Society from Dr.
M'Gowan of Ningpo, were found by Dr. Falconer to correspond exactly with those
grown in the Botanic Garden of Calcutta, where it had been introduced from Su-
matra in the days of Roxburgh, with a view to obtaining its valuable fibres. This
is probably the very plant to which Koempfer alluded so long ago as 1712 : " Sijro

or the Wild Hemp Nettle grows plentifully in most uncultivated places. This plant
makes good in some measure what want there is of hemp and cotton, for several

sorts of stuiFs, fine and coarse, are fabricated of it." (History of Japan, translated
byScheuchzer, i. 119.) In 1784, Thunberg, in his ' Flora Japonica,' p. 71, giving the
same vernacular name to Urtica nivva, Linn., says, "Crescit copiosissime in Naga-

Esaka, alibi. Cortex pro funibus conficiendis et fills validis ad texturas expetitur.

seminibus oleum causticura exprimitur." Dr. Cleghorn stated that the weight of
the jacket was five ounces, and that it cost three rupees. The fabric is coming into
increasing consumption in S. India, being imported from Singapore and China in

narrow webs. It is much esteemed for light clothing during the hottest weather
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ;

in regard to which use James Cunningham wrote to Plukenet, " Planta sativa Co
dicta unde efficitur Copou, pro vestibus sestivis." (Almagestum Botanicum, 1796.)
The specimen No. 2012 of Dr. Francis Hamilton Buchanan's Herbarium, corre-
sponds with No. 4606 E. of Wallich's Catalogue.
       TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                              ^3^1

On the Hedge Plants of India, and the conditions which adapt iliem for

  special purposes and particular localities. By Dr. H. Cleghorn, Madras

   Establishment.

   The author first made some remarks on the low condition of agriculture generally
throughout India, and stated that his remarks more particularly applied to the south
of that continent, in the district of Mysore, which he had frequently traversed in the
execution of duty. Having referred to the importance of hedges in any well-deve-
loped system of agriculture, he pointed out their especial importance in a country
infested with wild animals, and where the crops needed especial protection. He
stated, however, that those plants alone could be used for hedges which were adapted
to the particular soil and climate where they were employed. Sandy districts pro-

duced a very different vegetation from that which is found in a rich alluvial soil.
The following plants were named as those }\'hich might be used with advantage for
hedges in various parts of India. Most of these plants are characterized by possess-
ing spines, prickles and thorns, which render them dangerous to animals.

       I. Plants adapted for Field-enclosures,

Opuntia Dillenii, Haw.            Hemicyclia sepiaria, W. and A.

Agave americana, L.               Epicarpurus orientalis, Blume.

Euphorbia Tirucalli, L.           Jatropha Curcas, L.

       antiquorum, L.             Pisonea aculeata, Rox.

       nivuiia. Buck.             Capparis sepiaria, //.

Caesalpinia sepiaria, Rox.        aphylla, Rox.

       Sappan, L.                 Scutia indica, Brony.

Pterolobium lacerans, jR. Br.     Azima tetracantha. Lam.

Guilandina Bonduc, L.             Graelina asiatica, L.
Parkinsonia aculeata, L.
                                  Balsamodendron Berryi, Am.

Poinciana pulcherrima, L.         Toddalea aculeata, Pers.

Mimosa rubicaulis. Lam.           Barabusa arundinacea, Willd.

Inga dulcis, Willd.               spinosa, Rox.

Acacia arabica, Willd.            nana, Rox.

       concinna, D.C.             Dendrocalamus tulda, Nees.

Vachellia Farnesiana, W. and A. Pandanus odoratissimus, L.

       II. Ornamental Plants forming inner fences.

Lawsonia inermis, L.              Adhatoda vasica, Nees.

Lonicera ligustrina. Wall.        Betonica, Nees.

Citrus Limetta, Riss.             Graptophyllum hortense, Nees.
                                  Gendarussa vulgaris, Nees.
Morus indica, L.

Punica granatum, L.               Gardenia florida, L.
Phyllanthus reticulata, Poir.
Hil3iscus rosa sinensis, L.       AUamanda cathartica, L.

       III. Plants used for edging garden walks.

Pedilanthus tithymaloides, Poii.  Rosa indica, L.

Vinca rosea, Willd.               semperflorens, Curtis.

Heliotropium curassavicum, L.

   The Cadi, Agavece and Euphorhite are adapted to tlie arid districts, their struc-
ture enabling them to exist, when refreshed with only occasional showers ; the Mi-
mosece and Cxsalpinem seem to enjoy the somewhat more cold and moist climate of
the Balaghaut districts ; while the Bambuseee and Pandaneee luxuriate in the rich
loamy soil of the Mulnad (i. e. Rain countrjO- Hence, for the railways now making
in the Peninsula, the fences ought to differ as the line is continued through various
districts, in accordance with the conditions under which particular plants thrive best
between certain limits of temperature and moisture.

On the Epidermal Appendages of the Genera Callitriche, Hippuris, Pingui-
         cula, and Drosera. Si/ Edwin Lankester, M.D., P.R.S.

Although it was frequently stated that aquatic plants had no epidermis, yet many

of them are covered with a very perceptible distinct laver of cells which Schleiden

1850.                                                         I
                                                                                                                    .

--114 REPORT 1850.

calls epiblema. In certain instances this external laj'er of cells seemed capable df
developing appendicular organs, as was the case with plants growing in the air. The
author had previously published a description of certain bodies which occurred on the
surface of the stem and leaves of CalUfriche verna. These bodies were stellate in form,
and consisted of several cells attached to one which acted as the base and attached
the rest to the surface. Since that time he had observed the same bodies covering
the surface of the stem of Hippuris vulgaris. They were composed of a larger number
of cells in Hippuris, and the author had not detected them on the leaves. Finding
them on Hippuris and CalUfriche, he had sought them on Myriophyllum, but had not

succeeded in detecting them there. He had however detected similar bodies on the

surface of the leaves of Pinguicula vulgaris. These had been previously described
by Professor Dickie. In Pinguicula the stellate bodies were found lying directly on
the surface of the leaf, or elevated upon one, two, or more cells, so as to resemble
clavate hairs. In Pinguicula they were quite distinct from the stomates, and this
might be taken as an indication of the nature of these bodies in CalUfriche and Hip-
puris, The author had also observed bodies of a similar kind on the surface of the
leaves and on the so-called hairs of DroserarotundifoUa. It was an old observation
alluded to by Meyen and dwelt upon by Morren, that the hairs ot'Drosera contained
spiral vessels. The author had traced these to the bundles of vessels which formed
the veins of the leaf, and stated, that we must regard the hairs of Drosera as segments

of the leaf. He regarded as the true hairs of Drosera, the stellate bodies above

referred to

A few Remarks on the Treatment and Flowering of a Plant of Dracaena

   Draco, or Gum-Dragon Tree, in five Botanic Garden of Trinity College,

   Dublin. By J. T. Mackay, LL.D., M.R.I.A., Director.

   The Draccena Draco, or Gum- Dragon Tree, on a plant of which I beg leave to make
a few observations, was raised by me in the College Botanic Garden in 1810, along
with several others from seeds brought from Madeira. After it had been grown in
a pot for ten years, it was planted out into a bed of earth in a large stove or hot-
house. About three years ago it became too tall for the house ; and in order still to

--secure the plant for the collection, the following experiment, suggested by my intel-

ligent chief-assistant Mr. Bain, was made by him : The stem, which was then about
eighteen feet high and fifteen inches in diameter, was during six months gradually cut
across four feet above the root, about an inch deep at a time, when a little hot lime
was applied to the wound to prevent bleeding. The root and lower portion of the
stem were then removed as being useless, and the upper portion of the stem suspended
immediately above the former station of the plant. In the course of eight months,
during which time it was kept perfectly dry, it threw out several aerial roots from the
edge of the stem where it had been cut. It was then lowered into its foimer position,
and had the stem and roots sunk about four feet in dry sandy mould. This was done
a year and a half ago; and the plant, which is now in excellent health, has lately
flowered, and is, I believe, the only one that has done so in Great Britain or Ireland.
It is a liliaceous plant, having numerous small flowers produced on racemes, com-
posing the large panicle, which was four feet in length and three feet in diameter.

  A portion of the panicle and two drawings of the plant I now lay before the

meeting. As the above experiment on Draccena Draco has succeeded so well, the
author thought the same treatment would be well worth trying on palms and other
endogenous plants, when they become too tall for the house.

                         On the Effects of Salt on Vegetation.

By Dr. Aug. Voelcker, Prof of Chemistry, Boy. Agricul. Coll. Cirencester.

    This paper contained the preliminary results of some experiments undertaken with
a view of studying the effects of salt on vegetation in general, and to determine more
in particular in what quantity salt produces a beneficial, and in what quantity an
injurious effect on different plants. The plants selected for experiments were cab-
bages, beans, onions, lentils, Stellaria media, Senecio vulgaris, Carduus pratensia.
                                                                                                                   --

                         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                           115

Anthoxaiithnm odoraium, Poa annua, and radishes. They were all grown on the
same soil, of a calcareous character, potted on the 1st of May, and experimented
upon with salt solutions of different strength on the 10th of May. The following

are the general results derived from these experiments :
    1. Salt solutions, containing 3 grs. of salt, 6 grs., 12 grs., and even 24 grs. of

salt, produced no injurious effect on the above-mentioned plants, which had been
regularly watered with them during two months, with the exception of Antho-
xanthum odoratum. Anthoxantlmm odoratum was killed by a solution containing
24 grs. of salt in the course of a month.

    2. Such weak solutions appeared to benefit most plants experimented upon, par-
ticularly cabbages, radishes, and lentils. The lentils, which were watered with a
salt solution containing 24 grs. of salt per pint of rain-water, were nearly half larger
in size than those watered with 6 grs. of salt per pint, and these again were more

rigorous than the lentils which received no salt at all.
    3. Salt solutions containing 48 grs. of salt proved to be prejudicial, in the course

of a month, to lentils, Stellaria media, Senecio vulgaris, Poa annua, and exercised
no injurious effects on cabbages, beans, onions, radishes, Carduus pratensis.

    4. Salt solutions containing 96 grs. of salt had an injurious effect on lentils, Stel-
laria, Senecio vulgaris, Poa annua, cabbages and beans, but no effect on Carduus
pratensis, onions and radishes.

   5. Cabbages will continue to grow, though sickly, when watered regularly during
a month with a salt solution containing 192 grs. of salt, and even when watered with
a solution containing 382 grs. of salt per pint.

    6. Solutions of salt containing 192 grs. of salt per pint, proved unprejudicial in
the course of a month to onions.

    7. Grasses are affected by salt more readily than any other of the plants expe-
rimented upon.

    8. Solutions containing 24 grs. of salt, decidedly benefited radishes, lentils, onions
and cabbages.

   Many of the plants had taken up so large a quantity of salt, that they tasted like

strong brine, and notwithstanding they grew healthily, which evidently shows that
salt in a moderately diluted solution has no poisonous effect on many plants.

    In conclusion, the author mentioned that his experiments differ from those of Mr.
Randall, made with fuchsias. But as Mr. Randall used water from a particular
source, and not with pure salt water, and may have contained other poisonous sub-
stances, it is the opinion of the author, that so small a quantity of salt as that con-
tained in the water with which Mr. Randall experimented, cannot be regarded as the

cause of the observed poisonous effects.

                                                                     Zoology.

                 Notes on Crustacea. By C. Spence Bate.

--I. On the Development of the Shell. That crabs moult, from the larva state to that

of the adult, is well    known                                   in  the earlier period of their existence the exuviae are
                                                              ;

thrown off every two or three days, later it takes place at intervals of two or three

months ; but in the adult crab, the shell is cast but once a year, and probably in old
age it is not so often repeated, even if they moult at all. But whether we contem-

plate the phaenomenon in either stage, the process by which the shell is developed

must be the same.

    Immediately over the heart a pulp is formed consisting of nucleated cells, areolar
tissue (and blood-vessels ?) ; from this centre the pulp extends throughout the whole
portion of the crab, which is represented by a hard dermal skeleton, beneath which

it immediately lies, and from which it is separated by a layer of pigment which gives

colour to the newly-developed organ. Near the base of the pulp (that is immediately

above  the  heart)  the  cells  are                              uniformly  large                          deeper  in the  pulp  they become mixed
                                                                                                        ;

with smaller, both of which are displaced by cells still smaller as they approach the

layer of pigment, immediately beneath which, they being uniform in size, compress

each other into a polygonal form ; these cells are the ultimate secreting organs of

                                                                                   i2
116 REPORT-- 1850. -

the new shell, which is developed from a repetition of these layers, into which even-

tually the whole pulp is converted.

  --II. Shedding the Exuvim. As the period approaches for the completion of the

new shell, it, being larger in extent than that which it is about to replace, is there-

fore compressed into wrinkles or folds. It is bv this compression, arising from the

internal growth of the crab, acting upon the principle of the lever, that the old shell

is removed                                                    the first external sign which I have observed of the approaching change
                                                           ;

in the animal's mconomy, is an increase in the thickness, whereby the sections of the

abdomen become more conspicuous from above ; as this increases^ the crab wanders
about in search of a resting-place, and often becomes very savage, darting at any

and everything that approaches it, until when the moment draws near it hitches the

point of one of its feet into some crack or crevice and withdraws itself from its old

skin, escaping between the carapace and the abdomen. The moment after it is free

the full size is obtained.

I cannot help here remarking, that in the case alluded to by Reaumur it is stated,

that with the crayfish {Astacus fluviatilis) the process was one of great labour and

difficulty as well as duration, whereas in every case that I have watched of the crab

{Carcinus Mcenas), the operation has been very quick and easy ; and also up to the
moment of their throwing off their extraneous skeleton, they have the use of all their

limbs with perfect freedom, and display as much activity upon being disturbed as at

any other time. They also seem to have the power of retaining the old shell at will

until a suitable moment occurs for them to cast it with security ; for although in
many instances I have seen them before and after the process had commenced, and

patiently watched for hours at a time, yet they have endeavoured to take advantage

of a temporary absence of sometimes a few minutes to get rid of the shell. At this

time they are very liable, in their defenceless state, to be preyed upon by larger

animals both of their own and other species, of which they themselves seem to be

aware, and being excited by fear, are much more active and less easily caught than

at any other period.

 --III. The Reproduction of Limbs. When a limb is injured all Crustacea have the

power of rejecting it (provided it be not below the last joint) ; this is done by a violent

muscular contraction, and ultimately a blow from another limb or against some ex-

ternal  body                                                  the amputation  is  performed  in  a few  seconds,  except when they have
                                    ;

but recently cast the exuvioe, when for the first few days (while the new skeleton is

being hardened) they have not that easy capabiUty, and the wounded limb will

sometimes remain for perhaps half an hour or more before it is thrown off. I once

cut the large didactyle claw of a crab through the joint, so as to remove only the
thumb and finger; and although the animal exhibited signs of severe suffering for

some hours, yet it did not throw off the limb, and when the exuviae in its regular time

were shed, the limb continued a maimed member and never was produced. Tlie new

limb is formed within the old carapace in connexion with the neiv shell, and lies

folded up until the old coat is thrown off, and becomes apparent only at the period

of the development of the new shell, and is larger or smaller in accordance with the

duration which existed between the period of the amputation of the limb and the

shedding of the exuvise. The condition in which the limb is then in remains, as the

rest of the animal, stationary in growth, until the shell is again cast, when the whole

creature advances in size, but the newer-developed limb more rapidly in proportion

than the remainder of the animal, until the new limb is equal to the others in size

and importance. It is to this variety of sizes (dependent upon the period which

occurs to allow the new limb to be developed previously to the next succeeding moult),

that the commonly received idea of the continual growth of the limb is based.

 --IV. On the use of the False Feet in Male Brachyura. These appendages, which

consist of two pair, the anterior being the larger and more important, are attached

to the first annular segment of the abdomen, the posterior or less belongs to the

second ring, and in all that I have observed, the second or less pair is inserted pos-

teriorly into the first or larger pair, except in Cancer Pagnrus, in which the posterior

is of equal length, though less in other proportions.

In the female, as is well known, the false feet are the appendages by which the

ova are supported by the parent during their development. But in the male they

assume a more important function, being no other than the introraittent organ of
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  Il7

generation. I am well aware that the high authority of Prof. Milne-Edwards has

asserted, that they are of no other use than to excite the female, in his ' Histoires
des Crustaces,' " Ces appendices paraissent devoir servir a diriger les verges vers les
vulves, et peut-etre aussi a exciter ces derniers organes," which he has since repeated
in the ' Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology,' article Crustacea. But I have
rayself repeatedly taken Carcinus Mcenas in the act of copulation, in which these
styliform processes were deeply inserted into the vulvae of the female. Since which

time it has been my object to" make out the anatomy of the organ as distinctly as

possible, for which purpose I have dissected Cancer Pagurus, Xantho rivulosa, Por-
tunus puber. Carcinus Mmnas ; in the whole of which, and I doubt not but also in
the remainder of the Brachyura, the internal organs lie folded upon themselves, one

on either side of the stomach, each of which continues to the first joint of the fifth

pair of legs, through the membranous portion of which in some--while in others a
separate orifice exists through the calcareous portion of the leg--a membranous tube,

the vas deferens, passes out, and is continued externally until it is inserted into the
second joint of the first pair of the so-called false feet, through which it passes and

ultimately opens at the extremity. For many days may the male be seen running
about holding the female by one or more of his legs, pressing the carapace against
its sternum ; this continues for a period more or less long, until the female throws
off the exuviee, when copulation immediately ensues, face to face, and continues from
eighteen to twenty hours, or perhaps until the new shell becomes sufficiently calcified

to act as a protecting skeleton.

 --V. Number of Broodsfrom one Female in one Season. I have been induced to be-

lieve that crabs, like some insects, have more than one brood from a single impreg-
nation of the male ; the facts which incUne me to this idea are, that in the month of

May last I took a female, to the false feet of which were still attached the hair-

like threads, the external case of the ova, showing that the larva had been but
recently let free, whereas upon dissecting the crab I found the uterus gravid with

ova in an early stage of development. Upon considering, as before-mentioned, that

impregnation takes place immediately after the period of moulting, and that the exuviae

are cast but once in the year, I can only imagine that in the brood after the first, the
ova are fertilized by spermatozoa retained within the cul de sac of the parent from the

first or previous inoculation.

 --VI. On the uses of the Fifth Pair of Legs in the Anomoura. The fifth pair of

legs in the Anomoura are apparently useless, appearing as if formed by an arrest
of development, which altogether incapacitates them from assisting in the office of
perambulation. These, which in the Brachyura are connected with the last annular
segment of the thorax, m\he Anomoura belong to the first segment of the abdomen,

and generally lie folded up and at rest on either side of the carapace.
    In both the Brachyura and Macroura, within the branchial chamber are organs

whose office is chiefly to excite currents over the surface of the gills, as also
(probably) to remove any irritating substance which may have been brought
in by the aerating fluid ; these organs are called the flabellae, which, though
common, I believe, to all of the above-named sections, yet in the Anomoura are
wanting. This absence of an important agent in respiration, entails upon the animal

death by asphyxia much more rapid, which still would be increased but that the
office is partially fulfilled by the fifth pair of legs, which are, when required, inserted
beneath the carapace into the branchial chamber ; and this is assisted by a peculiar
power which the crabs of this order possess, in being able to raise up their own
carapace ; a power of which they take advantage when respiration is impeded, in
order to admit a greater body of water into the gill-chamber, but which is precluded
from entering into the thoracic cavity by a thin membranous wall which unites the
carapace with the sternum and abdomen at the inner wall of the branchial chamber.
Neither is this the only purpose for which the fifth pair of legs serve in the oeconomy
of these crabs ; they are invariably supplied with strong cilia at the extremity, which

also is sometimes didactyle,the prehensile form being obtained by the last joint being
arrested in its development, impinging upon a process or excess of development of

the penultimate; with this didactyle and brush-Uke extremity I have seen the

Pagurus Bernhardus mop every joint in succession, and when required, cleansing the

brush in the pedipalps. This pair of legs also carries the male organs of generation.
                                                                                                                                                        --;

             118 REPORT 1850,

                The author added descriptions and figures of new species, viz. Pagurus Dillwynii
             and Pandalus Jeffreysii.

             A List of Sertularian Zoophytes and Polyzoa/rom Port Natal, Algoa Bay,

                and Table Bay, in South Africa ; with Remarks on their Geographical

             Distribution, and Observations on the Genera Plumularia and Catenicella.
             By George Busk, F.R.S.

             The 1" species of SertulariadiB belonged to the following genera, viz. Sertularia,

             9 species ; Plumularia, 5 species ; Thuiaria, 1 species ; Antennularia, 2 species. The

             --species of Sertularia were, as far as they could be ascertained, 1. Sertularia argentea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;

             2. S. rosacea;  3. S. polyzonias;                             4. S. abietina                                                               5. S. operculata ;  G. S. nigra;  7.
                                                                                                                                                     ;

             S. arbmcula? ; 8. S. unilateralist ; 9- S. Gaudichaudi. With respect to the fiVst six

             of these, no remarks appear to be called for, as they correspond in all respects with

             the species of the same name in the British Fauna. The Sertularia operculata of

             South Africa is undoubtedly the same species as the British, although from a rather

             general deviation from the more usual toothing of the margin of the cell, which ob-

             tains in specimens from the southern hemisphere, this variety has been denominated

             Sert. or rather Dynamena bispinosa by Mr. Gray. This species appears to be of a

             cosmopolitan character, occurring in Europe, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand,

             and in at least one of the South Sea Islands ; specimens from the latter locality,

             differing merely in colour, which is in them deep brown. The seventh species, here

             named S. arbuscula, is most probably that species, which is one of those described by

             Krauss, but stated by him to come from New Holland. This statement may, how-

             ever, probably turn out to be incorrect, as the species in question does not occur

             among those sent home from H.M.S. Rattlesnake from Australia. The eighth
             species, which does not appear to have been previously described, is characterized by

             the position of the double series of cells toward one side of the rachis, in consequence

             of which the polypidom aifords something of the aspect of a Plumularia. It may

             prove to be the Sertularia unilateralis of Quoy and Gaimard, although in their figure

      "^^*^  of that species the cells are much wider apart than in the specimen from Algoa Bay.

-^           --The species of Plumularia are : 1 . Plumularia formosa (Busk) ; 2. Plumularia, sp. ?

 boaii       P3. P.falcata; 4 . . pennaiula } ; 5. P.cristata. There is a sixth very small species,

rftau^^MrLi^ ijut so closely resembling P. cristata, that it is not deemed advisable at the present

^"^HtZcf time to separate them. The species named P. formosa is of a beautiful feather-like

             habit, growing in simply pinnate fronds of a deep brown colour, from two to nearly six

             inches high. As it does not appear to have been hitherto distinctly described or

             named, it is designated as above, with the following characters ;

             P. erecta, pinnata, subincurvata ; cellulis crenatis, dentatis, rostro antico elongato

             basi  utrinque  spicato                             processu  rachidis  antico inferior! canaliculato :                                                        processibus
                                                              ;

             lateralibus rachidis, canaliculatis, brevibus. Capsulis ovarialibus, elongatis, costatis.

             Hab. Africa austr.

   ^(nU      The second species also appears to be unnamed, but as, from its size and remark-
·!. J"?7 G
             '^ble habit, it can scarcely have escaped notice, it is thought better not to name it on
<r *Y>fto
''           the present occasion. It has a remarkable shrub-like aspect, having a very thick

             ^j^j strong stem, irregularly branched, the ultimate ramules pinnate, pinnules small

             in proportion to the size of the rachis. The cells are cup-like, with several shallow

             indentations, and a sharp ascending point anteriorly. The anterior rachidian process,

             and also the two lateral ones, are long and of uniform diameter.

             With respect to the species of Plumularia, it was remarked that four out of the five

             belonged to that group of this artificially constructed genus, of which Plumularia

             cristata may be taken as the type, and of which the most striking characteristic

             hitherto noticed is the pod-like, costate, ovarial capsule. It was pointed out, how-

             ever, that this group is not distinguished from the rest of the species in this genus,
             with which it has been artificially associated, by this character alone, but by several

             others also, sufficient perhaps hereafter to justify the erecting of the group into a di-

             stinct genus. Omitting the peculiar and elegant feather-like port of most of these

             species, there may be noticed more particularly the existence on each side of the rachis

             of the pinnae, and on a level with the upper part of the cells, of a short curved or

             straight process, usually tubular, but sometimes only channelled, which is continuous
                                                         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                119

   through a rounded opening with the interior of the rachis. Many of the species,

   but not all, have also a similar tube or process, arising from the rachis immediately
   below the cell. It is this process which has sometimes been denominated a " bract."

   Where this anterior process is wanting, there is usually a tube projecting from the cup

   itself, but in this case the tubular process seems to be of a different nature, supporting

   at its extremity a small cup-like cell. P. cristata, in one of its varieties, affords an, ^^ fr-7''
   instance of this arrangement. Should a division of the genus Plumularia, as at pre-

   sent constituted, be eventually made, those species of which P. setacea may be taken

   as the type, would form a second genus, closely allied to Laomedea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and Plumularia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;

Afalcata might safely be referred to Sertularia.                                                                                        link between the latter genus and

the so-called Plumularia in question, might be indicated in the eighth species of

Sertularia above noticed under the name of Scrt. unilateralis. The species of 7'huiaria ^^ 71 f'-
differs from Thuiaria articulata in the exact opposition of the pinnae, and in the fre- {^ii^j

quency with which the exti-emities of the pinnae are furnished with long tendril-like

tubes, by which the polypidom clings to surrounding bodies, or one frond to another.
As this is in all probability the species referred to by Ellis " as having been sent to
him from the East Indies," and as it is undoubtedly distinct from our T. articulata,

--the name of T. Ellisii is proposed for it, with the character, " T. pinnata, pinnis

oppositis. Capsulis ovarialibus ovatis, ore rotundo, incrassato."

   Of the two species of Antennularia, one corresponds with our Ant. ramosa. The

other species resembles the Cymodocea simplex of Lamouroux. It is however clearly

--an Antennularia, and the name of Antennularia Cymodocea is proposed for it, with

the character, "Ant. caulibus simplicibus : ramulis biseriatis, utraque serie, altcr-

nantibus." Hab. Af. aust., Australia, &c.

   With respect to the geographical distribution of these Sertularians, it may be

remarked that of the nine species of Sertularia, six are British forms also ; of the

other three, one may be common to Australia, and no other locality is known for the

remaining two. Of the five Plumularim, three are also members of the British Fauna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;

--and of the two Antennularia, one is also British. Thus of the whole number 17,

ten are European forms, a circumstance calculated to excite much surprise. None

of the South African Sertulariadm, except Sertularia operculata, and perhaps .S". ar-

buscula, occur among those which have come under the author's notice from

Australia or New Zealand.

   Of Polyzoa, there were noticed 15 or ] 6 species, viz. 1. Cellularia, 2 sp. ; 2. Flus-

tra, 2 sp. ; 3. Acamarchis, 1 sp. ; 4. Catenicella, 3 or 4 sp.; 5. Serialaria {Amatlda),

3  sp. ;  6.  Salicornaria, 1 sp.                                                                                    7. Elzerina},  1 sp.;  8.  Crisia, 2 sp.
                                                                                                                  ;

   The species of Flustra are, first, Flustra                                                                                       ?, distinguished by all the marginal

cells having an avicularium imbedded in them. There appear to be two varieties of

this species. The second species is the beautiful Flustra homhycina ; it is usually
parasitic upon sponges or other zoophytes, especially on Sertularia polyzonias. The

species of Acamarchis, is that described by Krauss under the name of ^. tridentata.

It belongs to a group of Acamarchis, in which the species are distinguished by their

containing a blue colouring matter, as is another set by the possession of a red colour,

such as occurs in Cellularia plumosa of our seas.
   --The species of Serialaria (or Amathia) are
                                                                                                                                    1.  Amathia  hiseriata (Krauss)                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;

A. cornuta                                           3.  A. lendigera ;  or at all events a species very                                         much  resembling                                                                                                                                                                                                     that
                                                  ;

British form.

   The Salicornaria is identical with our S. farciminoides, as is one of the Crisi(B with.
the British C. denticulata. The other Crisia is a peculiarly beautiful, pearly species,
unhke any British form. The genus here doubtfully designated under the name

Eherina (Blainville), resembles Salicornaria in many respects, but is horny instead
of calcareous. Two or three other species, referable to the same genus, occur in

Australia, but the South African one does not appear to have been found there. Of

the three or four species included under the name Catenicella, one will probably here-

after constitute the type of a distinct genus, but as it possesses many characters in
common with the others, the separation is deferred. One of the species here called

Catenicella, is most probably the Menipea cirrata of Lamouroux, or the Cellaria

cirrata of Ellis and Solander, of which a figure is given in their work, which is copied

by Lamouroux. Great confusion appears to exist in this genus up to the present
time ; but it would occupy too much space in this abstract to enter upon the con-
                                        --

120 REPORT-- 1850.

sideration of the historical part of the subject. The genus is a very important one,

especially as regards the relation of the South African Fauna with that of Austraha

and New Zealand, and may be thus defined :

Polypidom growing from the base with a more or less distinct stem, consisting

of a congeries of horny tubes. The branch'js dichotomous, composed of calcareous

cells arranged in linear series, and arising, one from the upper and back part of

another, & flexible joint intervening between them. At the dichotomous divisions of
the branches, which take place after a variable number of cells, the duplication of

the series is effected by one of the cells giving off laterally a second sessile cell, from

the upper and back part of which, as in the parent cell, the subsequent cell and series

arise. It is in respect of the mode of division of the branches, that the species above

referred to differs from the others, and would appear to constitute a distinct generic

form.

The openings of the cells are all on one face of the branch, and vary in different

species in shape, &c., as does the sculpture on the cells, their form and size, &c.

The cells are always furnished with lateral appendages or aloe, which in most species

support longer or shorter spines, which apparently are readily detached ; but in some

cases the lateral appendages assume the form of cup-like cavities or are Avicularia.

This genus appears to be in great measure confined to the southern hemisphere, and

Athere is probably no species of it in the European Fauna.  species is described

and figured in the great ?"rench work on Egypt (Catenicella Savignyi), but this may

probably have been obtained from the Red Sea. It approaches very nearly to one of

the South African species. There is also in the Mediterranean a Polyzoon, named by

Audouin Eitcratea Lafontii, and also figured in the work just cited, which however

differs from Eiicratea in having flexible joints and in other respects, and which would

seem to be allied with that among the South African forms, which differs in its
mode of division from the other true Catenicella.

The principal seat of this genus would appear to be in the Australian seas, for in

the rich collection of zoophytes sent home from H.M.S. Rattlesnake, not less than

sixteen distinct species of this genus occur, all differing however from the South

African. And from New Zealand another species has been named by Mr. Gray

Catenicella bicuspis, which is probably distinct from any of the Australian forms,

though closely resembling one of them.

Exampks of Exuviation, or the Change of the Integuments of Animals in the                    I

         Crustacean Tribes. By Sir John Graham Dalyell, Bart.

    All animals are invested by a skin, an external covering or integument of various
quality. In general the skin simply expands with the growth of the subject which
it invests, but where the integument is not susceptible of such enlargement, nature
has provided effectual substitutes in its place. This is most favourably illustrated
by the history of the crustacean tribes.

   While occupied with the Cancer Mamas, the Shore or Harbour Crab, a dingy
brown specimen. A, of medium size, with one limb white, was put outside the window
on a summer evening, in a capacious glass vessel of sea-vk-ater. In the morning, a
form exactly resembling its own, only somewhat larger, lay in the vessel. This was
a new shell, exuviation having taken place in the night. The resemblance was
complete ; every organ, even the white limb, was seen in both. The natural colour of
this species is green, or it is often variegated green and white, and is sometimes reddish.

   Another specimen, B, was caught of smaller size, the opposite extremities of the
limbs being only 13 lines asuniier, its colour green, with three white patches on the
back. In the course of little more than a year ttve exuviations took place at irregular
intervals, the new shell and animal being successively larger on each. The third
shell came in uniformly green, the white being entirely obliterated. The limbs ex-
panded two inches and a half on the fourth exuviation.

   As this subject was a male, a female of about the same size was introduced into
its vessel soon after the fifth exuviation, but only after they were gorged with food,
to avert hostilities. Both gave unequivocal symptoms of satisfaction. Their union
followed, the breast-plate or (more properly) the apron of each being folded back.
This female underwent several exuviations. Its shell was originally of a beau-
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  121

tiful intermixture of green and white. On the first exuviation, the new shell appeared

in perfect puritv, with precisely the same colours distributed in the same manner.
This shell subsisted 210 days. The male survived but a short time; nor did the

union of the animals prove prolific.

   Numerous other examples were afforded by the Cancer Manas, all to the same
purport. The observer must feed the subject of experiment frequently, that is, every
day or every second dav, and renew the sea- water as often. Nothing prognosticates
exuviation unless abstinence for one or more days previously, and greater quiescence.
The colours are alike vivid on exuviation, as if the animal were at large ; but if it be

a defective specimen, mutilated perhaps of both large claws, or of the eight limbs, all
these ten organs will come in perfect and entire on the first subsequent exuviation, as

an integral portion of the new shell. On the other hand, no subsisting shell which
is mutilated seems ever to acquire a new limb. There is naturally a great disparity

in the size of the claws of various genera.

    It is difficult to explain either the formation and position of the new shell within

the existing animal, or how it escapes on exuviation.
    For a long time I concluded that the new parts were derived from the old, that a

claw was generated within a claw, a limb within a limb, the eyes within the eyes;
thence concurring in the prevalent opinion, that on exuviation each was withdrawn
from the pre-existing organ as from a sheath. Nature seems to conduct her opera-

tions otherwise. But the means are most obscure.
   The adult of the common Crab, Cancer Pagurus, is of a reddish brown colour,

 darker or lighter, the claws always tipped black ; but some of the young are naturally

 of the purest white, which remains long unsullied. This is not incident to confine-

 ment, which has no effect on colour.

   A young white specimen, C, was taken among others on September 29 The body

 might have been circumscribed by a circle, nine lines or three quarters of an inch in

 diameter, and the extended limbs by one and a half inch in diameter. Its first

 exuviation ensued on November the 8th ; the second on the 30th of April following ;
 the shell now produced subsisted until September 12, when another exuviation took

 place, introducing a new shell of such pure and transparent white, that the interior
 almost shone through it. All the shells were white, and somewhat larger success-
 ively. This last shell of September 12 subsisted until March 29, being 197 days,
 when it was evacuated by another exuviation, introducing its contents, D, to view.
 The new animal, as I must call it, D, had only the two claws ; all its eight limbs were
 deficient. Resting on the breast, I did not at first discover the fact, but the creature
 presented a very strange and uncouth aspect. However, it fed readily and proved very
 tame, though helpless, often falling on its back, nor able to recover itself from wanting
 the limbs. I preserved this mutilated subject with uncommon care, watching it
 almost incessantly day and night ; expecting another exuviation which might be

 Myattended with interesting consequences, I felt much anxiety for its survivance.

 sohcitude was not vain. After the defective shell had subsisted eighty-six days, its
 tenant meantime feeding readily, the desired event took place in a new exuviation on

  June 23.

    What was now disclosed ? Still another animal, E, came forth, and in the highest

  perfection, quite entire and symmetrical, with all the ten limbs peculiar to its race,

  and of the purest and most beautiful white ! I could not contemplate such a spe-

  cimen of Nature's energies restoring perfection, and through a process so extra-

 ordinary, without admiration. Something yet remained to be established. Was

  this perfection permanent, or was it only temporary ? Like its precursor, this spe-
  cimen, a very fine one, was quite tame, healthy, and vigorous besides. In 102 days
  it underwent exuviation, when the new animal, F, appeared in all perfection, with a
  shell of snowy white and a little red speckling on the limbs. Finally, its shell haying
  subsisted 189 days, was succeeded by another, G, of equal beauty and perfection,
  the speckling on the legs somewhat increased. As all the shells had gradually aug-
  mented, so was this much larger than any. The limbs extended would have occu-

  pied a circle of four inches diameter. About a month after this last exuviation, the
  animal perished accidentally, having been two years and eight months under obser-
  vation. This was a fine and interesting specimen, extremely tame and tranquil,
  always coming to the side of the vessel as I approached, and holding up its little
        --

122 REPORT-- 1850.

claws as if supplicating food. Thus the perfection regained is permanent ; nature
preserves the symmetry she originally designed.

  A weaker specimen of the Cancer Mcenas, H, had been mutilated of both claws and

six limbs by the preceding animal when first taken. Crabs are in general extremely
contentious, many species waging a war, even to extermination, against each other.

This mutilated specimen survived several weeks, and died apparently of abortive

--exuviation, not of its wounds, when I thought the new animal to be produced might

be discovered lying with the limbs folded over the breast.
   Another small crab, I, having lost five limbs, including one of the claws, was

diligently preserved. As reproduction is first announced by a papilla rising from
the remaining stump in the mutilation of fleshy animals, I watched the several
stumps here preserved, without adverting totheimprobabilityof the same processwhen
there was a casement of shell yet I was so much influenced by what I had heard and

                                                                                                                                       ;

read, that I began at length to believe papillae actually perceptible ; but in due time

the illusion was dispelled by the appearance of the new animal with all its ten limbs
perfect, on exuviation. No regenerating limb ever protrudes from the vacant stump.

--Under all these circumstances, it is evident that the new subject the shell and
--animal to be produced on exuviation, must be concentrated within the smallest

possible bounds, lying with the limbs crossed over the breast in the original shell,

which sunders or gapes between the hind pair of limbs, to allow its exit when

mature.

Precisely the number of defective organs is presented by exuviation along with the

Arest.  specimen of the Cancer (or Portunus) pustllus, whose limbs expanded two

inches between the opposite extremities, had lost both the claws. From this defect

it fed itself with difficulty, for the claws of all crabs, lobsters, and such animals are
employed just as the human hands. Both claws however appeared perfect in the
new animal introduced on exuviation. The same occurred where only one pincer

of the forceps of a claw was defective. Taking everything in view, therefore, the
whole parts constituting the entire animal must be produced or reproduced within
the original or subsisting shell; but generated or regenerated. The time and mode

whereby this is effected, I must leave more skilful physiologists to determine.

The course of exuviation of the lobster-tribe may be conveniently followed in the

Crangon or shrimp, which is easily kept  and fed, and  becomes very tame                                                                                         also the
                                                                                                                                                              ;

process is frequent. The integument separates entire and is almost colourless.

The Cancer Bernhardus, the Soldier or Hermit Crab, is intermediate between the

Cancer and Astacus. As only the upper half is invested by a shelly covering, its

exuviation is limited in correspondence, there being nothing to separate from the
lower, the fleshy portion. The peculiarities of exuviation by the other crustacean

genera, being sought from themselves, will be found extremely interesting by the

practical naturalist.

    In as far as I have been able to ascertain, prolific females are exempt from exuviation
during the period of gestation. The spawn or roe adhering externally to the shell
would be endangered by such a process. This spawn, which is seen in beautiful

variety, in colour and quantity, often resembles luxuriant clusters of currants or
grapes, each capsule containing a foetus, which is discharged on maturity, while the
spawn still remains in situ. The young has no resemblance whatever to the parent.

   The preceding facts, combined with many other observations, lead to the following

conclusions :

    1. The crustacean tribes are invested by a rigid inexpansible shell.
   2. As the existing shell cannot dilate to allow the increment of the animal, it is
wholly cast off by exuviation, to make way for another, which is always of larger

dimensions.
   3. This exuviation, commencing at very early age, is repeated at irregular intervals

during the progress of increment, each successive shell with its animal exceeding the

size of its precursor.

   4. The larger or new shell and animal is generated or regenerated within the
existing shell, which opens for its exit when mature.

  5. No enlargement of the new subject is sensible after production.
   6. Whatever the mutilation may be which the existing shell and animal have un-
dergone, the new subject is always produced entire and perfect by exuviation.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                              123

   7. Prolific females are exempt from exuviation, that their spawn adhering ex-*
ternally may not be exposed to injury.

   8. The young of many crustaceans, which bear no resemblance to the parent, attain
symmetry and perfection through the medium of successive metamorphoses.

Notice of a Tissue spun by Caterpillars. By James Dennistoun.

In the early part of this century there lived at Munich a retired officer. Lieutenant

Hebenstreit, who amused himself by experiments on the means of giving consistency
to the gossamer produced by caterpillars, which is occasionally seen blown about in

flakes over the fields in Germany, and he was at one time sanguine of rendering it
available as a material for ladies' dress. It is said that his plan was to prepare a

paste of lettuce or other leaves beat up with butter, and, after spreading it thinly
over a smooth surface of stone or wood on an incUned plane, he placed at the lower

end a number of chenilles or caterpillars of the proper species. These animals gra-

dually ascended the incline, devouring the paste, and depositing as they proceeded a

sort of tissue until the whole surface was uniformly covered with it. He is reported

to have produced open-work designs by drawing the pattern with a hair pencil dipped

in olive oil before the animals began to work. These I never saw, but I have seen

one veil on which were some letters exactly resembling a water-mark on paper, the

secret of which I do not know. The inventor pursued his experiments with great

secrecy, in the hope of turning his invention to valuable account ; but finding this

impracticable, it appears that he produced but very few specimens, which are now
preserved in various museums on the continent. I have seen two besides my own,

which I procured at Munich in 1837 after having advertised for it several months.

The objections to using this tissue seem to be chiefly its exceedingly flimsy quality

and its very adhesive properties, which render its management and preservation ex-

--tremely difficult attaching itself closely even to the smoothest surfaces, from which
Myit can be separated only by the breath.
                                           veil is about 42 inches by 24. One of

26| by 17 inches is said to have weighed only one grain and a half. Another con-

taining nine square feet is mentioned as weighing 4^ grains, while the same surface

Aof silk gauze weighed 137, and of fine lace 262i grains.  notice of these tissues

appeared in Chambers's Journal about ten or twelve years ago. It would seem that

the art was in some degree known at an earlier period, and occasionally practised

in convents, where coloured drawings on small bits of it are said to have been made.

--I have seen in all four of these on the continent, and two or three on which impres-

sions from copper-plate had been taken always of sacred subjects. One of the

drawings is in my possession, about 7 inches by 5, executed apparently in the last

century, and I have seen one dated about 1770.

      On the European Species of Echinus, and the Peculiarities of their
            Distribution. By Professor Edward Forbes, F.R.S.

   When the author published his account of the British Echinodermata, he laid great

stress on the distinctive characters furnished by the sculpture of the spines in each
species. In this communication he endeavoured to show that these characters are
of the most certain kind, that they bear definitive relations to the more important
features of the organization of the test, and that through them we are enabled easily

to recognize even the most aberrant varieties of each species.
    In the work alluded to, five species of Echinus were enumerated as British : viz.

E. sphmra, E. Flemingii, E. miliaris, E. neglectus, and E. lividus. Although during
the ten years which have passed since the publication of this list, the most active
exploring researches have been carried on in our seas, only two additional forms

have been brought to light.

   One of these is the Echintis Norvegicus of Duben and Koreu, a pretty species of
small size, first observed on the Norwegian coasts, and since dredged by Mr.
McAndrew off the shores of Zetland. The other appears to be identical with the
Echinus Melo of the Mediterranean. It was discovered on the coast of Cornwall by
                                                         --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :

--124 REPORT 1850.

Mr. Peach. It exceeds all our other British species in size, and is nearly allied to
E. splicera.

   The researches of Duben and Koren on the shores of Norway have now made us
fully acquainted with the distribution of Echinoderms to the north of Britain. The
works of Mediterranean naturalists, and the author's own researches, have afforded
ample information respecting the southernmost European species. There remained
to connect the Mediterranean and Celtic provinces, by an examination of the Lusi-
tanian coast. Valuable materials towards filling up the gap have been procured by
Mr. McAndrew, during his recent cruize on the Spanish and Portuguese shores, and

submitted to the author for examination.

   On comparison of all the materials thus brought together, it would appear that the

species of the genus Echinus, inhabiting the European seas, indicate four principal

--types of distribution 1st. an SiVc\\c , to whxch. Echinus elegans appears to belong;

2nd. a boreal, of which £. A'brue^/cMs and -E. He(/?ec^MS are members ; 3rd. a Celtic,
of which E. sphcera and E. viiliaris are the characteristic forms ; 4th. a Lusitanian,
of which E. esculentus, E. lividus and E. melo are members, and to which also the
little Mediterranean E. monilis belongs. E. Flemingii is probably a member of this
southern type.

  On the Anatomy of Doris. By Albany Hancock and Dr. Embleton.

   The paper, which was illustrated by numerous drawings, contained a description
of the different internal organs, and embraced several new points, namely,

   Some hitherto unnoticed modifications of the digestive organs.

  A full account of the complicated organs of reproduction, and their varieties

these organs have long been matter of dispute.

  A notice of an additional heart, having a portal character and driving along its

artery, whose branches form a network with the hepatic twigs of the aorta, venous
blood ; thus a mixed current is sent to the liver for the secretion of the bile.

  A description of a renal organ, on the walls of which the network of aortic and

portal vessels is spread out before they reach the liver.

  A new version of the course of the circulation of the blood in these moUusks,

showing that the blood which is returned from the liver-mass, i. e. liver, renal organ
and ovarium, is the only portion of that fluid that traverses the branchiae before
reaching the heart, the rest being returned from the other viscera and the skin
directly to the auricle, and there mixed with that which has passed through the

branchiae.

   Lastly, an account of a true sympathetic nervous system in Doris and other
moUusks, consisting of plexuses of nerves and ganglia on all the viscera, a system
quite analogous to that of the higher animals. Thus it appeared that the oesophageal
circle of ganglia corresponds to the cerebro-spinal nervous system of the Vertebrata;
the individual ganglia of the moUusk were then compared to their counterparts in
the vertebrate cerebro-spinal axis so as to bring out their true signification.

   From the whole paper it was evident that the moUusca are much more highly
organized than has been supposed, and that as regards the organs of vegetative life
at least, much more richly endowed than the Articuiata have vet been shown to be.

   0)1 an Acarns a?id a Vibrio that attack Grasses. By James Hardy.

   Our indigenous grasses occasionally become diseased by the attacks of small ani-
mals, and the author described some that had not hitherto been observed. In the
beginning of July his attention was directed to Holcus lanatus (meadow soft grass),

--in which many of the panicles were blighted. The causes of this w'ere two : in the

one case the base of the shoot was either dissevered from the stem, or was becoming
putrescent where in contiguity with it ; and occasionally channels were eroded in the
enveloping integuments, which were sometimes strewed with hard granules, appa-
rently excrementitious. These were produced by an active yellow maggot, which
the author suspected belonged to a Chlorops. In the second set of examples the
panicles were quite soft and debilitated, and the branchlets were matted together by
some action that had entirely exhausted them. On a close inspection, several small
           TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                             125

white spherical glassy bodies were perceived sticking amongst the florets, and closely

invested by them. On extracting one of these, it was found to be a solt turgid

animal, evidently an Acarus, but differing from most species of this genus, in being

to outward appearance destitute of legs. This creature is about half a line in length.
The author then proceeded to give a detailed account of its structure. Although in
the later staees of its growth no legs are perceptible, the author had abundant oppor-
tunities of observing the young immediately after being hatched, when they were
found to possess six very serviceable legs. The Jcaii are most abundant near the
summit of the panicle, but they sometimes occupy the base only. The stem of the
grass seems the principal object of their attack, and the drooping of the panicle the
result of the arrest of the ascending sap, which they use for their own nourishment.
The author had also observed this creature on Holcus mollis, or likewise Jvia cmspt-

tosa and Phalaris arundinacea. He proposed to call the species Jcarus graminisugus.
The author had also observed a new rihrio. This was noticed on the sheep s Fescue
 grass {Festuca ovina). and some other grasses of the sea-cqast. Tliey are affected

 with several purple knots or swellings, which on being opened appear as if hlled
 with bluish or purpHsh granules ; but on closer examination, a little white annelide
 was observed coiled up, in channels winding amongst the granules. These were the
  Vibriones. Some of the knots contained only one, others half-a-dozen of these
 creatures. They are white, almost transparent, very minute, just visible to the eye,
 and slender-pointed at each end. This Vibrio differs from the one described by
 Mr. Bauer, and which produces the ear-cockles or bunt in wheat. The author there-
 fore proposes to call this species Vibrio graminis. It is by no means unfrequent
  amongst the short grasses on the sea-coast, and occurs likewise inland, especially on

  Agrostis alba.

      On the Genus Perodicticus of Bennett, and its relation to Stenops.
                           Bt/ Prof. Van der Hoeven.

   The Lemur Polio of Gmelin, a species from the coast of Guinea, had hitherto only
been known very imperfectly, the two specimens observed by the late Mr. Bennett
and by the author of this notice having been both young and not having all then-
teeth. The author has had the opportunity of examining an adult specimen in the
past year, and found the dentition quite similar to that of the genus Stenops. The
tarsal bones were of the same shape as in Stenops, and the statement of Bennett, that
the tarsus was elongated, is incorrect. It seems then that Perodicticus, the genus
formed by Bennett on the Lemur Polio, is not sufficiently distinct fiom Stenops, and
could only be admitted as a subgeneric group, by those who are not willing to admit
the fashion of many contemporary authors, who make genera for nearly every species.
The tail and the short index of Perodicticus seem to be characters of an inferior

and subordinate order.

On the Upper Jaw of the Jguanodon. By G. A. Mantell, LL.D., F.R.S.

in  Dr. Mantell exhibited and described a portion of the upper jaw,  with seven teeth
    place, of the Iguanodon, recently discovered in the Wealden of
                                                                     Sussex, Dr. M.

laid before the Section specimens of the upper and lower teeth of this gigantic her-
bivorous reptile of various ages, and in different states of detrition from use, and
explained the dental arrangement Dr. Melville and himself had inferred from the
detached teeth, and which was confirmed by the fossil now exhibited, in which there
·were several mature molars in their natural position. Drawings and restored figures
of the cranium and jaws were shown in illustration of the author's remarks ; and the
opinions of the comparative anatomists present were solicited as to the physiological
inferences to be deduced from the anatomical facts described ; especially relating to
the muscles, prehensile tongue, and flexible lips, as indicated by the edentate cha-
racter of the symphysial portion of the lower jaw, and the number and magnitude
of the vascular foramina, &c., characters not present in any existing type ot the class

Reptilia.
                                                                       ;

126 REPORT-- 1850.

A List of Zoophytes found in the Vicinity of Peterhead, N.B., toith a Notice

              of some new to the British List. By C. W. Peach.

   The author commenced by stating that when he went to Peterhead in December
last, he took with him a paper of Mr. John McGillivray's, containing a list of the
zoophytes found on the coast of Aberdeen ; this list he had verified, with the excep-
tion of two, and he has added above as many more (including rare flexible kinds)
the principal additions being calcareous, mostly Lepralias. He observed that many
which are most abundant on the coast of Aberdeen, are either very rare or altogether
wanting on the Cornish coast, and vice versa. The list now contained 107 species,
all of which he had carefully examined before admitting them to the list. The first
new one which he mentioned is a Cellularia of great beauty, diflfering from all figured
in Dr. Johnston's edition of the British Zoophytes, in the shape and arrangement
of the cells having one tooth on the upper edge of each cell. The next is an Actinia,
which, from its colour and markings, very much resembles a Carnation. He concluded
by saying, that although hitherto the shores of Peterhead had been considered to be
bleak and wild, and barren of specimens of Natural History, it is quite a California

in naturalists' gold.

Oti a pecidiar Structure in the Submedial Pair of Rectrices q/' Vidua

             paradisea. By H. E. Strickland, F.G.S.

When these feathers are in a young state, the barbs of both webs are united at

their extremities to an intermediate filament, which becomes detached as the growth

of the feather advances, and ultimately falls off. This filament is furnished on both
sides with alternate tufts of " barbules," and these barbules possess hooked " bar-

bicels," similar to those which exist on the distal side of the ordinary feather-barbs.

By means of these hooks the filament embraces and clasps the barbs which are at-

tached to its two opposite sides. This structure appears to be peculiar to the J'idua

paradisea, and to the submedial rectrices only in that bird. Its object is probably

the protection of the feather-barbs during the course of their development. But it

is difficult to account for so complex a structure occurring in two feathers only, in a
single species (so far as known) of bird. This singular structure was originally

described and figured by the accurate Brisson (Orn. vol. iii. p. 123. pi. viii. f. 1.),

but seems to have been wholly overlooked by later observers. Illustrative figures

W.are given in Sir  Jardine's ' Contributions to Ornithology,' 1850.

             On the Dentition of the British Pulmoniferous Mollusca.
                    By W. Thomson, King's College, I^ondon.

   In this paper the author gave a detailed account of the number, form and arrange-
ment of the lingual teeth of this order, his observations being founded upon an
examination of more than fifty British species, both land and freshwater. His object
was to show, tliat all the different teeth on a tongue are only modifications of one
typical form, which is to be met with in the central longitudinal row of teeth. Also,
that the direction of the transverse rows, that is, the mode of divergence of the teeth
from the central line on either side to the margin of the tongue, is regulated by the
nature and extent of these modifications. The result of his researches throws much
new light upon the structure and aflinities of this order of mollusca; and amongst other
points of interest, it tends to establish, as truly generic, the groups known by the
names oiZonites and Ziia. The author places Zotiites neax Vitrina, and between Limax
and Helix; he considers Zz^a as intermediate between Helix and Limneus, and Pupa
(which scarcely differs from Vertigo) as the connecting link between Helix and Zua.

      On the Application of Photography to the Compound Microscope.
                     By Wyville T. C. Thomson, Sec. R.P.S.

   The author stated that he had found it possible, by placing a sensitive plate, by
means of a slide so constructed as entirely to defend it from the light, in the position
of the second glass of the eye-piece of a compound microscope, to obtain with a low
power a correct and delicate photographic picture of the microscopic field.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  127

   By means of the albuminized glass plates, the preparation of which has been
brought to such perfection b}' Messrs. Ross and Thomson of Edinburgh, a trans-
parent and very permanent negative picture is thus procured, from which any num-
ber of positive prints may be taken.

   This process seems to be pecuharly adapted to the illustration of sections of recent
and fossil woods, and other well-defined objects not requiring a very high mag-
nifying power ; for more delicate tissues the Daguerreotype seems to be preferable,
as the silvered plates are more sensitive to the action of light.

   Some dissections of insects, portrayed in both ways, were exhibited to the

Section.

      On the Birds of the Faroe Islands. By J. Wolley (of Beeston).

   In illustration of the abundance of certain kinds of food, the phsenomenon of the
sudden rise of a compact shoal of small marine animals, probably crustaceous, was
mentioned ; which, on the authority of an intelligent native, has given origin to the
belief in the existence of the huge flat sea-monster, the Kraken of Pontoppidan,
called in Faroe Kraka, or Teara-hue. The particulars given by the Bishop, and those
related by credulous eye-witnesses in the islands, are mostly consonant with this
explanation. Such are the choice of particular localities, the seaweed-bank appear-
ance, the birds hovering over it, and the fishes feeding upon its dung, with the
calmness and heat of the weather ; the latter also necessary for a sight of another of
the sea-monsters, the Soe-ormen, for which the effects of electrical jets of air, little
whirlwinds, or waterspouts, have undoubtedly been mistaken by some at least of

Pontoppidan's witnesses.
    In a Ust of thirty-six birds found breeding in 1849, there were the names of only

two not known to breed in Britain, the Snow Bunting, Emheriza Nivalis, and the
Purple Sandpiper, Tringa maritima, both of which frequent the tops of mountains.
The Fulmar, Procellaria glacialis, about ten years ago began to establish itself on
the cliffs of Faroe for the first time. The Whirabrel, Numenius phcBopus, and the
Great Skua, Lestris catarrhactes, the latter preserved at its two stations in Britain
only by the constant care of the proprietors, are, from their numbers, most charac-
teristic of the Faroe Isles. Reasons were given for not considering Uria lachrymans,
Gould, distinct from U. troile. One occurs in about every ten Guillemots on the
rocks of Sutherland, Caithness, Shetland, and Faroe. The methods of bird-catching
are just as they were described by Luke Debes nearly 200 years ago.

    Accidents in climbing for Guillemots with the ropes very rarely occur ; but in

catching Puffins, Mormon fratercula, which is done with a kind of landing-net on the
slippery slopes, they are more frequent. Guillemots, and their congeners, young
Cormorants, and some other sea-birds, are an important article of food, and when

properly cooked, as at the houses of the clergy, are even a delicacy to English tastes.
Several traditionary particulars respecting the Great Auk, Alca impennis, were col-

lected. After many observations on the habits of the different birds, their relative

numbers, their distribution in breeding stations, and the etymology of their several
local names, Mr. Wolley concluded by deducing a lesson from the mode in which

they are treated by the human inhabitants. Although numbers are caught at stated
times, yet on the whole they rather increase than diminish, for they are not con-
stantly annoyed as they are round the coasts of Britain. Both the established rights
of the bird-climbers and the interests of our coast navigation, require that the sea-
birds should be protected at their breeding-places, where they cannot or will not take
care of themselves. In foggy weather they warn vessels of their approach to the
dangerous headlands which they chiefly frequent. Already they are very greatly
diminished in numbers, and the persecution is constantly increasing. On the York-
shire cliffs slaughtering parties arrive by trainsful. All the birds will soon be

destroyed or driven from our inhospitable shores, unless the Legislature or other
powers should think the matter worthy of their attention, as it is to be hoped they
will. . The protection afforded to them in the vicinity of one or two lighthouses on
the west coast, and also round the Bass Rock and Ailsa Crag, are pleasing exceptions

to the general rule, and show what may be done.
--12S REPORT 1850.

                                Physiology.

Suggestions regarding the expediency of ascertaining the extent to which hi-

fantile Idiocy prevails in the Urdted Kingdom generally, and of inquiring

into the Causes of its Prevalence in certain Districts, viith a view to the

adoption  of  some  means  of   deliverance  Jfrom  it.  By John Coldstream,
          '                 ->                                -^
M.D.

    In all civilized countries there lias been, within the last sixty or seventy years, a
great and most satisfactory progress in the increase of eflicient means for the treat-
ment and care-taking of the insane and fatuous. Few applications of the results of

modern science have been productive of so much social good, as those which have

issued in the improved construction of lunatic asylums, and the treatment of their
inmates. Still something is wanting to complete the agency which has been so suc-
cessfully brought to bear upon these important objects. Hitherto but little provision
has been made for the proper treatment of congenital or infantile idiocy. But, seeing
that we are now able, from experience, to affirm that this widely-spread malady is, in

many instances, susceptible of great mitigation, and even of cure, when early and

properly treated, it becomes imperative upon the public authorities to provide adequate
means for affurding to those att'ected with it the best chance of relief. The success
obtained by Dr. Guggcnbiihl at his establishment for the cure of young cretins, on the
Abendberg in Switzerland (commended to the attention of Members of the British
Association in 1 845 by the late Dr. Twining), as well as that accorded to the labours of
other physicians in Paris and Boston (Massachussetts), and latterly, the experience of
the asylum for idiots atHighgate, all conspire to prove that attempts to rescue the
fatuous from their deep degradation are very likely to be crowned with success.

    It must be regarded as essential to the satisfactory commencement of a general
scheme for the amelioration of idiocy, that exact information should be obtained re-
garding the numbers of children affected with the disease throughout the kingdom.
No means exist at present for enabling us to determine these numbers. A special
inquiry, conducted under the authority and at the expense of government (like any
other survey for a national purpose), would alone suffice to bring out the statistical
information sought for. Such an inquiry would, of course, require much delicacy of
management. Uegard must be had to the natural feelings of parents, otherwise the
agents would often fail to obtain an accurate statement of the facts. In making the
first move, any government commission that may be charged with the inquiry should
assume the attitude of conveying information to the people on a subject which they
must be presumed to be generally ignorant of. 'I'he commission would announce
that it had been appointed for the purpose of making known the encouraging fact
that some forms of idiocy, hitherto regarded as incurable, are amenable to proper
treatment ; and further, with a view to the future provision of some general system
of means of treating those so affected, it had been charged to inquire into the extent

of the disease in the several districts of the kingdom, the forms of it most prevalent,

and the causes which seem to lead to it, particularly in so far as these may appear to
be connected with some peculiarities in certain localities. An address to the nation
at large, fully explanatory of these views and objects, might be followed up bj' the
circulation, through each town and neighbourhood visited by the agents of the com-
missioners, of a shorter circular having the same object, and in addition, announcing
the readiness of the appointed officers to visit whatever cases may be mentioned in

the schedules, one of which would be left at each house and subsequently called for.

It is not to be expected, that however kindly and courteously all this might be carried

on, returns would be obtained of all the existing imbecile and idiot children in the
land. But it is almost certain that but few parents would withhold the information
sought for, if only they were assured that benefit to their offspring might result from
the use of means (to which the inquiry would be announced as ))reparatory), and if
they were given to understand that no names of parties having affected children

would be pubHshed. At all events, it may be presumed no more thorough system of

inquiry could be adopted in this country with due regard to the liberty of the subject.
   As to the measures which ought to follow upon the completion of the proposed

inquiry, these would naturally lake their shape in part from <he results of the
       ---- --

       TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.     129

inquiry. But we may conjecture with plausibility, that it would be found, that to do

justice to the treatment of the affected children, four or five separate establishments
in Scotland, and fifteen or twenty in England would be required. These ought to
be situated in the vicinity of the districts most affected with the disease. They would
fall to be supported, just as the lunatic asylums are, partly by the contributions of
parish-funds for paupers, and partly by the fees of parents sending children.

   The first element necessary to a right determination as to what ought to be done
to meet the necessities of the case, is the obtaining of a clear view of the extent of the
evil with which it is proposed to grapple ; and this can be attained in no other way
than by making an accurate statistical investigation.

Observations on Hysteria, Hydrophobia, and other Convulsive Affections,
   embracing an Analysis of the Phenomena of Water-dread. By John
   Dalziel, M.D.
   Prefixed to Dr. Dalziel's dissertation is the following intimation :--
   " [N. B. The original paper, of which this is substantially a copy, was written up-

wards of twenty years ago; and a brief notice of it was published in the Glasgow
Medical Journal for November 1830.] "

    Dr. Dalziel's paper obviously resolves itself into two distinct parts:
   I. The tlieory of convulsive affections; and II. The analysis of the corporeal and

mental process undergone by the hydrophobic patient on the presence, &c. of liquids.
   I. The theory of convulsive affections as regai-ds hysteria and hydrophobia is ex-

pressed by Dr. Dalziel in the three following propositions:
   " 1st, The globus h)-stericus, as well as the similar aflTection of the throat in hydro-

phobia, which is occasioned by the idea, &c. of liquids, is a spasmodic stricture of the

glottis, whereby respiration is obstructed.
    " 2nd. Obstructed respiration, whether suspended or impeded, occasions cerebral

congestion, as well as that feeling of 'general uneasiness' designated 'sensation of

suffocation,' which is an attendant on the diseases under consideration.
    " 3rd, Cerebral congestion and this ' general uneasiness,' separately or conjointly,

may, especially in an irritable habit, occasion convulsion."
    Convulsions from foreign bodies in the larynx do not, he argues, proceed directly

from the local irritation, as the "current language of surgery" would indicate; but
are induced indirectly by suffocation, &c. Convulsions from local irritation else-

--where, he conceives, flow from the same source, violently obstructed respiration,

the aperture of the glottis being instinctively closed and the muscles of expiration
called into vigorous action for the purpose of mitigating pain. By this process, he
alleges, the pain is actually mitigated through means of the consequent " cerebral

congestion," although the temporary relief is occasionally purchased at the expense

of a convulsive or even an apoplectic attack.

  We may insert here the practical inference Dr. Dalziel deduces from the preceding

three propositions, viz. " that in the treatment of hydrophobia, the performance of the
operation of bronchotomy is advisable, with the view, not only of warding off or pal-

liating the convulsive paroxysm, but also of preventing other injurious effects of ob-

structed i-espiration, which will afterwards be specified." These we may mention are

--inflammatory affections of the lungs and brain, emphysema and spasmodic constric-

tion of the muscles of the chest, formidable accessories all.

   HeII, Of the author's analysis of water-dread it is difficult to give an abstract.

assumes that it is more difficult, because it requires a greater degree of contraction of
the muscles of deglutition, to swallow a liquid than a solid; and violent contraction
of muscular fibre will induce spasm, in a state of health, much more when in an irri-
table state. Again, there being little relish tor food, it will be swallowed with indif-
fei'ence, and hence with ease, while, there being urgent thirst, liquids will be swallowed
with avidity, especially water. But the very preference of water to any other liquid
is precisely the reason why, at a certain point in the progress of the malady, the swal-
lowing of it excites convulsion, &c. Only now increase the thirst, and the mere pre-
sence of water will be sufficient to produce the effect. Yet, again, add to the feeling
of thirst, or increase the irritability, and the very ideal presence of the tempting be-

verage will excite the muscles of the throat and effect the catastrophe :--a general
miniature type this of many of the ills of life.

1850.                                 K
130 REPORT-- 1850.

Of the Influences of Mans Instinct on his Intellectual and Moral PowerSy
     i.e. his Mental Functions. By Richard Fowler, M.D., F.R.S.

The bodj' of an animal is the mortal coil, or rather congeries of coils, through which

its vital and mental forces act. Each of these coils has an instinctive appetite for ita

appropriate object, the wants, appetites, emotions and passions, both of man and ani-

mals inferior to man, though instinctive and susceptible of control by the mind, and

subject to the direct influence of the physical forces, gravitation, motion, chemical

affinities, heat, light, electricity, and magnetism.

   Now the most marked difference between man and other animals seems to be, that
man has to contrive the means by which his ends are to be attained, whereas to

animals the means of gratifying their instincts, wants, or appetites are instinctive.
The spider requires no previous teaching to weave its web, and the Chinese fish (see
' Bell on the Hand ') with unerring aim brings down a fly from some feet in the air

with a drop of the water in which it swims. Shells, scales, fur, and feathers defend
them from the elements, and more perceptive organs of sense are given to all for de-

tection and pursuit of their prey. Man, urged by his wants to devise means for their

gratification, is thus schooled and impelled to the cultivation and progressive im-

provement of both his intellectual and moral faculties, for the obstacles to be removed
force on him the control of his own propensities and the conciliation of the aid of

his fellow man. Our wants therefore may not be considered an evil, but rather as

the Pertinens Interrogatio, suggesting search, and are thus the sources of all the arts

and of a large portion of the sciences by which human life is gladdened, sustained,

and informed.

The author shortly adverted to Outness, or the instinctive belief that all the objects

with which we are surrounded are separated from us by apparent distances in space,-
while it is now known that this belief is not more tlian an instinctive inference (sus-

tained indeed by concurrence of periodical returns of phsenomena at the exact times

calculated and perspective sketches of objects at different distances) from subjective

sensation                                            for even of the forces by which all changes in objects and their relations to
                                                  ;

each other are affected, the mind has very direct perception ; that this is really so,

light and heat may be adduced as instances.

Of the travellers who meet at the haif-way hut on the Andes, those who have de-

scended feel over-heated, while those who are ascending complain of cold, though

the actual temperature, as measm-ed by the thermometer, is the same to both parties.

Analogous to this is light, as it is seen by persons in the passages to and from a

diorama.

The hand that has been in hot water feels cold, while the other just out of cold

water feels warm, when both are dipped into the mixture of the hot and cold water.

Again, all the physical forces are felt as different while passing in or out of our

bodies, for instance, gravitation and motion, while ascending or descending in a

swing ; of heat and light, the instances given above may suffice. The operations of a

surgeon inflict like wounds, whether pure air or chloroform has been respired ; but

how different to the feelings of the patient are these changes of the chemical affinities

when continued or obstructed ; buoyancy when pure air has access to the blood, faint-

ness when chloroform is substituted ! Is it not then demonstrable that what is per-

ceived by the mind directly is not the objective excitors, but the subjective effects,

notwithstanding our instinctive belief of the contrary ?

   On the still debatable subject of innate ideas, the author doubted whether we have

any other than the mind's perception of our functional appetites in the various organs

of the body (accompanied as they are with corresponding changes in the passage of

the blood through the heart), and of the impressions made by the physical forces in-

cessantly exciting all our sensational stnictures                                                                                                                                                                                                             hence every antecedent sensation is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;

intuitively inferred to be the cause of the propensity felt for any action or object of

desire, present or absent ; for to be dohig, in order to acquire something, is an inces-

sant propensity in all animals.
                                         TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                             131

On Pathological Cell-Development. By W. T. Gairuner, M.D., F.R.C.P.,

                      Pathologist to the Royal Ivfirmary, Edinburgh.

   The object of the author in reading the paper was to demonstrate the existence in
morbid fluids and structures (and more particularly in pus) of a number of cell-forms
not usually desc»-ibed, and difficult of interpretation, either upon the theory of
Sclileiden, Schwann and Valentin, of exogenous cell-development, or on that of Barry
and others, of endogenoxis growth. The author maintained that it was impossible in

the case of the structures described, either to refer the formation of the cell-wall to
the activity of a pre-existent nucleus, or to consider the latter as springing from the
former, 'j'he only view which appeared to meet the case was, that the nucleus and
cell-wall had each an independent power of organization, and that the one was super-

imposed on the other when they happened to be formed in juxtaposition. The author
said that this was only one proof out of many which had been afforded by recent
observations, that the cell- theory, at least in its original form, was not sufficiently
comprehensive for the facts of modern physiology. [The paper was accompanied by
drawings, without the aid of which the details would be unintelligible.]

On the Geometrical Basis of Beauty in general, and more particularly as

  applied to Architecture and the Human Form. By D. R. Hay, F.R,S,E,

   (^Communicated by Professor Kelland.)

The basis of harmony in music is the fact that the ear is pleased with a mixture

of sounds, when the vibrations which constitute them severally recur with a fre-

quency expressed by some very simple arithmetical relations. Thus, when the notes

GC and are struck together, a pleasing sensation is experienced, arising from the

circumstance that the string which produces the one note makes two vibrations whilst

the other makes three. On the other hand, if the notes C and C sharp, which vibrate

nearly in the relative rapidity of 20 to 21, are struck together, the combination is ex-

ceedingly disagreeable even to the most uneducated ear. The first position laid down

by Mr. Hay is, that the eye is influenced, in its estimation of spaces, by a simpHcity

of proportion similar to that which guides the ear in its appreciation of sounds. It

may at first appear that this analogy between sight and hearing is not admissible,

inasmuch as the eye judges of effects by passing from point to point, whilst the ear

judges of them only by receiving them all at the same moment. This difficulty is

obviated by two simple considerations ; the one, that the standard of comparison is

always presgnt to the eye in ordinary cases*, which is equivalent to the key-note of

a harmony being constantly ringing in the ear ; the other, that all the faculties of
man are from his birth under the influence of education, involuntary or constrained,

by means of which their powers tend to become analogous. Thus the eye, the hand,

and the ear are daily acquiring greater certainty in the estimation of intervals. Few

persons are acquainted with the extent to which their faculties are capable of culti-

vation. In early life, necessity teaches us their simpler uses. The child is learning

to judge, by muscular action, of distances and positions. Its hand soon finds the way

to its mouth, and by degrees it can at once touch any part of the body, even in the

dark                         and  there  its education  ceases.  The blind fiddler, having heard none but the
                          ;

most simple performances, never ventures to quit the easiest position of his instru-

ment, from ignorance of his possessing that sense of distance which, with a little

cultivation, would enable him to trace his way to any part of the string. The ap-

pearance of a great executant, such as Paganini, proves to others that their faculties

may be taught beyond what they have been accustomed to ; and, although none may
have his genius, many may acquire his art. And the same is true of our other facul-

ties. The ear, perhaps, receives less involuntary education than any other faculty;

but that it is capable of cultivation, so as to be able not merely to estimate sounds

in succession, but with extreme accuracy to judge even of independent sounds, is

well known to every musician. The involuntary education received by the eye usu-

ally enables it to form a tolerable j^udgement as to positions and relative magnitudes.

Its estimate of the symmetry of an object is equally accurate with that formed, by

a person unused to music, of the correctness or incorrectness of a note in the scale.

                                  * It is usually four right angles, or the angles about a point.

                                                                                             k2
--132 REPORT 1850.

Greater accuracy is the result of cultivation. An artist can detect errors in the pro-
portions of a figure, which will escape an uneducated eye. From these considera-

tions it appears, that whilst the ear is learning to judge of successive sounds with

the same facility with which the eye judges of successive spaces, the eye, again, is

acquiring the power of the estimation of spaces in combination, with that extreme
accuracy with which the ear estimates a combination of sounds. And it is reason-

able to conclude with our author, that simplicity of proportion, which is so necessary

an element to the satisfaction of the one sense, should be an essential element to the

complete gratification of the other. Tlie next position laid down by Mr. Hay is,

that the eye is guided in its estimate by direction rather than by distance, just as
the ear is guided by number of vibrations rather than by magnitude. The architect
well know's that one elevation of a simple building is more agreeable than another;

but, on the application of numerical ratios to its measurement, he finds them to fail

altogether. Artists, from the time of Albert Durer downwards, have measured the

relative proportions of the human figure ; but neither architects nor artists have, as

yet, arrived at anything beyond the most vague and unsatisfactory inferences. This

has arisen from their having taken length, and not direction, as their standard of

--comparison from their having endeavoured to apply simplicity of linear, not of an-

Agular proportion.  picture frame, in which one side is half the other, is not of

nearly so pleasing a shape as another in which one side is half the diagonal, or the

angle which the diagonal makes with one side is half that which it makes with the

other.

The basis, then, of Mr. Hay's theory is this, that a figure is pleasing to the eye

in the same degree as its fundamental angles bear to each other the same propor-
tions that the vibrations bear to one another in the common chord of music. Now,

in music, the simplest divisions are by 2, 4, &c., which produce tonics ; the next

are divisions by 3, 6, &c., which produce dominants, and so on ; and the chord is

pleasing in proportion to the simplicity of the numbers which represent the vibra-

tions of its constituent notes                                                                                                                                 and the same thing is true of the fundamental angles
                                                                                                                                                            ;

of a figure, &c.                                                                                                                                               ^_____^

On the use of the Bofareira (Ricinus communis of Botanists) as a means

   adopted hy the Natives of the Cape de Verd Islands to excite Lactation.

   By J. O. M'^WiLLiAM, M.D., R.N., F.R.S., Surgeon to the Hon. the Board

    of Customs.

   The author, while engaged in an official investigation into the nature aiid history of
a yellow fever epidemy prevailing on the island of Boa Vista in the Cape de Verds,
had his attention drawn to a remedy commonly liad recoiu'se to tliere and in the

other islands of the group, to accelerate and increase the flow of milk from the breasts
of child-bearing women, in cases where that secretion was tardy in appearing, or

deficient in quantity when it did appear. He also learnt, that on occasions of emer-

gency this remedy could be successfully applied to a more important use, namely, to
cause the secretion of milk in the breasts of women who are not child-bearing, or who
have not given birth to or suckled a child for many years.

   The leaves of a plant called in the language of the country Bofareira, but which
in reality is the Ricinus communis of botanists, and occasionally the leaves of the
latropha curcas, both belonging to the natural family Euphorbiacece, are the means
by which these interesting, if not extraordinary results are produced.

    In cases where the appearance of milk is slow, the breasts are fomented at short
intervals, during two or three hours, with a decoction made from the fresh leaves of
the Ricinus. 'J he boiled leaves are .also spread over the breast, and allowed to remain
until milk flows U|)on the application of a child to the nipple. M'hen it is required
to produce milk in the breasts of women who have not given birth to or suckled a
child for many years, in other words, when a ready-made nurse is suddenly wanted,
the mode of treatment is somewhat more complicated.

   The author, in giving the results of his own experiments with the Bofareira while
at Boa Vista, among other cases alludes to one in which, according to Consul-General
Kendall, a woman who had not boi"ne a child for ten years, was on an emergency ren-
dered capable of doing the duty of a nurse in the course of three days. He was also
          --;

                                                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                             133

informed of similar cases by Mr. George Miller of San Nicolao, a gentleman of great
talent and observation, many years resident in the Cape de Verds.

   The author concludes his notice of this galactagogue of the Cape de Verds, by
inviting a fair trial of its action in our more temperate regions, which, if found to be
similar to that which it manifests within the tropics, will open an interesting field of
inquiry as regards its hygienic, medicinal, medico-legal and other relations.

          On the Reciprocal Relation of the Vital and Physical Forces.

                     By George Newport, F.R.S., F.L.S.

     In this communication, addressed in a letter to Dr. Lankester, F.R.S., one of the

Secretaries of the Section, the author first drew attention to the views of Dr. Fowler,

F.R.S., in a paper which had been read at a meeting of the British Association at

Birmingham in September 1849, and an abstract of whicli is published in the Report
of the Association for that year, p. 77. From this abstract it appears that Dr. Fowler

advocates the view that the vital forces not only have reciprocal relations amongst

themselves, but also with the physical forces, and that in tlie language employed by

Mr. Grove with regard to the physical forces, they are mutually correlated, and are

convertible the one into the other.

  A writer in the British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review advanced a

similar theory in tliat Journal in January 1848, and during the present year a paper

on the same subject by Dr. Carpenter, F.R.S. has been communicated to the Royal

Society.

   The author now showed, that so long ago as November 1845 a similar view had
been advanced by himself in a memoir ' On the Natural Histor)', Anatomy, and De-

velopment of tlie Oil-Beetle, Meloe,' read to the Linnean Society, but that the Council

of the Society had omitted to publish this part of his paper in their Transactions when

his memoir was printed.

The author's view had for its foundation, that vital force is derived from without

that its degrees or Idnds liave a close relation with the pliysicalforces ; and that, like the

vital force, the instinctive potver or force in animals is a change of form of these forces,

in or through the organization of nervous structure. The force referred to in the

author's paper read to the Linnean Society, in illustration of tliis view, was light.

He had been led to the view he advanced through the results of some experiments on

the effects of light on the instinct and habits of the young Melbe, as detailed in his
paper, and through the discovery, then recently announced by Dr. P'araday, that light
and electricity are the same principle, as Faraday and Matteucci had previously

shown there is reason to believe is the case with electricity and the nervous function,

and which seems to be confirmed by the recent labours of the latter philosopher,

published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1850.

The author, after remarking that it was perhaps unnecessary for him to restate now,

in support of the doctrine that the vital forces have a reciprocal relation with the

physical, those circumstances which had already been mentioned, added, in support of

the view advanced, the following facts relating to the evolutions of vital force in the
embryo :

   Amongst insects there are some species of Canadian Perlidae which undergo their
transformations, and even pair at very low temperatures at the end of winter, when the

ice  begins  to  crack                            they do  so  even  in  the  ci-evices  of decaying  ice.  This is the habit
                                               ;

of Capnia vernalis and of Brachyptera glacialis. The ova, altliough thus deposited

at a temperature but little above that of freezing, are produced at a time when diurnal
warmth is increasing, because accessions of heat-force from without are required for

the evolution of vital force within them, and to induce the formation of structure. The
ova of the common earwig, Forficula, are rarely deposited at a temperature below
43° or 44° Fahr., and as both Degeer and the author have observed, the female at-

tends to and incubates them during the whole period of development, turning and
removing them from place to place according as the locality may happen to be of the
required heat or moisture. The cells in the embryo or foundation layer of the im-
pregnated egg grow by accessions of heat and moisture from withotd, acquire gravity

through chemical changes promoted by heat, subdivide and multiply, and while the

growth of the whole tissue is thus promoted by their individual influence, vitalforce is
                                       --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;

--J 34 REPORT 1850.

evolved in the whole as motion. Motion amongst individual cells is the invariable
accompaniment of their growth and subdivision, and the reaction of the cells on each
other is the commencement of motion in separate regions of the whole tissue, and also
in the entire body of the embryo. Motion thus generated in individual cells during
the earlier stages of formation of the embryo, tlirough heat-force derived from without,
becomes a fixed or inherent power, a vital force in one structure, muscular tissue,
while the same force from without may be evolved as light in another. In the egg of
the glow-worm, Lampyris, the cells in a portion of the foundation layer, instead of
forming muscular or nervous tissue, retain to a great extent their primary individuality,
and evolve their vital force as light. The author has seen light emitted from the lu-
minous organs at the moment the embryo is escaping from the egg shell. To the
objection that may be urged that this light may be simply that of combustion rather
than a form of vital force, he remarks that the light of the glow-worm ia excited to
greater vividness, not only by increased temperature of the surrounding medium,
and an acceleration of the respiratory and circulatory processes, as well as by immer-
sion in oxygen, but also bj' mechanical irritation of the animal, and consequent
excitement of nervous force. In this respect, then, the production of light by the
glow-worm, he remarks, seems to bear analogy with the evolution of electricity
through mechanical and other modes of exciting nervous force in the electrical fishes
and that force derived /ro?H without in the form of heat, seems thus to be converted
through organization into vital force, and evolved as muscular contractility, light,
electricity, or nervous power.

On the supposed relation of the Spleen to the origin of the Coloured Blood-
   Corpuscle in the Adult. By John S. Sanderson, Emer. Pres. of the

    Royal Medical Society of Edinburgh.

    The inquiries, of which the results are detailed in the paper, were undertaken with
a view of repeating and, if possible, verifying the results of several series of researches
which have been brought forward by various continental physiologists as to the
connexion of the spleen with the origin or disintegration of the coloured blood-

corpuscle.

    It had been maintained by Dr. J. Gerlach (Henle and Pfeufer's Zeitschrift fiir Ra-
tionelle Medezin, band vii. s. 75, 1848; Ilandbuch der Gewebelehre, s. 216, 1849),
as well as by Dr. Schaffner of Herrstein (band vii. s. 345 of the same Journal, 1849),
that cells containing blood-discs in various stages of development were always to be

found among the contents of the Malpighian corpuscles. On the other hand, it had
been maintained by Pi-of. Kblliker (Ueber den Ban und die Verrichtungen der Milz

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

Mittheilungen der Ziiricher Naturforschenden Gesellschaft, 1847), by Dr. Ecker
(Henle's Zeitschrift, band vi. s. 261) as well as by Landis (Beitrage zur Lehre von
den Verrichtungen der Milz, Zurich, 1847), that the special purpose of the spleen
was the disintegration of the coloured blood-corpuscles, and that this was brought
about by the aggregation of these bodies into rounded masses, and their subsequently
breaking down into granular pigment, this process being effected with or without the
enclosure of the masses in question in an apparent membrane, the seat of the process
being, not the Malpighian sacculi or parenchyma, but the dilated veins of the organ.
The conclusions which it is attempted to arrive at are

    1st. That cells containing blood-corpuscles never occur in the Malpighian sacculi
of the spleen, and that the bodies which Dr. Gerlach described as such were more
probably cell.^, which are here and there observed in that position, and which contain
five or six round highly refractive nuclei, which resemble blood-discs somewhat in
appearance.

    2nd. That the structures described by Kolliker as cells containing blood-coi-puscles
are similar (as he himself believes) to the so-called " inflammation-globules," con-
taining perfect blood-corpuscles which occur in the substance of the brain, and that
they also correspond in nature and mode of production with the spherical cell-like
bodies containing blood-corpuscles wiiich occur in the area vasculosa of the cheek at
an early period of incubation, and that all these forms are probably produced round
masses of blood corpucles in extravasated or stagnant blood.

   3rd. That wherever extravasation or retardation of the circulation occurs, the
--

    TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  135

 changes described by Kblliker in the spleen will take place, and that, although from
 the frequency of these conditions in that organ the changes in question may be more
 frequently seen in it than in other structures, these changes bear no relation to the
 most important part of the function of the organ, viz. that which is performed by the

 constituent cells.
    4th, That none of the cellular elements of the spleen are set free and normally

 enter the circulation as such.

 (M a Physiological Mode of resolving the Metaphysical Difficulties as to the

     Origin of the Notion of Space, of Motion, of the External, of Substance,

   ^c. By William Seller, M.D., F.R.S.E., President of the Royal Col-

    lege of Physicians of Edinburgh.

    The purpose of Dr. Seller's paper was to show that the metaphysical difficulties,

 as to the origin, of the notions of space, of motion, of the external, of substance, &c.,
might be resolved physiologically on the two axioms, "that every sentient nervous
filament is an independent instrument of sensation, and that every sensation involves
an element of space, namely, the point of space where the organic change produced
by the impression originates, that is, at the peripheral extremity of the nervous fila-

ment concerned ;" that the infant thus comes to recognize the relative position of
all the sentient points in the space occupied by the skin and muscular system, and
that out of the element of motion besides involved in the sensation attendant on the
 contraction of every portion of muscular substance supplied with a sentient nervous
filament, he finally comes to recognize the external contact of one part with another
 of the zone of space occupied by self, and the resistance of one part of self to the in-
trusion of another part of self; and that, having at length acquired the knowledge of
the properties of the body itself as a piece of matter, he quickly obtains the notion of
the external, because when an external body is touched it is distinguished b^ the ne-
.gative property of affording no consciousness of being touched like that afforded by
every part of self. The whole of the paper was not read, and therefore the entire
view was not brought out.

On the Causes which advance or retard the appearance of First Menstruation
   in Woman, with a Synoptical Table showing the Mean Age of First Men-
   struation in 10, 422 Women in Hot, Temperate, and Cold Climates,

   By E. J. Tilt, M.D., Senior Physician to the Paddington Free Dispensary

   for Diseases of Women and Children, and Physician to the Farringdon
    General Dispensary and Lying-in Charity.

    Whatever bears upon the theory of population is more than ever interesting, seeing
that certain portions of the globe having become too densely populated, we are seeking
to draught the overplus to far distant climes, to those wildernesses which have but
seldom echoed the voice of man.

    To ascertain the period of first menstruation in any variety of the human race, is
to ascertain when its reproductivity becomes possible, a matter equally interesting to
the physician, the philosopher, and the statesman ; and it behoves them to know that

this epoch varies under the influence of causes which for the most part have been

insufficiently studied.
    Dr. Tilt divides the modifying influences of the first establishment of menstruation

into

    I. The extrinsic causes, such as climate, habitation, civilization.
    II. The intrinsic causes, such as race, family, and national customs.
    Dr. Tilt is of opinion that the action of the extrinsic causes is indubitable ; and in
proof of the influence of the first and most important cause, that of climate, he ad-
duces the following carefully- made table, in which he has brought in striking oppo-
sition to such cases as we have been able to obtain from India, 3840 obtained from
Denmark, and now for the first time made public ; the sixteenth year in Denmark,
the thirteenth in India, and the fourteenth in temperate climates, being the epoch at
which this function generally begins.
136                       --REPORT 1850.

          ill     OSC CS  ^^ (>J CO ·*                              M WC^l C^

              ss                                                               C^  d 3 a<

                          M ^-^ S'l     Tf C- (                                    ECO
                                                                                   =^2
                  ;^H>.'5 3Cl^fC^TS«^-00t>-»«CS-- t^M-^if^
                                                                                   go

                          * M M O M--: »--
                                        " ^5 CO ?·<                                a*
                                        nc^ -^ r^ ·-- -->
                                                                                   s^2

                          r5co-<(M'*i-ioeooo-H ··

                          (M CO cq i-H ^H i-i              ;

                          ^ MC^ C<5 (M i-H i-M
                            « !M (M C^ *-" -^

So eo             '1--1 ·eo'^oco'^t^ow^oceo
 'et
                     O -- --Tj< tc b-                         : to
»-.2B             I       '^ Ci CO OO            Ci '-'^

                  ICOOMO'TSCO'^C^

                  -- O' C>1             ^-i C-l '^ "^
                          Ci >-'i J^

                  ^ ·U'5<5?0*^CO-^'*«

                  '-Hi*o«^r^C'it--iO'

11
is

       >0«0t»00C;O-"INC0^l.0Ot-.0COO-HCTC0^l0!0r»00(3>
                    TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                           137

                                                                                   "3 X"i

                                                                                   Ji

                                                                                   M .S

                                                                                   S 60
                                                                                   =O  C
                                       Mr. Roberton : Med. and Surg. Edin.
                                                       Journal, vol. Ixiii.            "S
                                                                                   Sa
                    J. Lundberg.       Bibliothekfur Lseger, list of 3429,--
                     Dr. Rawn.          to which Dr.SR. has added 411 cases        to a,
                                               taken by Professor Leog.
                                                                                   ?c-5>>

          X.S_  5

                rt

                s

                                                                                   >-

                    Dr. Frugel.        A Government Report on Norvpay.

                    Osiander.          Denkwiirdigkeiten ftir die Heil-
                                         kunde und Geburt'ihulfe, 11 bre.
                                                bd. 2, si. 1795, ms. 320^

                                       Mr. Roberton : Med. and Surg. Edin.         60-3

                    Mr. Roberton.      Journal, 1832.

S2

                    Dr. Lee and Dr.    Dublin Med. Journal, No. Ixxvii.,
                         Murphy.                                1S45.

                    Dr. Guy.           Medical Times, vol. xii.                C rt «i

                                                                               H^ ^

                                                                               "<u bo ^

                                                                                  o'53

                    Brierre de Bois-   De la Menstruation (Prize Essay),       2   o   S
                            mont.                                                  c
                                                                1835.          ·g      i:

                                                                               g g fi

                    Dr. Marc d'Es-     Archives Gen. de Med., Oct. and         uJ g
                                                        Nov. 1835.             c- S
                             pine.
                                       These. Paris, 25th August 1835.         M2o
                        Petrequin,                                             -« § s
                                                                               ·e| g

                                                                               fill

                                                                                " O O*

       C                               Art. Menstruation, 19th vol. of Die,    i2 g c
                                                in 25 vols. (2nd edition.)
1 [O

                    Bouchacourt.

            sI-     Dr. Dyster.        Ditto, vol. Ixvi.                       --·° 13          *"

          i                                                                    £ "is J5          St

          :0 S                                                                 -_M°O

                    Dr. Tariziano.                          Ditto, vol. Ixii.  "" s c 2 "S

          .SO I     Rev. J. Elliot,           Ditto, vols. Iviii. and Ixix.    2^ J"
                      and others.
                      Mr. Bowen.                            Ditto, vol. Ixiv.      O   S    =!  «
                                                                                       E
                                       Mr. Roberton: Med. and Surg. Edin.                   M
                                                        Journal, vol. Ixiv.    qss«

                                                                               3 'S S S Q*

                      A. H. Leith.and                                          ^ =a; .^ "O      t3
                                                                               "^ J3 C
          i| others.                                                           2.2 .2 § .2

                                                                               o o5J /-s        **-<

                    Dr. Goodeve.                                               60 SOiT" to s..
                    Dwarikanauth
          a rt c)                                                                      P g .2
          OB iio      dus Bossu.

u oa

                                                                               ce-' s^ "ij      *^

                                                                               - « " Sra

                                                                                       s»
--138 REPORT 1850.

    In proof of the influence of a town habitation in advancing slightly the period of
first menstruation, Dr. Tilt quotes the results of M. Brierre de Boismont's careful in-
vestigation of the question, results which have since been confirmed by the statistical
information obtained in Denmark by Dr. Rawn, as well as by Dr. Tilt's more recent
investigations in London.

   The author maintains that the influence of civilization stands second only to that
of climate, and he founds this belief on his own unpublished observations, and on those
already made public by M. Brierre de Boismont and Dr. Rawn, proving that luxurious
living and habits render menstruation precocious, while this function is retarded by
out-door labour and less sophisticated habits.

    Thus far the tendency of Dr. Tilt's observations has been dogmatical ; but in dis-
cussing what he calls the intrinsic causes which have been supposed to influence
menstruation, his observations are rather of a suggestive character, for he considers
such causes highly problematical and requiring further investigation.

   Remarks on the Laws regulating the Development of Monstrosities, with

     illustrative Specimens. By Alexander Wood, M.D., F.R.C.P.

   The paper first pointed out the importance of the study of teratology, in reference
to philosophical anatomjf, embryology, and natural history. It next adverted to the
unity of type which exists throughout the whole of organized nature, and showed the
use that had been made of that fact in laying down the law.s of monstrous development.

   The first law adverted to was that of anomalies from excess, of which examples in
supernumerary fingers and toes were shoTvn. The hereditary nature of these redun-
dancies was adverted to, and it was argued from that, that there must be some original
diff'erence either in the spermatozoa or ovum, and that all the varieties of monstrosity
could not be referred to changes taking place in the womb subsequent to impregnation.
As examples of the second class, or those in which development was arrested, a case
was shown in which the fingers were entirely deficient ; also another specimen,
where arrest of the development of the left inferior extremity was accompanied with
eventration. From the concurrence of these two monstrous states, it was argued
that in this case the arrest of development must have taken place about the com-
mencement of the third month of uterine hfe. Another specimen of escape of the
viscera from their cavities was shown in a cast of an encephalocele.

   The last specimen exhibited was one of thlipsencephalus. The posterior bones of
the skull were deficient, the bi'ain existed in the most rudimentary state, its place
being supplied by a vascular humour protruding externally, composed of hypertrophied
pia mater, a congeries of blood-vessels, and a little watery fluid.

   The paper concluded by arguing at some length against the tendency which at
present existed to carry the theory of unity of type to an undue length. It eontended
against there being any real resemblance between the nervous system of the Articulata
and that of anencephalous monsters.

       A General View of the Morphology of the Mtiscular System,

                                         By M. Zaglas.

   Comparative myology having already been sufficiently treated in the way of ap-
proaching the ultimate forms of the muscular masses of animals to one another, for
finding their analogies in the same animal, as well as in the whole department of ver-
tebrata, so as to allow almost no hope of thus coming to an insight of the connexions of
this system extending to remote classes, recourse has been had to comparative osteo-
logy, and myology has been based on the osteogenesis. This way of treating myo-
logy, Prof. John Miiller first indicated in his classical elaboration of the monography
on myvinoids. Still comparative myology remains in a very unsatisfactory state.
While occupying myself with dissections and thinking on the matter, I became strongly
impressed by the idea that muscles must have, as well as other systems, their own
morphological truths, and there must be a series of modifications in the muscular masses
themselves, presented by the first appearances of a simple or elementary muscle, pro-
vided a generality of plan in their arrangement be existing. Such a series of modi-
fications, connecting the simplest element with the most complicated, has been pre-
sumed to be probably the fittest means, if not the only, of reduciog into one conception
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  139

the almost simply difTused muscular masses of fishes and those of mammalia, so
variously complicated in appearance, through intermediate terms safely appreciated.
With these presumptions for a guide, and using the necessary impartiality iu viewing
facts, and patience suited to the intricacies which this system so often presents, the
investigations have been pm-sued, and the results already obtained appear both satis-
factory and promising. Such of them as would appear sufficient to indicate a thread
of connexions between the two extremes in the disposition of muscles in vertebrata,
and afford a general view of it, were intended for communication to the Section, and
could be briefly summed up in the following statements.

  A repetition of parallel membranes stretched between skin and skeleton, and cor-

responding in number with the segments of the latter, are met with in fishes and lower
reptiles, where muscular portions, which fill their intervals with fibres parallel to the
axis of the body, are called myocomata. The membranes descend from the back to
the abdomen in waving or zigzag ribbons, having their concave and convex surfaces
alternately turned forwards and backwards. The character of ribbons becomes soon
lost by the membranes being found to protrude alternately on one side, and forwards
or backwards according to the convexities of the angles ; thus pouches being formed
more or less long and funnel-shaped. Tlie pouches, which are insinuated in one
another, are met with gradually elongating, so as to stretch over several vertebrae,
and in proportion as they do so, they become more and more obliterated at the bottom,
which is effected through accretion of the side walls to a lamina, this lamina being
then found to extend gradually as a crest oi\ the upper wall of the pouch. In the
Skates the whole pouch has become a lamina, receiving the muscular fibres on its

flanks.

    Before proceeding further, the divisions of the lateral masses of fishes in longitudinal

direction must be taken notice of. Some fishes present no division on the mesial line
of the side; others do, having thus a dorsal and an abdominal portion separated; in

others the portions or longitudinal stripes are three, four, &c., according to the

species. The number of the stripes does not correspond to that of the angles ; but the
distinction not only exists virtually, as it appears from real divisions in other fishes,
but also if an angle be not comprehended between two divisions, another angle is
iformed. The greatest number of angles or series of pouches with real longitudinal
separation from one another met with, is exhibited by gymnetrus, the amount being to
above thirty-five. Thus the myocomata are divided in several collateral elements,
recombining in their longitudinal succession to collateral series ; and in proportion as
the longitudinal series become independent, the myocomatical character of the masses
disappears. These elements being anatomically so well defined and of great im-
portance in the operations of nature to attain a higher development of the muscular
masses, a term becomes necessary to designate them, as well as the longitudinal
series ; for the element, the term myisk has been proposed and made use of, and for
a longitudinal series of myisks, that oi viyostichia. If several myisks of higher ani-
mals be ascertained to belong to one transverse set, the myocomata of fishes would

evidently reappear.

   We must now come back to the Skates. Their myisks begin from the bottom of a

myostichial channel, and accosting the walls of the latter, they ascend to the surface
of the myostichia, to be prolongated in a membranous expansion, bearing a mesial
tendon, the prolongation of the lamina. The myisks of the Skate, as well as their
tendons, being superposed upon one another, it has been made probable that this is
effected by the lower walls of the pouches accreting to the bottom of the channel.
The myisks stretching over several vertebrae, every corresponding segment of the
channel will appear sending off fasciculi to several of them. In serpents and lizards,
the fasciculi coming from one segment for the first time, appear depending on tendons,
at first on one side only, then on both. The next step is found in myostichias of the
same animals, and consists in the modification, that only one side of the channel gives
off fibres to the myisks, while on the other side the corresponding wails of the pouches
present mere membranes more or less blended with the channel wall, and help to con-
stitute the vagina for the myostichia and its tendons. Birds and mammalia present
no more essential modifications of the myisk, and the diflerences are reduced to
atrophic, or aponeurotic appearance of the mentioned fascias or prolongation of the

pouches. An illustration for the mammalia has been made on the sacro-lumbalis of
the rabbit. The origins of the muscle from the ribs would correspond to the several
                                                           --

--140 REPORT 1850.

fasciculi sent off from a segment to the several accosting myisks ; with every innermost
fasciculus of these organs a myisk begins, to end at the seventh rib anterior, at the
outer side of the muscle, crossing the ribs in an oblique line, and receiving a fasci-
culus from every one.

                                 ETHNOLOGY.

       On the Language and Mode of Writing of the Ancient Assyrians.

                       By the Rev. Dr. Edward Hincks.

Much interesting ethnological information has been already obtained from the
Assyrian inscriptions that have been brought to light ; and more may be confidently

expected, as these inscriptions shall be more perfectly deciphered, and as new in-
scriptions shall be discovered. Apart, however, from all such information, the lan-
guage and the mode of writing of the Assyrians are themselves two important ethno-
logical facts. The language of the Assyrio-Babylonian inscriptions is generally
admitted to be of the family called Semitic. It is in many respects strikingly like
the Hebrew ; but has some peculiarities, which were mentioned, in common with
the Egj'ptian, the relationship of which to the Semitic languages has been already
recognized. The mode of writing of the Assj'rians differed from that of the Hebrew
and all other Semitic languages, and agreed with the Egyptian, in that it was partly
ideographic. Some words consisted entirely of ideographs ; others were written in
part phonetically, but had ideographs united with the phonetic part. As to the part
of the writing which consisted of phonographs. Dr. Hincks maintained, in opposition
to all other writers, that the characters had all definite syllabic values ; there being no
consonants, and consequently no necessity or liberty of supplying vowels. In proof
that the characters had definite syllabic values, he handed about copies of a litho-
graphed plate*, in which examples of various forms of words analogous to those ex-
isting in Hebrew were collected together. This use of characters representing sylla-
bles he considered to be an indication that, though the language of the Assyrians

Awas Semitic, their mode of writing was not so. second proof of the same position

he derived from the absence of distinct syllables to represent combinations of the

peculiar Semitic consonants Koph and Ain. From these facts he inferred that the
Assyrio-Babylonian mode of writing was adopted from some Indo-European nation,
which had probably conquered Assyria ; and he thought it likely that this nation
had intercourse with the Egyptians, and had, in pai't at least, derived its mode of
writing from that most ancient people.

On the Sicilian and Sardinian Languages. By John Hogg, M.A., F.R.S.,

                   Hon. Secretary of the Royal Geographical Society,
   The author, during a tour in Sicily, collected many words as spoken by the com-
mon people, and compared them with the corresponding Italian ones. Some of
these he inserted in the present paper with specimens of Sicilian poetry. The proxi-
mity of Sicily and Sardinia, and their having been under the successive dominion of
the like ruling powers, led the author, when in Sicily, to conclude that much re-
semblance existed between the languages of those islands : but he had not at that

time any data of sufficient consequence to establish such a conclusion.
   Mr. John Hogg considered that the "modern Sicilian" dialect, which some au-

thors suppose to be the nearest to the Neapolitan and Calabrian dialects of the
Italian, is in reality very dissimilar from them, and he then pointed out the chief

difterences.

   The three principal dialects of the Sicilian were classed under these periods :
The first, from the eighth to the eleventh centuryf of the Christian sera, wherein

    * See copy of this in Plate IV.

   t The times specified in these divisions are to be taken as nearly fixing the respective

periods ; but they will be found sufficiently exact for general purposes.
                               ;

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  141

Latin, but little corrupted, mixed with much Arabic, and some Greek, prevailed
the second, from the eleventh to the fourteenth century, in which the language agrees
very well with the modern true Italian ; and the third, between the fotirteenth and
seventeenth, or eighteenth centuries, when the " modern Sicilian," as now generally
used, became corrupted or modified.

    Sicily had the honour of giving birth to Italian poetry, as Petrarch distinctly as-
serted, and the great Dante made " Siciliana Favella" synonymous with modern

poetical language.

   The first important poet of that island, since the revival of letters, Ciullo d'Alcamo,
composed his verses, in the twelfth century, in the earlier dialect of the second period,
which Is similar to and in fact was the parent of pure Tuscan.

   Mr. John Hogg entered into a more detailed and critical notice of the Linguaggiu
Sicilianu, or "modern" dialect of the last period; and he introduced many exam-
ples of words in the latter idiom compared with the Italian. Having remarked on
the paucity of prose works in "modern" Sicilian, he gave several interesting speci-
mens of poetry as written at this day ; and added to each a literal translation in

English.

    The author afterwards brought forward in an historical sketch the different nations,
which had chiefly effected by their respective languages the changes and alterations
in the dialects of Sicily : he observed that Sicilian, as now spoken, reminded him of
the style and pronunciation of Doric Greek, and suggested that it might perhaps be
termed a Doric dialect of the Italian.

  --Next, Mr. J. Hogg separated, as Adelung had done, Sardinian into I. the ancient

native language, and H. the foreig7i language.
    Having pointed out the distinctions existing between the two chief dialects, the

southern and the northern idioms of the native Sardinian, he stated the existence of a
Spanish dialect, the Catalonian or Catalan, in Alghieri and its vicinity ; and a variety
of the Tuscan in Sassari, and some other places, both being introduced or foreign

 languages.
    According to Mr. Tj'ndale, the Sarde native language, or Sardic, especially that of

the northern district, is the nearest of existing languages to pure Latin.

    Mr. John Hogg then gave some notices concerning the material differences of the
 Sardinian idioms, and peculiarities of their grammatical structure, from that author's
instructive work on Sardinia.

    Having added some general examples of Sardinian as compared with Italian, the
author inserted many sentences, and some specimens of poetry in the former tongue,
together with English versions, in order to afford ample illustrations. And, as he
had in the^rs^ part of this essay given two versions of the Lord's Prayer in dialects
of the Sicilian, he followed out the same plan in appending /6j*r copies of that grayer
in different dialects of the Sardinian, so that the former might be compared with the

 latter.

    In both islands Italian is likewise spoken by the higher classes, whilst the lower

only use the common Sicilian {dialetto volgare) and Sardic dialects.
    The author said in this communication he had considered Sicilian and Sardinian,

 for the sake of convenience, as " languages," and not mere dialects of the Italian,

 because they will be found to branch out into several dialects.

 On the Original Distribution of the Germanic, Lithuanic and Slavonic
              Populations. By R. G. Latham, M.D., F.R.S.

   At the beginning of the proper historical period, i. e. when the parts in question
were first known otherwise than from hearsay evidence, there were few or no Ger-
mans east of the Elbe ; on the contrary, the whole population was Slavonic. This

is generally considered to have been of recent origin, the previous population being
German. The current reasons for this opinion lie in the fact of the parts between the
Elbe and Niemen being parts of Tacitus' Germania.

   The evidence of this, as well as of other classical works, is not sufficient to counter ·
balance the very opposite state of things in the ninth and tenth centuries ; since to
reconcile the undoubted Slavonic character of the populations at that time with
the common interpretation of Tacitus, is to assume an unparalleled amount of
--142 REPORT 1850.

migrations and displacements, and that on no evidence ; but simply for the sake of
the supposed fact they would account for.

   The same applies to Bohemia, which was never more German than it is at present.
    Reasons for believing that the a«/e-Germanic population of Jutland and Go^Aland
were the Gnddons of Prussia, and Lithuanians rather than either Celts or Finns, were

also given.

                    Remarks on the Soukaneeah Dialect of the Berber.

                            By Professor F. W. Newman.

   The vocabulary sent home by Mr. Richardson contains near 150 single words,
besides a few short sentences. Setting aside those which are mere Arabic (which
are not many), the rest, with few exceptions, are found in recognized dialects of the
Berber, and in fact are generally discernible in the Kabail or Algiers Berber. The
words totally new to me (F. W. N.) seem to me under twenty in number; so there
can be no question that the Soukaneeah is a genuine Berber dialect.

   Its personal pronouns are nearest to those of the Ghadamsi, which is perhaps the
same as the dialect which Hodgson calls Tuaryk ; but in the plural there seems to
be a clipping of the pronunciation, and the word for They {Emdin, if I rightly read
the MS.) is quite peculiar. In the Ghadamsi of Hemso di Graberg there is equally
great divergency from the standard Berber as to this pronoun.

   The interrogative and demonstrative pronouns in general appear to approach closest
to those of the Ghadamsi ; so also do certain common verbs and words in which
these dialects deviate more or less from the Kabail and from the Shilha.

    In the numerals there is this peculiarity (unless the reporter has been misled),
that for Five, they say Fusa (a hand), and for Ten, Ifdsen (hands) ; which further

leads to saying for Six, Fusa U dad (hand to finger) ; Eight, Ifasen ghair sen (hands
without two) ; Nine, Ifdsen ghair egm (hands without one) . Eyin. one, is Ghadamsi,

Inquiry into the Evidence of the Existence of Primitive Races in Scotland

                 prior to the Celtce. By Daniel Wilson.

   Dr. Prichard remarks in his Observations on the Indo-European Nations, intro-
duced into his ' Natural History of Man,' " It would be an interesting question

if there were any data likely to facilitate its discussion, whether the Arian nations

found on their   arrival in Europe the different  countries  already occupied by previous
                 vacant, and affording them a     peaceful
inhabitants, or                                              and undisputed admission "

(p. 184). Ethnologists are now familiar with the labours of several zealous men of

Nscience on the continent, and especially of Professors llson and Retzius, to supply

a distinct answer to this important inquiry. It is to be regretted that this branch

of physical archaeology has heretofore been so little esteemed in this country in com-

parison of the contributions afforded by philological researches to ethnology. Many

points still remain in doubt which it alone can answer ; and while the philological

evidence affords valuable and precise information in regard to the diffusion of the

Arian nations over Europe, it is a matter of very great importance, even in its bear-

ing on this branch of the inquiry, to know whether the nomade Celtse peopled for the

first time the unoccupied wastes and forests of Europe, or superseded elder aborigi-

nal races. Still greater is its value in relation to the other questions which demand
a reply from the ethnologist, as to the origin of the human family from one or more
stocks, and the migration from a common centre, or cradle-land, which, in so far

as relates to the historic races, appears distinctly to coincide with the Mosaic history
of the human race.

Philological research has not, as yet, thrown light on the AUophylian nations of

Europe, nor is there much probability that it can do so ; and from the general mis-
apprehension by men of science in England, of the value of archieological investiga-

tions, they have been rendered nearly valueless as a means for the ascertainment of

truths relating to prinoitive ethnology. On the continent, and especially in Sweden

and Denmark, much has already been done in this department of inquiry, and not

without valuable results. The conclusions arrived at by Professor Nillson of Lund,

in regard to the primitive inhabitants of Scandinavia, have already been laid before
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  143

the British Association. It is extremely desirable, however, that these should be
compared with similar investigations carried on in other countries, both to test their
general application, and to ascertain what evidence is recoverable in regard to the
movements of the earliest nomade tribes of Europe.

 --Professor Nillson's conclusions may be thus briefly stated : At a period prior to

the latest geological changes in Sweden, while the Bos primigenivs and other of
the long extinct herbivorous animals existed in the country, it was possessed by a
human population in a very low state of civilization, ignorant of the metallurgic
arts, constructing their weapons and implements of horn and stone, and living chiefly
by fishing and hunting. The skeletons of this aboriginal race still exist in the ear-
liest class of Barrows. Their skulls are described by Professor Nillson as short
(the hrachy -cephalic of Retzius), with prominent parietal tubers, and broad and flat-

tened occiput.
   This was succeeded by a superior race, with a cranium of a more lengthened oval

form, and prominent and narrow occiput.
    The third race, which Professor Nillson considers as of Celtic origin, appears to

have introduced bronze, the earliest working metal, into the country ; and the Celtic
population is not supposed by him to have been displaced by the true Swea, or mo-

dern Scandinavians, till some time in the sixth century.
   With relation to the primitive inhabitants of Britain, we know that a Celtic people

appear to have existed here at the earliest period in which we have any authentic
historical information respecting them. But history carries us back only a very
short way, and its whole indications seem to point to the Celtse as intruders within
a comparatively recent historic aera ; while the tumuli and primitive relics abound-
ing in Britain and the whole north of Europe, furnish unmistakeable evidence of the
presence of a human population at a much more remote period. Pursuing the mode
 of inquiry into the primitive races of Scotland which has already been successfully
 employed by continental ethnologists, the following Table of Cranial Measurements
 supplies data derived from an examination of thirty-nine skulls, a number too few to
 admit of the assumption of dogmatic conclusions, but sufiicient at least for an ini-
 tiatory step in this interesting inquiry in relation to the British aborigines. The
 system of measurement employed is chiefly that adopted by Dr. Morton in his
 'Crania Americana ' (Anatomical Measurements, p. 249). Four additional mea-
 surements are added, marked (*), as in some cases preferable, or supplying more cer-
 tain data in the imperfect and decayed state of the skulls. The proportions of two

 Mexican skulls, described by Dr. Morton as superior specimens of the ancient race,

 are also inserted for the sake of comparison.

    Of the crania in the annexed Table, it may suffice in this very brief abstract to state,

 that the direct archaeological evidence, derived from the presence of rude stone weapons,
 the form of cists, the presence or absence of metallic weapons or implements, pottery,

 &c., seem to justify the order of classification.
    The conclusions which these data appear to suggest are, that the earliest primitive

 Scottish race difi^ered entirely from the earliest Scandinavian race as described by
 Professor Nillson, being rather Dolicho- cephalic, or perhaps more correctly Cymbo-

--cephalic, to adopt a term which I venture to suggest as most appropriate to the pe-

 culiar boat-like shape of the crania. These are long and equally narrow in the fore-
 head and occiput ; while the whole head, when seen in situ, is small in proportion

  to the skeleton.

     The second race decidedly corresponds with the Brachy- cephalic of Retzius,
 though in the few examples I have been able to obtain the cerebral development ap-
  pears considerably greater than in the primitive race of Scandinavia. Nearly all
  ethnologists are agreed in assigning to the true Celtic type of cranium an interme-
  diate form, shorter than the true Dolicho-cephalic, and longer than the Brachy-
  cephalic. This conclusion is confirmed by the examples adopted in the Table of
  Measurements, with the exception of No. 27, a so-called typical Celtic skull, in the
  Edinburgh Phrenological Museum, introduced here for the sake of comparison.

     Even after obtaining the proper crania it is difficult to determine the most trust-
  worthy elements of comparative proportion. The relative proportions of the parietal
  diameter ; and of the inter-mastoid line, measured from the upper root of the zygo-
                                                                                                                                                                                 --;

--144 REPORT 1850.

xnatic process, when compared with the longitudinal diameter, will be found to afford

some of the most striking elements of comparison and classification. Another in-

teresting basis of comparison appears to consist in the relative proportions of the

·parietal and vertical diameters. The following laws would seem to be indicated :

In the elongated Dolicho-cepJialic, or Cymho- cephalic type, the parietal diameter

is remarkably small, being frequently exceeded by the vertical diameter. In the

second, or Brachy -cephalic class, the parietal diameter is the greatest. In the Celtic

crania they are nearly equal ; and in the Mediseval or true Dolicho -cephalic crania

the parietal diameter is again found in excess.

Not the least interesting of the indications which this course of investigation

seems to establish in relation to the primitive races of Scotland, are the evidences of

the existence of primitive British races prior to the Celtse ; and also the probability
of these races having succeeded each other in a different order from the primitive

colonists of the north of Europe. Meanwhile, however, these data, and the con-

clusions derived from them, are producpd chiefly with a view to induce more extended

Aresearch.                                much greater accumulation of evidence is requisite to establish any

absolute or certain conclusions                                                                                                                                          and this can only be obtained by a general interest
                                                                                                                                                                      ;

in the inquiry leading to the observation of such where the researches of the archseo-

logist, or the chance operations of the agriculturist afford the desired means.

   One or two other indications, however, bearing on the same subject, may here be

adverted to, as well meriting further attention. One characteristic feature in the

skulls of various tumuli is the state of the teeth. It is rare to find among them any

symptoms of irregularity or decay. In a tumular cemetery at North Berwick, how-

ever, the teeth of the skulls, though sound, were worn in most cases completely flat,

like those of a ruminating animal. Dr. Thurnam remarks the same to have been

the case with the teeth in those found in the Anglo-Saxon cemetery at Laraelhill

and it is also observable in an under-jaw found along with other remains of a human

skull, an iron hatchet, and several large boars' tusks, in a deep excavation on the

south bank of the Castle Hill of Edinburgh. This peculiarity in the teeth of certain

classes of ancient crania is of very general application. The inferences to be drawn

from such a comparison are of considerable value, in the indications they afford of

the domestic habits and social life of a race, the last survivor of which has mouldered

underneath his green tumulus perchance for centuries before the sera of our earliest

authentic chronicles. As a means of comparison, this characteristic appearance of

the teeth manifestly furnishes one means of discriminating between an early and a

still earlier, if not primteval period ; and though not in itself conclusive, it may be

found of considerable value when taken in connection with the other and still more

Weobvious peculiarities of the crania of the earliest barrows.                                                                                                                   perceive from it at

least that a very decided change took place in the common food of the country, from

the period when the native Briton of the primaeval period pursued the chase with the

flint, lance and arrow, and the spear of deer's horn, to that comparatively recent

period when the Saxon marauders began to effect settlements and build houses on

the scenes where they had ravaged the villages of the older British natives. But

the social state in the British Isles was a progressive one. Whether by the gradual

improvement of the aboriginal race, or by the incursion of foreign tribes, who were

already familiar with the fruits of agricultural labour, the wild pastoral or hunter

life of the first settlers was exchanged for one more suited to call forth the social

virtues                              the  increase  of the  population, either                                                                                           by the  ingress of new tribes, or by
                                  ;

the numerical progression of the first settlers, would of itself put an end to the pos-

sibility of finding subsistence by means of the chase. Thus, it might be from the

inventive industry which privations force into activity that new wants were first

discovered, and new tastes were created, and satisfied by the annual harvests of

golden grain. The ploughshare and the pruning-hook divided attention with the

sword and the spear, which they could not supplant, and the ingenious agriculturist

devised his oaken querne, his stone-rubbers, and at length his simple yet effective

hand-mill, which resisted, during many centuries of change and progress, all attempts

to supersede it by more complicated machinery.

There is only one other point to which I would wish to advert, in reference to the

archaeological evidence which we possess referable to the British Allophylian races,

and to which I venture to hope ethnologists will be induced to devote more attention
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  145

than they have hitherto done. The term Archaic very fitly applies to the period in
relation to its arts. The ornamentation employed in the pottery found in barrows
consists almost, without exception, only of improvements on the accidents of manu-
facture. The same indefinite and archaic character prevails throughout our primi-
tive ornamented relics, which are by no means rare. In the pottery, for example, the
incised decorations are characterized by great variety, and an obvious progress is
traceable ; but in no single instance is any attempt made at the imitation of a leaf, or
flower ; of animals, or of any other of the most simple natural objects. The same is
the case with the most beautiful gold and silver ornaments, and the decorated bronze
weapons. It is curious and noteworthy to observe this entire absence of all imitation
in primitive British arts, because it is by no means a universal or even veiy general
characteristic of the arts of AUophylian nations. The relics recovered from the se-
pulchral mounds of the great valley of the Mississippi, as well as in the regions of
Mexico and Yucatan, display, along with the weapons and implements of stone, silex,
and obsidian, numerous rude indications of imitative skill. The same is the case with

the modem Polynesians. What I would specially note in connection with this is,

that both in the ancient and modern examples, the presence of imitative arts ac-
companies the existence of idols, and the abundant evidences of an idolatrous worship.
So far as we yet know the converse holds true in relation to the primitive British
races ; and as Dr. Prichard has already attached so marked an importance to the
contrasting creeds and modes of worship and polity of the AUophylian and Arian
nations, I venture to throw out this suggestion as not unworthy of further con-

sideration.

    Another peculiarity in which all the earlier races appear to difl^er from those of Teu-
tonic origin is of a purely physical nature. In the tumuli we find the weapons and
implements buried with the deceased, and wherever these have been obtained suffi-
ciently perfect to admit of positive conclusions being drawn, they show that the
hands of the earlier British races must have been extremely small, when compared
with those of very moderate stature in our own day. This however is also, though
in a less degree, a characteristic of the pure Celt, in contrast to the Saxon, or other
later colonists of the British Isles. It is curious that we possess the most in-

disputable evidence of the same characteristic having pertained to the primitive

temple-builders of the new world. Mr. Stephens remarks, in describing the
well-known symbol of the red hand, first seen by him at Uxmal, " Over a cavity

in the mortar were two conspicuous marks which afterwards stared us in the face
in all the ruined buildings of the country. They were the prints of a red hand,
with the thumb and fingers extended, not drawn or painted, but stamped by the
living hand, the pressure of the palm upon the stone. There was one striking fea-
ture about those hands ; they were exceedingly small. Either of our own spread
over and completely hid them." This also I think is worthy of note, I have examined

primitive British swords and daggers, the handles of which would be straitened for

the grasp of many a delicate lady's hand.

1850.
--146 REPORT 1850.

                                  ^to t^         *o

tiSSj i g tog                     o o o ,to o                          ^«o« «
.i"* B o " a o
                                                                      ^

                                                                      «·rO t^t^ tv

« K ^ o-?1 £ s '     5««

    8.2 c I

 il, 3 o 5 o g c

                                                                      «"      ^ n «.--CO . .»>.o
                                              W O ©. do ·* .-^ 0>0 NtO                    <o . 44 '

^ *3 J §* o &-S i         )00-*«o>omo)^c*«m^K.o^e                                         .oortoco-^nONOiOono-

3i  rt  1    3^5  s

           53

                     ^ «fctoeo I              .©OHOU5 rft^Ot^OJC                                     O t^u} <0
                                  .c                                                                 t>« to 00 ffl

    Sis

                     OMocoNNN^o-fl-           .OiOOiooi^eo .'*to^ ^to tO(0« .«to .<oao*s. ,«^ -^Z^*^"

                                                                                                     ^ M> Tj" t>»  o>*o Ol

    ill

                                                       ' O 0!0 Tf o -     3<oi>*t^"5tot^K; o^t>»0'V ^«(Oton oitN.c

    g^-^g

                                                                                                     ^ j.a ja ja ja

                                                          5 *" to                         cj.q:<4zz

                                                                                           jilCL,'   5J.2.°.s!s3!s

                          11-3 -g-g g:^ » .-§ = .= .56^^*^ jTW-g-g^-S-S i| fe^"" g«3o5oSo-c

                          C« o""ofSa SisC'ol  I  if i  i  if ^"i-s    1   1§  §     S  I  Siia-issoHHhoEooooooiS
                                                          S S c K E-
                                              H  HoS   S              cc  K«  «     «  S

                                                             ixpvig.                                 ·;8Aa8tp3J\I
                          -oqoijOQ 3a;}iuiuj
--

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  147

                                        STATISTICS.

Account of the Si/stem of Croft Husbandry and the Reclamation of Waste
   Lands, chiefly by Spade Culture, adopted at Gairloch i?i Ross-shire since
   1846, and its results as illustrating the conditions binder which the labour

  of Paupers and Criminals may safely be made productive. By W. P.

   Alison, M.D., V.P.R.S.Ed., Professor of Physic in the University of
   Edinburgh.

The objects of this paper were to establish, chiefly by statistical evidence, the fol-

lowing propositions :

r 1 . That where the system of petite culture practised in Belgium had been intro-

duced in the arable lands in Ross-shire, i. e. stall-feeding of stock, collection and
ceconomical management of manure, proper rotation of crops, and careful cultivation
of small crofts by the spade, the result had been almost exactly the same as in Bel-
gium, viz. that a family of five persons could be maintained on such land, in comfort,
on a croft of five or six acres, and pay a rent of £10 per annum to the landlord ; and
that the reclamation of arable but waste lands for this purpose could be effected in a
Very few years by the population now in their neighbourhood under due regulations

as to instruction and inspection.
   2. That great tracts of such land, now absolutely unproductive, exist in Britain,

and at least 1,500,000 acres in Ireland, known by official surveys to be at least equal
to that in Belgium, requiring only a small outlay of capital for draining, &c., and
large outlay of labour, to make them equally productive as that in Belgium or the

best of that at Gairloch.

    3. That the objections made to the productive employment of paupers or criminals

--on such land, however just where applicable, are in most such cases distinctly inappli-

cable; those objections being, 1. That pauper farms generally prove failures, and
are a loss instead of a profit to the parish. 2. That the employment of paupers in any
productive employment interferes with the labour market, and injures independent
labourers. To the first objection the answer made is, that it is not necessary, in order
to establish the importance of productive employment of paupers, that they should
produce a profit for the parish ; they may be very usefully employed even in a merely
ceconomical view, if they only effect a saving to the rate-payers ; who must feed,
clothe and lodge them and their families whether they employ them or not. To the
second objection it is answered, that lands on which no work has been done within
the memory of man, are not in the labour market, and any productions raised on them
are a clear addition to the wealth of a country, and no injury to any other labourers;
and that all that sound political oeconomy requires is, not that the labour of paupers
 (or of criminals) should yield no remuneration, but only that such remuneration as
 it does yield should be a clear addition to the resources of a country, not the substitu-
 tion of the produce of their labour for that of independent labourers.

    4. That great numbers of able-bodied destitute poor have been maintained in the
 workhouses in Ireland since 1846 in absolute idleness, and at a great expense to the
 rate-payers there and to Britain likewise ; that many have died in Ireland of the effects
 of destitution, and great numbers more have wandered thence and caused expense
 and carried disease wherever the English language is spoken ; who might have been
 employed in reclaiming these waste lands with a saving, if not a profit to those who
 have thus supported them ; examples having been recently furnished by the experience
 of several English unions, particularly Chorlton and Sheffield, of the reclamation of
 waste lands by pauper labour, with a decided saving to the parishes, even within a

 very few years.
    5. That when landed proprietors, as in Ireland, have their land occupied by a

 redundant and destitute population, for which they are legally bound to make some

--provision, their natural resource as the best authorities, e. g. Mr. Mill, Sir li. Kane,
--and Mr. Nicholls, Poor Law Commissioner in Ireland, agree ought to be the esta-

 blishment of the petite culture as in Belgium, and as imitated at Gairloch ; and that
 any law which impedes the sale of portions of their property for that purpose is truly a

 suicidal law, injurious to all the interests of the country.

    6. That a poor law providing for the unemployed able-bodied, rightly worked, may

                                                                                                      L2
                   --

      .

--148 REPORT 1850.

be of the most direct and essential use in Ireland, or in any other country, in bringing
the waste lands " and idle hands " together, and aiding the general establishment of

--this kind of husbandry: 1. Because numbers of the able-bodied paupers in every

union may be employed immediately in reclaiming and then cultivating such lands,
taken possession of in default of payment of rates, or purchased or rented for this pur-
pose, as has been done at Sheffield and at Chorlton. 2. Because such operations, car-

ried on in every union in Ireland, under the direction and control of such experienced

agriculturists as Government may easily obtain for the purpose, may become a normal

school for instructing owners and occupiers of land in a system of cultivation whicli
requires little expenditure of capital even from the first, but some knowledge of the
subject, and especially constant attention and industry, such as the examples of

Gairloch as well as of the English unions show, may gradually be enforced among
the people by the owners of the land or their agents, when themselves duly sensible

of its advantages.

 Some Statistics respecting the Sale of Encumbered Estates in Ireland.

                             By Prof. Hancock.

--The questions the author proposed to illustrate by his statistics were, 1st. Did it

appear that anynecessity existed for establishing the cheap,simple,andexpeditious forms

of procedure of the Encumbered Estates Court in lieu of the proceedings previously re-
quired in the Courts of Chancery and Exchequer ? 2nd. Was there any evidence of

the parties most interested having confidence in the proceedings of the Court?

3rd. At what rate of purchase had the estates been really sold ? 4th. To what causes
were the differences of prices of the different classes of estates to be ascribed ? As to

the first question, it appeared, that of cases transferred from the courts of equity to

the Encumbered Estates Court, no less than 89 cases had been pending in Chancery

or Exchequer for 10 years; 40 cases for 20 years; 26 cases for 30 years; 13 cases
for 40 years ; 8 cases for 50 years ; 5 cases for 60 years ; and 1 case for 70 years. The
result of this delay was to make the bulk of these estates bankrupt. It appeared that

the estates owed the following sums :

                                       Encumbrances.  Possible price.

5 cases, pending 60 years, J?202,602                  .£176,760

8 ..   .. 50 years, 339,051                           258,480

13 ..  .. 40 years,                    476,124        341,480

26 .   . . 30 years,                   635,699        444,250

    In only two of the 26 estates would the proprietors receive any part of the purchase-
money, and they would get only £18,000, leaving £422,000 to pay encumbrancers
having charges to the amount of £635,699 ; so that the encumbrancers must lose up-
wards of £200,000. The effect of the rapid sales of the encumbered estates was not
to ruin puisne encumbrancers, but to make manifest the ruin that the dilatory pro-
ceedings in equity had produced. As to the second question, it appeared that out of
1003 petitions presented up to June last, 155 had been presented by the owners
themselves, relating to a rental of £180,000, subject to encumbrances amounting to
£2,892,000. As to the third question, it appeared that 25 sales of fee simple had
produced £125,176, or a nominal rental of £7872; or, making an abatement of 20
per cent, on a real rental of £5658, being 22 years' purchase. That 13 sales of leases
for lives renewable for ever had produced £22,930 on a gross nominal rental of £2285,
subject to a head rent of £278 ; making an abatement of 20 per cent, to get the real
rental of £1814 ; and taking 30 years' purchase of the head rent as added to the pur-
chase-money, this gave an average of 17 years' purchase. That 14 sales of long terms
of years produced £33,155 on a nominal rental of £4195, subject to a head rent of
£768, which gave an average of 16^ years' purchase. That 6 sales of estates subject
to annuities produced £57,285, on a nominal rental of £1014. In these cases, as
the ages of the annuitants were not given, it was impossible to ascertain the rate of
purchase. As to the fourth question, the difference of price of the land in fee and the
leaseliolds arose partly from renewal fines and the reservations and covenants in the
leases, but was chiefly caused by the circumstance that in the case of leaseholds the
Commissioners gave parliamentary title not to the land, but to the lease only; and
consequently, parties buying leaseholds ran a risk of losing their purchase if it should
turn out that the original lessor had no right to grant the lease, or if there was any
                                                           --
                                                                     -

          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                    149

technical defect in the lease. It followed, therefore, that the Encumbered Estates
Court was absolutely necessary ; that the owners of land had shown great confidence
in it; that the land of Ireland was not depreciated, as it had brought 22 years' pur-
chase ; that the system of giving a parliamentary title had prevented any depreciation
from complication of title ; that the want of a complete parliamentary title in the case
of leaseholds had caused a depreciation to the extent of nearly five years' purchase

in their sale; and that this depreciation could be removed by wise legislation.

ByOn the Cost ofobtaining Patents in different Countries.  Prof. Hancock.

   The author proposed to direct attention to a table showing the cost of obtaining
patents in different countries. The principal points in the table worth noticing were,
1st. That the cost of obtaining copyright for designs, under recent legislation, was from
£1 to £15, being less than in any country in the world. 2nd. That the cost of obtaining
a patent in England was £110, being greater than in any other European state._ 3rd.
That the cost of obtaining a patent in Ireland was £135, being greater than in any
other country in the world. 4th. That the cost of obtaining a patent for the entire
British dominions was £375, being three times the cost of a similar privilege in any
other collection of territories under one government in the world. He then proceeded
to inquire whether there was any good reason for maintaining the great cost of obtaining

--patents in Great Britain, and "proposed the following questions for consideration:

1st. Should separate patents be required for each portion of the United Kingdom?

2nd. Was the expense of English patents caused by wise arrangements, for affording
to the public facihties for searching for previous inventions ? 3rd. Was the great ex-

pense of British patents caused by arrangements for affording security to the inventor

in the enjoyment of his property? 4th. From what causes did the cost of British
patents arise ? 5th. What were the benefits which patents of invention conferred on
the community ? 6th. By what means could the cost of obtaining British patents be
diminished ? He showed that if the system of having one registration for the United
Kingdom, like that for registration of designs, were extended to patents, the cost of
obtaining patents would be at once reduced from £376 to £110 ; that the cost of ob-

taining patents in Great Britain did not arise from arrangements for affording to the

public facilities for searching for previous inventions, nor for affording security to the

inventor. He then proceeded to point out the causes of the great cost of British

--patents to be, 1st. The prohx and complicated forms of procedure for obtaining

patents. 2nd. The fees to the Attorney General and other public officers on these forms
of procedure. 3rd. The stamp duties on patents and on the specifications required
from patentees. It seemed very unwise to require the intervention of a Master in

Chancery, a Secretary of State, an Attorney General, and a Lord Chancellor to the
issue of a document that was a simple certificate of registration. The system of paying
public officers by salaries instead of fees had been generally recognized, but not ex-
tended to the case of patents. The tax on patents was unequal, being the same ho

matter what was the value of the invention. The tax was also imposed at the time

most inconvenient for the inventor to pay, namely, before he had derived any profit

from his invention. The benefits arising from the granting of patents were three-

--fold : 1st. Securing a reward to the inventor ; 2nd, securing to the public a dis-

closure of the process used ; and 3rd, encouraging the inventive genius of the commu-

--nity by forcing inventors to make really new discoveries. The means of reducing the

cost of obtaining patents were threefold : 1st. By having only one patent for the

United Kingdom. 2nd. By adopting for all inventions the simple process of granting
certificates of registration of designs, instead of the prolix and complicated forms now

required in obtaining patents. 3rd. By substituting for all inventions the moderate

fees and stamps on the registration of designs for the official fees and stamps or

patents.

  On the Causes of Distress at Skull and Skibbereen during the Famine in

                         Ireland. By Prof. Hancock.

   This district suffered more than any other during the famine in Ireland. Was the
distress entirely caused by the potato failure ? This depended on the question. What
150 REPORT 1850.

was the state of the Skibbereen district before 1846? The Times Commissioner had
visited it in 1845, and described the people as being then in the most abject state of
destitution. Hence it followed that the veal sources of the calamities which the people
suffered were the distress and wretched system of agriculture which prevailed before

--the famine. Had the people not been reduced to the verge of starvation, had their
--wages not been at the lowest point consistent with human existence before that time,

    the failure of the potato would, as in other districts, have caused privation only, and
not death. The next inquiry was, To what causes are the wretched agriculture and
consequent distress before 1845 to be ascribed? To solve this question, Mr. Mill had
started the theory that peasant-rents fixed by competition was the foundation of the

ceconomic evils of Ireland. He proposed to test Mr. Mill's theory, and to contrast

--with the conclusion to which he had been led, that the state of the law respecting

land was the cause of distress, the facts respecting this district he had collected
from a petition in the case of the late Lord Audley, in the Encumbered Estates Court,
The Audley estate included a large tract of land lying between Skull and Skibbereen.
The entire of this estate was held by a middleman, whose lease would expire in 1 854,
so that in 1845 and 1846 no occupier had any interest exceeding nine years in the
land ; so that neither middleman nor occupiers were able to improve the estate. As
to interest of the head landlord, it appeared that as far back as 1829 the incumbrances
on the Audley estate had far exceeded its value, being £25,000 on a rental of less than
£600 a year; that they increased rapidly, so as to amount to £89,400, exclusive of
interest and law costs, at Lord Audley 's death in 1837 ; and that the interest and law
costs increased the charges against the property in 1846 to the enormous amount of
£167,300, on a rental of £577 a year. It appeared that from Lord Audley 's death
in 1837, to the present hour, instead of there being one landlord to deal with the pro-
perty, there were eighty encumbrancers, whose consent was necessary to enable any^
thing to be done. Hence the folly of speaking of competition in such a case when
this state of the property rendered real competition impossible. The ceconomic evils
of Ireland, in his opinion, did not arise from peasant rents fixed by competition, and
consequently those evils could be removed by having peasant rents fixed by law. Of
those causes that were within human control, the chief cause of distress in Ireland,
he thought, was the state of the law with regard to land. The laws respecting pro-

--perty in land, he stated, were defective in these particulars : 1st, in opposing impe-:

 diments to the free sale of land, and encouraging instead terminable leases ; 2nd, in
denying security to the capital of tenants, by providing that, in the absence of con-
tracts, improvements shall not belong to the improver ; 3rd, in impeding the search
for encumbrances, by maintaining a complicated and defective system of registration
of debts and charges affecting land ; and 4th, in the want of simple, cheap apd ex^
peditious forms of procedure for the enforcement of debts and contracts affecting l^nd.

 On the Geographical Distribution of Disease, as indicating the Connexion
   between Natural Phenomena and Health and Longevity. By A. Keith

    Johnston, F.R.S.E.

    In this paper, which was illustrated by maps and diagrams, the author gave gene-
ral views of the distribution of endemic disease over the globe, showing, by means of
colours, the regions visited by particular diseases, and the proportionate amount of

mortality occasioned by each among natives and Europeans. He explained, by means

 of diagrams, the eflect of climate in the production and extension of disease, as exhi-
bited in the moist and marshy districts of tropical regions; that, for example, remit-
 tent fever increases progressively with the increase of temperature from north to south,
 as strikingly shown by the returns of health in the army of the United States of

America. He stated, that in order to judge of the effects of climate, it is necessary
 to compare the amount of sickness and mortality among the indigenous population of

 a country with that of strangers to the soil ; that in India the average amount of mor-

tality among European troops is nearly three times as great as among natives. He

 then drew attention to the remarkable difference between the health of the army as
 compared with that of the navy, and with the civil population of a country. After
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  151

adverting to the successful means that have been adopted for the prevention of disease
and the greatly increased value of human life thence i-esulting, he intimated his in-
tention of following up the important inquiries now commenced with a special view

to the subject of life assurance.

Remarks on the present Condition of tht City and Neighbourhood of Malaga,

            and on the Preparation of Raisins, By A. Milward.

   The author describes in succession the main points of interest in the history, geo-
logical constitution, climate and agriculture, and enters fully into the cultivation of
the Vine, and the trade which this supports. The condition of the people is also in-
vestigated. The detailed information thus given cannot be fairly represented by an

abstract.

  Mortality of the Provident Classes in this Country and on the Continent.

                               By F. G. P. Neisok.

    In the present contribution it is intended to exhibit the rate of mortality which
prevails among the wealthy, the middle and the provident classes of this country, and
of the continent.

   England and Wales are the only portions of the United Kingdom in which public
mortuary registers are kept, and, consequently, in which the rate of mortality of the
whole population can be accurately measured. In the other divisions of the king-
dom, the rate of mortality is known only inferentially, and not by direct observation,
and nowhere do the public records afford the means by which to determine the dura-
tion of life in particular classes of the community. There are, however, other sources
from which much information may be derived.

    In the year 184.3, a report was made, by a committee of actuaries, on the mortality,
among the persons assured by seventeen of the principal assurance companies of this
country, and these persons may be fairly considered to belong to the middle and
upper classes of society; and at various periods since the year 1824, inquiries have
been made into the rate of mortality among the members of friendly societies, inclu-
ding the more industrious and prudential of the working and the labouring portion
of the people. One important result derived from these investigations is, that while
the mortuary registers show a certain rate of mortality for the whole population of
England and Wales, the evidence furnished by the facts constituting the other body
of information clearly proves the mortality of the middle and upper classes to be above,
and that of the industrious working classes to be below, the ratio for the country ge-
nerally. This conclusion forms an important consideration in all sanitary inquiries,
and, by an obvious inference, determines in what class or section of the people the
excessive rate of mortality prevails. For other reasons, however, it is a subject of
first importance to understand clearly the rate of mortality among the middle and
upper classes.

   The Journal of the Statistical Society contains a valuable body of evidence on this
question, which goes to prove, that among the peerage, the country gentry, and the

professional classes, the rate of mortality is higher than that of the country generally,

and, as already remarked, the report by the committee of actuaries shows, that among
the lives assured by the public companies of this country, the mortality is also not less

than that of the general population.
    In support of the results derived from this latter body of facts, there is abundant

collateral proof; but it has been thought desirable to test them, if possible, by facts
originating in quite an independent source, and, with this view, an analysis has been
made of the experience of some of the life assui-ance offices in Germany, one of which,
the Gotha Society, the largest in the world, had, in the twenty-one years ending Ja-
nuary 1 850, assured 22,063 lives ; and there were, in the beginning of this year, sub-
sisting assurances on no less than 15,471 of these lives.

   Column 3 of the following table shows, that if the rate of mortality in the So-
ciety had been the same as among the male population of England and Wales, the
total number of deaths would have been 3196-59, while the expected mortality by
the tables of the Society was 3194 ; but the actual mortality had been 3144. It is
152                    --REPORT 1850.

                Ages.         Table I.
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                       153

table renresents the rate of mortality as observed among the male members generally

^ MrtFfsoJwtahtioifaaneaecrsnadsekVr'ntoramde'tTetshaihtectsinedshehsneeatorbttoifmuei^eeitnt'^mtnthnuorsvomeTroeleortopstcLreanothotLlilena'iigieslditasrinyta,srteitteycdaeorsaiinonoswtkomdioiiaffplnnoaml'onsmrgoisoltiocnrayoenfktsgdcncba^reMoeleetesl'risxhasirCtcpeseouyleeivblumnceoalsteirotmitnsamchvhotboehafinmsl'etrvogeyisrerefoststnuo'faodhrfcloSlettiiftyhhe*atmteeOtyseieri.doemsmcs^tde.igbi"meeceRtFsbnqiereeeIe-csolrsnref"lasnoogl-attfewohlpnofvenyeSennoitrcecaBha^yine^,ooetl^taft^my.^bi^re^stlee^^dhhesM?^ieae^^canpL.l;apaam.e,,lppaprfeer,tnipanrnuLrrere^oderbf^,tile^yoesls^sisos^°tuicu^iuiop^tient-ss^

regulate the mortahty of c^hereWs namely,
                                                                                                                              ^^^^^

Xtafai^^if stTe^t^faleTrtTm that the higher the class of
-:itfsoorotibSh'steeyercrCvimeenedrddrltiahinotinewchohciflcatthsshheeetsh,oeibrnasedeuvrisasvtrarlytieisionsougsnosfdwjeetogxhrretkeemernedaog,nfu,ulmnaottrrhitleaan*lgd'ir-tehyaePtaieeslrt^ohtbgfhsueeelrrvdaaatbiell^eyJo,^efgxf^emo^rol^crl^itosaweliinetgsyspe; rnetatinatdly

closely the scale of their position in social rank.

  m :-The results of this inquiry will be found in detail
                         the fo,,l,,lo,,w:i,,n,,g tta,,bwl,,e .

             Table III.

    Year of
Membership.
--154 9EPORT 1850.

                                                                           IV.

Period elapsed from the date of Assuring, till Death, of those dying among the

                                        Assured, during the Years 1839-49.

                 Age.
--

TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  155

the immense pecuniary interests at stake by life offices, no inquiry or investigation
of this kind has ever been undertaken by them, and the preceding and other collate-
ral collections of facts, it is believed, are the only sources of information so analysed
which anywhere exists. From the specimens now furnished from the records of
friendly societies, the very remarkable aids which they must afford in estimating the
value of peculiar classes of lives, by confining fluctuations within known limits, must
be evident. The trouble and expense of collecting such data is very great, but still

the information itself is of tenfold value to the life institutions of the country.
   Attention is next directed to the following table, which is somewhat analogous in

its character to Table IV., only that the element of age, with a view to its more sim-
ple application to practical purposes, is excluded. From the register of deaths for the
years 1840-49, an abstract has been made of those which have taken place in the first,
second, third, and every subsequent year, from the date of the policies, and the results

constitute the following table :

                                                       Table V.
                           .;

156                        --REPORT 1850.

                                   Table VI.--Deaths in the Gotha Life Office

                                                                                 Ages.

     Causes of death.

                                                  iM

 All causes                                                                    36      55                                    77
                                                                               36                                            48
 Specified cases                                                                       4 10
                                                                               33      52                                    77
            Zymotic diseases                                                           46                                   10 11
               Sporadic Diseases.                                              11      49
                                                                                       4 10                                  67
            Dropsy, cancer, and other diseases                                 38      58                                    78
                  of uncertain or variable seat                                3       67
                                                                               16
             Tubercular diseases
                                                                                       63
          Diseases of the brain, spinal mar
                row, nerves, and senses

            Diseases of the heart and blood-

                   vessels
     VI. Diseases of the lungs and of the

                 other organs of respiration . .
   VII. Diseases of the stomach, liver, and

                 other organs of digestion

 VIII. Diseases of the kidneys, &c
    IX. Childbirth, diseases of the ute-
              rus, &c
           Rheumatism, diseases of the bones,
             joints, &c

             Diseases of the skin, cellular tis-
                sue, &c.

 XIII. DebiUty
  XV. Age

XVII. Violence, privation, cold, and in-
               temperance

In this table it will be found that the causes of death are unspecified in 8 only out

of the 2471 cases recorded. The results herein given are so novel, but yet so varied,

that it will be impossible to discuss them fully within the limits of this paper, and the
most obvious will therefore be only brought under consideration. In Table IV. pre-

ceding, it was seen that, measuring the period which elapsed from the date of effect-
ing the policies to the date of death, the interval was less for young lives than for
older ones ; and here, by adopting the opposite test, of measuring the interval from
the date of death to the date of assuring, the same law is found to prevail, although

in a more remarkable degree ; and this difference is evidently owing to the circum-
stance, that all deaths among policies of long standing must necessarily be included
in the more advanced periods of life in the above table, but included in younger

periods of life in Table IV. However, as the same law shows itself in both classes
of results differing only in degree, the greater weight is thereby given to the unex-
pected principles disclosed, and should lead those connected with the management of
life offices to the serious consideration of the financial questions which so obviously

arise out of the results. The following shows the results for six of the principal
--classes of disease :
                        «

Of the diseases in Class I., namely, the zymotic and sporadic diseases, it will be

seen that the duration of the assurances on the lives falling by this class of disease is
less at every age than the average from all causes, except at the term of life 35-44

and it will likewise be seen, that for all ages taken collectively, the duration of the

pohcies lapsing from this disease is less than the average duration of all policies.

The same observation does not apply to Class II. Under age 40, the duration of

the policies is less than the average ;           but  in  the  term  of life  40-54,  greater                              the suc-
                                                                                                                         ;

ceeding ten years again less ; and in the term 65-74, greater ; but for all ages col-

lectively, the duration of policies becoming claims on account of death from this group

of diseases, is five months greater than the average.

In group III., which includes the tubercular diseases, it will be seen, that for all

ages under 60, with the exception of the quinquennial term, 40-44, the period elapsed
from the date of assuring to the date of death is above the average of the period con-

nected with the deaths from all causes, showing that, for those ages, the deaths of this
                       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS,  157

from all Causes, and the average
--158 REPORT 1850.

constantly above the average. On referring to the details of group III., it will be

found that these peculiar results are due wholly to the deaths from phthisis, and there-

fore the preceding observations are strictly applicable to that disease only.

Group IV. contains the diseases of the nervous system, and it will be seen that the

results do not  differ widely from those  for all  causes                                alid  the same  remark applies
                                                                                      ;

to the deaths from apoplex}', wliich form a large proportion of this section.

On referring to group VI., which represents the other diseases of the lungs and the

organs of respiration, it will be seen that, with the exception of the decennial term of

life, 55-64, the deaths take place in a shorter time after the date of assuring than in

the average of the deaths from all causes, and in the aggregate of all the ages the

difference is six months. These remits are due chiefly to the deaths from pneumonia,

which constitute 229 out of the 251 deaths of this group. And it will further be

seen, that the deaths from asthma have taken place at a prolonged period beyond the

average.

In regai-d to the diseases enumerated in group VII., it will be found that, on the

average, they agree in their results with the deaths from all causes ; and that in the

different quinquennial terms of life the results are in some instances above, and in

others below the average.

If attention be now directed to the rate of mortality from the various specified

causes given in Table VI., it will be found that, for all ages taken collectively, the

greatest mortahty has resulted from zymotic diseases, or those forming group I. ; and
next, tubercular diseases, or group III., which are here separated from the other

diseases of the lungs and organs of respiration, which form a distinct class in group

VI. The rate of mortality from the zymotic diseases does not differ widely between

ages 31-50, but from that age upwards a rapid and uniform rate of increase takes

place: in group II., including dropsy, cancer, &c., there is a uniform rate of in-

crease from the younger to the older ages. In the class of tubercular diseases, there
is not much difference in the rate of mortality from between ages 31-50 ; but in the

next three quinquennial terms of life there is a gradual increase. In group IV. there

will be observed a very great difference between the rate of mortality at the younger

and more advanced ages ; of the 375 deaths in this group, 274 consist of deaths from
apoplexy. The results of group VI. resemble in their relation those in connexion

with group III. Group VII., it will be observed, resembles the results of group IV.

in having a very low rate of mortality at the earlier ages, and increasing rapidly at

the more advanced terms of life.

   The preceding remarks have been made on six only of the principal groups of dis-
eases, and the following condensed abstract of the results may be interesting. The
Roman numerals represent the diseases as grouped in the preceding table.

Diseases arranged according to the Order of their Intensity at the following Ages.

31--35.
                                                  --

                   TRANSACTIONS OF tAS B&CTIONS.  159

spiratory organs will be found to take precedence of all others between ages 31-70,
and in the term of life 70-80 they will stand fourth in order.

   With the view to show the relative intensity of the various groups of disease at
different terms of life amongst different populations, the following abstract is given
from results deduced from facts presented in the reports of the Registrar-General :

 Group of dis-
eases classified.
160                     --REPORT 1850.
               H

                     o
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                       161

   From the table it would appear that in four years 3601 original suits were deter-
mined by FAiropean agency, and 310,509 original suits by native agency ; the former

givin"- a per-centage of M7, and the latter 98-83 per cent. There were 1664 appeals

from "the European agency, or 45-4 per cent, of the original suits decided, but only 25
per cent, of them were reversed. The appeals from the decisions of the native judges
were 12,790, or 4-1 per cent. ; the reversals were 4309, or 33-8 per cent The Euro-
pean judges only [with the exception of the principal Sadder Anieens] deal with ap-

mpeal cases, and the greater number of appeals against their decisions orignial suits

is probably owint' to the greater amount at stake upon which they decide, than in the
suits before the native judges. During the four years there were only three farmers

in jail at the instance of government for arrears of land-tax.

On the Prevalence and Mortality of Cholera in the Indian Armies.
              By CuTHBERT Finch, M.D., B.E.LC.S.

   Dr. Finch prefaced his paper by remarking that there exists in this country very

exaggerated opinions as to the frequency and fatality of spasmodic cholera in India.
   The scope of his paper was to show that the disease was neither so frequent nor so

fatal in the East as is generally believed in this part of the world. With this view
Dr. Finch had prepared tabular statements of the absolute number of sick and deaths

from cholera and per-centages of sick and casualties from this dire disease to strength,
and to sick from all other diseases, and to deaths from all other causes in the Madras

and Bombay armies for the year 1847, drawn from the latest returns received in this
country. The returns for 1847 from Bengal have not yet been received at the India

House.

  mFrom
                                                                  nPresi-1dency  ·  847---t Afr

these  tabular  statements,  it  appeared  that  in  the  Madras                    1

Of European troops the strength was                               11,429

Cases of sickness from all other diseases                         18,585

Cases of sickness from cholera                                                      31

Deaths from all other diseases                                                   323
Deaths from cholera                                                               22

Per-centage of cases of cholera to strength                                      "271
Per-centage of deaths to strength                                                '192

Per-centage of cholera to all other diseases                                     "167

Per-centage of deaths from cholera to deaths from all other causes 6 81

Of native troops the strength was . . . ,                         67,950

Cases of sickness from all other diseases                         51,728

Cases of sickness from cholera                                                   227

Deaths from all other diseases                                                   805

Deaths from cholera                                                                 '^

Per-centage of cases of cholera to strength                                      '334

Per-centage of deaths from cholera to strength                                   '114

Per-centage of cases of cholera to all other diseases                            "138

Per-centage of deaths from cholera to deaths from all other diseases 9689

--In the Bombay Presidency, during the year 1847          (

    Of European troops the strength was                                          8,736
                                                                               18,509
     Cases of sickness from all other diseases
     Cases of sickness from cholera                                                  45
     Deaths from all other diseases                                                285
     Deaths from cholera
     Per-centage of oases of cholera to strength                                    24
     Per-centage of deaths to strength
     Per-centage of cases to all other diseases                                      "515
     Per-centage of deaths to deaths from all other diseases                        '274
                                                                                     '243
    Of native troops the strength was                             . . . 9'195
                                                                               43,930
     Cases of sickness from all other diseases                                 43,313
     Cases of sickness from cholera                                                253
     Deaths from all other causes
     Deaths from cholera                                                          369
     Per-centage of sick of cholera to strength                                    100

1850.                                                                                "575

                                                                           M
                                                                                 --

1G2 REPORT-- 1850.

Per-centage of deaths from cholera to strength      ·227

Per-centage of cases of cholera to sick of all other diseases , . -587

Per-centage of deaths from cholera to deaths from all other diseases 27* 1

A summai-y of these per-centages show, that of the European force, 11,429 strong,

stationed in the Madras Presidency during the year 1847, there were attacked by cho-

lera only "271 per cent., little more than one man in 400; and of whom died '192

per cent., less than one man in 500.

   Of the European troops, 8736 strong, serving in the Bombay Presidency in 1847,
there were sufferers from cholera '515 per cent., or one man in 200; of whom died
·274 per cent., or about one man in 400.

   Of the Madras native army, consisting of 67,950 men, the sick of cholera to
strength was '334 per cent., or about one man in 300 ; of whom died only ·I 14 per
cent., or one man in 900.

Of the Bombay native army, comprising 43,930 sepoys, the ratio of sick to strength

was -575 per cent., or little more than one man in 200 ; but the loss occasioned by
the disease did not exceed -227 per cent., not amounting to one man in 400.

These results demonstrate, that though epidemic cholera is still a frequent and fatal

disease in the Indian armies, it is neither so prevalent nor so mortal as it is generally

believed to be ; and show, that military service in India does not necessarily entail so

great a risk of life from this disease as is generally supposed in this part of the globe.

On the Progress of Glasgow, in Population, Wealth, Manufactures, Sfc.
                         By John Strang, LL.D.

   The steady progress and growing importance of almost all the manufacturing and
commercial cities of Great Britain, since the conclusion of the last war, may be con-
sidered as admitted facts, and have no doubt tended much to alter and improve the

whole social condition of the country. In the rapidity of its progress, perhaps no city

has rivalled, far less surpassed Glasgow, the commercial metropolis of Scotland. This

has chiefly arisen from this city being, if I may use the expression, cosmopolitan in

its commerce and manufactures. Glasgow unites within itself a portion of the cotton-

spinning and weaving manufactures of Manchester, the printed calicoes of Lancashire,

the stutfs of Norwich, the shawls and mouselines of France, the silk-throwing of Mac-

clesfield, the flax-spinning of Ireland, the carpets of Kidderminster, the iron and en-
gineering works of Wolverhampton and Birmingham, the pottery and glass-making of

Staffordshire and Newcastle, the ship-building of London, the coal trade of the Tyne

and Wear, and all the handicrafts connected with or dependent on the full development

of these. Glasgow also has its distilleries, breweries, chemical works, tan-works, dye-
works, bleachfields, and paper manufactories, besides a vast number of staple and fancy

hand-loom fabrics, which may be strictly said to belong to that locality. Glasgow

also, in its commercial relations, trades with every quarter of the globe, and its merchants

deal in the various products of every country. It hence appears, that one branch of

manufacture or trade may be dull while another may be prosperous ; and, accordingly,

Glasgow does not feel any of those universal depressions which so frequently occur in

places limited to one or two branches of manufacture or commerce.

   Although Glasgow may be justly said to be one of the most ancient cities in Scot-

land, it is at the same time one of the most modern of the towns of Great Britain. It
was a place of some consideration at the commencement of the twelfth century, when
the foundation of its cathedral was laid ; and yet, at the commencement of the nine-
teenth century, it had given proofs only of progress equal to those of many other towns
in the empire. From that time, however, its rise has been most striking, and in order

to bring this more palpably into view, the following statistical comparisons have been

prepared, which will at once prove the rapid and steady advance of this growing com-

--munity.
   Population. As a first and great proof of the city's progress, let us advert to the

statement of its increasing population ; and here we find it to be as follows :

In 1801 the population was                          77,385

1811  ,,                              estimated at  100,749
1821  ,,                                            147,043
1831  ,,                                            202,426
1841  ,,                                            282,134
1850  ,,                                            367,800
                                                                             ----

                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                          163

From these figures it appears that the population has nearlj' quintupled in 50 years,

and doubled itself in 20 years. In fact, the annual increase of the city has been found

to be as nearly as possible at the rate of 3f per cent., or at present about 12,000 per
annum.

This great increase, it need scarcely be stated, arises almost entirely from immigra-

tion. In illustration of this let us look to the following facts. The mortality during

1849 (including the cholera) was 12,883 ; and the rate of mortality to the estimated
population of that j'ear was (exclusive of still-born) 1 in 28-5. With i-espect to the

number of births  during the  same period it is impossible  to  speak  with  accuracy                                    but
                                                                                                                      ;

a pretty close approximation of these may be arrived at from tlie fact, that by the

census of 1841 the children found living at that time under one year old amounted to

2-96 per cent, of the whole population ; and assuming that Glasgow was in similar
circumstances in 1849 to what it was in 1841, the annual births ought to have

amounted (including those who died from 1 day to 12 months) to at least 12,000, or

1000 less than the deaths. The evident conclusion to be drawn from this, then, is

that the great increase of the population of Glasgow, even during periods of less mor-

tality than 1848 or 1849, depends almost entirely on immigration.

While the population has thus increased, it may reasonably be supposed that the

means of accommodating that population has inci-eased along with it, and this plainly

appears to be the case when the following comparative table is considered;

Gross number of Dwelling-Houses, Shops, Warehouses, and other possessions, within
                   the parliamentary boundary of Glasgow, in 1845 and 1850.

Years,
--164 REPORT 1850.

this and foreign countries are seen ranged three and four deep along its breast. At
present, loaded vessels of 1000 tons register come up easily to the harbour of Glasgow,
and are abreast of the quays in one tide ; while steam-ships of 2000 tons hiive been
built on the banks of the river, near to the city, and their machinery fitted up within

the harbour.

   The following are the numbers of the sailing and steam-vessels which arrived at the
harbour of Glasgow, with their registered tonnage, during the years ending July 1828,
1840 and 1850.

                  Tonnage during the years ending July 1828, 1840 and 1850.
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  165

Amount of Customs Duties collected, and of Ships (Glasgow property) registered.

Years ended.
--1G6 REPORT 1850.

  --Cotton Trade. Let us now look to only two of the staple manufactures of Glas-

gow, viz. cotton and iron, as a further illustration of its progress ; and first, let us take

--only two departments of the cotton trade cotton-spinning and power-loom weaving.

   The first steam-engine in Glasgow connected with cotton-spinning was erected in
1792 ; but it was not till the beginning of the present century that any considerable
quantity of 3'arn was spun in Scotland. At the present moment the extent of this
trade may be imagined, when it is stated that the number of spindles employed in
cotton-spinning connected with or dependent on Glasgow, amounts to about 1,800,000,
and that the cotton consumed will amount to nearly 45,000,000 lbs. or 120,000 bales.

   The power-loom was first introduced to Glasgow in 1793, by Mr. James L. Robert-
son, who brought two from the hulks on the Thames. In the following year forty
looms were fitted up at Milton; and in 1801, Mr. John Monteith had 200 looms at
work at Pollokshaws, near Glasgow. In 1831, the power-looms in or dependent on
Glasgow had increased to 15,137; and in the present year the power-looms belong-
ing to the city, or connected with it, number about 25,000, producing the daily average

--of 625,000 yards of cloth.
    Iron Trade. Although the cotton manufacture, in all its various combinations,
was to a certain period justly regarded as the staple trade of Glasgow and neighbour-

hood, it is problematical whether or not the iron trade may not now be looked upon
as equally important. From a document furnished me by Mr. Barclay, who lately
published a pamphlet on the statistics of the Scotch iron trade, I find that the num-
ber of smelting furnaces around Glasgow in 1830 was only 16, each producing an
average of 2500 tons of pig-iron per annum, or a total of 40,000 tons ; whereas, during

the year 1849, there were 79 furnaces, each producing about 6000 tons, or 475,000
tons per annum, showing an increase of more than ten times the amount in the course
of less than twenty years *. The manufacture of malleable iron in Scotland is of more
recent date, not having been propei'ly commenced till 1839, and no note of the quan-
tity made having been kept till 1845, when it appears the production was estimated at
35,000 tons. At present there are in operation five malleable iron-works near Glas-
gow, and one in Ayrshire, making the number at work in Scotland six, while the
production at present is estimated at 80,000 tons, or more than double in five years.

  --Qas. There is nothing connected with a great and growing city which marks its

progress more palpably than its consumption of gas. By merely glancing over the
annual returns of each of the various gas companies of the empire, it were at once
easy to predicate, with some degree of accuracy, the progress of its various towns.
Previous to 1817, Glasgow was dependent, like all other places, on oil or candle for
light. During that year the first gas-light company was instituted, which \vas fol-
lowed by another company in 1843. On the 15th September 1818, the streets ^»ere
first lighted with gas, and immediately thereafter it began to be used in dwelling-
houses and factories. The street lamps lit with gas in 1835-36 numbered 2888, and
in 1840, 3301 ; whereas at this time (1850) they amount to 7358. The present an-
nual cost paid by the police for lighting the city streets is ^639 13 7s. 3d., irrespective
of what is paid by the bridge and harbour trustees for the bridges and harbour. In
 1840 the quantity of gas consumed in Glasgow and suburbs, irrespective of that
burned by a few manufacturers who made their own gas, was 173 millions of cubic
feet; whereas at present the consumption, irrespective of the gas made at one public

 work, amounts to 441 millions of cubic feet!

  --Water. The next great point in the city's progress to which we would call atten-

tion is the supply of water. Prior to the year 1806, Glasgow was but indiflTerently
provided with water. It depended at that time wholly for its supply on twenty-nine
public wells (the greater number of which still remain), a few private pumps, and
what could be drawn from a spring at Willow-Bank, and which was carted to the city
and sold from door to door. About that period, however, the Glasgow Water Com-
pany was formed, which was soon followed by the Cranstonhill Company. These
companies, now united, have, up to 1 850, expended on their works and in laying pipes,

£440,047 64'. \0d.; and derived last year, say from May 1849 to May 1850, a re-

venue of £31,093 9s. Id. The daily sup])ly of water by this company amounts to
&,673,000 gallons, of which a portion is raised to the height of 245 feet. This com-
pany now limits its supply to the north side of the Clyde, the population of which may

    * In 1849 the blast furnaces in Scotland were 11.3 in blast, and 31 out of blast; the

quantity of iron produced is estimated at 690,000 tons.
                   ----

                   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                          ] 6'J

be taken in round numbers at 300,000, and deducting one-sixth part for the supply

of factories and public works, leaves upwards of eight millions of gallons for private

consumption, which amounts to about 27 gallons per day for every inhabitant. In

1846 another company was established to furnish water by gravitation, which, how-

ever, limited itself to the supply of the south side of the city, the population of which

may be taken in round numbers at from 60,000 to 70,000. This company at present

furnishes about 3,000,000 gallons per day, and after deducting the consumption by

public works, affords at the rate of about 28 gallons daily to each inhabitant. The total

quantity of water sent into Glasgow per day by these companies amounts to upwards

of 12,000,000 gallons!

   It were easy to multiply what may be called the bright salient points of the pro-

--gress of Glasgow, but it is time now to advert to one or two of the dark spots those

social shadows which are almost invariably found amid large accumulations of houses

and people ; and first of all, let us look to that constant companion of the progress of
wealth in great cities poverty.

 -- --Poor. In 1784 the assessment for the [loor of Glasgow, which was then limited

to the old burgh, was £1082. In 1816, a year of considerable mercantile distress and

of dear corn, the sum expended on the poor within the same extent of territory was

altogether £12,387 16s. 9d. and in 1850 the poor of the same locality cost no less a
                                                                                                                                                  ;

sum than £47,787 7s. 10c/., or four times as much in the course of little more than

thirty years. The present cost of the poor throughout the whole municipal city, which

includes two whole parishes and a portion of two others, is estimated at upwards of

--£80,000 a-year.
   Pauper Burials. One of the most striking and alarming features connected with

the management of the poor in Glasgow is the amount of pauper burials. Prior to

the close of last century, such an occurrence as a person being buried at the public

expense was almost unknown. During the last two years, howevei', the pauper burials

were as follows :

1848                                                                4042

1849                                                                3577

That so large a number of pauper burials should have taken place in Glasgow be-
speaks either, at the time, a great degree of poverty, or an increased unscrupulousness
respecting alms among the labouring population while the fact that twenty-six per

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;

cent, of the whole burials within the Bills of Mortality should have been paid during
1849 from parochial or charitable funds, exhibits a sad picture of the condition of
the working-classes, and if continued would loudly demand a most searching inquiry
into the causes of such a fearful increase of pauperism, and of the remedies which
should be adopted to meet and resist it*.

 --Police Crime. Let us next look at another dark point of a city's progress, the

amount of crime. The following return, which I -have just received from Mr. Smart,
the chief Superintendent of Police, at once exhibits the nature and extent of this :

Number of Persons brought before the Magistrates of Glasgow, in the Police Courts

                        of Glasgow, during the year 1849.

                                                           Men. Women.

1. Offences against the person                             241 37

2. Offences against property, committed with violence      209      52

3. Offences against property, without violence . . . 2,590 1,642

4. Malicious offences against property                     128 72

5. Forgery and offences against the currency . . . 26 22

                                                           3,194 1,825

6. Drunk and disorderly                 ..., . , . . 6,823 1,547
7. Drunk and incapable                                     . 1,688  200

                                                                                           1 11,705 3,572

   * It is but fair to state, that during these two years fever and cholera both frightfully
prevailed, and cut off a vast number of the labouring classes who had no relatives in the
city, and also hundreds of poor Irish who fled to Glasgow before the famine fever in

Ireland,

   t These figures do not give a correct view of individual crime, seeing that the same per-
                                 -- ----

--168 REPORT 1850.

Cost to the community, of the criminal portion of the city police for 1849,

£21,816 19s. 2(/.

 --Amount of fines levied in the various police-offices within the city, £3583 \s. 4rf.

   Prisons. As a coroUarj' on crime we now turn to the prisons of Glasgow. Pre-
vious to 1810, the Tollbootli, or prison, like many others in Scotland, was indifferent
enough. At that time a new jail was erected near the river, at the west end of the
Green, and the old one was removed. There was also at that period a bridewell or

house of correction. In the year 1820, the cost of these establishments to the Cor-

poration, who then paid for the prisons, was £1058 4s. l\d.; whereas, in the year

ending June 1 850, the gross cost of the prisons of Glasgow was

                                                                       £ s. d.

Less, received for work                           10,321 J5 10|e
                                                   1,671 14 6

                                 Net cost         8,550 1 4^

   The average daily number was 717. The gross cost per head was £14 7s. lOf J.
Average earnings, £2 Gs. 1M. Net cost per head, £12 l.s. S^d.

   The following was the state of the prisons of Glasgow during the year ending June
1850:--

                                                                                                                    Males. Females. Both.

Number of criminal prisoners (male and female) in

confinement on 1st July 1850                      470 285 755

Number received during year ended 30th June 1850 2549 1572 4121

Total number in confinement                       3019    1857                  4876

Average daily number                               418     299                    717
                                                      17                            18
...Number of civil prisoners on 1st July 1849                     1
                                                   183                            194
Number received during year ended 30th June 1850             11

Total number in confinement                       200 12 212

Average number of debtors                             15         1                  16
Total number who have passed through the prison,  3219                          5088
                                                          1869
   criminal and civil

  --Local ^Assessments. And now, to conclude this dark side of our picture, let us

state the cost which the progressive city we have been illustrating is obliged to pay
annually for the alleviation of poverty, for the suppression of crime, and the mainte-
nance and cleansing of the streets. It is as follows :

Police                                     £50,933
Statute-labour                               15,648
                                                          £66,581
Prisons                                                         8,049
                                                                3,283
House of refuge

Poor-rates in the municipality;            ·£66,250
                                               25,000
            City                                 7,644
          Barony                                 2,363

          Govan

            Gorbals

                                                          101,257

                                                                                                    £179,170

   When this large annual local burden ia added to the government taxes in the

shape of property and income-tax, cess and assessed taxes, it must appear quite plain

sons may have been several times committed during the year. The same remark is appli-

cable to the prisons.
    * This sum, although laid on, was not realised, being levied according to the means and

substance mode, occasioning maiiv rtis]Hites and objections to pavment. Perhaps not more
than .^15,000 or £1G,000 was rcfiuircd.
                                                    TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                169

that without great capital and indomitable industry such a load could not long be

--sustained.
    Concluding remarks. Notwithstanding all the drawbacks above hinted at, Glasgow

still seems destined to advance in a ratio as prodigious as heretofore. At this moment

a  new town                                is  being added                                                   to its  western  and                                            northern boundary                                                                                                               streets,  squares   and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;

crescents rise on every hand : a dozen of new spires, surpassing in architectural beauty

the steeples of the old established kirk, formerly the monopolist of such structures,

are shooting up in every direction, to give character and beauty to the city. The

ancient bridge, which, previous to the erection lately of Hutcheson's and the Glasgow

bridge, was for nearly six centuries the only communication between the north and

south sides of the Clyde, has been just swept away to make room for a granite struc-

ture, equal in breadth to London Bridge. The deepening-machine and the diving-

Abell are daily labouring to maintain and increase the depth of the river.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             thousand

minds are nightly dreaming either of new combinations of forms or of colours to meet

the growing taste of an advancing world, or are devising new mechanical appliances

to diminish labour and ease mankind of toil. The manufacturer is still increasing

his spindles and his looms, the merchant is still looking out for new products and new

markets, while hundreds are flocking from all quarters of the land, full of hope or of

enterprise, to join the already congregated crowd of eager competitors for labour or

for gain. And yet, amid all this restless enterprise and activity, philanthropy is not

asleep, for we find her engaged in raising lodging-houses for the industrious, retreats

for the poor and the aged, houses for the houseless, hospitals for the sick, and schools

for the ragged and the neglected ; and, in fine, ministering to the sprrows and alle-

viating the miseries of the diseased and the unfortunate.

                                                                                                             MECHANICAL SCIENCE.

The Astronomer Royal exhibited specimens of some spare castings for the pivots

of the large transit-circle now in preparation at the works of Messrs. Ransomes and

May, Ipswich, for the Royal Observatory, Greenwich. These castings had been

broken for the purpose of showing the chilled structure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and the Astronomer Royal,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;

in exhibiting them, alluded shortly to the construction of the instrument, and to the

connexion of its general arrangement with the use of chilled iron for the pivots. The

instrument is in form like a transit instrument canying two large circles (one for

graduations, the other for clamping) : the axis is 6 feet long, consisting of two

cones whose bases are attached to a cube of 20 inches; the telescope is 12 feet

long,  carrying                                 an  eight-inch                                                    object-glass                                               the  circles are                                                                                                             6  feet in  diameter.  To
                                                                                                                                                                          ;

carry an instrument of these dimensions (weighing about a ton) hard pivots are

evidently indispensable                                                                                      but  the Astronomer                                             Royal  had been taught by experience
                                                                                                          ;

to put no trust in the connexion of pivots of one material with an axis of another

material                                   and  he would                                                     therefore   scarcely have ventured                                                                                                                                                              on  the   construction
                                        ;

of an instrument of this magnitude, unless he had been able to find a material

which, in different parts of the same flow of metal, could be made soft and easily

workable in one part, and hard in another. It was at Mr. May's suggestion that
cast iron was adopted, the pivots being " chilled." This process (which, as the

Astronomer Royal believed, was either invented or was first extensively introduced by
the senior Mr. Robert Ransome, for the purpose of hardening one side only of cast-

iron plough-shares, so that in their wearing they may always preserve a sharp edge)

consists in casting the iron in a mould of iron which is heated to a degree known by

experience to be the most favourable for hardening the cast. [In the specimens

which were produced, the pivots were hardened to the depth of about half an inch,

and to this depth the iron is so hard as to be scarcely touched by a file.] The axis'

including the central cube, the two cones, and the 'two pivots, was formed in two

casts (their line of separation bisecting the cube). Each of these was cast in a mould,

of which all that included the semi-cube and the cone was of sand, while that part
which included the pivot was of iron. The joining surfaces were planed, and the

cones were                                 turned,  in  the                                                  usual way,  but the pivots" were ground with cmerv                                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;
--170 REPORT 1850.

after overcoming some difficulties, a very perfect form had apparently been given to
them. In alluding to this part of the operation, the Astronomer Royal took occasion
to express his strong disapproval of the practice (so universal among engineers) of
turning and boring with the axis of the lathe or borer horizontal. The difficulties
in the shaping of these pivots appeared to have arisen entirely from the action of the
weight of the iron transversely to the axis, and were overcome at last only by the use
of counterpoises with friction-wheels : in all probability they would never have pre-
sented themselves if the boring and turning had been effected with the axis vertical.

   The axis being thus made of cast iron, it followed almost as a necessary mechani-
cal consequence that the telescope tubes and the circles should be made of cast iron.
It had been matter of serious anxiety to ascertain whether the rusting of the iron,
which might be expected at the contact of the iron with the band of silver on which
the divisions were to be cut, would be so great as to endanger the firmness of the
silver band. An experimental circle had therefore been cast and turned, and a silver
band had been inserted ; and this circle had been exposed to wet in every possible
form, till the whole was covered with such a mass of rust, that the band, in some
places, could scarcely be seen. On clearing off the rust, it was found that the surface
touching the silver was nowhere affected.

    On a Register Hygrometer for regulating the Atmospheric Moisture of
                         Houses. By J. G. Appold.

   This instrument, with a variation of one-quarter of a degree in the hygroraetric
state of the atmosphere, opens a valve capable of supplying ten quarts of water per

hour, conveying it on to the surface of warm pipes covered with blotting-paper, by

which the water is evaporated until the atmosphere is sufficiently saturated, and the
valve thereby closed.

  A lead pencil attached registers the distance the hygrometer travels, and thus a

sheet of paper moved by a clock would show the hygrometric state of the atmosphere
at any period of time.

   The author presented a drawing and description of the apparatus.

    On an improved Door Spring. By George Beattie, Editibtirgh.

   The motive power is the pressure of the atmosphere acting on one side of a pis-
ton, the other side being a vacuum. In applying this pressure to shut a door, about
2 lbs. to the square inch is lost by the friction of the machinery. The pressure of
the air acts simply as a counterbalance on the piston, the resistance being uniform
throughout the travel of the door when opening it, and when shutting the door the
regularity of motion and avoiding of slam is obtained by means of a stream of oil
being made to discharge from a cylinder through a large or small aperture, accord-
ing to the speed required. Fluids being almost incompressible, the oil will not pass
through the aperture beyond a given rate, which is in proportion to the size of the
aperture and the quantity to be discharged, and the power of the cylinder the vacuum
is formed in to press it through. There is nothing in the machinery employed
liable to break or get out of order. The construction was minutely described.

The President, Sir David Brewster communicated the substance of a note ad-

dressed by Dr. Jules Guyot to tha Abbe Moigno claiming the priority of the inven-

tion of the tubular bridge. Dr. Jules Guyot had taken out patents in France in

1844 and 1845, and one in England in 1846, for a tubular girder consisting of a

number of hollow rectangular parallelopideds or cells, formed either of bars or

frames (chassis) of iron united by pins, or formed of one piece of cast iron. This was

no doubt an anticipation of Mr. Stephenson's idea of a tubular bridge, as stated in

1846 to the Committee of the House of Commons                                                                                                                                                                                           but Mr.  Stephenson afterwards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;

founded his claim to that invention upon his bridge at Ware, erected about October

1843, previous to Dr. Guyot's patent. Sir D. Brewster, however, states that a tu-

bular girder bridge had been erected in 1840 or 1841 by Mr. A. Thomson over the
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  l7l

Pollock and Govan Railway near Glasgow, who had thus anticipated both Mr. Ste-

phenson and Dr. Guyot.

On some proposed Improvements in Valves, Stopcocks or Stoppers for regu-

  Bylating the Passage of Fluids, by the Use of Flexible Substances.

   George Buchanan, F.R.S.E., Civil Engineer.

   The author adverted to the great importance of this subject in practical mechanics,
affecting essentially all the arrangements for the supply of water to our cities and
dwellings, and for the regulating and feeding of our water cisterns, our ordinary
boilers for hot water as well as the boilers of steam-engines, and also in the safety-
valves and other valves of steam-engines, and in gas-works ; a wide field, but only
into a small portion of which he meant to enter at present. Considering however
the skill and perfection already attained by our engineers, and the many improve-
ments introduced by eminent scientific and practical men, he might well feel difiident
in bringing before the Association anything out of the usual course of practice, and
could only plead the important and interesting nature of the subject, should the
views not prove of practical value in themselves.

   The first improvement, and which applies to all valves of the lifting kind, conical
or flat, and to the stoppers of bottles, consists in the introduction and use of a flexible
substance, as vulcanized India-rubber, to form one of the bearing surfaces of the
valve ; and this not as a washer in the usual way, but in the form of a distended mem-
brane, stretched across the mouth of an opening or cavity formed in the centre or
round the circumference of the lid of the valve. This opening or cavity is of larger
diameter than that of the valve orifice, so that when the orifice is brought to press
against the membrane, this latter presents, by its smooth and even surface and by
its tension and great elasticity, the means of producing with facility a perfect contact
with the metallic glass or other surface, to the exclusion of the fluid, and sealing the
orifice by simpler means than any hitherto in use. The cavity behind the membrane
may be either open or shut ; if open, the pressure against the orifice of the valve in
closing is resisted by the membrane, but in such a way that the elasticity and tension
of all its parts are brought into action ; different from the case of a washer, where
the narrow bearing surface is only affected, compressing a thin ring of the soft ma-
terial against the metal, while here the pressure is diffused over the whole surface,
every particle of which is brought into play, and the substance thereby less liable to
tear and wear and derangement. If the cavity behind the membrane be shut, then
the pressure of the valve orifice is resisted, both by the elasticity of the membrane
and by the confined air behind, presenting a sort of cushion of resistance, and along
with the air, water or other fluid, is sometimes introduced as a fluid cushion.

    The bearing surface should be narrow, and so far indeed as the contact is con-
cerned and the exclusion of the fluid, it may be reduced to a very thin edge ; for
 Mr. Buchanan had found by various experiments that it is not so much the breadth
of the surfaces in contact as their mutual pressure, on which the effect of excluding
the fluid depends ; and the narrower therefore the surface is made, the gieater is the
 intensity of any given pressure.

    Such is the principle of this first improvement upon valves, and so far as experience

had gone the result was very satisfactory. He had found the vulcanized India-rubber

 to retain its form and tension for a long period unimpaired. If applied loosely, the form
was liable to change by pressure, but in the form of a distended membrane it re-
 tained its form and elasticity in a surprising manner, and this both with air and water.
 With hot water and steam of a moderate pressure, he had also reason to think it
 would answer, but had not tested it for sufficient length of time to speak decisively.
Tlie distension of the membrane he had contrived to produce in a very simple manner,
 by joining round the circumference of the membrane or disc previous to distension
 another similar disc with an opening in the centre, or else a thickish ring, and then
 by applying a metallic ring of larger diameter than the membrane the required dis-
tension was easily effected.

    Mr. Buchanan then illustrated the application by various experiments and models,
 and its peculiar adaptation in all cases of regulating the level of fluids where the ope-
 ration to be effected depends on a nice balance of forces ; and he had applied it suc-
cessfully in this way as a ball-cock or regulating valve for cisterns, and also for hot
172 REPORT-- 1850.

water boilers under various forms, and all having the advantages of the valve running
full-bore till the cistern be filled, when it closes at once, and also the surfaces not
adhering by contact.

    In all these cases, the membrane, at least the bearing surface, is not subjected to
the full pressure of the fluid in the pipes ; it is under a balance of forces, and the only
force acting is the preponderating one necessary to close the valve.

   He also showed the peculiar adaptation of this valve to the water metre, an instru-
ment of gieat importance, but which had hitherto failed, he believed, entirely for want

of a sufficient delicacy and permanence in the action of the valves ; also the appli-
cation to another important case, viz. the feeding of steam-engine boilers, which he
illustrated by drawings and a regulating apparatus, consisting of valves and float in
a small vessel or cistern separate from the boiler, and which he had found to act with

excellent effect. He also showed the application to annular valves, a form of great

value, and which had been already introduced with success in pump-work, combining
a large area of discharge with a small lift in the valve.

   The second improvement introduced by Mr. Buchanan, and involving another
leading principle, consists in the application of the flexible substance, not merely as
the bearing surface or lid of the valve orifice, but as a medium by which the pressure
of the fluid, either water, steam or others flowing in the main pipes, is by a very
simple arrangement brought to bear upon the flexible substance, and communicate
this pressure to the lid of the valve so as to close it at once and effectually, and by
means greatly simpler and requiring less mechanical power and arrangement than any
hitherto ia use, and by which valves and corks of the largest dimensions, and either
of the membrane kind or of any other description, can be worked by the opening or
shutting of a very small orifice. This principle Mr. Buchanan illustrated by
drawings, showing the mode of applying the pressure, and by experimental models
of cocks and valves, the effect of which appeared extraordinary and capable of exten-
sive application, and whereby there appeared to be introduced a new principle of
action for working hydraulic and other kinds of machinery with a degree of ease and

facility not hitherto attained.

   Mr. Palmer Budd made a Communication in continuation of his paper, pub-
lished in the Transactions of the Association for 1848, "On the Advantageous Use
made of the Gaseous Escape from the Blast Furnaces at Ystalyfera."

   He explained how he had applied the ceconomy described in 1848 to all the fur-

naces at the Ystalyfera works, so as to dispense with the fuel and labour before em-
ployed to heat the blast and raise the steam for the engines. As to effect this the
distance to which the gaseous escape had to be carried was increased, he had found
it advantageous to drop into the furnace at the charging place a funnel or hopper of
sheet iron, of a depth sufficient to shield entirely the mouths of the horizontal flues

conveying off the escape. By this appliance there was about a foot of space clear

of material, at the entrance of the flues ; and the difficulty that sometimes arose in
high winds was obviated, and the flues themselves were protected from the lodging

of any portion of the materials thrown into the furnace. He found in practice that

as long as there was a free ascending column through the furnace, this iron hopper
was not injured from heat; and that the only danger of injury was during and after
stoppages of the furnace, when the ascending column was faint and not sufficient to
oppose the descent of the atmosphere.

    Mr. Budd noticed the introduction of his plan into the Scotch furnaces, and
pointed out the great advantages that might be derived from the great abundance of
the gaseous escape from them, from the nature of the fuel used, and stated that the
waste heat from one furnace in Scotland would probably heat the blast and raise

the steam for three, leaving the top escape of two-thirds of the furnaces disposable
for other purposes, which he pointed out.

               On the Hyperbolic Law of Elasticity of Cast Iron.
            By HoMERSHAM Cox, B.A. Jestis College, Cambridge.

    By the formula? ordinarily used, the elasticity of a uniform iron rod subject to direct
extension or compression is represented as proportional, up to a certain limit, to the
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                   173

extending or compressing forces. It appears however from experiment, that for

equal increments of extension the inci'ease of tensile force is continually less and less.

The decreasing ratio of the elastic force to the corresponding extension or compres-

sion, indicating what is sometimes termed defect of elasticity, was noticed by Leib-
nitz, James Bernoulli and others* very soon after Doctor Hooke announced the first-
mentioned law, which is known in England by his name.

If the extending weight (co) be considered such a function of the extension (e) as

to be capable of being expressed by a convergent series ascending by integral powers

of e. Dr. Hooke's law, by which 0)= Ae, where A is a constant (called the " modu-

lus of elasticity "), may be considered as stopping at the first term of such a series.

To correct the errors of Dr. Hooke's formula, the step which suggests itself most ob-

viously is to add on another term of the series ; so that,

                               (o=Ae-- Be2,                       (1.)
where B is another constant ; or dividing bj' e,

                  ^=A-Be                                          (2.)

                  e

And as the ratio of cb to e decreases as e increases, the second term on the second

side of the equation is necessarily negative.

Such a formula is compared with experiment in a valuable paper by Eaton Hodg-

kinson, Esq., Appendix to the Report (1849) of the Royal Commission "appointed

to inquire into the application of Iron to Railway Structures." But on examination

--it will be found that the differences between the results of the formula and experi-

ments are not -f and promiscuously, but themselves follow a certain order.
   Eight formulae are given for extension of different kinds of iron ; and we observe

in all, without exception, that one-half, and generally more, of the results come

together in the middle of each series of experiments with errors having the same

sign, and are preceded and followed by errors affected by the contrary sign. The

formula cannot, however, be considered satisfactory until the errors be affected hy

--the 4- and signs promiscuously and without regular sequence. From the general

character of these errors, it may be inferred by sufficient analytical reasoning that a
formula involving the first three powers of the extension would possess much greater

accuracy f than one involving only two powers, if the constant coefficients were

properly chosen.

   All these formulae, however, lead to excessively complicated results when applied to
investigations respecting the deflection of beams. They Lave moreover the serious

inconvenience, that, from the expression for the weight in terms of the extension to

find conversely the extension in terms of the weight, it is necessary to solve quadratic

and cubic equations involving very large numerical coefficients.

   The formula about to be proposed is far more accurate than the formula (1,), and
has greatly the advantage of simplicity of computation from it. It can be applied

with great facility to obtain the extension from the extending force, or the latter from
the former. It has also this advantage, that, when applied to the theory of beams,

it leads to an expression similar in form to itself, from which, with the utmost readi-

ness, the deflection can be computed from the transverse pressure, or the latter from

the former.

    If a, and jS be empirical constants, it will be found that the relation of to to e, for

a rod of a unit of length and a unit of sectional area, may be nearly expressed by

the equation      -m =«-- /3a)

                   e                                              (3.)

This is the equation to a rectangular hyperbola of which e and w are the co-ordi-

nates parallel to the asymptotes, and referred to an origin at a point in the curve.

  The proposed formula therefore exhibits the Hyperbolic Law of Elasticity

according to the nomenclature of James Bernoulli, who {loc. cit.) represents the re-

lation of the tension to the extension by a curve which he calls the Linea tensioniim.

   Similarly, the formula (1.) may be termed the parabolic formula, for it is the equa-

   * Acta Eruditorura of Leipsic, 1694.

  + A formula involving four povrers is given in the Report in one case ; hut its accuracy

is little greater than that of the formulae of two powers, as the constant coefficients have not
been chosen by a method which gives the minimum error.
                                                           --

--174 REPORT 1850.

tion to a parabola of which co and e are co-ordinates, measured from a point in the
curve itself, perpendicular and parallel to the axis respectively.

   Tables* are given in the original paper in which the hyperbolic and parabolic law
are compared together, and with the results of experiments : and it is shown that
the former has the advantage of having a mean error between one- third and one-
fourth of the error of the parabolic formulas. The same comparison is extended to
the deflection of beams, for which formulae of similar forms are adopted.

   Taking the " hyperbolic " formula for direct longitudinal compression (c) of a rod
of a unit of length and a unit of sectional area by a direct force co to be

                                  ^y ----<o R
                                                                                                                               CO,

                                                                        C

and the " hyperbolic " formula for central deflection (/) of a rectangular bar by
a transverse pressure (m) applied perpendicularly at its centre to be

                                         --=f --CO ).
                                                                                                           i <»>

                                       /

the paper proceeds to show that the following equation is very nearly correct where
the deflection is of small magnitude compared with the length of the beam ;

                                    \ lo «+7 '

where P is half the deflecting pressure, d half the thickness of the beam in the di-

rection of that pressure, \l the breadth, and a half the length.
   The breaking weight of rectangular beams is then found in terms of the constants

«, ^, y, S ; and the resulting expression is, as far as its form is concerned, found to
be similar to that ordinarily used for determining the breaking weight of rectangular
beams.

   From the formulae for direct tension and for deflection may be obtained (by sub-
stituting in them the numerical values of a, (3, e, f, deduced from experiment) the
numerical values of y and 8 by means of the connecting equations last given.

   This method seems to give more accurate results than the experiments on direct
compression detailed in the Report, which are so irregular as evidently not to be
trustworthy. They were made by compressing bars enclosed in tubes of which the
sides resisted the flexure of the bars. This lateral resistance had of necessity great
effect in sustaining the external force applied to compress the bars, and was probably
the principal cause of the vitiation of the results.

   The numerical values of the constants for compression are obtained in the original
paper from several independent experiments, and agree with each other in a very
satisfactory manner. It is however to be observed, that a great desideratum exists
for perfecting the " hj'perbolic " or any other hypothetical law of elasticity, namely
a knowledge of those variations of the strength and elasticity of cast metal which
depend on the magnitude of the castings. It is greatly to be desired that this want
of experimental data may not long remain unsupplied.

   On the Water Sirene. By Professor John Donaldson, Edinburgh.

   Professor Donaldson explained, that in regard to the vibratory movement of fluid
masses, it had long been known that when solid bodies are brought into collision
under water, the liquid is agitated directly in all the points where it touches the

--solid vibrating bodies acquiring thereby an undulatory movement, producing sound,

heard of course at a greater or lesser distance, corresponding to the violence of the
shock. It was also known, that by a direct shock, the normal vibrations of discs,
and longitudinal vibrations of rods, threw water, mercury and other liquids, into an
undulatory or vibratory motion ; and it had therefore been very generally supposed,
that the shock of sohd bodies is essential to the production of an undulatory or vi-
bratory movement in fluid masses. But the Baron de la Tour found that sounds
could be produced under water without the percussion of solid bodies, by throwing
the water into rapid undulatory motion, by the play of the sirene, the instrument
about to be described.

    * These tables and the analvtical investigations were presented before the Cambridge
Philosophical Society, Nov. 18.50.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  175

Fig. 2.
--176 REPORT 1850.

The construction of this instrument, and the method employed, may perhaps be

more easily understood by an examination of the annexed figures.

AFig. 1 is a vertical section of a sirene intended to act on the air.  is a cylindrical

brass box, about two inches in diameter and one inch in height, and having a closed

top, B, about a quarter of an inch thick, with a perfectly plane upper surface highly

polished. In the bottom of this box there is an opening for the introduction of the
tube or " porte-vente" C, by which wind is forced by bellows into the box. Openings,

D, are pierced angularly through the top B, as also represented in the plan of the top

and revolving disc, in fig. 2, and in the side elevation of the same parts, fig. 3. These

-- --holes 16 in number are disposed in a ring, and are equidistant from each other.

They are each of the same size, and the spaces between them are slightly larger than

the holes themselves, in order that when the revolving Edisc is in motion, its cor-

responding ring of holes, G, may be quite cut off from any communication with the

box A.

  The revolving disc E has a long boss upon its upper side for adjustment upon the

vertical spindle F, which runs in a jewelled centre at the top in the upper part of the
guide-frame, and at the bottom has an adjustable screw-centre in the box A. The

G Aholes in this disc correspond in every respect with those in the top of the box ;

they are pierced however at an opposite angle, in order that the pressure of the

upward currents or jets from the box beneath may cause the disc to revolve*. The
two surfaces of the disc and top of the box are highly polished, and are so adjusted
as to cause no perceptible friction, and yet to work close enough to prevent the
escape of air from between them. This is difficult to accomplish in practice, and

the beauty and accuracy of the surfaces produced by the French makers of these

instruments are very remarkable.

  When air is forced into the box A, the jets issuing from the hole's D, impinge on

the oblique surfaces of the corresponding holes in the disc E, and thus cause it to

revolve at a rate proportioned to the pressure.

   Now, let it be supposed that one hole only was pierced in the box, and one in the
disc, the air in its passage would force round the disc, and during its revolution the
wind within the box would be prevented from passing to the air without the box,
until the hole in the disc came round to the hole in the box, when the wind would

rush through as before and thus keep up a regular rotatory motion, causing a stroke

or pulsation on the atmosphere at each revolution.

  When these pulsations are perfectly regular, and attain to a rapidity of thirty-two

in a second, a musical note will be obtained appreciable to most ears, although a very
grave note. As the pulsations become more rapid the notes become more acute.
The greater the number of holes the more rapid the pulsations.

    Having concluded his explanation of this air-sirene, the Professor described the

Aplan he had adopted in using it under water. In the diagram, is a large square

cistern, the sides of which are of strong plate glass, and the bottom of mahogany in
a very strong frame. The sirene, B, made as already described, is firmly fastened
down in the bottom of the cistern, a piece of caoutchouc being interposed between
the surfaces to prevent the movement of the sirene from acting on the bottom of the

cistern.

   The details of the instrument are analogous to those of the air sirene, except that
the holes in the box and disc are larger and only 8 in number. The actuating water
is brought by the gutta-percha tube C, from a reservoir elevated about 30 feet
above the cistern, through a hole in the bottom into the box B, governed by a stop-

cock D.

   On turning the cock D, the water in the reservoir rushes into the cylindrical box,
forces its way through the holes pierced in the upper part of the box, which strike

those pierced in the disc, and thus keep up a rotatory motion.
   It must be observed, however, that unless the cistern be filled so as to com-

pletely cover the sirene, the water forced through the revolving disc will strike the
air ; for although it is a jet of water that is cut off by the rotation of the disc till the
hole in the disc comes round towards the hole in the box, yet nevertheless it is the

   * Strictly, the section, fig. 1, ought not to show any angularity in the holes, as the angle
is in relation to the circumferential Une of the disc, but they are so drawn to make the

movement quite clear.
       TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                          177

atmosphere which receives the shock or pulsation. But if the water completely
cover the sirene so as to be an inch or more above the revolving disc, then it is the
water in the cistern which receives the shock or pulsation.

    The pressure of the water flowing from the reservoir causes the disc to revolve
under water, and the small streams of water which are forced through the holes
pierced in the box are cut off in their transit by the movement of the disc, until the
holes in the disc correspond to those in the box, when the water again rushes through
and is again stopped, thus keeping up a continuance of regular alternations. The
slight shocks or pulsations thus created in the water produce musical tones of sin-
gular purity, which become even purer and more and more sustained as the water

flows into the cistern. It is also remarkable, that the gravest tones thus produced
under water are far more readily appreciated, that is, recognised as musical, than
tones produced by a similar number of vibrations in the atmosphere.

On a Wrought Iron Tubular Crane, designed by William Fairbairn,
  C.E., F.R.S. {Communicated by Sir David Brewster, K.H., D.CL,,

   F.R.S. ^c.)

The author presented a plan, side view, and transverse section of the tubular cranes

which he had designed, and which were now in process of construction for the Keyham

Dockyards, near Devonport.

These structures exhibit additional examples of the extension of the tubular system,

and appear to indicate the numerous advantages which may yet be derived from a

judicious combination of wrought iron plates, and a careful distribution of the ma-

terial in those constructions which require security, rigidity and strength.

Drawings of this new principle of crane having been submitted to the Admiralty,

six cranes were ordered for the new docks, each of them to sweep a circle of 65 feet

diameter, and to lift 12 tons to a height of 30 feet from the ground. The projection

or radius of the jib is therefore 32 feet 6 inches from the centre of the stem, and its

height 30 feet above the working platform. It is entirely composed of wrought iron

plates firmly riveted together, and so arranged that the upper side is particularly

well adapted to resist tension, and the under or concave side, which embodies the

cellular construction, to resist compression. The form is correctly that of the pro-

longed vertebrae of the bird from which this useful machine for raising weights takes

its name ; it is truly the neck of the crane, tapering from the point of the jib, where

it is 2 feet deep by 18 inches wide, to the level of the ground, where it is 5 feet deep

and 3 feet 6 inches wide. From this point it again tapers to a depth of 18 feet under

the surface, where it terminates in a cast iron shoe, which forms the toe on which

the crane revolves. The lower or concave side, which is calculated to resist com-

pression, consists of plates forming three cells and vaiying in thickness in the ratio

of the strain ; and on the other hand, the convex or top side, which has to bear the

pull or tension due to the suspended weight, is formed of long plates connected to-
gether by the system of " chain riveting," which Mr. Fairbairn first applied in the

great tubular bridges in Wales. The sides are of uniform thickness throughout,

the joints being covered with T-iron intervening, and externally with strips or co-

vering plates 4| inches wide. This arrangement of the parts and distribution of the

materials constitute the principal elements of strength in the crane. The form of

the jib, and the point at which the load is suspended, are probably not the most fa-

vourable for resisting pressure. It nevertheless exhibits great powers of resistance,

and its form as well as the position may safely be considered as a curved hollow

beam, having one end (A) immoveably fixed, the force being applied to the other

end (C). Viewing it in this hght the strengths are easily determined ; and taking

W= --the experiments herein recorded, we may deduce from the formulaAdC
                                                                      j~ ^^^ '*-

would require a load of 63 tons to break the crane. With 20 tons the ultimate de-
flection was 3'97-- '64, permanent set=3'33 inches, the deflection of the jib due to

a load of 20 tons. The following experiments were made at Keyham Docks on th«

8th and 9th of November last.

1850.                                 N
              --:

--178 REPORT 1850.

November 8th

              Weights laid on   Deflection at the point

                      in tons.     of the jib in inches.
                          2                     -32

                         3                  '50 r With 5 tons suspend-
                         4                  "65 1 ed the crane was turned
                          5
                                               "QO-^ completely round, -with-

              6 1"05 1 out any alteration in the

               7 1-20 (^deflection.
               8 1-35

               9 150
              10 170

   "With this weight the crane was again turned round ; the deflection in 8 minutes
increased to 1'85 inch, when it became permanent, after sustaining the load during

the whole of the night, a period of about 16 hours.

   On November 9th the experiments were resumed as follows :

              11 2-05

              12 2-22

              13 2-40

              14 2-60 *
              15 2-80
              16 3-00
              17 3-20
              18 3-50

              19 3-73
              20 3-97

   On again turning the crane round with a load of 20 tons, there was no perceptible

alteration in the deflection, and the permanent set after removing the load was '64

inch.

   From the above experiments, it appears that the ultimate strength of the crane is
much greater than is requisite in either theory or practice ; and although tested with
nearly double its intended load, this was still far short of its ultimate power of resist-
ance, which by calculation is five times greater than its nominal power.

   The advantages peculiar to this construction of crane, are its great security', and
the facility with which bulky and hea\'y bodies can be raised to the very top of the
jib without the least risk of failure. It moreover exhibits, when heavily loaded, the
same restorative principle of elasticity so strikingly exemplified in the wrought iron
tubular girders. These constructions, although different in form, are nevertheless the
same in principle, and undoubtedly follow the same law as regards elasticity and

their powers of resistance to fracture.

                                                      Reference to the figures.

   AFig. 1 is a side view of the crane with a portion of the side removed from to the

 foot, in order to show the cast iron cylinders built in the masonry, the rollers which
 encircle the body of the crane and support the stem vertically, with its rollers and
 bearings acting against the interior recess of the large circular plate a. Between

.

 the plate and the frame attached to the crane is a double ring which contains the
 rollers, giving a rotatory motion to the crane in any direction. Immediately above

 the rollers is a platform, 1 2 feet in diameter, attached to the stem, on which the men
 stand to work the crane. This platform also enables a man, by turning a handle at
 6, to move the crane round in any direction at pleasure.

     Fig. 2 is a ground plan of the crane and platform, showing the upper flange of
 the large ring with the holding down bolts at c, c, c, &c.

     Fig. 3 is a section of the body of the crane taken above the Quay Wall at the
 point A. The cells are carried along the concave side of the jib when they terminate
  in two cells near the top, and also in two cells near to the bottom, where the stem

  enters the cast-iron shoe already mentioned.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.      179

                               n2
--180 REPORT 1850.

On a Folding Dome for Observatories. By W. S. Jacob, C.E., H.E.I.C.

       Astronomer at Madras. Communicated by Prof. Piazzi Smyth.

   Revolving domes for equatorial instruments have been greatly improved and sim-
plified of late, but are still expensive ; they require skilled mechanics to execute them,
and are not easily made portable : the folding dome, however, possesses these proper-

ties. It consists merely of eight triangular shutters, hinging on an octagonal wall
plate, and closing against each other so as to form an octagonal pyramid.

   No fixed frame- work is required in this dome, as the shutters support each other ;

two even will stand together, so that it is possible to open any number of sides of
this octagonal pyramid from one to six : they open outwards, and are supported
then in some simple way, as by a bamboo prop.

   One of these domes, 8 feet in diameter, was made by Mr. Jacob seven years ago ;
it was all constructed by an ordinary village carpenter iu India: the shutters were
triangular frames covered with canvas ; and the sides being bevelled, no inconvenience
was found from leakage during rain. The dome has twice been taken down and
carried across the country above 300 miles in a bullock cart, over bad roads or no
roads at all, and is now again re-erected and in use at Bombay. Its first cost was
only £25.

On a Method of Svpporting a large Speculum, freefrom sensible Flexure, in
  all Positions. By William Lassell, F.R.S.L. Sf E., F.R.A.S., &>.

Before describing the method I propose of overcoming the tendency to flexure in

large specula, I will briefly describe the evil which I desire to remove.

Your President has aptly described the nature of the metal with which we have to

deal, as "harder than steel and more brittle than glass." Yet with these qualities

one would scarcely expect that the bending of a large speculum would be one of the

Nogreatest difficulties in its use.  one unacquainted with the subject would be pre-

pared to believe that a plate of this metal, two feet in diameter, and two and a half
inches thick, would bend by its own weight, if supported only by its circumference.

It is however the fact, that if such a speculum be ground and polished with the ut-

most accuracy to the requisite curve, it will receive such an amount of distortion by

being supported only at its circumference, or on three points placed at its back, as to

be greatly impaired in its performance, if not rendered totally useless as a telescope.

A very much smaller speculum will be materially injured in its figure by unequal

support ; but I shall chiefly refer to a two-foot speculum in what I have to say, as to

a mirror of that size my remedy is intended to be applied.
  The speculum of my twenty-foot telescope is at present supported by eighteen

points, or rather small discs of about 1 J inch diameter, which are placed at the ends
of a system of levers so distributed and compensated as to bear, severallj^ one-

eighteenth part of the weight of the speculum. I will endeavour briefly to explain

how this is done.

   Suppose the speculum divided into three equal sectors of 120°, one of which is re-

Hpresented in fig. 1. Let a concentric arc I be drawn of such radius that the area

of its sector shall be equal to one-third the area of the larger sector. An additional

D Aline E, bisecting the arc B, and drawn in the direction of a radius, will divide the

larger sector into three portions of equal area. These three portions may be again

bisected by the supplemental lines F G, E C and K L. The sector is now divided

into six portions of equal area; and therefore, similarly, the entire speculum would

be divided into eighteen equal portions. Let the centres of gravity of these six por-

tions be indicated by the centres of the six small circles. These circles represent

discs of brass in immediate contact with the back of the speculum. They are divided

into three pairs, the individuals of each pair being connected by a bar or lever, at each

end of which there is a hole, loosely fitted by a pin projecting downwards from the

centre of the brass disc above it. The under surfaces of the discs are small segments

of spheres, allowing a slight rocking motion of the disc for perfect adjustment to the

back of the speculum ; the centres of these levers are again supported by the ends
M Nof a triangular plate or lever
                                   O, in the same manner as the discs are supported

by the first three levers. Finally, this triangular lever is supported at its central

point P by an ultimate screw or stud fixed in the end-plate of the tube. The trian-
             TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                  181

gular lever is of such proportions, in respect to the length of its arms, that if the
O N O Q Mpoints and be conceived to be joined by the line
                                       N, the distance P is ex-

O Nactly double of P Q, because the aggregate pressure upon the two points  requiring
Mto be counterpoised by the pressure upon the single point M, the lever P
                                                                            must ne-

Acessarily be twice the length of PQ.  simple inspection of this arrangement will

--suffice to show that the six portions of equal area are rigidly counterbalanced and in

equilibrio, and, extending it to the whole speculum, that it is equally supported in

eighteen points. Theoretically, the speculum is supposed to be so supported, that if it

were imagined to be really cut up into the eighteen portions marked out by the di-

visions while resting upon the discs and levers, it would still retain its normal shape

and figure.

             Fig. 1.

   Practically, I find that this mode of support prevents all sensible bending when
the telescope is directed to the zenith or to very high altitudes, and when there

is no change of temperature. But when the temperature has altered considerably

since the speculum was placed on its supporting levers, there is often indisputable
evidence, on turning the telescope on a star, that some distortion of the mirror has

taken place ; which is I believe thus to be explained. The levers being of iron, ex-
pand and contract by variations of temperature, differently from the speculum, and
therefore the equal expansions and contractions of the speculum are controlled and
disturbed by the incommensurate ones of the iron bars ; which, from the amount of
cohesion or sticJcage between the points of support and the back of the speculum,
sensibly distort the figure. This defect I have in some measure removed by making
the discs of support as smooth as possible, so that the speculum may slide upon

them with the utmost practicable ease. With a view to remove entirely this cause
of distortion, I now propose to make the supporting levers of the metallic alloy de-
scribed by Lord Kosse in Phil. Trans. 1840, Part II., which has (sensibly) the same

expansion as speculum metal.

    Another cause of distortion, however, perhaps more difficult to remove, exists in the

chanc/e of bearing which the speculum necessarily takes when directed to various alti-
tudes--the more so when the altitudes are low. In the latter case, it is evident that
the method of equal support at high altitudes almost totally fails : the speculum then

only depends for its uniformity of figure upon the greater stiffness that it necessarily
possesses when resting upon its edge. Such, however, is the perfection of figure
 required, that in this position of the mirror there is generally some indication of a
change of form in a greater or less degree, and I have hitherto endeavoured to remedy
it by supporting the speculum in a thin semicircular iron hoop, secured at the ends
 of a horizontal diameter, which, supporting its edge in the greatest possible number
--182 REPORT 1850.

of points, has materially diminished the evil. Still, when high powers are used, and
in favourable states of the air, there is some evidence that it is not altogether removed.
And the principal object of this communication is to describe a method which I intend
as soon as practicable to carry into effect ; and which will, I hope, remove all sensible

distortion arising from this cause.
   I would propose to cast on the back of the speculum a series of bars, in number

about seven, whose section shall be similar to the tooth of a saw, and which shall
serve as points of attachment for a number of levers, having their fulcra in the plate
which supports the speculum at its back. The disposition and mode of action of
these levers will be immediately understood by inspection of the annexed diagrams.
In fig. 2, a represents the speculum in section with its bars b, b, &c., dthe back-plate
aflFording support to the several levers c, c, &c. The ends of the levers e are mounted
with friction -wheels to prevent any tension from contact. The shorter arm of the
lever should be as short as possible, in order to diminish to a minimum the weight
and length of the other arm. The number of these levers may be about thirty-five,
 equally distributed over its back ; and, in a two-foot speculum of the estimated
weight of 400lbs., may each be loaded so as to exert an upward pressure of about 1 libs,
 each, in order that the speculum may not be altogether on a balance, but sufficiently
 in contact with the supporting hoop to prevent dancing, and yet supported in so many

 points as to prevent all distortion of the lower half by the weight of the upper, or of
 the upper half for want of adequate support. It is evident that these levers have no
 action whatever when the telescope is directed to the zenith, in which position they

 are not required, and are only called into action in proportion as the telescope is de-
pressed from the zenith, exerting their full force when the telescope is horizontal.
 Fig. 3 represents a view of the back of the speculum with its several bars, and the
 points where the friction-wheels of the levers come in contact with them.

Fig. 2              Fig. 3.

^p

f
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  183

   Another exception may be taken to the weight which all these levers will add to
the mounting. As however it will not be difficult to make the proportions of the
arms as ten to one, the additional weight will scarcely exceed a tenth of the weight

of the speculum.

   The apparatus will evidently only act perfectly, when the bars (t. e. Unes running
along the axes of the bars) at the back of the speculum are in a horizontal position

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;

but I presume that such a variation from that position as might be produced in a
couple of hours' observation by carrying on the tube, could not produce any sensible

effect.

 On the Powers of Minute Vision. Results from Experimentsfor determining
    the best sort of Station-marks, and the errors liable in observing with Op-

    tical Instruments that measure on the principle of bringing two reflexions

   together. £y William Petrie.

    The experiments were performed in bright daylight (but not sunshine), being light
of the maximum of advantage for perceiving black against a white ground. The
 general circumstances of the experiments were arranged rather to determine the facts
 of common practice, than the theoretic powers of vision.

    The author then detailed the various distances at which circular spots, lines, &c.,
white on black, as well as black on white, could be seen, the distances being given

in terms of the breadth of the object seen. An arrangement of lines was described,

by which an alteration of their position to the extent of only one-millionth part of
the distance of the observer was made visible.

    One result of the experiments would be to show what should be the proper pro-

portions of parts to be observed in forming letters to be read with the greatest di-

stinctness at a distance, a subject of much practical use in the present day, and

admitting of a strictly scientific system, although generally left to the fancy of in-
competent persons. White letters on a hlack ground should have their component
lines of only half the breadth that hlack letters should have on a white ground.

    The direction of the eye, while appearing to gaze steadily at any object, does in
reality keep wandering to an imperceptible distance on every side of the object looked
at, but very rapidly. This wandering is not accidental, or an imperfection of sight,
but an essential feature of vision ; because it is not the continuance of an impression
that is perceived (by any of the animal nerves), but its commencement and termina-
tion, or, more strictly speaking, its increase and decrease. This principle is pro-
bably analogous to that by which a magnet creates an electric current in a neigh-
bouring wire, not by its constant presence, but by the increase or diminution of its
influence, either by a variation of its power or oi iis position. This wandering pro-
pensity of the eye was shown to account for the relative facility with which different
sorts of marks were seen at great distances : it takes place, apparently, in a mini-

mum case, to the extent of an angle of one in 2500.
   A dislocated line (as in a vei-nier), \.X,s fait being half its breadth, can be perceived

to be so at a distance of 10,000 times its fait (if black on a white ground), and at
12,000 times if white on a black ground. It shows itself, however, by giving the
line a less steady appearance (than a perfectly even line would have) when narrowly
watched by running the eye along the line, at about half as far again.

    Experiments were then described on the visibility of the positions of the ends of
lines, and of hiatuses in lines, and of square dots as compared with round.

    But the last conclusion of practical importance was, in respect of observing the
angular position of station- marks, or of stars, by reflexion as in a sextant. From
these experiments it appeared that the position of two closely adjacent dots or
images, in sensible parallelism to a given direction, while it affords one of the sim-
plest kinds of observation, is more accurately observable than their actual coinci-
dence, or even than the junction of two lines as if in a vernier.

     On the Application of Electricity and Heat as Moving Powers.

                           By William Petrie.

From the dynamic equivalent of electricity already given we can infer an import-
184 REPORT-- 1850.

ant fact, that one horse power is the theoretic or absolute dynamic force possessed by a
current of electricity derived from the consumption 0/ 1*56 {one and fifty -six huv'
dredths) pounds of zinc per hour, in a Daniell's battery. But the best electro-mag-
netic engine that we can hope to see constructed, cannot be expected to give more
than half or a fourth of this power : in any case, we see here the limit of power
which no perfection of apparatus can make it exceed.

   The peculiar mode in which the electric current produces dynamical effects has
led to much miscalculation respecting the power obtainable from it. In any sort of
electric engine the material to which the neighbouring current gives motion, whether
it be another moveable current, or what is more usual, a magnetic body, is impelled

in one direction with a constant force ; and this force, whether it be attraction, re-
pulsion, or deflection, is, like the power of gravity, sensibly constant at all velocities,

however fast the body recedes before the action of the force provided only the same
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

quantity (per minute) of electric current be maintained. This is quite different from

the action of steam power, in which, the faster the piston moves the greater is the
volume of steam per minute that must be supplied to move it, or else the less will be
the power with which it moves.

    This fact, then, that the force with which an electric current, of a given ' quantity,'

moves the machine, is the same at any velocity of motion, bears no analogy to the

case of steam, but would indicate that the dynamic result obtainable from a given

electric current might be indefinitely great ; and so it would be, were it not that the

part moved always tends to induce a current in the wire in the reversed direction :

and this inducing influence, which increases with the velocity of motion, conflicts

with the original current, and reduces its quantity, and consequently reduces the

power of the motion, as well as the consumption of materials in the battery. Some

have imagined that possible alterations in the position of the parts of the machine,

or in its mode of action, would avoid the evil, or even might make the induced cur-

rent to flow with the primary current instead of against it. The impossibility of

this, though not readily proved in detail, can be at once proved by a reference to

general principles ; it would, if true, be a ci-eafion of dynamic force, the evolving an

unlimitedforce from a limited source. The tendency to an opposing induced current

in  the primary  wire must therefore be  involved in the very  principle of  the  system
                                                                                                               ;

so that no ingenuity can ever get rid of the retarding influence of the induced action.

And the only way to overcome its power, so as to maintain the primary current from

falling below a given rate or quantity, when the machine is allowed to attain rapid

motion, is to increase the electromotive power of the battery, the intensity (not the

quantity) of the current, so that it shall be less affected by the opposing induction.

   The practical importance of these not altogether unknown truths, may justify the
above somewhat particular notice of them. For want of a clearer apprehension of
them, inventors have misapprehended the direction in which improvements were to
be made, and much ingenuity and means have been wasted.

   Some of the best electro-magnetic engines of other inventors, that have been pro-
perly tested by the author and others on a practically useful scale, have only given
a power at the rate of fifty to sixty pounds of zinc per horse power per hour. The
smallness of this power in comparison with the absolute value of the current (1'56
pound zinc per horse power per hour) should not occasion surprise if we consider
the present case oi steam cafter many years of improvement. According to the deter-
minations of Joule and of Rankine on heat, 1 lb. water raised 1° temperature is equi-
valent to 700 lbs. weight raised 1 foot. The author then proceeded to show that the
best Cornish engines only yield yV^h of the power that the combustion of the carbon
actually represents, and many locomotives only xBijth part ; showing what great
rewards may yet await the exercise of inventive genius in this department, and that
we need not wonder that we have as yet only obtained ^'jud part of the power pos-

sessed by electricity.
   But it is to be remembered that there is a far greater likelihood of obtaining a ,

larger proportion of the real power from electricity than from heat, owing to the
character of the two agents. The author then proceeded to explain the reason why

so little of the power of heat could be obtained in a useful form even in the best
steam-engines, and what were the difficulties for invention first to overcome in order

to a better result.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.     185

   In the case of electricity, however, there is no analogous diflSculty, but we have
instead the difficulty and expense of developing current electricity by the chemical
actions now requisite. If carbon could be burnt or oxidized by the air, directly or
indirectly, so as to produce electricity instead of heat, 1 pound of it would go as far
as Qt pounds of zinc (in a Daniell's battery), chiefly because there are as many atoms
in 1 pound of carbon as there are in 5^ pounds of zinc, and partly because the affi-
nity (for oxygen) of each atom of (incandescent) carbon is greater than that of an
atom of (cold) zinc, minus the affinity of the hydrogen for the oxygen in the water
of the battery. Apart, however, from such prospects of improved means of obtain-

ing electricity, its favourable feature, on the other hand, in comparison with heat, is

the reasonable expectation that we may obtain from electricity a considerable portion
of the power which the author has determined as being the dynamic equivalent of

the electric current,

Table of the Relative and Absolute Powers of Galvanic Arrangements,
   sJwwing the electric current circulated, after the surfaces of the elements
   have been in continued action for several hours, with continuous supplies of
   liquids, the temperature being 70°. Bi/ William Petrie.

Column headed Surface for Quantity shows the square inches of acting negative

    surface requisite to circulate one unit of quantity.

Column headed Intensity shows the permanent electromotive force of the elements

    while in action.

Description of the Electromotor.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .

186 REPORT 1850.

the current (in other words, the quantity of the current), and the electromotive force

with which the current is sustained, which may be briefly termed its energy ov inten-

sity (provided the idea of quantity be kept distinct from this)
   The first object was to secure such units of comparison for both these elements as

should be at all times recoverable. This is given in respect of quantity by the rate
of chemical action and the atomic weights. In respect of intensity of the current, we
have no such fixed data, and the intensity of most voltaic arrangements cannot be
relied upon as constants for comparison. But the elements of DanieU's battery, and
those of nitric acid batteries with negative surface of platinum, carbon, or cast iron,
give an electromotive force or intensity that can be recovered with considerable ex-
actitude, if uniformity of circumstances, materials, &c. be tolerably attended to.
These, therefore, may be used to give a fixed and recoverable point in a galvano-
metrie scale of intensity.

   Now it so happens that if we assume the degrees of the scale to be of such a size

that the intensity of DanieU's (standard) elements shall be 60 of the degrees (tem-
perature being 70° Fahr.) (60 being the most convenient number, by the way, for
submultiples), that that of nitric acid batteries will be from 100° to 112° of the
same degrees. The author therefore has always used this scale, to which all other
voltaic arrangements can be referred (as shown in a table hereafter), which scale, he
would suggest, would be most conveniently used in assigning the electromotive
power of electric currents from any source.

    The mean results of careful experiments, tried directly and conversely, is that a
voltaic current of one unit in quantity (or that from one grain of zinc electro-oxidized
per minute) and of 100° intensity, represents a dynamic force of 302^ lbs. raised one
foot high per minute. This datum is of great interest as a scientific truth in con-
nection with the other correlative agents of nature (heat, electricity, light, and che-
mical afiinities, neuralgic power, &c.), most of which we may hope soon to see re-
duced to a rautuallj' comparable relation to each other, in terms of the great centre
and medium of comparison, mechanical force.

        On Improvements in propelling and navigating Steam Vessels.

                              By M. W. RuTHVEN.

   The principle of propulsion adopted is the pressure or force obtained in the op-
posite direction to the discharge of a fluid.

    Water is admitted through apertures in the bottom of the vessel, into a covered

canal or pipe ; at the termination of the canal or pipe is placed a water-tight case

enclosing a horizontal wheel with floats, or blades forming compartments. The
wheel and case are under the water-line of the vessel ; the wheel is thus always im-
mersed in the water supplied by the canal. From the water-tight case a pipe is
taken to each side of the vessel, and on the outside end of each is attached a bent
pipe, or nozle, moveable in a socket joint at, near, or above the usual water-line.

On the power being applied to make the wheel in the case revolve, the water sup-

plied by the canal is pressed out and discharged by the nozles, with a force corre-
sponding to the velocity of the wheel ; the pressure to move the vessel depending on
the area of the apertures where the water leaves the nozles.

    Each nozle is turned by a wheel on the deck, and without making any change of

the power applied by the engine. When the vessel is going ahead with all the

 power, the nozles are placed in" a horizontal line, discharging the water towards the
 stern. To make the vessel go slow, the nozles are pointed at an angle downwards,
 according as the speed is wished to be reduced ; and if required to remain stationary,

 they are pointed to discharge the water in a vertical direction. By pointing the

 nozles to the bows, the vessel goes astern ; with a rate according to the angle of
 direction of the nozle. To turn the vessel round to either side, one nozle is pointed
 to the bows," and the other to the stern. All these movements are made on the
 deck, without any change on the engine, or any communication with those in attend-
 ance on the engine ; the vessel is also independent of the rudder, as it can be
 navigated without it, by moving the nozles as required, and turned by them when

 the rudder could not effect it.
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                            187

  The author concludes his paper by enumerating many advantages which he con-

ceives bis invention to possess over the ordinary paddle- vyheel motion.

                   On the Rubble Bridge of Ashiesteel.
By John Smith. (^Extract from a Letter to Sir David Brewster.)

  " In this bridge the object of my brother and myself was to dispense with every-
thing costly that was not of essential service to the work, and with this view we

used no materials but what could easily be managed without machinery ; there was
not one stone in a hundred beyond what one man could easily lift.

   " Whinstone has many properties to recommend it, particularly in bridge building.
No stone takes a firmer hold of lime or cement of any kind ; it is a complete non-ab-
sorbent, is harder and more durable than granite, and plentiful and easily procured

in many localities.
    " This bridge, with the exception of the cornice and the coping-stones of the parapet

walls, is entirely constructed of whinstone rubble, which was found in the immediate

neighbourhood.

  My" brother and I contracted with Gen. Sir James Russell of Ashiesteel to erect it

opposite his house, as a private bridge. It was afterwards taken up by the road
trustees, and tlj o site fixed a little further down the river.

   " O ar estima;,e was £1200 for the whole. Sir James furnishing the rough timber for
the centre ; and had it not beeafor the centre giving way before the arch was balanced,

the sum would have been sufficient.
   " The timber being mostly of spruce fir quite green, rather deceived us as to its

strength.

"To have done a bridge of the same dimensions in the same place, would have cost

between three and four times the money.

"The arch is not a regular semi-ellipse, but is formed of three cui-ves, the two side

ones being drawn to a radius of 24, and the centre one to 11 feet.                         .

" The breadth of the arch at the abutments is 1 9 feet, and it converges by curved

lines towards the crown to 16 feet.

   " The thickness of the solid part of the arch is 2^ feet, and is backed by ribs 2§ X

24 feet ; these ribs terminate at the distance of about 22 feet from the crown of the

arch, and that part of it is built solid at the depth of about 4 feet.

"The spandril walls rest upon the back of the ribs above-mentioned, and are so

managed as to thickness and form as to be an exact counterpoise to the crown of the

arch.

   "I am not aware that anyarch of this extentwas ever executed of Whinstone rubble,
or that any stone arch of any description of the same span and radius, was ever built

in Scotland."

   On a new form of Equatorial Mounting noio making for the Edinburgh
                    Observatory. By Prof. Piazzi Smyth.

   After briefly describing the two prevailing forms of equatorials, viz. the English
with its long polar axis and two piers, and the German with its short polar axis and
single pier, and pointing out their several defects and excellencies, the author then
exhibited a model of a new construction, which appeared to combine the advantages
of both the others, without their principal defects. The observatory having been
already built, there was a necessity for the instrument being adapted to one central
pier, as with the German ; but the violent winds of the Calton hill rendered a much
firmer stand necessary, especially in the power of the declination axis and frame to

resist torsion.

    These requirements were obtained by making the polar axis in the form of a short
cylindrical shell of cast iron ; the axis of motion passing transversely through the
middle of it, and being defined by small pivots at either end.

    The declination axis, which is a cone of great breadth, passes through the cylinder
 in the direction of its axis, and one of its faces becomes the declination circle, and
 gives most powerful means for the firmest clamping in that direction. The tele-
 scope fixed at one end of the declination axis is certainly outside the cylinder, but is
 midway between the bearings of the polar axis diameter.
                                                     --

--188 REPORT 1850.

   The motion in right ascension is given by a screw working in a portion of a circle,
or rather large flange, stretching round the cylinder, except on the telescope and de-
clination face, in a plane at right angles to the polar axis.

    For setting the instrument in right ascension, there is a small but complete circle
turning on, and concentrically with, the upper pivot, but independent of it, and
constantly kept in motion by clock-work.

        On a Mode of Cooling the Air of Rooms in Tropical Climates.
                             By Prof. PiAzzi Smyth.

   The author proposed to himself some plan by which to effect in a warm country,

the reverse of what is eflfected in a cold country, by the simple operation of lighting

a fire.
   The case is shown to be a signally important one by the sufferings and early deaths

of our countrymen in India, and no methods at all touching the real question at

issue have yet been invented ; and certainly all such partial and incomplete plans

--would fail, if tried in the following circumstances, in a country where the tem-

perature by day and by night, and by summer and winter is never under 90°, where

the water and earth are as hot as the air, and where the atmosphere is saturated

with moisture.

   But however untoward these conditions may appear, it was shown that by the
following method the air might be cooled down to any desired degree.

   Compress the air in a closed vessel, the air will rise in temperature, say from 90°
to 120°; keep it in the compressed state until the heat of compression shall have
been dissipated by radiation and conduction, and then allow it to escape, when it
will sink as much below its original temperature as it rose above it on compression,

or will issue at 60.

   The above is hardly anything more than merely a statement of an old fact long
known, and particularly illustrated in the ancient Schemnitz machine ; the author

only claimed the merit of applying this property of air to so useful a sanitary pur-

pose, of determining the quantity of compression required to produce a given altera-
tion of temperature, and of contriving a convenient form of machine for practical
purposes. The principle is said to have been applied last year in America to making
ice ; and in the beginning of this year Sir J. Herschel sent a reclamation of priority

to the Athenaeum in favour of a suggestion of his own to the same effect, but neither
have given any determination of the exact amount of the thermotic effect of com-
pression on which the practicability of the plan for the ordinary purposes of life
must rest ; while the author of this paper can go back as far as 1844 for the date of
an apparatus which he had constructed to test the point, and to the beginning of
1849 for the first publication on the subject.

   Towards the end of last year he had an unusually good opportunity afforded him
of testing the subject experimentally on a very large scale by the kindness of Mr.
Wilson of the Thinniel iron-works. From these experiments, it appeared that a
compression of one-quarter of an atmosphere produces an elevation of 29^ to 30° F.
in the temperature of air at 60°. The determination is likewise borne out theoreti-
cally by Carnot's theory of heat, and by that of Mr. Macquorn Rankine, produced
last winter ; and he has further computed tliat one horse power working one hour
will cool 9000 cubic feet of air 20° F., without allowing anything for friction and

mechanical imperfections.
   Making all due allowances for these drawbacks. Prof. Smyth had estimated from

his experiments that a pair of bullocks (the most convenient and available source of
mechanical power in India) should furnish 70 cubic feet of air per minute, cooled
20° below the surrounding atmosphere ; and that the expense of thus cooling a house

in a warm countiy would not be more than that of warming a house in a cold one,
and might be managed as efficiently and completely.

ByOn the Application of Telescope Sights to Rifles.  Prof. Piazzi Smyth.

The ordinary plain sights of rifles are attended with four inconveniences:
1st. There are three objects to be brought in a line, the sight at the breech, that
-- ;;

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  189

at the muzzle, and the object aimed at ; and these three being at very unequal di-
stances from the eye, cannot be seen all equally distinct at the same time.

   2nd. Unless the barrel is of inordinate length, there is not sufficient radial length
between the sights to give the opportunity of pointing accurately.

   3rd. As only one of the breech-vanes can be raised at a time, there are no means
of making allowance for distances intermediate between those for which the vanes

are calculated.
   4th. In sunshine there is a phase of the muzzle-sight which is very prejudicial to

correct aiming.
   All these difficulties may, however, be got over, by applying to the barrel a small

telescope with cross wires, for
    1st. There ai'e only two objects to deal with, the cross wires and the image of the

object aimed at, and these are both at precisely the same distance from the eye.
    2nd. The accuracy of pointing depending on the magnifying power of the tele-

scope, the shortest barrel may be made equal to the longest.
   3rd. The whole system of wires being in view at once, afford a very convenient

scale for the intermediate distances.

   4th. The wires being in the tube of the telescope, can be affected by no phase from

sunshine.

  A convenient size of telescope is about 1 foot long, including a direct eyepiece

the aperture of the object-glass being i inch.
   The author exhibited a small rifle to which he had "applied the telescope sights six

years ago ; but stated that he had lately found that lie had been preceded by Capt.
D. Davidson, Bombay Army, at present in Scotland, who had moreover carried the
subject much further, and had had several telescopes made and applied to various
rifles by Mr. Adie, optician, and Mr. Dickson, gunmaker of this city.

   The author likewise took this opportunity of mentioning that the introduction of
the sugar-loaf ball was due to Capt. D. Davidson, as it seemed to be another in-

stance of the propriety of taking into account the resistance of the air ; a matter,
the neglect of which, in the simple motion of projectiles, had so utterly confounded

all the results of theory, that until Robins at last took it into account, we cannot
say that anything was known of gunnery.

   But Robins computed, and many others have done so since his day, that if a ball
be made long and heavier at one end than the other, the heavier end will always go
foremost ; accordingly egg-shaped and sugar-loafed and conical balls were fired out
of rifles and smooth bores with the expectation of their going much straighter than
spherical ones ; but they went far worse, and tumbled over and over, instead of

having the thicker end always first.
    At length Capt. Davidson tried one of them with the point foremost, and it went

perfectly straight, with the point first at all distances ; and sugar-loafed balls fired
point first are now not only used extensively in this country, but are coming into
use on the continent also.

   The reason of theory being apparently at fault here, seems to be that the greater
resistance of the air to the larger end of the ball overbalances the advantage due
merely to its superior weight.

                             Observations on the Force of the Waves.

               By Thomas Stevenson, F.R.S.E., Civil Engineer.

   The author, after some introductory remarks, described the action of the marine
dynamometer, the self-registering instrument with which the observations were
made, and one of the instruments was exhibited. He stated that a theoretical ob-
jection might perhaps be started to referring the action of the sea to a statical value

but contended that in designing sea-works the attempt of the engineer is to oppose
the dynamical action of the sea by the dead weight or inertia of the masonry, so that
the indications of the marine dynamometer furnish exactly the kind of information
which the engineer requires. The greatest result registered in the Atlantic Ocean

was at Skerryvore during the westerly gale of the 29th of March, 1845, when the
force was 6083 lbs., or 3 tons per square foot. The greatest result registered in the
German Ocean was 3013 lbs., or about li ton per square foot. It further appeared,
from taking an average result for five of the summer months during the years 1843
                                --

190 REPORT-- 1850.

and 1844, that the force in the Atlantic Ocean was 611 lbs. per square foot, while
the corresponding average for six of the winter months was 2086 lbs., or three times
as great as in summer. These observations he had communicated in 1845 to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh, and they were printed in the twelfth volume of the
Transactions of that body.

   The author then stated that the greatness of those results has excited surprise in

almost all to whom they have been communicated, and positive doubts have been
expressed by many as to the correctness of the indications. Three classes of facts
essentially diflferent from each other may be appealed to as proving that if the indi-

cations of the dynamometer are incorrect, the error must be in defect and not in
excess. The first fact to which reference was made, was the elevation of spray
caused by waves meeting with an obstruction to their onward motion. Most per-
sons are familiar with the frontispiece representations of the Eddystone and Bell
Rock Lighthouses during storms, which are attached to the descriptive accounts of
the erection of those works ; and although some deduction may be allowed for the
fancy of the artists, still there can be no doubt that they are in the main faithful

representations of a natural phsenoraenon. On the 20th of November, 1827, in a

heavy ground swell after a storm, solid water rose at the Bell Rock 106 feet above
the level of the sea, irrespective of the depth of the trough of the wave. Such an
elevation is due to a head of water of the same height. The force then which urges
the lower courses of the Bell Rock must have been nearly 3 ions per square foot,
while the highest indication of the marine dynamometer at the same place, since the
observations were commenced, hardly equalled 1\ ton. The second class of facts to
which the author alluded was the fracture of materials of known strength. The
instance adduced was a small harbour in Argyllshire, where, in order to preserve the
tranquillity of the tide-basin, a contrivance called booms, well known in harbour
architecture, had been resotred to. The booms are logs of timber, which are placed
across the entrance to a harbour and fit into checks or grooves which are made in
the masonry on either side. The booms, therefore, act as a temporary wall or
barrier against the waves. The set of booms referred to have been in use for about
five years, and in that time the waves have broken no less than four Memel logs,
measuring each 1 foot square in the middle, and spanning an entrance of 20 feet.
From the known strength of the material, it will be found that on these four occa-
sions a force must have been exerted equivalent to the uniform distribution of a dead

Hweight of 30 tons, or at the rate of ton per square foot ; while the highest result

 that had been recorded at the same place during the short period that observations
were made was about 1^ ton per square foot*.

    The last class of effects to which the author alluded was the movement of heavy
blocks of stone. The information derived from such observations was not so certain
 or satisfactory as from the other instances. The only record he could adduce was
 the movement of a block of stone weighing about 1^ ton, to which a marine dynamo-
 meter had been bolted. The stone was turned upside down, and the dynamometer
 indicated a pressure of little more than one ton.

    The author then referred to the overturning of the Carr Rock Beacon by the sea
 in 1817 during a heavy gale, but stated that, as we do not know the manner in which
 waves act when encountering obstacles, it was impossible to calculate what force
 had in this instance been exerted. The part of the column which was overturned
 was 36 feet in height and 17 feet diameter at the base, the rock being so small as to
 preclude a greater diameter. The author then concluded by stating the following
 desiderata which he thought important :

     1st. Continued observations so as to ascertain constants for the Atlantic and Ger-

 man Oceans and the Irish Sea.
     2nd. Relative forces of the same wave, both above high water and below low

 water levels.
     3rd. Relative forces of the same wave against vertical and sloping surfaces.

  --* Since the above was written three other booms have been broken. March 13, 1851.

                                             I
                     TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                  191

On the Limits to the Velocity of Revolving Lighthouse Apparatus caused by
   the time required for the production of Luminous Impressions on the Eye.

  By William Swan, F.R.S.E.

The object of this communication was to ascertain the greatest velocity that can

be communicated to a revolving lighthouse apparatus, without impairing the bright-

ness of its flashes. The author referred to a proposal, by the late Captain Basil

Hall, to combine the superior brightness of a revolving, with the constancy of a

fixed light, by causing the flashes to succeed each other so rapidly as to produce a
continuous impression on the eye. The efficiency of this plan was tested by Mr.

Alan Stevenson, who has described his experiments in his Account of the Skerryvore

Lighthouse, p. 3] 3. He found that as the velocity of rotation increased, the appa-

rent brightness of the flashes diminished ; and he explained this result, by supposing

that the light had not had time to produce its full eflfect on the eye.
   The correctness of this explanation is satisfactorily shown by the author's recent

researches on the gradual action of light on the eye, published in the Transactions
of the Royal Society of Edinburgh for 1849 ; which also afford the means of calcu-

lating the "greatest velocity that can be communicated to a revolving light without

diminishing its apparent brightness.

His experiments prove that lights of every degree of apparent brightness require

nearly one-tenth of a second to produce their full effect on the eye ; from which it fol-

lows, that the velocity of a revolving light must be regulated so that the duration of

its flashes may exceed one-tenth of a second. This velocity is easily calculated, by

                                                                  "                 2rrt'

first  ascertaining  the  minimum  divergence of the  rays  from               t^.               ,  in

                                                                  the expression

which ct is the divergence of the rays, t' the duration of a single flash, and t the time
of a complete revolution. The author stated that for the great lens of Fresnel's
dioptric apparatus of the first order, the velocity of rotation could not be made to
exceed one revolution in eight seconds, without necessarily impairing the brightness

of the light.

           On a Gas Stove. By William Sykes Ward, Leeds.

   The novelty of this consists in constructing the stove in a vertical position so as to
expose considerable surfaces for the absorption of heat from gas burners, and for
the radiation of the heat ; and from that, flatness of construction the apparatus oc-
cupies little space, not projecting into the room more than 2 or 3 inches, being thus
productive of little inconvenience when out of use.

  A plate of thin sheet-iron is fitted into an ordinary fireplace in the manner of a

fireboard, about 2 inches within the projection of the mantelpiece ; about 3 inches
in front of the back plate a similar plate of sheet-iron is secured by bolts ; a third,
somewhat smaller, plate of iron is about 1 inch from the second plate, and enclosed
at the top, bottom and sides, so as to form a chamber of about 2 to 3 feet square
and 1 inch in thickness. Towards the bottom of the last plate a long aperture is
cut, closed by a sliding plate, acting as a door for lighting the gas jets and admitting

Aa small quantity of air. little below the aperture a pipe is introduced, in which are

fixed three or more gas jets, either the ordinary small batwing burners or tips with
two or three holes, so that the flames may extend laterally, not coming into imme-
diate contact with the air. From the top of the enclosed chamber a pipe of l^
inch in diameter proceeds through the second and first plates into the chimney of
the apartment.

    The author found that his apparatus was suflScient to raise the temperature of a
moderate-sized room from 5 to 10 degrees Fahr., with a consumption of about 3 feet
of gas per hour, costing about twopence for ten hours, and that it was particularly
useful in warming a bedroom where only a slight elevation of temperature was re-
 quired, and perfectly free from the production of dirt or the slightest smell.

    None of the products of combustion entered into the room, and the ventilation
 was improved rather than impeded.
  A Collection of the Bones and Teeth of Mammalia and Fishes, parts of Crustacea,

and other Organic Remains containing Phosphate of Lime, found in the Craig of
Suffolk, was presented by Mr. Whincopp.
.

               INDEX I.

REPORTS ON THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

   EJECTS and rules of the Association, v          of our knowledge of the freshwater
                                                   polyzoa, 305.
Places and times of meetings, with offi-       Amorphozoa, 246.
    cers, from commencement, viii.             Animals, on the registration of the peri-
                                                  odical phaenomena of, 338.
Members who have served on Council             Annelida, 244 ; on the structure and
                                                   history of the British, 133.
    in former years, x.
Treasurer's account, xii.                      Barbary, on the distribution and range
Officers and Council, xiv.                        in depth of moUusca and other marine
Officers of Sectional Committees, xv.             animals observed on the coast of, 264.
Corresponding members, xvi.
                                               Briggs (Maj.-Gen. John) on the aborigi-
Report of Council to the General Com-              nal tribes of India, 169.

    mittee at Edinburgh, xvi.                  Chemical action of the solar radiations,
Memorial to Lord John Russell on the              on the present state of our knowledge
                                                   of the, 137.
    establishment of a powerful reflecting
    telescope for reviewing the nebulae of     Cirripedes, 244.
    the Southern Hemisphere, xvii.             Cristatella, 326.
                                               Crustacea, 243.
Report of the Kew Committee, xx.
                                               Daubeny (Dr.) on the influence of car-
Recommendations adopted by the Gene-              bonic acid gas on the health of plants,
   ral Committee at the Edinburgh meet-           159 ; tenth report on the growth and
   ing in August 1850, xxi ; involving
   application to Government or public             vitality of seeds, 160.
                                               Dredge, on the investigation of British
    institutions, ib. ; involving grants of
   money, xxii.                                   marine zoology by means of the, 192
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;
Synopsis of grants of money appropriated
                                                  mollusca taken by the, 200, 220 ; echi-
    to scientific objects, xxiv.                  nodermata, 211.
                                               Dredging papers, analyses of, drawn up
General statement of sums paid on ac-             on the coasts of England and Scotland,
    count of grants for scientific purposes,       196, 212.

    XXV.
Extracts from resolutions of the General

    Committee, xxix.
Arrangement of general evening meetings,

    XXX.
Address by Sir David Brewster, xxxi.

Aboriginal tribes of India, on the, 169.       Earthquake phaenomena, first report on
Aerolite, account of a remarkable, which           the facts of, 1.

    fell at Maniegaon, 122.                    Earthquake waves, on the instrumental
Airy (Professor), suggestions for the ob-         admeasurement of, 88.

    servation of the total eclipse of the sun  Echinodermata taken by the dredge, 211,
   on July 28, 1851, 361.                          239.
Alcyonella, 328 ; new species, 330.
                                               Eclipse of the sun on July 28, 1851, sug-
AUman (Professor) on the present state             gestions for the observation of the, 361.

    1850.                                      (^<h\p^ Y ?^
194 INDEX I.

England, analysis of dredging papers I Lindley (Prof.), tenth reporton the growth

drawn up on the S. and W. coasts of,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and vitality of seeds, 16O.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1

196; enumeration of the depths, &c. Lophopus, 327.

at which species of testaceous Mollusca

and Echinodermata were taken by the MacAndrew (Robert) on the distribu-

dredge on the coasts of, 200, 211.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tion and range in depth of mollusca

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          and other marine animals observed on

Ferns, on the influence of carbonic acid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the coasts of Spain, Portugal, Bar-

gas on the growth of, 159.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                bary, Malta and Southern Italy in 1849,

Forbes (Prof. Edward) on the investiga-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   264.

tion of British marine zoology by means Magnetism, list of authors of papers on,

of the dredge. Part I. The infra-lit-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     induced by solar rays, 153.

toral distribution of marine inverte- Mallet (Robert), first report on the facts

brata on the southern, western and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of earthquake phaenomena, 1 ; on the
northern coasts of Great Britain, 192-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    instrumental admeasurement of earth-

Forbes ( Prof. J. D. ), account of a remark-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              quake waves, 88.

able meteor, seen Dec. 19, 1849, 109                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Meteoric iron, or stones having a large
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    proportion of it, 125 ; blowpipe exami-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              nation of, ib.
suggestions for the observation of the
total eclipse of the sun on July28, 1851.

361.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Meteoric stone, account of a, from India,

Fossil remains taken by the dredge, 247.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  118; Agra, 120, 121; Asseer, 122;

Fredericella, 336.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Khaundes, ib. ; chemical examination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of specimens of, 124.

Gas, carbonic acid, influence of, on the Meteorolites in the collection of the Asia-

health of plants, 159.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tic Society, Jan. 1, 1845, list of, 125.

Great Britain, infra-littoral distribution Meteorological observations taken at St.

of marine invertebrata on the southern,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Michael's from Jan. 1, 1840 to Dec.

western and northern coasts of, 192.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      31, 1849, results of, 133.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Meteors, on observations of luminous,

Hardy (James), registration of periodic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   89 ; list of a few, prior to the date of
   phasnomena kept by, at Penmanshiel,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the commencement of Catalogue for

    344.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1849-50, ib. ; catalogue of luminous,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          continued from Report of 1849, 92 ;
Henslow (Rev. Prof.), tenth report on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     appendix, containing details from ori-
   the growth and vitality of seeds, 160.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ginal records of observations on, com-

Herschel (Sir John), suggestions for the

observation of the total eclipse of the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   municated to Professor Powell, 104.

sun on July 28, 1851, 361.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Meteors, observations of luminous, prior

Hunt (Robert) on the present state of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     to August 1849, extracted from Dr. D.

our knovfledge of the chemical action                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P. Thomson's " Introduction to Me-

of the solar radiations, 137.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             teorology," 90.
--Hunt (T. C), results of meteorological Meteors : list of some, seen from 1815

    observations taken at St. Michael's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to 1849, 91 ; on Feb. 11, 1850, 99;
   from Jan. 1, 1840 to Dec. 31, 1849,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    at Wrottesley Observatory, 104; Ches-
    133.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  terfield, ib. ; M. Coulvier Gravier on,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ib. ; at Gwysanau, neai- Holywell, 105 ;
India, on the aboriginal tribes of, I69.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Swansea, ib. ; seen by Mr. Lowe, IO6,
Invertebrata, infra- littoral distribution                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                115; at Bombay, 107; Mazagon,i6.;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Asseerghur, ib. ; Durham, 107, 108 ;
    of marine, on the southern, western                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   at Edinburgh, Dec. 19, 1849, 109 ; near
   and northern coasts of Great Britain,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Southgate House, 113; from Kenning-
    192.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ton Lane, Lambeth, 114; at Hulme,
Italy, Southern, on the distribution and

range in depth of Mollusca and other ib.; Holloway, 115; Oxford, 116;

    marine animals observed on the coast                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Surat, 117; Havre, i6.; Calcutta, 120,
    of, 264.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              121 ; Delhi and Meerut, ii. ; Bulram-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          pore and Agra, 121; Madras, ib.;
Kew Observatory, report concerning the,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Charka, ib. ; at Poona, 126, 127 ; Pore-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          bunder, 126 ; Shorapore, ib. ; seen on
    176.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  March 19, 1849, in India, 127; at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Delhi, 129; Ahmednuggur, ib.; seen
Light on organic bodies, list of memoirs,

&c. embracing influences of, 153.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         on April 13, 1849, 130; Kurrachee,
                                            INDEX I.                                                                                          195

ib. ; remark on periodic, from Prof. Sil-                                                                                                    vations of luminous meteors, 89 ; ap-
                                                                                                                                              pendix, 104.
liman's Journal, 131.
                                                                                                                                          Ronalds (Francis), report concerning the
Moggridge (Matthew), registration of pe-                                                                                                     Observatory of the British Association
                                                                                                                                             at Kew, Sept. 12, 1849, to July 31,
riodic phEEnomena kept by, at Swansea,                                                                                                        1850, 176.

350.                                                                                                                                      Scotland, analysis of dredging papers

Mollusca nudibranchiata, 241 ; cepha-                                                                                                       drawn up on the W. and N. coasts of,

   lopoda, ib. ; ascidia, ib. ; bryozoa, 242.                                                                                                 212.
                                                                                                                                          Seeds, experiments on the growth and
--Mollusca obtained by dredging : species
                                                                                                                                             vitality of, 160 general summary of,
of testaceous, 200, 220 ; in Vigo Bay,                                                                                                                                                                                      ;
264 ; Cascales Baj', 269 ; Cape St.
Mary's, ib. ; Cadiz and Cape Trafalgar,                                                                                                      from 1841 to 1850 inclusive, 162.
                                                                                                                                          Seismometer, on the completion of a self-
272, 273; Gibraltar, 275; Malaga,
280; Carthagena, 282; Bay of Al-                                                                                                              registering, 88.

giers, 284 ;  Golotta, near Tunis, 287                                                                                                    Sladen (Edward H. M.), registration of
                                                                                                                                  ;          periodic phaenoraena kept by, at Nin-
                                                                                                                                              field, 356.
Tunis Bay, 288 ; island of Zembretta,
                                                                                                                                          Solar radiation, on the present state of
ib. ; island of Pantellaria, 291 ; Malta,                                                                                                    our knowledge of the chemical action
                                                                                                                                              of the, 137 ; list of bodies susceptible
293, 294 ;    Syracuse and Catania, 296                                                                                                       of chemical change under the influence
                                                                                                                                       ;      of the, 150 ; list of authors of papers
                                                                                                                                             on magnetism induced by, 153.
Port of Messina, 298 ; Bay of Naples,
                                                                                                                                          Spain, on the distribution and range in
jb. ; Gulf of Cagliari. 299 ; Mahon,                                                                                                         depth of mollusca and other marine
                                                                                                                                              animals observed on the coast of, 264.
301 ; Conijera, near Cabrera, 303,
                                                                                                                                          Stars, shooting, M. Coulvier Gravier on,
Ninfield, registration of periodical phse-                                                                                                   104 ; seen at Kew Observatory, 106.

   nomena at, 356.                                                                                                                        St. Michael's, results of meteorological
                                                                                                                                              observations taken at, from Jan. 1,
Paludicella, 337 ; muscular system of,                                                                                                        1840 to Dec. 31. 1849, 133.

316.                                                                                                                                      Strickland (H. E.), tenth report on the
                                                                                                                                             growth and vitality of seeds, 160.
Penmanshiel, registration of periodical
                                                                                                                                          Struve (M. Otto), suggestions for the ob-
pheenomena at, 344.                                                                                                                           servation of the total eclipse of the sun
                                                                                                                                              on July 28, 1851, 361.
Phsenomena, periodical, on the registra-
                                                                                                                                          Sun, suggestions for the observation of
tion of, 338.                                                                                                                                 the total eclipse of the, on July 28,
                                                                                                                                              1851, 361.
Plants, on the influence of carbonic acid
                                                                                                                                          Swansea, registration of periodical phse-
gas on the health of, 159 ; taken by                                                                                                         nomena at, 350.

the dredge, 246 ; on the registration of                                                                                                  Vegetable juices, remarkable action of
                                                                                                                                              the spectrum on, 149.
the periodical phasnomena of, 338 ; list
                                                                                                                                          Vertebrata and land animals, traces of,
to be observed for the periods of folia-                                                                                                      taken by the dredge, 247.

tion and defoliation, ib. ; for the flower-                                                                                               Waves, on the instrumental admeasure-
ing and ripening of the fruit, 339 ; at                                                                                                       ment of earthquake, 88.

the vernal and autumnal equinoxes and                                                                                                     Williams (Dr. Thomas) on the structure
                                                                                                                                              and history of the British annelida,
summer solstice, for the hours of open-
                                                                                                                                               133.
ing and closing their flowers, 341.
                                                                                                                                           Zoology, on the investigation of British
Plumatella, 330 ; new species, 335, 336.                                                                                                      marine, bv means of the dredge, 192.
Polyzoa, on the present state of our
                                                                                                                                           Zoophyta, 245.
knowledge of the freshwater, 305 ; de-
finition of terms in the anatomy of,

307 ; dermal system, ib. ; organs of
digestion, 309 ; species with bilateral

and orbicular lophophore, 309, 311,

315 ; histology of alimentary canal,

310; organs of respiration and circu-

lation, 312 ;  muscular system, 314
                                                                                                                        ;

organs of the life of relation, 319 ; em-

bryology of, 320.

Portugal, on the distribution and range

in depth of mollusca and other marine

animals observed on the coast of, 264.

Powell (Professor), suggestions for the

observation of the total eclipse of the

sun on July 28, 1851,  36l                  on obser-
                                         ;

                                                                                                                                          o2
.

                 196

                  INDEX II.

                                            TO

MISCELLANEOUS COMMUNICATIONS TO THE

                            SECTIONS.

ACARUS that attacks grasses, on an,            Aqueous vapour in the atmosphere at
                                                  various places and heights, on the
    124.                                          means of computing the quantities of,

Acid, sulphurous, on the employment of,            36.
    as a purifying agent on the sugar from     Architecture, on the geometrical basis of
    the south of Spain, 60 ; on a direct
   method of separating arsenious, from            beauty in general, as applied to, 131.
   arsenic, and on its application to the
    estimation of nitric acid, 62 ; on the     Argyll (the Duke of) on a fossiliferous
   proportion of phosphoric, in some na-
                                                   deposit underlying basalt in the island
    tural waters, 63.                              of Mull, 70.
^therification, results of a research on,      Ashiesteel, on the rubble bridge of, 187.

     65.                                       Assyrians, on the language and mode of

Air, on a mode of cooling the, of tropical         writing of the ancient, 140.
                                               Astronomy, 23.
     climates, 188.
Airy (G. B., Astronomer Royal) on a            Atmosphere, on some new phsenomena

    question of probabilities which occurs         in the polarization of the, 6 ; on the
                                                   effect of height in the, on the diurnal
    in the use of a fixed collimator for the       variation of magnetic declination, 7 ;
    verification of the constancy of position      on the attempts to resolve the pressure
    of an azimuth circle, 1                        of the, into two parts, 31 ; on the
Alison (Dr.) on the system of Croft hus-           means of computing the quantities of
    bandry and the reclamation of waste            aqueous vapour in the, at various places
    lands, chiefly by spade-culture, adopt-        and heights, 36.
     ed at Gairlochin, Rosshire, since 1846,   Atmospheres, on the growth of plants in
    and its results as illustrating the con-        abnormal, 54.
    ditions under which the labour of pau-      Austen (Robert) on recent changes of

    pers and criminals may safely be made           sea-level, 71.

     productive, 147.                          Azimuth-circle, on a question of proba-
 Alumina, on the isomorphous relations of          bilities which occurs in the use of a
                                                    fixed collimator for the verification of
     silica and, 50.                                the constancy of position of an, 1.

 Amalgams, on some, 55.                         Babington (C. C.) on Anacharis Alsinas-
 Anacharis Alsinastrum, on, 112.                    trum, 112.
 Anderson (Dr.) on the action of oxidizing
                                                Barrande (M.), Sir R. I. Murchison's
     agents on certain organic bases, 47 ;          view of the labours of, in preparing his
     on a compound of iodine and codeine,          work, " The Silurian System of Bohe-
     48; on the fossil fishes and yellow            mia," 97.
     sandstone of Dura Den, 70.
 Anemometer, on registers from Mr. Fol-         Barytes and platinum, on the optical
     lett Osier's new integrating, 46.              properties of the cyanurets of, 5.
 Animals in the Crustacean tribes, on the
     change of the integuments of, 120.         Basalt in the island of Mull, on a fos-
  Anoraoura, on the uses of the fifth pair           siliferous deposit underlying, 70.

      of legs in the, 1 17-                     Bate (C. Spence) on Crustacea, 115.
                                                Beattie (George) on an improved door
  Appold (J. G.) on a register hygrometer
      for regulatingthe atmospheric moisture         spring, 170.
                                                Beauty, on the geometrical basis of, as
      of houses, 170.
INDEX II.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  197

   -..pplied to architecture and the human                                                                                                                                                                              kerstoun, ib. ; on the mechanical com-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pensation of the bifilar and balance
    form, 131.
Becker (Dr. Ludwig) on the constant in-                                                                                                                                                                                 magnets for variations of the magnetic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        moment with temperature, 9 ; on the
    crease of elevation of the beds of rivei's,                                                                                                                                                                         construction of silk suspension threads
    72 ; remarks as to the earlier existence
   of the Binnen or inland lake, 73.                                                                                                                                                                                    for the declination magnetometer, 10 ;
BenCruachan.onthe dispersion of granite                                                                                                                                                                                 on the attempts to resolve the pressure
    blocks from, 88.
Berber, on the Soukaneeah dialect of the,                                                                                                                                                                               of the atmosphere into two parts, that
     142.
Beswick (Samuel) on a method for com-                                                                                                                                                                                   of vapour and dry air, 31.
    puting magnetic charts of declination,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Brushes, on Haidinger's, 20.
     3.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bryce (James, jun.) on striated and po-
Binnen or inland lake, remarks as to the
    earlier existence of the, 73.                                                                                                                                                                                          lished rocks and " Roches Mouton-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nees " in the lake district of West-
Birds of the Faroe island, on the, 127.
Black (the late Dr.), a few unpublished                                                                                                                                                                                 moreland, 76                                                    postscript, 112 ;  on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;
    particulars concerning, 69.
Blood, on the presence of carbonates in,                                                                                                                                                                                Lesmahagow and Douglas coal-field in

    57 ; of fluorine in, 67.                                                                                                                                                                                                Lanarkshire, 77.
Blood-corpuscle in the adult, on the sup-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Buchanan (George) on some proposed
    posed relation of the spleen to the ori-
 - gin of the coloured, 134.                                                                                                                                                                                            improvements in valves, stopcocks or
Bombaj" government, statistics of criminal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        stoppers for regulating the passage
   and civil justice under the, for the years
    1844 to 1847, 159.                                                                                                                                                                                                  of fluids, by the use of flexible sub-
Botany, 112.
Brachyura, on the use of the false feet in                                                                                                                                                                                  stances, 171.
    male, 116.
Bread, observations on ropy, 60.                                                                                                                                                                                        Buckman (Prof.) on some chemical facts
Brewster (Sir D.) on a new membrane in-
    vesting the crystalline lens of the ox,                                                                                                                                                                             connected with the tessellated pave-
   4 ; on the artificial magnets made by
   M. Logeman, by the process of M.                                                                                                                                                                                        ments discovered at Cirencester, 48.
    Elias, ei.; on the polarizing structure                                                                                                                                                                             Budd (J. Palmer) on the advantageous use
   of the eye, 5 ; on the optical properties
   of the cyanurets of platinum and mag-                                                                                                                                                                                   made of the gaseous escape from the
   nesia, and of barytes and platinum, ib.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            blast furnaces at Ystalyfera, 172.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bunter sandstone of Dumfries- shire, on
   on the recent improvements in photo-
   graphy, 6 ; on some new pheenomena                                                                                                                                                                                   the position of the footsteps in the,
    in the polarization of the atmosphere,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        83.
     ib.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Busk (George), list of Sertularian zoo-
Bridge, on the priority of the invention of
     the tubular, 170.                                                                                                                                                                                                  phytes aud Polyzoa from Port Natal,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Algoa Bay, and Table Bay in South
Bridge of Ashiesteel, on the rubble, 187.
British islands, on the passage of storms                                                                                                                                                                               Africa ; with remarks on their geogra-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        phical distribution, and observations
    across the, 42.
Brodie (Rev. P. B.) on the Stonesfield                                                                                                                                                                                  on the genera Plumularia and Cateni-

    slate at Collyweston, and the great                                                                                                                                                                                 cella, 118.
    oolite, inferior oolite and lias, in the
    neighbourhood of Grantham, 74.                                                                                                                                                                                      Caithness, on chalk flints and oolitic fos-
Broun (J. A.) on electrical figures of dust                                                                                                                                                                                sils from the boulder clay in, 93.
    on plate glass, 7 ; on the effect of height
    in the atmosphere on the diurnal varia-                                                                                                                                                                             Calcium, on the extent to which fluoride
    tion of magnetic declination, ib.; on the                                                                                                                                                                              of, is soluble in water at 60° F., 68.
    effect of height on the diurnal variation
    of the horizontal complement of the                                                                                                                                                                                 Callitriche, on the epidermal appendages
    magnetic force, ib. ; on the variation
    with season of the differences of the                                                                                                                                                                                   of the genus, 113.
   mean pressure at Greenwich and Ma-                                                                                                                                                                                   Campbell (Dugald) on the action of the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           soap-test upon water containing a salt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of magnesia only, and likewise upon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           water containing a salt of magnesia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and a salt of lime, 49.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cantyre, Argyleshire, on the geology of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            the southern extremity of, 100.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cape de Verd islands, on the use of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bofareira as a means adopted by the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            natives of the, to excite lactation, 132.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Carbon, on the tetramorphism of, 62.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Carbonates in blood, on the presence of,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            57.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Carboniferous deposits of France and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Germany, on lines of dislocation be-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tween the lower and upper, 96.
198

Catenicella, observations on the genus,         Coldstream (Dr. John) on the expedi-
     118.                                           ency of ascertaining the extent to which
                                                    infantile idiocy prevails in the United
Caterpillars, on a tissue spun by, 123.             Kingdom generally, and of inquiring
Cell-development, on pathological, 131.             into the causes of its prevalence in cer-
Celtae, on the evidence of the existence of         tain districts, with a view to the adop-
                                                    tion of some means of deliverance from
     primitive races in Scotland prior to the,       it, 128.
     142.
Chalk flints and oolitic fossils from the       Collimator, on a question of probabilities
    boulder clay in Caithness, on, 93.              which occurs in the use of a fixed, for
Chambers (Robert) on the glacial phae-              the verification of the constancy of po-
                                                    sition of an azimuth circle, 1.
   nomena of the neighbourhood of Edin-
    burgh, with some remarks on the gene-       Colours, on the influence of sunlight over
                                                    the action of the dry gases on organic,
     ral subject, 78.                                65.

Chapman (Prof.) on the isomorphous              Conglomerate near N. Berwick, on the
    relations of silica and alumina, 50.           manner in which trap or igneous rocks
                                                    intrude into the sandstone and, 101.
Chat Moss, in Lancashire, on the gra-
    dual subsidence of a portion of the sur-    Connecticut River, and its tributaries in
    face of, by drainage, 101.
                                                   New England, on terraces and ancient
Chemistry, 47.
Chevallier (Prof.) on a sidereal clock for          sea beaches on the, 87.
                                                Cox (Homersham) on the hyperbolic law
   showing the arc of right ascension di-
                                                    of elasticit}' of cast iron, 1 72.
    rectly, 23.
                                                Crabs, on the number of broods from one
Cholera in the Indian armies, on the pre-           female in one season, 117-
   valence and mortality of, I6l.
                                                Crane, on a wrought iron tubular, 177.
Chu Ma, grass cloth of India, on the, 1 12.     Crania, table of measurement of Scottish,
Cirencester, on some chemical facts con-
                                                     146.
    nected with the tessellated pavements       Crystals, on the magneto-optical proper-
    discovered at, 48.
Clare (Peter) on some extraordinary elec-           ties of, 23.

   trical appearances observed at Man-          Crystalline substances, on the theory of
   chester on the l6rh July, 1850, 31.              magnetic induction in, 23.
Claudet (M.) on a new instrument called
                                                Crustacea, notes on, 115.
   the dynactinometer, for comparing the        Crustacean tribes, on the change of the
   power of object-glasses, and for mea-
    suring the intensity of the photogenic          integuments of animals in the, 120.
                                                Cullen (Dr.) on the gold mines of the
     light, 12.
                                                   isthmus of Darien, emigration to New
Clay, boulder, on scratched pebbles and
   fossil specimens from the, and on chalk          Granada, and canalization of the isth-
   flints and oolitic fossils from the, in         mus of Darien, 79-
    Caithness, 93.
                                                Dalyell (Sir John Graham, Bart.) on ex-
Cleghorn (Dr. H.) on the grass cloth                uviation, or the change of the integu-
   (Chu Ma) of India, 112; on the hedge             ments of animals in the crustacean
   plants of India, and the conditions
   which adapt them for special purposes            tribes, 120.
   and particular localities, 113.              Dalziel (Dr. J.) on hysteria, hydropho-

Climate of the valley of the Nile, on the,         bia, and other convulsive afl^ections,
    45.                                             embracing an analysis of the phaeno-
                                                   mena of water-dread, 129.
                               .                Darien, isthmus of, on the gold mines of
                                                   the, and on the canalization of the, 79.
Climates, on the six, of France, 46 ; on        Davy (Dr.) oii the incrustation which
   a mode of cooling the air of tropical,          forms in the boilers of steam-engines,
     188.
                                                    51.
Clock, sidereal, for showing the arc of
    right ascension directly, 23.               Declination, on a method for computing
                                                   magnetic charts of, 3.
Cloth of India, on the grass, 112.
Clouds at Makerstoun, on the daily for-         Dennistoun (James) on a tissue spun by
                                                    caterpillars, 123.
   mation of, 36.
                                                Diamond, on a peculiar form pioduced
Coal-field in Lanarkshire, on the Les-             in a, when under the influence of the
   mahagow and Douglas, 77.
                                                    voltaic arc, 53.
Coal formation, on the chemical compo-
    sition of the rocks of the, 63.

Codeine, on a compound of, 48,

                                                                                               I
;;

INDKX II.                                     199

Disease, on the geographical distribution     Estates, statistics respecting the sale of
    of, as indicating the connexion between       encumbered, in Ireland, 148.
    natural phEenoraena and health and
    longevity, 150.                           Ethnology, 140.
                                              Exuviae of Crustacea, on shedding the,
Dome for observatories, on a folding,
                                                   115.
     189.                                     Eye, on the polarizing structure of the, 5.
Donaldson (Professor) on the water si-
                                              Eye-piece, on a new solid, 15.
    rene, 174.
                                              Fairbairn (William) on a wrought iron
Door spring, on an improved, 1^0.                 tubular crane, designed by, 177.
Doris, on the anatomy of, 124.
Dorsetshire purbecks, on the succession       Faroe islands, on the birds of the, 127.
                                              Finch (Dr. Cuthbert) on the prevalence
    of strata and distribution of organic
    remains in the, 79.                          and mortality of cholera in the Indian
Dracaena Draco, on the treatment and              armies, 161.
    flowering of a plant of, 114.             Fishes, fossil, of Dura Den, on the, 70
Drainage, on the gradual subsidence of           presentation by Mr. Whincopp of a
   a portion of the surface of Chat Moss,         collection of the bones andteethof, 192.
    in Lancashire, by, 101.                   Flints, chalk, from the boulder clay in
Drosera, on the epidermal appendages of           Caithness, 93.
    the genus, 113.                           Fluids, on some proposed improvements
Dumfries-shire, on the position of the            in valves, stopcocks or stoppers for
   footsteps in the Bunter sandstone of,         regulating the passage of, by the use
   83 ; on the representatives of the moun-       of flexible substances, l7l.
    tain limestone as they occur in, 84.      Fluorine, on the presence of, in blood
Dura Den, on the fossil fishes and yellow        and milk, 67.
    sandstone of, 70. .                       Food, on the per-centage of nitrogen
Dynactinometer, on a new instrument              as an index to the nutritive value of,
   called the, for comparing the power
   of object-glasses, and for measuring           64.
   the intensity of the photogenic light,
    12.                                       Forbes (James D.) on the alleged evidence
                                                 for a physical connexion between stars
Earth, on the structure of the lunar sur-         forming binary or multiple groups,
   face, and its relation to that of the, 25     deduced from the doctrme of chances,
   on the conductibility of the, 56.
                                                  23.
Earth's surface, on the erosions of the,
    85.                                       Forbes (Prof. Edward) on the succession
                                                 of strata and distribution of organic re-
Earthquakes in S.America from 1844--47,          mains in the Dorsetshire purbecks, 79
    on, 82.                                      on the European species of Echinus,
                                                 and the peculiarities of their distribu-
Echinus, on the European species of, and
    the peculiarities of their distribution,      tion, 123.
    123.                                      Forces, on the reciprocal relation of the

Edinburgh, on the effects produced by            vital and physical, 133.
   lightning on a tree near, 13 ; account     Forfarshire, on some phsenomena of mi-
   of the observatory at, 31 ; on the gla-
   cial phsenomena of the neighbourhood           rage on the east coast of, 42.
                                              Fossiliferous deposit underlying basalt in
    of, 78.
                                                 the island of Mull, on the, 70.
Edmonds (Richard, jun.), remarkable           Fossil specimens from the boulder clay,
   thermometrical maxima at or near the
   moon's first quarter during the twelve         on, 93.
                                              Fossils, oolitic, from the boulder clay in
    years 1839-50, 32.
                                                  Caithness, 93 palaeozoic, in the cry-
Electrical appearances observed at Man-                                                                                  ;

    chester on July 16, 1850, 31.                 stalline chain of the Forez in France, 96.
Electricity, 3 ; on the application of, and   Fowler (Dr. R.) on the influences of

   heat as moving powers, 183; on the            man's instinct on his intellectual and
    dynamic equivalent of current, 185.          moral powers, 130.
Embleton (Dr.) on the anatomy of Do-          France, on the six climates of, 46.
                                              France and Germany, on lines of disloca-
    ris, 124.                                    tion between the lower and upper car-
                                                  boniferous deposits of, 96.
Equatorial mounting for the Edinburgh         Fringes of interference, on a fictitious dis-
   observatory, on a new form of, 187.            placement of, 20.
                                              Furnaces, blast, at Ystalyfera, on the ad-
200 INDEX II.

   vantageous use made of the gaseous           Grasses, on an Acarus and a Vibrio that
   escape from the, 172.
                                                    attack, 124.
Gairdner (Dr. W. T.) on pathological            Gregory (Dr.) on the sulphite of lead, 55.

    cell-development, 131.                      Gum-dragon tree, on the treatment and
Gairloch, on the system of Croft husban-           flowering of a plant of, 1 14.

   dry and the reclamation of waste lands,      Guyot (Dr. Jules) on the priority of the
   chiefly by spade culture, adopted at,
    147.                                            invention of the tubular bridge, 170.
Galvanic arrangements, table of the rela-
   tive and absolute powers of, 185.            Haidinger's brushes, on, 20.
Galvanometry, on a fixed scale for elec-        Hail-storms, on Indian, 43.
    tromotive force in, 185.                    Hamilton (Dr. Mathie) on earthquakes
Ganoids, on certain extraordinary pecu-
   liarities of structure in the more ancient,     in S. America in 1844-47, 82.

    91.                                         Hamilton (Sir W. R.) on polyzones in-

Gas stove, on a, 191.                               scribed on a surface of the second order,
Gaseous escape, advantageous use made
                                                     2.
    of the, from the blast furnaces at Ysta-
    lyfera, 172.                                Hancock (AlbanjO on 'the anatomy of
Gases, on the influence of sunlight over
    the action of the dry,onorganic colours,        Doris, 124.
     65.
Gassiot (J. P.) on a peculiar form pro-         Hancock (Prof.), statistics respecting the
   duced in a diamond when under the                sale of encumbered estates in Ireland,
     influence of the voltaic arc, 53.              148 ; on the causes of distress at Skull
Gastaldi (B.), parallel between the super-          and Skibbereen during the famine in
     ficial deposits of the basin of Switzer-       Ireland, 149 ; on the cost of obtaining
    land and those of the valley of the Po
    in Piedmont, 90.                                patents in different countries, ib.
 Geography, physical, 69.
 Geology, 69 ; of the southern extremity        Hardy (James) on an Acarus and a Vibrio
     of Cantyre, Argyleshire, 100.
Germanic population, on the original dis-            that attack grasses, 124.
     tribution of the, 141.                     Harkness (Robert) on the position of the
Glacial phaenomena of the neighbourhood
    of Edinburgh, on the, 78.                       footsteps in the Bunter sandstone of
 Glaciers, on traces of ancient, in Glen-           Dumfries-shire, 83; on the represen-
     raessan, 90.                                   tatives of the mountain limestone as
 Gladstone (Dr. J. H. and Mr. G.) on the            they occur in Dumfries-shire, 84.
    growth of plants in abnormal atmo-
     spheres, 54.                               Hay (Dr. R.) on the geometrical basis of
 Glasgow, on the progress of, in popu-              beauty in general, and more particu-
     lation, wealth, manufactures, &c.,             larly as applied to architecture and the
      162.                                         human form, 131.
 Glass, on electrical figures of dust on
                                                Heat, 3 ; on the expansion of solids by,
      plate, 7.                                      16; on the application of electricity
                                                    and, as moving powers, 183.
 Glenmessan, on traces of ancient glaciers
      in, 90.                                    Height, on the effect of, on the diurnal
                                                    variation of the horizontal complement
 Globe, on the central heat and density of          of the magnetic force, 7 ; on the effect
                                                    of, in the atmosphere, on the diurnal
      the, 88.                                      variation of magnetic declination, ib. ;
                                                    on the means of computing the quan-
 Gold mines of the isthmus of Darien, on            tities of aqueous vapour in the atmo-
                                                     sphere at various places and heights,36.
      the, 79.
 Granitic blocks, on the dispersion of,          Hennessy (Henry) on the distribution of
                                                     shooting stars, in the interplanetary
     from Ben Cruachan, 88.
 Grantham, on the great oolite, inferior              spaces, 24.

     oolite and lias, in the neighbourhood       Hincks (Rev. Dr. E.) on the language
                                                    and mode of writing of the ancient As-
      of, 74.
  Graphite, on the recent discovery of, in            syrians, 140.
                                                 Hippuris, on the epidermal appendages
      the island of Mull, 102.
                                                      of the genus, 113.
                                                 Hitchcock (Rev. Edward) on the erosions

                                                     of the earth's surface, especially by
                                                     rivers, 85 ; on terraces and ancient sea-
                                                     beaches, especially those on the Con-
                                                     necticut river, and its tributaries in

                                                    New England, 87.
                                                 Hoeven (Prof. Van der) on the genus Pe-
INDEX II.                                        201

   rodicticus of Bennett, and its relation          connexion between natural phaenomena
    to Stenops, 125.                                and health and longevity, 150.
                                                 Joule (J. P.) on some amalgams, 55.
Hogg (John) on the Sicilian and Sardi-
                                                 Lactation, on the use of the Bofareira as
    nian languages, 140.                            a means adopted by the natives of the
Hopkins (Thomas) on the causes of the               Cape de Verd Islands to excite, 132.

    rise of the isothermal lines (as repre-      Lanarkshire, on the Lesmahagow and
   sented on Prof. Dove's maps) in the               Douglas coal-field in, 77.
    winters of the northern hemisphere,
   34 ; on the daily formation of clouds         Languages, on the Sicilian and Sardinian,
    at Makerstoun, 36.                               140 ; of the ancient Assyrians, ib.
Hopkins (William) on the dispersion of
                                                 Lankester (Dr. Edwin) on the epidermal
   granite blocks from Ben Cruachan, 88.             appendages of the genera Callitriche,
Houses, on a register hygrometer for re-             Hippuris, Pinguicula,and Drosera, 113.

    gulating the atmospheric moisture of,        Lassell (Wilham) on a method of sup-
     170.                                            porting a large speculum, free from
Huggate, on meteorological phaenomena
    at, 42.                                          sensible flexure, in all positions, 180.

Human form, on the geometrical basis of          Latham (Dr. R. G.) on the original dis-
                                                     tribution of the Germanic, Lithuanic
    beauty in general, as applied to, 131.           and Slavonic populations, 141.
Hj'drophobia, observations on, 129.
Hygrometer for regulating the atmosphe-          Lead, on the sulphite of, 55 ; acetate of,
                                                     on the employment of, as a purifying
    ric moisture of houses, on a register,          agent, on the sugar from the south of
     170.                                            Spain, 60.
Hysteria, observations on, 129.
                                                 Lee (Dr. John) on meteorological obser-
Idiocy, infantile, on the expediency of as-         vations made at Kaafjord, near Alten,
   certaining the extent to which it pre-            in Western Finmark, and at Christi-
   vails in the United Kingdom, 128.                ania in Norway, 36 ; on the British
                                                     Meteorological Society, 42.
Iguanodon, on the upper jaw of the, 125.
India, on the grass cloth of, 112 ; on the       Lens of the ox, on a new membrane in-

    hedge plants of, and the conditions              vesting the crystalUne, 4.
   which adapt them for special purposes         Lias in the neighbourhood of Grantham,
    and particular localities, 113.
Indian hail-storms, on, 43.                          on the, 74.
Indian armies, on the prevalence and mor-        Light, 3 ; on a new instrument called the
    tality of cholera in the, 161.
Indices, refractive, of several substances,          dynactinometer for measuring the in-
                                                     tensity of the photogenic, 12.
     14.                                         Lighthouse apparatus, on the limits to
                                                      the velocity of, 191-
Instinct, on the influences of man's, on         Lightning, on the effects produced by,
    his intellectual and moral powers, 130.          on a tree near Edinburgh, 13.
                                                 Lime, on the action of the soap-test upon
Iodine, on a compound of, 48.                        water containing a salt of magnesia
                                                     and a salt of, 49-
Ireland, statistics respecting sale of en-        Limestone, on the representatives of the
    cumbered estates in, 148 ; on the causes          mountain, as they occur in Dumfries-
    of distress at Skull and Skibbereen               shire, 84.
    during the famine in, 149.                    Lithuanic population, on the original
                                                      distribution of the, 141.
Iron, on a new and ready process for the          Lunar surface, on the structure of the,
    quantitative determination of, 58 ; on           and its relation to that of the earth,
    the hyperbolic law of elasticity of cast,
                                                       25.
      172.
 Iron tubular crane, on a wrought, 177.           Lyon (Rev. C. F.) on some phaenomena
 Isoclinal magnetic lines in Yorkshire, on,           of mirage on the east coast of Forfar-

      14.                                             shire, 42.

 Isothermal lines, on the causes of the           Macadam (Stevenson) on the central heat
     rises of the, in the winters of the              and density of the globe, as also the
     northern hemisphere, 34.
                                                      causes of volcanic phaenomena, 88.
 Jacob (W. S.) on a folding dome for ob-          Mackay(J.T.) on the treatment and flow-

     servatories, 180.                                ering of a plant of Dracaena Draco, or
 Johnston (A. Keith) on the geographical

     distribution of disease, as indicating the
202 INDEX II.

gum-dragon tree, in the Botanic Gar- Menai Straits, &c., on the geological po-

den, Trinity College, Dublin, 114.           sition of the black slates of, 102.

Maclaren (C.) on traces of ancient gla- Menstruation in woman, on the causes

ciers in Glenmessan, 90.                     which advance or retard the appearance

Magnesia, on the optical properties of       of the first, 135.

   the cyanurets of platinum and, 5 ; on     Meteorology, 31.
   the action of the soap-test upon water    Meteorological observations made at Kaaf-

    containing a salt of, 49-                   jord, near Alten, in Western Finmark,
                                                and at Christiania in Norway, 36 ; on
Magnetic charts of declination, on a me-        hourly, made in Thibet at an elevation
   thod for computing, 3.

Magnetic declination, on the effect of       of 18,400 feet, 43.

height in the atmosphere on the diur- Meteorological phenomena at Huggate

nal variation of, 7.                         for 1849, 42.

Magnetic force, on the effect of height on Meteorological Society, on the British,

the diurnal variation of the horizontal      42.

complement of the, 7.                        Meteors, 23.

Magnetic induction in crystalline sub- Microscope, on the application of photo-

stances, on the theory of, 23.               graphy to the compound, 126.

Magnetic lines in Yorkshire, isoclinal, 14. Milk, on the presence of fluorine in, 67.

Magnetism, 3.                                Miller (Hugh) on certain extraordinary

Magnetometer, on the construction of         peculiarities of structure in the more an-

   silk suspension threads for the declina-  cient ganoids, 91 ; on peculiarscratched
                                             pebbles and fossil specimens from the
    tion, 10.                                boulder clay, and on chalk flints and
Magneto-optical properties of crystals,

on the, 23.                                  oolitic fossils from the boulder clay in

Magnets, on the artificial, made by M.       Caithness, 93.

Logeman, 4 ; on the mechanical com- Milward (A.) on the present condition of

pensation of the bifilar and balance,        the city and neighbourhood of Malaga,

for variations of the magnetic moment        and on the preparation of raisins,

with temperature, 9-                         151.

Makerstoun, on the daily formation of Minerals, on the condensation of volume

clouds at, 36.                               in highly hydrated, 60.

Malaga, on the present condition of the Mirage, on some phenomena of, on the

city and neighbourhood of, 151.              east coast of Forfarshire, 42.

MaramaUa, presentation by Mr. Whin- MoUusca, on the dentition of the British

copp of a collection of the bones and        pulmoniferous, 126.

teeth of, 192.                               Monstrosities, on the laws regulating the

Manchester, on some extraordinary elec       development of, 138.

trical appearances observed at, on July Moon's first quarter during 1839-50, re-
                                             markable thermometrical maxima at or
16, 1850, 31.

Mantell (Dr. G. A.) on the upper jaw of      near the, 32.

the Iguanodon, 125.                          Morphology of the muscular system, 138.

Martins (Dr. C.) on the six climates of Motion, on a physiological mode of re-

France, 46 ; parallel between the su-           solving the metaphysical difficulties as
perficial deposits of the basin of Swit-        to the origin of the notion of, 135.
zerland and those of the valley of the       Mulder (Prof. G. I.) on the presence of

Po in Piedmont, 90.                          carbonates in blood, 57.

Mathematics, 1.                              Mull, island of, on a fossiliferous deposit
Matteucci (Prof.) on the conductibility         underlying basalt in the, 70 ; on the
                                                recent discovery of plumbago or gra-
    of the earth, 56.

M'Coy (Prof.), list of organic remains in        phite in the island of, 102.
                                             Murchison (Sir Roderick Impey) on the
    the frontier chain of Scotland, 107.

M' William (Dr. J. O.) on the use of the     discovery of palseozoic fossils in the
                                             crystallinechain of theForez in France,
   Bofareira as a means adopted by the       and on lines of dislocation between the

   natives of the Cape de Verd islands to

    excite lactation, 132.                   lower and upper carboniferous deposits

Mean pressure at Greenwich and Makers-       of France and Germany, 96 ; review
   touii, on the variation with season of    of the laJbours of M. Barrande in pre-
                                             paring his work " The Silurian System
    the differences of the, 7-

Mechanical science, 169.                     of Bohemia," 97.
INDEX II.                                       203

 Muscular system, on the morphology of              a notice of some new to the British

     the, 138.                                       list, 126.

 Nasmyth (James) on the structure of the         Peninsula, notice on the geological struc-
    lunar surface and its relation to that          ture of Spain, to explain an outline

     of the earth, 25.                              general map of the, 108.
 Neison (F. G. P.), mortality of the pro-        Penny (Dr. Frederick) on a new and ready

    vident classes in this country and on            process for the quantitative determina-
     the continent, 151.                             tion of iron, 58.
                                                 Perodicticus of Bennett, on the genus,
New England, on terraces and ancient                and its relation to Stenops, 125.
                                                 Peterhead, on zoophytes found in the vi-
    sea-beaches, especially those on the             cinity of, 126.
    Connecticut river, and its tributaries in,   Petrie (William) on the phosphorescence
                                                     of potassium, 59 ; on the application
     87.                                            of electricity and heat as moving powers,
                                                     183 ; on the powers of minute vision,
New Granada, on emigration to, 79-                  ib. ; on the relative and absolute powers
Newman (Prof. F. W.) on the Souka-                   of galvanic arrangements, 185; on the
                                                    dynamic equivalent of current elec-
    neeah dialect of the Berber, 142.               tricity, and on a fixed scale for elec-
Newport (George) on the reciprocal re-               tromotive force in galvanometry, ib.
                                                 Phillips (Professor) on the effects pro-
    lation of the vital and physical forces,        duced by lightning on a tree near Edin-
     133.                                           burgh, 13 ; on isoclinal magnetic lines
Newton's rings, on the mode of disap-                in Yorkshire, 14.
     pearance of, in passing the angle of
                                                Photogenic light, on a new instrument
     total internal reflexion, 19.
                                                    called the dynactinometer for measuring
Nicol (James) on the geology of the                  the intensity of the, 12.
    southern extremity of Cantyre, Ar-           Photography, on the recent improvements
                                                    in, 6, 12 ; on the application of, to the
     gyleshire, 100.                                compound microscope, 126.

Nile, on the climate of the valley of the,       Phj'sics, 1 ; cometary, 31.
     45.                                        Physiology, 128.

Nitrogen, on the per-centage of, as an          Pinguicula, on the epidermal appendages
    index to the nutritive value of food, 64.       of the genera, 113.

North Berwick, on the manner in which           Plants, on the growth of, in abnormal
    trap or igneous rocks intrude into the          atmospheres, 54 ; on the hedge, of In-
    sandstone and conglomerate near, 101.           dia, and the conditions which adapt
                                                    them for special purposes and particu-
Observatories, on a folding dome for, 180.          lar localities, 113.
Observatory, on a new form of equatorial
                                                Platinum and magnesia, on the optical
   mounting now making for the Edin-                properties of the cyanurets of, 5 ; on
                                                    the optical properties of the cyanurets
    burgh, 187.                                     of barytes and, 5.
Oolite, on the great and inferior, in the
                                                Playfair (Dr. Lyon) on the condensation
   neighbourhood of Grantham, 74.                  of volume in highly hydrated minerals,
Organic bases, on the action of oxidizing
                                                    60.
    agents on certain, 47.
Organic remains, on the distribution of,        Plumbago, on the recent discovery of, in
                                                    the island of Mull, 102.
    in the Dorsetshire purbecks, 79 ; list
    of, in the frontier chain of Scotland,      Plumularia, observations on the genus,
    107.                                            118.
Ormerod (G. W.) on the gradual subsi-
   dence of a portion of the surface of         Po in Piedmont, parallel between the su-
   Chat Moss in Lancashire, by drainage,           perficial deposits of the basin of, and
    101.                                            those of the valley of the, 90.

Osier (FoUett), registers from his new          Polyzoa from Port Natal, Algoa Bay and
   integrating anemometer, 46.
                                                   Table Bay, 118.
Ox, on a new membrane investing the             Polyzones inscribed on a surface of the

    crystalline lens of the, 4.                    second order, on, 2.
                                                Portlock (Lieut. -Col.), notice of the man-
Palaeozoic fossils in the crystalline chain
   of the Forez in France, on the, 96.             ner in which trap or igneous rocks in-

Patents, on the cost of obtaining, in dif-
    ferent countries, 149.

Peach (C. W.), list of zoophytes found
   in the vicinity of Peterhead, with
204 INDEX II.

   trude Into the sandstone and conglo-                 coloured blood-corpuscle in the adult,
   merate near N. Berwick, 101.                         134.
Potassium, phosphorescence of, 59.
Powell (Rev. Prof.) on the refractive in-           Sandstone and conglomerate near N.
    dices of several substances, 14.                   Berwick, on the manner in which trap
Provident classes, mortality of the, in this
   country and on the continent, 151.                   or igneous rocks intrude into the,
Purbecks, on the succession of strata and               101.
   distribution of organic remains in the
                                                    Sandstone of Dura Den, on the yellow,
    Dorsetshire, 79.
                                                        70.
Raisins, on the preparation of, 151.                Scoffern (Dr.) on the sugar produce of
Ramsay (Prof.) on the geological position
                                                       the south of Spain, chiefly in connexion
   of the black slates of Menai Straits,               with the employment of acetate of lead
                                                       and sulphurous acid as purifyingagents,
    &c.. 102.                                           60.
Rankin (Rev. T.) on meteorological pha;-            Scoresby (W.) on Atlantic waves, their
                                                       magnitude, velocity and phaenomena,
   nomena at Huggate, for 1849, 42.                     26.
Rankine (W. J. Macquorn) on the laws                Scotland, on the geological structure and
                                                       relations of the frontier chain of, 103 ;
    of the elasticity of solids, 2.                    list of organic remains in, 107 ; on the
Read (George) on ropy bread, 60.                        evidence of the existence of primitive
                                                        races in, prior to the Celtae, 142.
Reade (Rev. J. B.) on a new solid eye-              Sea-beaches, on terraces and, 87-
                                                    Sea-level, on recent changes of, 71-
    piece, 15.                                      Sectors, on the occasional distinct vision
                                                        of rapidly revolving coloured, 21.
Reflexion, on metallic, 19 ; on the mode            Sedgwick (Rev. Prof.) on the geological
   of disappearance of Newton's rings                  structure and relations of the frontier
                                                        chain of Scotland, 103.
in passing the angle of total internal,             Seller (Dr. William) on a physiological
                                                       mode of resolving the metaphysical
     19.                                                difficulties as to the origin of the no-                ^
                                                        tion of space, of motion, of the exter-
Ricinus communis, on, 132.                              nal, of substance, &c., 135.              I
Rifles, on the application of telescope             Shooting stars in the interplanetary
                                                       spaces, on the distribution of, 24.           '
    sights to, 188.                                 Sicilian and Sardinian languages, on the,
Right ascension, on a sidereal clock for                140.                                      jj
                                                    Silica and alumina, on the isomorphous
   showing the arc of, 23.                              relations of, 50.                         I
Rivers, on the constant increase of eleva-          Silk suspension threads for the declina-
                                                       tion magnetometer, on the construction
   tion of beds of, 72 ; on the erosions
   of the earth's surface, especially by,               of, 10.

85.                                                 " Silurian System of Bohemia," Sir R.
                                                        I. Murchison's review of the labours
River terraces, on, 87.                                of M. Barrande in preparing this work,
Roberts (Richard) on the expansion of
                                                        97.
   solids by heat, 16.
" Roches Moutonnees " in the lake di-               Slate at Collyweston, near Stamford, on

strict  of Westmoreland,  on,  76            post-      the Stonesfield, 74.
                                          ;
                                                    Slates of Menai Straits, &c., on the geo-
script, 112.
                                                        logical position of the black, 102.
Rocks, on the chemical composition of
   the, of the coal formation, 63 ; on              Slavonic population, on the original dis-
   striated and polished, in the lake di-
   strict of Westmoreland, 76 ; on the                  tribution of the, 141.
   manner in which trap or igneous, in-             Smith (John) on the rubble bridge of

trude into the sandstone and conglo-                    Ashiesteel, 187.
merate near N. Berwick, 101.
                                                    Smyth (Prof.) on cometary physics, 31 ;
Rose (Alexander) on the recent discovery                account of the Edinburgh Observatory,
   of plumbago or graphite in the island               ib. ; on a new form of equatorial
                                                       mounting now making for the Edin-
    of Mull. Hebrides, 102.                            burgh Observatory, 187; on a mode
Russell (R ) on the passage of storms                   of cooling the air of rooms in tropical

    across the British Islands, 42.

Ruthven (M. W.) on improvements in
   propelling and navigating steam ves-

sels. 186.

Salt, on the effects of, on vegetation, 114.
Sanderson (John S.) on the supposed re-

    lation of the spleen to the origin of the
INDEX II.                                        205

   climates, 188 ; on the application of         Strata, on the succession of, in the Dor-
                                                     setshire purbecks, 79-
    telescope sights to rifles, 188.
                                                 Strickland (H. E.) on a peculiar structure
Soap-test, on the action of the, upon                in the submedial pair of rectrices of
   water containing a salt of magnesia              Vidua paradisea, 126.
   only, and likewise upon water contain-
   ing a salt of magnesia and a salt of          Substance, on a physiological mode of

    lime, 49.                                        resolving the metaphysical difficulties
Solids, on the laws of the elasticity of,            as to the origin of the notion of, 135.
                                                 Sugar produce of the south of Spain, on
   2 ; on the expansion of, by heat, 16.             the, 60.
Sorby (Henry Clifton) on the tetramor-           Sunlight, on the influence of, over the
                                                    action of the dry gases on organic co-
   phism of carbon, 62.                              lours, 65.
Soukaneeah dialect of the Berber, 142.
South America, on earthquakes in, from           Swan (William) on the limits to the ve-

    1844-47, 82.                                     locity of revolving lighthouse appara-
Space, on a physiological mode of resol-             tus caused by the time required for the
                                                    production of luminous impressions on
    ving the metaphysical difficulties as to         the eye, 191.
    the origin of the notion of, 135.            Switzerland, parallel between the super-
Spain, notice on the geological structure            ficial deposits of the basin of, and those
                                                     of the valley of the Po in Piedmont, 90.
   of, to explain an outline general map         Sykes (Lieut.-Col.) on Indian hail-storms,
                                                     43 ; statistics of criminal and civil jus-
    of the Peninsula, 108.
Speculum, on a method of supporting a               tice under the Bombay Government

    large, free from sensible flexure, in all        for the years 1844-47, 159.

     positions, 180.                             Taylor (Henry) on the chemical composi-
Spleen, on the supposed relation of the,             tion of the rocks of the coal formation,
                                                      63.
    to the origin of the coloured blood-cor-
     puscle in the adult, 134.                   Tessellated pavements discovered at Ci-
Stars forming binary or multiple groups,             rencester, on some chemical facts con-
    on the alleged evidence for a physical           nected with the, 48.
    connexion between, 23.
                                                 Thermometrical maxima at or near the
 Statistics, 147.                                    moon's first quarter during the years
                                                      1839-50, 32.
Steam-engines, on the incrustation which
    forms in the boilers of, 51.                 Thibet at an elevation of 18,400 feet, on
                                                     hourly meteorological observations
Steam vessels, on improvements in pro-               made in, 43.
    pelling and navigating, 186.
                                                 Thomson (Prof. W.) on the theory of
 Stein (James) on a direct method of sepa-
    rating arsenious from arsenic acid, and           magnetic induction in crystalline sub-
    on its application to the estimation of           stances, 23.

     nitric acid, 62.                            Thomson (W.) on the dentition of the

 Stenops, on the genus Perodicticus of                British pulmoniferous mollusca, 126.
    Bennett, and its relation to, 125.
                                                 Thomson (Wyville T. C.) on the applica-
 Stevelly (Prof.) on the occasional distinct         tion of photography to the compound
     vision of rapidly revolving coloured
                                                      microscope, 126.
     sectors, 21.                                 Tilt (Dr. E. J.) on the causes which ad-

 Stevenson (Thomas) on the force of the               vance or retard the appearance of first
     waves, 189.
                                                     menstruation in woman, with a synop-
 Stokes (Prof.) on the mode of disappear-            tical table showing the mean age of first
    ance of Newton's rings in passing the            menstruation in 10,422 women in hot,
     angle of total internal reflexion, 19 ; on       temperate, and cold climates, 135.
    metallic reflexion, ib. ; on Haidinger's      Tyndall (John) on the magneto-optical
    brushes, 20 ; on a fictitious displace-
    ment of fringes of interference, ib.              properties of crystals, 23.

 Storms, on the passage of, across the            United Kingdom, on the expediency of
      British Islands, 42.                            ascertaining the extent to which idiocy

 Stove, gas, 191.                                      prevails in the, 128.
 Strachey (Lieut.) on hourly meteorologi-
                                                  Valves, improvements in, for regulating
    cal observations made in Thibet at an
     elevation of 18,400 feet, 43.
 Strang (John) on the progress of Glas-
     gow, in population, wealth, manufac-

      tures, &c., 162.
206 INDEX II.

   the passage of fluids, by the use of        Wells (T. Spencer) on the climate of the
    flexible substances, 171.                      valley of the Nile, 45.
Vegetation, on the effects of salt on, 114.
Verneuil (M. E. de) on the geological          Westmoreland, on striated and polished
    structure of Spain, to explain an out-        rocks and " Roches Moutonnees " in the
   line general map of the Peninsula, 108.         lake district of, 76-
Vibrio that attacks grasses, on a, 124.
Vidua' paradisea, on a peculiar structure      Whincopp (Mr.) , a collection of bones and
    in the submedial pair of rectrices of,        teeth of mammalia and fishes, &c., pre-

    126.                                           sented by, 192.
Vision, on the powers of minute, 183.          Williamson (Prof. A. W.), results of a
Voelcker (Dr. A.) on the proportion of
                                                  research on a;therification, 65.
   phosphoric acid in some natural waters,     Wilson (Daniel) on the evidence of the
   63 ; on the per-centage of nitrogen as
   an index to the nutritive value of food,        existence of primitive races in Scotland
   64 ; on the effects of salt on vegetation,      prior to the Celtas, 142.
    114.                                       Wilson (Dr. George) on the influence of
Volcanic phenomena, on the causes of,              suulight over the action of the dry
                                                  gases on organic colours, 65 ; on the
    88.                                           presence of fluorine in blood and milk,
Voltaic arc, on a peculiar form produced          67 ; on the extent to which fluoride of
                                                  calcium is soluble in water at 60° F.,
   in a diamond when under the influence           68 ; a few unpublished particulars con-
                                                   cerning the late Dr. Black, 69.
    of the, 53.
                                               WoUey (J.) on the birds of the Faroe is-
Ward (W. Sykes) on a gas stove, 191-
                                                   lands, 127-
Water, on the action of the soap-test
   upon, containing a salt of magnesia         Woman, on the causes which advance or
   only, and likewise upon water contain-         retard the appearance of the first men-
    ing a salt of magnesia and a salt of
    lime, 49 ; on the proportion of phos-          struation in, 135.
   phoric acid in some natural, 63 ; on the
   extent to which fluoride of calcium is      Wood (Dr. A.) on the laws regulating
    soluble in, at 60° F., 68.
                                                   the development of monstrosities, with
Water-dread, analysis of the phBenomena            illustrative specimens, 138.

    of, 129.                                   Yorkshire, on isoclinal magnetic lines in,

Water sirene, on the, 174.                          14.
Waves, 23 ; magnitude, velocity and phae-
                                               Ystalyfera, on the advantageous use made
   nomena of the Atlantic, 26 ; on the             of the gaseous escape from the blast

    force of the, 189.                             furnaces at, 172.

                                               Zaglas (M.) on the morphology of the
                                                   muscular system, 138.

                     LONDON:

PRINTED BY HipHARD TAYLOR,

      RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.

                                 FLAMMAM.
List of those Members of the British Association for the Advancement
   of Science to whom Copies of this Volume [for 1850] are supplied

   gratuitously, in conformity ivith the Regulations adopted by the

  &General Committee. [See pp. v. vi.]

                    HONORARV MEMBER.

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS, PRINCE ALBERT OF SAXE-COBURG AND GOTHA.

I.XFE MEMBERS.

Ablett, Joseph, Llanbedr Hall, Ruthin,      Backhouse, Jolm Church, Blackwell, Dar-
    Denbighshire,
                                                 lington.
Adair, Alexander Shafto, M.P., 7 Audley
    Square, London.                         Baddeley, Capt. Fred. H., R.E., Ceylon.

Adam, Walter, M.D., 39 George Square,       Bain, Richard, Gwennap near Truro.
· Edinburgh.
Adams, John Couch, AI.A., Pres.R.A.S.,      Bainbridge, Robert Walton, Middleton
                                                House near Barnard Castle, Durham.
    F.R.S., St. John's College, Cambridge.
Ainsworth, Thomas, The Flosh, Egre-         Baker, William, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
                                            Balfour, John Hutton, M.D., Professor
    mont, Cumberland.
Aldam, William, jun., Warmsworth near           of Botany in the University of Edin-
                                                burgh, F.R.S.E., F.L.S.; Edinburgh.
    Doncaster.                              Ball, John, M.R. I.A., 85 Stephen's Green,
Alexander, William Maxwell, Southbarr,          Dublin.
                                            Ball, William, Rydall, Ambleside, West-
     Paisley.                                   moreland.
                                            Barbour, Robert, Portland St., Manchester,
Allecock, Samuel, Arlington Place, Man-     Barker, Richard, M.D., M.R.D.S., 6
                                               Gardiner's Row, Dublin.
     chester.                               Barnes, Thomas, M.D., F.R.S.E., Carlisle.
                                            Barnett, Richard, Stourport, Worcester-
Allis, Thomas, Osbaldwick, York.
Ambler, Henry, Watkinson Hall, Oven-             shire.

    den near Halifax.                       Barton, John, 48 Mary Street, Dublin.
Amery, John, F.S.A., Park House, Stour-     Bashforth, Francis, M.A., St. John's

    bridge.                                     College, Cambridge.
Anderson, David, Driffield, Yorkshire.      Bateman, Joseph, LL.D., F.R.A.S., Ex-

Andrews, Thomas, M.D., F.R.S.,                 cise Office, Broad Street, London.
    M.R.I. A., Professor of Chemistry, and  Bayldon, John, Lendal, York.
    Vice-President of Queen's College,      Beamish, Richard, F.R.S.
                                            Beatson, William, Rotherham.
     Belfast.                               Beaufoy, Henry, F.R.S., South Lambeth,

Ansted, David Thomas, M.A., F.R.S.,             London.
    Professorof Geology in King's College,  Belcher, Captain Sir Edward, R.N.,
   London; 17 Manchester Street, Man-
   chester Square, London.                     F.R.A.S., 22 Thurloe Square, Bromp-
                                               ton, London.
Appold, John George, 23 Wilson Street,      Belcombe, Henry Stephens, M.D.,
    Finsbury Square, London.                    Minster Yard, York.
                                            Bergin, Thomas Francis, M.R.I. A., 49
Armistead, John, Springfield Mount near        Westlaud Row, Dublin.
                                            Berryman, William Richard, 6 Tamar
    Leeds.                                     Terrace, Stoke, Devonport.
Aahton, Thomas, M.D., 71 Mosley Street,     Bickerdike. Rev. John, M.A,, Leeds.
                                            Binyon, Alfred, Mayfield, Manchester.
    Manchester.                             Binyon, Thomas, St. Ann's Square, Man-
Ashworth, Edmund, Egertou Hall,Turton
                                                ch6stcr.
    near Bolton.
Atkinson, Joseph B., Cotham, Bristol.       Bird, William, 5 Old Church Yard,
Auldjo, John, F.R.S., Noel House, Ken-
                                                Liverpool.
    sington.
                                            Birks, Rev. Thomas Rawson, Kelshall
Babbage, Charles, M. A., F.R.S., 1 Dorset
   Street, Manchester Square, London.           Rectory, Royston.

Babington, Charles Cardale, M.A.,
    F.L.S., {Local Treasurer), St. John's
    College, Cambridge.

[It is requested that any inaccuracy in the names and residences of the Members may be communicated to
                           Mr. Richard Taylor, Printer, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.]
206 INDEX II.

   the passage of fluids, by the use of        Wells (T. Spencer) on the climate of the
    flexible substances, 171.                      valley of the Nile, 45.
Vegetation, on the effects of salt on, 1 14.
Verneuil (M. E. de) on the geological          Westmoreland, on striated and polished
    structure of Spain, to explain an out-        rocksand " Roches Moutonnees" in the
   line general map of the Peninsula, 108.         lake district of, 76.
Vibrio that attacks grasses, on a, 124.
Vidua" paradisea, on a peculiar structure      Whincopp (Mr.), a collection of bones and
    in the submedial pair of rectrices of,        teeth of mammalia and fishes, &c., pre-

    126.                                           sented by, 192.
Vision, on the powers of minute, 183.          Williamson (Prof. A. W.), results of a
Voelcker (Dr. A.) on the proportion of
                                                  research on a;therification, 65.
   phosphoric acid in some natural waters,     Wilson (Daniel) on the evidence of the
   63 ; on the per-centage of nitrogen as
   aa index to the nutritive value of food,        existence of primitive races in Scotland
   64 ; on the effects of salt on vegetation,      prior to the Celtse, 142.
    114.                                       Wilson (Dr. George) on the influence of
Volcanic phcenomena, on the causes of,             sunlight over the action of the dry
                                                  gases on organic colours, 65 ; on the
    88.                                           presence of fluorine in blood and milk,
Voltaic arc, on a peculiar form produced          67 ; on the extent to which fluoride of
                                                  calcium is soluble in water at 60° F.,
   in a diamond when under the influence           68 ; a few unpublished particulars con-
                                                   cerning the late Dr. Black, 69.
    of the, 53.                                Wolley (J.) on the birds of the Faroe is-
                                                   lands, 127.
Ward (W. Sj'kes) on a gas stove, 191-
                                               Woman, on the causes which advance or
Water, on the action of the soap-test             retard the appearance of the first men-
    upon, containing a salt of magnesia
   only, and likewise upon water contain-          struation in, 135.
    ing a salt of magnesia and a salt of
    lime, 49 ; on the proportion of phos-      Wood (Dr. A.) on the laws regulating
   phoric acid in some natural, 63 ; on the
   extent to which fluoride of calcium is          the development of monstrosities, with
    soluble in, at 60° F., 68.                     illustrative specimens, 138.

Water-dread, analysis of the phsenomena        Yorkshire, on isoclinal luagnetic lines in,
    of, 129.
                                                    14.
Water sirene, on the, 174.
Waves, 23 ; magnitude, velocity and phae-      Ystalyfera, on the advantageous use made
                                                   of the gaseous escape from the blast
   nomena of the Atlantic, 26 ; on the
                                                   furnaces at, 172.
    force of the, 189.
                                               Zaglas (M.) on the morphology of the
                                                   muscular system, 138.

                    LONDON:

PRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR,

      RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.

                                 FLAMMAM.
lAst of those Members of the British Association for the Advancement
   of Science to whom Copies of this Volume [for 1850] are supplied

   gratuitously, in conformity ivith the Regulations adopted by the

  &General Committee. [See pp. v. vi.]

                    HONORARV MEMBER.

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS, PRINCE ALBERT OF SAXE-COBURG AND GOTHA.

I.XFE MEMBERS.

Ablett, Joseph, Llanbedr Hall, Rutliin,      Backhouse, John Church, Blackwell, Dar-
    Denbighshire.
                                                  lington.
Adair, Alexander Shafto, M.P., 7 Audley
    Square, London.                          Baddeley, Capt. Fred. H., R.E., Ceylon.

Adam, Walter, M.D., 39 George Square,        Bain, Richard, Gwennap near Truro.
· Edinburgh.
Adams, John Couch, M.A., Pres.R.A.S.,        Bain bridge, Robert Walton, Middleton
                                                 House near Barnard Castle, Durham.
    F.R.S., St. John's College, Cambridge.
Ainsworth, Thomas, Tlie flosh, Egre-         Baker, William, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
                                             Balfour, John Hutton, M.D., Professor
    mont, Cumberland.
Aldam, William, jun., Warmsworth near            of Botany in the University of Edin-
                                                 burgh, F.R.S.E., F.L.S.; Edinburgh.
    Doncaster.                               Ball, John, M.R. LA., 85 Stephen's Green,
Alexander, William Maxwell, Southbarr,           Dublin.
                                             Ball, William, Rydall, Ambleside, West-
     Paisley.                                    moreland.
                                             Barbour, Robert, Portland St., Manchester.
Allecock, Samuel, Arlington Place, Man-      Barker, Richard, M.D., M.R.D.S., 6
                                                Gardiner's Row, Dublin.
     chester.                                Barnes, Thomas, M.D., F.R.S.E., Carlisle.
                                             Barnett, Richard, Stourport, Worcester-
Allis, Thomas, Oshaldwick, York.
Ambler, Henry, Watkinson Hall, Oven-              shire.

    den near Halifax.                        Barton, John, 48 Mary Street, Dublin.
Amery, John, F.S.A., Park House, Stour-      Bashforth, Francis, M.A., St. John's

    bridge.                                      College, Cambridge.
Anderson, David, Driffield, Yorkshire.       Bateman, Joseph, LL.D., F.R.A.S., Ex-

Andrews, Thomas, M.D., F.R.S.,                  cise Office, Broad Street, London.
    M.R.I. A., Professor of Chemistry, and   Bayldon, John, Lendal, York.
    Vice-President of Queen's College,       Beamish, Richard, F.R.S.
                                             Beatson, William, Rotherham.
     Belfast.                                Beaufoy, Henry, F.R.S., South Lambeth,

Ansted, David Thomas, M.A., F.R.S.,              London.
    Professor of Geology in King's College,  Belcher, Captain Sir Edward, R.N.,
   Loudon; 17 Manchester Street, Man-
   chester Square, London.                      F.R.A.S., 22 Thurloe Square, Bromp-
                                                ton, London.
Appold, John George, 23 Wilson Street,       Belcombe, Henry Stephens, M.D.,
    Finsbury Square, London.                     Minster Yard, York.
                                             Bergin, Thonins Francis, M.R.I. A., 49
Annistead, John, Springfield Mount near         Westland Row, Dublin.
                                             Berryman, William Richard, 6 Tamar
    Leeds.                                      Terrace, Stoke, Devonport.
Ashton, Thomas, M.D., 71 Mosley Street,      Bickerdike. Rev. John, M.A,, Leeds.
                                             Binyon, Alfred, Mayfield, Manchester.
    Manchester.                              Binyon, Thomas, St. Ann's Square, Man-
Asliworth, Edmund, Egertou Hall,Turton
                                                 ch6stGr.
    near Bolton.
Atkinson, Joseph B., Gotham, Bristol.        Bird, William, 5 Old Church Yard,
Auldjo, John, F.R.S. , Noel House, Ken-
                                                 Liverpool.
    sington.
                                             Birks, Rev. Thomas Rawson, Kelshall
Babbage, Charles, M. A., F.R.S., 1 Dorset
   Street, Manchester Square, London.            Rectory, Royston.

Babington, Charles Cardale, M.A.,
    F.L.S., (Local Treasurer), St. John's
    College, Cambridge.

[It is requested that any inaccuracy in the names and residences of the Members may be communicated to
                           Mr. Richard Taylor, Printer, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.]
MEMBERS TO WHOM

Birley, Richard, Upper Brook Street,         Buckland, Very Rev. William, D.D., Dean
    Manchester.                                 of Westminster, Reader in Geology and
                                                Mineralogy in the University of Oxford,
Birt, \V. R., 11 Wellington Street, Vic-        Trust. Brit. Mus.,F.R.S.; The Deanery,
    toria Park, London.                          Westminster.

Blackwall, John, F.L.S., Oakland,            Buckman, James, F.G.S., Professor of
    Llanrvvst, Denbighshire.                    Botany, Royal Agricultural College,

Blackwell, Thomas Evans, F.G.S., 65              Cirencester.

    Pulteney Street, Bath.                   Budd, James Palmer, Ystalyfera Iron
Blake, Henry Wollaston, F.R.S., 62 Port-        Works, Swansea.

   land Place, London.                       Buller, Sir Antony, Pound near Tavi-
Blake, William, Bishop's Hull, Taunton.         stock, Devon.
Blakiston, Peyton, M.D., F.R.S., St.
                                             Bulman, John, Newcastle-upon-TjTie.
    Leonard's-on- Sea.                       Burd, John, jun., Mount Sion, Radcliffe,
Bland, Rev. Miles. D.D., F.R.S., Lilley
                                                 Manchester.
    Rectory near Luton, Bedfordshire.        Burlington, William, Earl of, M.A.,
Blood, Bindon, M.R.I A., Cranaher,
                                                 LL.D., Chancellor of the University of
    Ennis, Co. Clare, Ireland.                   London, F.R.S. ; 10 Belgrave Square,
Boddington, Benjamin, Burcher, Kington,          London.

    Herefordshire.                           Campbell, Sir James, Glasgow.
Bodley, Thomas, F.G.S., Anlaby House,        Campbell, William, 34 Candlerigg Street,

    Pittville, Cheltenham.                       Glasgow.
Boileau, Sir John Peter, Bart., F.R.S.,      Carew, William H. Pole, M.P., Antony

    20 Upper Brook Street, London.              House near Devonport.
Bond, Walter M., The Argory, Moy,            Came, Joseph, F.R.S., Penzance.
                                             Carpenter, Rev. Philip Pearsall, B.A.,
     Ireland.
                                                Academy Place, Warrington.
Boughton, Sir William Edward Rouse,
    Bart., F.R.S., Downton Hall near         Carr, William, Blackheath.
    Ludlow, Shropshire.                      Cartmell, Rev. James, B.D., F.G.S.,

Bowerbank, James Scott, F.R.S., 3 High-          Christ's College, Cambridge.
    bury Grove, London.                      Cassels, Rev. Andrew, M.A., Batley

Brady, Antonio, Maryland Point, Strat-           Vicarage near Leeds.
                                             Cathcart, Lieut. -General Charles Murray,
    ford, Essex.
                                                 Earl of, K.C.B., F.R.S.E., Weaste
Brakenridge, John, Bretton Lodge, Wake-          House, Manchester.
                                             Cayley, Sir George, Bart., 20 Hertford
      field.
                                                Street, May Fair, London.
Brammall, Jonathan, Sheffield.               Chadwick, Hugo Mavesyn, F.R.G.S.,
Briggs, Major-General John, E.I.C.S.,
                                                Mem. Egypt. Lit. Soc, Mavesyn-
   F.R.S., 104 Gloucester Terrace, Hyde
                                                 Ridware, Rugele)-.
    Park, London.                            Challis, Rev. James, M.A., F.R.S., Plu-
Brisbane, General Sir Thomas Mak-
                                                 mian Professor of Astronomy in the
    dougall, Bart., K.C.B.,G.C.H., D.C.L.,       University of Cambridge; Observatory,
    President of the Royal Society of Edin-      Cambridge.
    burgh, F.R.S. ; Makerstoun, Kelso,       Chambers, Robert, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
    Roxburghshire.                           Champney, Henry Nelson, The Mount,
Brogden, John, jun., 29 Gloucester Ter-          York.

   race, Hyde Park, London.                  Chanter, John, 2 Arnold Terrace, Bow
Brooke, Charles, B.A., F.R.S., 20 Keppel
                                                 Road, Bromley.
    Street, Russell Square, London.          Chatterton, Sir William, Bart , F.R.G.S.,
Brooks, Samuel, Market Street, Man-
                                                 Castlemahon, Cork.
     chester.
                                             Clieetham, David, Staleybridge, Man-
 Brooks, Thomas, (Messrs. Butterworth
    and Brooks,) Manchester.                      chester.

Broun, John A. ,35MorayPlace,Edinburgh.      Chevallier, Rev. Temple, B.D., F.R. A.S.,
Brown, Thomas, Ebbw Vale Iron Works,             Professor of Mathematics and Astro-

     Abergavenny.                               nomy in the University of Durham;
 Brown, William, Docks, Sunderland.              Durham.
 Bruce, Alexander John, Kilmarnock.
                                             Chichester, Ashhurst Turner Gilbert,
Bruce, Haliday, M.R.I.A., 37 Dame
                                                D.D., Lord Bishop of, 43 Queen Ann
    Street, Dubhn.
 Brunei, Isambart Kingdom, F.R.S., 18            Street, Cavendish Square, London.

    Duke Street, Westminster.
 Buck, George Watson, Ramsay, IsleofMan.
BOOKS ARE SUPPLIED GRATIS.

Cliiswell, Thomas, 150 Waterloo Place,     Danson, Joseph, G Shaw Street, Liver-
     Manchester.
                                                pool.
Christie, Samuel Hunter, M.A., Professor
    of Mathematics in tlie Royal Military  Darbishire, Samuel D., Manchester.
    Academy, Woolwich, Sec.R.S. ; The      Daubeny, Charles Giles Bridle, M.D.,
   Common, Woolwich.
                                               F.R.S. , Regius Professor of Botany,
Clark, Rev. Charles, M.A., Queen's Col-        and Aldrich's Professor of Chemistry,
    lege, Cambridge.                           in the University of Oxford; Ox-

Clark, Francis, Hazelwood near Birming-         ford.
    ham.
                                           Dawes, Rev. William Rutter, F.R.A.S.,
Clark, Henry, M.D., 74 Marland Place,          Wateringbury near Maidstone, Kent.
    Southampton.
                                           Dawson, Christopher H., Low Moor,
Clay, J. Travis, F.G.S., Rastrick near
    Huddersfield.                              Bradford, Yorkshire.
                                           Dawson, Henry, 14 St. James's Road,
Coathupe, Charles Thornton, Clifton,
                                                Liverpool.
     Bristol.
                                           Deane, Sir Thomas, Dundanion Castle,
Cocker, Jonathan, Higher Broughton,            Cork.
    Manchester.
                                           Dent, Joseph, Ribston Hall, Wetherby,
Compton, Lord Alwyne, Castle Ashby,            York.
    Northamptonshire.
                                           Dickinson, John, 66 Stephen's Green,
Compton, Lord William, 145 Piccadilly,         Dublin.
    London.
                                           Dikes, William Hey, F.G.S., Wakefield.
Consterdine, James, New Cannon Street,     Dilke, C. Wentworth, 76 Sloane Street,

    Manchester.                                London.
Conway, Charles, Pontnwydd Works,          Dobbin, Leonard, jun., M.R.LA., 27

    Newpoi-t, Monmouthshire.                   Gardiner's Place, Dublin.
Conybeare, Very Rev. William Daniel,       Dodsworth, Benjamin, Great Blake St.,

   Dean of LlandafF, M.A., F.R.S. ; The        York.
    Deanery, Llandaff.                     Dodsworth, George, Fulford near York.
Cooke, William Fothergill, Kidbrooke       Donkin, 'Thomas, F.R.A.S,, Westow,

    near Blackheath.                          Whitwell near York.
Corbet, Richard, Adderley, Market Dray-    Dowden, Richard, Sunday's Well, Cork.
                                           Downie, Alexander, Crossbasket near
    ton, Shropshire.
                                               Glasgow.
Cork, Cloyne and Ross, James Wilson,
   D.D., Lord Bishop of, M.R.LA.           Drury, William, M.D., Garn Gad Hill,

Cottam, Samuel E., F.R.A.S., 28 Brazen-        Glasgow.
   nose Street, Manchester.                Duncan, James, M.D., Farnham House,

Cotton, Alexander, Landwade, Cambridge-        Finglass, Co. Dublin.
                                           Dunraven, Edwin, Earl of, F.R.S., 3
    shire.
                                               Halkin Street West, London.
Cotton, Rev. William Charles, M.A., New
                                           Earnshaw, Rev. Samuel, M.A., Sheffield.
    Zealand.                               Ebrington, Hugh, Viscount, M.P., 17

Courtney, Henry, M.R.LA., 24 Fitz-            Grosvenor Square, London.
                                           Edmonston, Rev. James, 7 Trafalgar
    william Place, Dublin.
                                               Square, "Twickenham.
Cox, Joseph, F.G.S., Wisbeach, Cam-        Egerton, Sir Philip de Malpas Grey, Bart.,

    bridgeshire.                              M.P., F.R.S., Oulton Park, Cheshire.
                                           Ellis, Rev. Robert, A.M., Grimstone
Crampton, The Honourable Justice,
   LL.D., M.R.LA., 3 Kildare Place,           House near Malton, Yorkshire.
                                           Ellis, Thomas Flower, M.A., F.R.S.,
    Dublin.
                                              Attorney-General of the Duchy of Lan-
Crewdson, Thomas D., Dacca Mills, Man-        caster; 15 Bedford Place, London.
                                           Enys, John Samuel, F.G.S., Enys, Corn-
    chester.
Crichton, William, Glasgow,                    wall.

Crompton, Rev. Joseph, Norwich.            Erie, Rev. Christopher, M.A., F.G.S.,
Crooke, G. W., Liverpool.                     Hardwick Rectory near Aylesbury,
Currer, Rev. Danson Richardson, Clifton       Buckinghamshire.

    House, York.                           Evans, George Fabian, M.D., Waterloo
Curtis, John Wright, Alton, Hants.            Street, Birmingham.

Dalby, Rev. William, M.A., Rector of       Exley, Rev, Thomas, M..-^,, Cotham,
   Compton Basset near Calne, Wilts.
                                               Bristol,
Dalton, Rev. James Edward, B.D.,
    Queen's College, Ciimbridge.
MEMBERS TO WHOM

Eyre, George Edward, F.G.S., Warrens         Gibson, George Stacey, Saffron Walden,           j
    near Lyndhurst, Kants.                   Gilbart, James William, K.R.S., London

Fairbairn, William, C.E., F.Ii.S., Man-         and Westminster Bank, Lothbury,
                                                 London.
     chester,                                Gilbert, John Davies, M.A., F.R.S.,
Faraday, Michael, D.C.L., F.R.S., Fiil-          Eastbourne, Sussex.
                                             Gladstone, George, Stockwell Lodge,
    lerian Professor of Chemistry in the         Stock well, London.
    Royal Institution of Great Britain ; 21  Gladstone, John Hall, Ph.D., Stockwell
    Albemarle Street, London.                    Lodge, Stockwell, London.
                                             Goodman, John, Salford, Lancashire.
Fellows, Sir Charles, F.R.G.S., 4 Mon-
    tagu Place, Russell Square, London.      Goodsir, John, F.R.S. L.& E., Professor
                                                of Anatomy in the University of Edin-
Fisher, Rev. J. M., M..A., Lower Grove,
    Brompton, London.                           burgh 55 George Square, Edinburgh.
                                                                                           ;
Fisher, Rev. Thomas, M.A., Luccombe
    near Minehead, Somerset.                 Gordon, James, 46 Park Street, Bristol.
                                             Gordon, Rev. James Crawford, M.A.,
Fitzwilliam, Charles William, Earl, F.R.S.,
    President of the Yorkshire Philosophi-       Delamont, Downpatrick, Downshire.
    cal Society ; Mortimer House, Halkin     Gotch, Rev. Frederick William, B.A.,
    Street, Grosvenor Place, London.
                                                 1 Cave Street, Bristol.
Fleming, Colonel James, Kinlochlaich,        Gotch, Thomas Henry, Kettering.
    Appin, Argyleshire.                      Grseme, James, Garvoch, Perth.
                                             Graham, Thomas, M.A., F.R.S., Profes-
Fleming, William M., Barochan, Ren-
                                                 sor of Chemistry in University College,
     frewshire.                                 London ; 4 Gordon Square, London.
                                             Grahame, Captain Duncan, Irvine, Scot-
Fleming, William, M.D., Manchester.              land.
Fletcher, Samuel, Ardwick Place, Man-        Grattan, Joseph, 94 Shoreditch, London.
                                             Graves, Rev. Charles, M.A., Professor of
     chester.                                    Mathematics in the University of Dub-
                                                lin, M.R.I.A., 2 Trinity College, Dub-
Forbes, James David, Professor of Natural
    Philosophy in the University of Edin-          lin.
    burgh, Sec. R.S.E., F.R.S.; Edinburgh.
                                             Graves, Rev. Richard Hastings, D.D.,Bri-
Forbes, John, M.D., F.R.S., 12 Old Bur-         gown Glebe, Michelstown, Co. Cork.
    lington Street, London.
                                             Gray, Rev. David, M.A., F.R.S.E,, Pro-
Forrest, William Hutton, Stirling.
Forster, Robert, B.A., Springfield, Dun-        fessor of Natural Philosophy in the Ma-
                                                 rischal College and University, Aber-
    gannon, Ireland.
Forstei-, Thomas Emerson,? Ellison Place,        deen.
                                             Gray, John, Greenock.
    Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Forster, William, Ballynure, Clones, Ire-    Gray, John Edward, F.R.S., British Mu-

    land.                                        seum.
                                             Gray, William, F.G.S.,(Zocrt/ Treasurer),
Foster, Charles Finch, Mill Lane, Cam-
                                                 Minster Yard, York.
    bridge.                                  Greenaway, Edward, 9 River Terrace,

Foster, H. S., Brooklands, Cambridge.            City Road, London.
Foster, John, M.A., Clapham, London.         Greswell, Rev. Richard, B.D., F.R.S.,
Fov.ler, Robert, 23 Rutland Square, Dub-
                                                Beaumont Street, Oxford.
      lin.                                   Griffin, John Joseph, Glasgow.
                                             Griffith, Richard, M.R.I. A., F.G.S., Fitz-
Fox, Benjamin Middleton, Tottenham.
Fox, Charles, Perran Arworthal near              william Place, Dublin.
                                             Griffiths, S. Y., Cheltenham.
    Truro.                                   Grooby, Rev. James, M.A., F.R.A.S.,
Fox, Joseph Hayland, Wellington, So-
                                                 Swindon, Wilts.
    merset.                                  Guinness, Rev. William Smyth, M.A.,
Fox, Robert Barclay, Falmouth,
Fox, Samuel Lindoe, Tottenham.                   Rathdrum, Co. Wicklow.
                                             Gutch, John James, 88 Micklegate, York.
Frankland, Rev. Marmaduke Charles,
                                             Habershon, Joseph, jun., The Holmes,
    Malton, Yorkshire.                           Rotherham, Yorkshire.

Freeland, Humphry William, B 3 Albany,       Hailstone, Samuel, F.L.S., Horton Hall
                                                 near Bradford, Yorkshire.
    London.
FuUarton, Allan, Greenock.                   Hall, T. B., Coggeshall, Essex.

Gadesden, Augustus William, F.S.A.,
    Leigh House, Lower Tooting, Surrey.

Gaskell, Samuel, 19 New Street, Spring

    Gardens, London.
;

BOOKS ARE SUPPLIED GRATIS.

Hallam, Henry, M.A., D.C.L., F.R.S.,         Hill, Henry, 13 Orchard Street, Portman
    Trust. Brit. Mus., 24 Wilton descent,        Square, London.
    Knightsbridge, London.
                                             Hill, Rowland, F.R.A.S., General Post
Hamilton, Mathie, M.D., Warwick Street,          Office, London.
    Glasgow.
                                             Hill, Thomas, Rose Cottage, Oughtring-
Hamilton, Sir William Rowan, LL.D.,
    Astronomer Royal of Ireland, and An-       ton, Lymm near Warrington.
   drew's ProfessorofAstronomy in tlieUni-
    versity of Dublin, M.R.I. A., F.R.A.S.   Hill, Thomas Wright, F.R.A.S., Bruce
    Observatory, Dublin.                        Castle, Tottenham.

Hamilton, William John, Sec. G.S., 14        Hindmarsh, Luke, Alnwick, Northum-
   Chesham Place, Belgrave Square, Lon-
    don.                                         berland.
                                             Hoare, Rev. George Tooker, Selworthy,
Hamlin, Captain Thomas, Greenock.
Harcourt, Rev. William V. Vernon, M. A.,         Minehead, Somerset.
                                             Hoblyn, Thomas, F.R.S., White Barnes,
    F.R.S,, Weldrake near York.
Harding, Wyndham, 10 College, Doctors'           Buntingford, Herts.
                                             Hodgkin, Thomas, M.D., F.R.G.S., 35
   Commons, London.
Hare, Charles John, M.D., 9 Langham             Bedford Square, London.
                                             Hodgkinson, Eaton, F.R.S., Professor of
    Place, London.
Harley, John, Wain Worn, Pontypool.             the Mechanical Principles of Engineer-
Harris, Alfred, Manningham Lodge near           ing in University College, London 14

    Bradford, Yorkshire.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;
Harris, George William, 17 Park Street,
                                                 Crescent, Saiford, Manchester.
    Westminster.                             Hodgson, Adam, Everton, Liverpool.
Harris, Henry, Heaton Hall, near Brad-       Holden, Moses, 13 Jordan Street, Pres-

    ford.                                         ton.

Harter, William, Broughton, Manchester.      Holditoh, Rev. Hamnet, M.A., Caius
Hartley, Jesse, Trentham Street, Liver-         College, Cambridge.

    pool.                                    Holland, P. H., 8G Grosvenor Street,
                                                Manchester.
Harvey, Joseph Chai-les, Youghal, Co.
    Cork.                                    Hollingswqrth, John, University College,
                                                London,
Hatton, James, Richmond House, Higher
    Broughton, Manchester.                   Hone, Nathaniel, M.R.D.S., 1 Fitzvvilliam
                                                Square East, Dublin.
Haughton, William, 28 City Quay, Dublin.
Hawkins, John Isaac, C.E.                    Hopkins, William, M.A., F.R.S., Cam-
Hawkins, Thomas, F.G.S., 15 Great Or-
                                                 bridge.
   mond Street, London.                      Horner, Leonard, F.R.S., Rivermede,
Hawkshaw, John, F.G.S., Islington House,
                                                Hampton-wick.
    Saiford, Manchester.                     Horsfield, George, Stanley Street, Red
Haworth, George, Rochdale, Lancashire.
Hawthorn, Robert, C.E., Newcastle-on-           Bank, Manchester.
                                             Houldsworth, Henry, Newton Street,
    Tyne.
Henry, Alexander, Portland Street, Man-          Manchester.

    chcstsr                                  Hoyle, John, 10 Brown Street, Man-

Henry, William Charles, M.D., F.R.S.,             cn6sti**
    Haffield near Ledbur}'^, Herefordshire.
                                             Hudson, Henry, M.D., M.R.I.A., 23
Henslow,Rev. John Stevens, M. A., F.L.S.,       Stephen's Green, Dublin.
    Professor of Botany in the University
    of Cambridge, and Examiner in Botany     Hull, William Darley, F.G.S., 15 Hatch
    in the University of London ; Hitcham,       Street, Dublin.

     Bildeston, SulTolk.                     Hulse, Edward, D.C.L., All Souls' Col-
                                                 lege, Oxford.
Herbert, Thomas, Nottingham.
Heywood, Sir Benjamin, Bart., F.R.S.,        Hutchison, Graham, 16 Blythswood
                                                 Square, Glasgow.
   9 Hyde Park Gardens, London.
Heywood, James, M.P., F.R.S. , Weaste        Hutton, Robert, M.R.I. A., F.G.S , Put-
                                                ney Park, Surrey.
    House near Manchester.
Heywood, Robert, Bolton.                     Hutton, William, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Higson, Peter, Clifton near Bolton.
Hill, Rev. Edward, M.A., F.G.S., Sheer-      Ibbetson, Captain Levett Landen Boa-
                                                 cawen, K.R.E., F.G.S., Clifton House,
    ing Rectory, Harlow.                         Old Brompton, London.

                                             Inglis, James, M.D., Halifax, Yorkshire.

                                             Jackson, James Eyre, TuUydory, Black-
                                                 water Town, Armagh.

                                             Jacob, John, M,D., Maryborough.
                                             ,

MEMBERS TO WHOM

Jardine, Sir William, Bart., F.R.S.E.,       Langton, William, Manchester.               J
    Jardine Hall, Applegarth, by Lockerby,   Lansdowne, Henry, Marquis of, K.G.,         I
    Umnfriesshire.
                                                D.C.L., Trust. Brit. Mus., F.R.S,, 54
Jee, Alfred S., 6 John Street, Adelphi,         Berkeley Square, London.
    London.                                  Larcom,CaptainThomasA., R.E., F.R.S.
                                                Board of Works, Custom House, Dublin.
Jenkyns, Rev. Henry, D.D., Professor of      La Touche, David Charles, M.R.LA.,
    Divinity and Ecclesiastical History in       Castle Street, Dublin.
   tlie University of Durham ; Durham.       Laurie, James, Langholm near Carlisle.
                                             Lawson, Andrew, Buroughbridge, York-
Jenyns, Rev. Leonard, M.A., F.L.S.,
   S waffham- Bulbeck, Cambridgeshire.            shire.

Jerram, Rev. S. John, M.A., Witney,          Leatham, Charles Albert, Wakefield.
    Oxfordshire.                             Leatham, Edward Aldam, Wakefield.
                                             Leather, John Towlerton, Leventhorpe
Jerrard, George Birch, B.A., Examiner
    in Mathematics and Natural Philosophy        Hall near Leeds.
   in the University of London; Long         Lee, John, LL.D., F.R.S., 5 College,

    Stratton, Norfolk.                          Doctors' Commons, London.
                                             Leeson, Henry B., M.A., M.D., F.R.S.,
Johnson, Thomas, Mosley Street, Man-
                                                 St. Thomas's Hospital, and Greenwich.
    chester.                                 Lefroy, Captain John Henry, R. A., F.R.S.
                                             Legh, George Cornwall, M.P., F.G.S.,
Johnston, James F. W., M.A., F.R.S.,
    Professor of Chemistry in theUniversity     High Legh, Cheshire.
   of Durham; Durham.                        Leinster, Augustus Frederick, Duke of,

Johnstone, James, Alva near Alloa, Stir-        M.R.I..'^., C Carlton House Terrace,
                                                 London.
     lingshire.                              Le Mesurier, R. Arthur, M.A., Corpus
                                                 Christi College, Oxford.
Johnstone, Sir John Vanden Beinpde,          Lemon, Sir Charles, Bart., M.P., F.R.S.,
    Bart., M.P., M.A., F.G.S., 27 Grosve-        46 Charles Street, Berkeley Square,
    nor Square, London.                          London.
                                             Lewis, Captain Thomas Locke, R.E.,
Jones, Christopher Hird, 2 Castle Street,        F.R.S, Ibsley Cottage near Exeter.
     Liverpool.                              Liddell, Andrew, Glasgow.
                                             Lindsay, Henry L., C.E., 33 Lower Rut-
Jones, Major Edward, 8 Gascoign Ter-             land Street, Dublin.
    i-ace, Plymouth.                         Lingard, John R., Stockport, Cheshire.
                                             Lister, Joseph Jackson, F.R.S., Upton,
Jones, Josiah, 2 Castle Street, Liverpool.
Jones, Robert, 2 Castle Street, Liverpool.       Essex.
                                             Lloyd, George, M.D., F.G.S., Stank Hill
Joule, Benjamin, jun., New Bailey Street,
                                                 near W'arwick.
    Salford, Manchester.                     Lloyd, Rev. Humphry, D.D., F.R.S., Pre-
Joule, James Prescott, F.R.S., Secretary
                                                 sident of the Royal Lish Academy; 17
    to the Literary and Philosophical Sn-
                                                 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin.
   cietyof Manchester; New Bailey Street,    Lloyd, George Whitelocke, I Park Square

     Salford.                                    West, Regent's Park, London.
Joy, Charles Aslifield,45 Gloucester Road,   Lockey, Rev. Francis, Swanswick near

    Regent's Park, London.                        Bath.
Jubb, Abraham, Halifax.                      Loftus, William Kennett, F.G.S., Stand

Kay, John Robinson, Boss Lane House,             House, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
    Bury, Lancashire.                        Logan, William Edmond, F.G.S., Director

Kay, Rev. William, M.A., Lincoln Col-            of the Geological Survey of Canada; 42
    lege, Oxford.                                Sackville Street, London.
                                             Lubbock, Sir John William, Bart, M.A.,
Kelsall, Henry, Rochdale, Lancashire.            F.R.S., 23 St. James's Place, London.
Kenvick, Samuel, Handsworth Hall near        Lucas, WilHam, St. Helen's, Lancashire.
                                             Luckcock, Howard, Oak Hill, Edgbaston,
    Birmingham.                                  Birmingham.
Kerr, Archibald, Glasgow.                    Lutwidc;e, Charles, M.A.
Kerr, Robert, jun., Glasgow.                 Lyell, Sir Charles, M.A., F.R.S., 11
Knowles, Edward R. J., 23 George Street,         Havley Street, Cavendish Square, Lon-

    Ryde, Isle of Wight.                         don,
Knowles, William, 15 Park Place, Clifton,

      Bristol.

Knox, G. James, at C. G. Knox's, Esq., 7
    StoneBuildingSjLincoln's Inn, London.

Lacy, Henry C, jun.
 Laming, Richard, 1 Woodland Terrace,

   New Charlton.
BOOKS ARE SUPPLIED GRATIS.

M'All, Rev. Edward, Rector of Brigh-          Murray, William, Polmaise, Stirlingshire.
    stone, Newport, Isle of Wight.            Muspratt, James Sheridan, Ph.D., Col-

M'^Andrew, Robert, 84 Upper Parliament            lege of Chemistry, Liverpool.

     Street, Liverpool.                       Napier, Lieut. Johnstone (74th High-
                                                 landers), 80 Pall Mall, Loudon.
MacBrayne, Robert, Barony Glebe, Glas-
    gow.                                      Nasmyth, James, F.R.A.S., Patricroft
                                                  near Manchester.
M'Connel, James, Manchester.
M'^Culloch, George.                           Newall, Robert Stirling, Gateshead-upon-
MacDonnell, Rev. Richard, D.D., Pro-             Tyne.

    fessor of Oratory in the University of   Newman, Francis William, Professor of
    Dublin, M.R.I.A., Dublin.                    Latin in University College, London;
M'^Ewan, John, Glasgow.                          7 Park Village East, Regent's Park,
Mackenzie, Sir Francis A., Bart., Ki-            London.
    nellan by Dingwall, Scotland.
Malcolm, Frederick, 1 Abchurch Lane,         Newman, William, Darley Hall near
    London.
Mallet, Robert,M.R.I.A., 98Capel Street,          Barnsley, Y''orkshire.
    Dublin.
Manchester, James Prince Lee, D.D.,          Newman, William Lewin, F.R.A.S., St.

   Lord Bishop of, F.R.S., F.G.S., The           Helen's Square, York.
                                             Nicholls, John Ashton, F.R.A.S., Ard-
    Palace, Manchester.
Marshall, James Garth, M.P., M.A.,               wick Place, Manchester.
                                             Nicholson, Cornelius, 55 Bernard Street,
    F.G.S., Headingley near Leeds.
Mavtineau, Rev. James, 12 Mason Street,          Russell Square, London.
                                             Nicholson, John A., M.D., M.R.I.A.,
   Edge Hill, Liverpool.
Mason, Thomas, York.                             Balrath, Kells, Co. Meath.
Mather, Daniel, 58 Mount Pleasant, Li-
                                             O'Reardon, John, M.D., 35 Y'ork Street,
    verpool.                                     Dublin.

Mather, John, 58 Mount Pleasant, Liver-      Orlebar, A. B., M. A., 53 Holywell Street,

    pool.                                        Oxford.
Maxwell, Robert Percival, Finnebrogue,
                                             Oi-pen, Charles Edward H., M.D,, Cape
    Downpatrick, Ireland.                       of Good Hope.
Mayne, Rev. Charles, M.R.I. A., 22 Up-
                                             Osier, A. FoUett, Birmingham.
   per Merrion Street, Dublin.               Ossalinski, Count.
Meadows, James, York Place, Rusholme         Outram, Sir Benjamin Fonseca, M.D.,

   near Manchester.                             F.R.S., 1 Hanover Square, London.
Meynell, Thomas, jun., F.L.S., Gillygate,    Owen, Jeremiah, Royal Dockyard, Wool-

   York.                                         wich.
Michell, Rev. Richard, B.D., Prselector      Oxford, Samuel Wilberforce, D.D., Lord

   of Logic, Lincoln College, Oxford.            Bishop of, F.R.S., 61 Eaton Place,
Miller, Patrick, M.D., Exeter.                   London.
Miller, William Allen, M.D., F.R.S.,
                                             Palmer, William, St. Giles's, Oxford.
   Professor of Chemistry in King's Col-     Parker, Charles Stewart, Liverpool.
   lege, London.                             Pasley, Major-General Sir Charles Wil-
Mills, John Robert, Bootham, York.
Milne, David, M.A.,F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.         liam, Royal Engineers, C.B., D.C.L.,
Moore, John Carrick, M.A., Sec.G.S.,
                                                F.R.S., 12 Norfolk Crescent, Hyde
   4 Hyde Park Gate, Kensington Gore,
                                                 Park, London.
   London.                                   Patterson, Robert, 3 College Square North,

More, John Shank, Professor of the Law            Belfast.

   of Scotland in the University of Edin-    Pattinson, Hugh Lee, F.G.S., Gateshead-
   burgh, F.R.S.E., 19 Great King Street,
   Edinburgh.                                   upon-Tyne.
Morris, Rev. Francis Orpen, B. A., NaflFer-  Pearsall, Thomas John, Mechanics' Insti-
   ton Vicarage near Driffield, York-
                                                tution and Literary Society, Leeds.
    shire.                                   Peckover, Algernon, F.L.S., Wisbeacb,

Murchison,SirRoderickImpey,G.C.St.S.,            Cambridgeshire.
   M.A., V.P.R.S., IG Belgrave Square,       Peckover, Daniel, Woodhall near Brad-
   London.
                                                 ford, Yorkshire.
Murray, John, C.E., 26 Parliament Street,    Peckover, William, F.S.A., Wisbeach,
    Westminster.
                                                 Cambridgeshire.
                                             Pf'dlor, Lieut. -Colonel Phihp Warren,

                                                Mutlov House near Plvmouth.
8 MEMBERS TO WHOM

Peel, George, Soho Iron Works, Man-                                                                       Renny, H. L., C.E., United Service Club,

    chester.                                                                                              Stephen's Green, Dublin.

Perigal, Frederick, 100 Camden Road Vil-                                                                  Richardson, Sir John, M.D., F.R.S.,
   las, Camden New Town, London.
                                                                                                          Haslar Hospital, Gosport.
Peters,Edward,Ten)pleRow,Birmingham.
Philips, Mark, the Park near Manchester.                                                                  Riddell, Captain Charles J. B., R.A.,
Phillips, John, F.R.S., (Assistant Ge-
                                                                                                          F.R.S., Edinburgh.
   neral Secretary), St. Mary's Lodge,
    York.                                                                                                 Roberts, Richard, Globe Works, Man-
Philpott, Rev. Henry, D.D., Master of
    St. Catharine's Hall, Cambridge.                                                                      chester.
Pike, Ebenezer, Besborough, Cork.
Pitt, George, 4 Great Portland Street,                                                                    Robinson, John, Shamrock Lodge, Ath-
   London.
Pollexfen, Rev. John Hutton, M. D., 4 Bed-                                                                lone, Ireland.
   ford Place, Clapham Rise, London.
Pontey, Ale.xander, Plymouth.                                                                             Robson, Rev. John, D.D., Glasgow.
Poppelwell, Matthew, Rosella Place, Tyne-
   mouth.                                                                                                 Rogers, Rev. Canon, M.A., Redruth,
Porter, George Richardson, F.R.S., Com-
    mittee of Privy Council for Trade,                                                                    Cornwall.
   Whitehall, London.
Porter, Henry John, Tandragee Castle,                                                                     Roget, Peter Mark, M.D., F.R.S., 18
   Co. Armagh.
Portlock, Lieut.-Colonel Joseph Ellison,                                                                  Upper Bedford Place, London.
   Royal Engineers, F.R.S., Coik.
Powell, Rev. Baden, M.A., F.R.S., Savi-                                                                   Ross, Captain Sir James Clark, R.N.,
   lian Professor of Geometry in the Uni-
    versity of Oxford ; Oxford.                                                                           D.C.L., F.R.S., Aston House, Aston
Pratt, Samuel Peace, F.R.S., 27 Coleman
   Street, London.                                                                                        Abbots, Aylesbury.
Prestwich, Joseph, jun., F.G.S., 20 Mark
   Lane, London.                                                                                          Roth well, Peter. Bolton.
Pretious, Thomas, Royal Dockyard, Pem-
                                                                                                          Roughton, William, jun., Kettering,
    broke.
                                                                                                          Northamptonshire.
Prince, Rev. John Charles, 63 St. Anne
                                                                                                          Rowland, John, 30 Terminus Road,
    Street, Liverpool.
                                                                                                          Brighton.
Pritchard, Andrew, 162 Fleet Street,
    London.                                                                                               Rowntree, Joseph, Pavement, York.

Prower, Rev. J. M., M.A., Swindon,                                                                        Rowntree, Joseph, Scarborough.
    Wiltshire.
                                                                                                          Royle, John Forbes, M.D., F.R.S., Pro-
Pumphrey, Charles, New Town Row, Bir-
                                                                                                          fessor of Materia Medica and Thera-
   mingham.
                                                                                                          peutics in King's College, London, (Ge-

                                                                                                          neral Secretary); Heathfield Lodge,

                                                                                                          Acton, Middlesex.

                                                                                                          Rushout, Captain George (1st Life

                                                                                                          UGuards), M.P., F.G.S.,         Charles

                                                                                                          Street, St. James's, London.

                                                                                                          Russell, James, {Local Treasurer'), Bir-

                                                                                                          mingham.

                                                                                                          Ryland, Arthur, Birmingham.

Radford, William, M.D., Sidmouth,                                                                         Sabine, Lieut-Colonel Edward, Royal Ar-
                                                                                                             tillery, V.P. andTreas.R.S., (General
Ramsay, Sir James, Bart., F.G.S., BamfT                                                                       Secretary), Woolwich.

House, Perthshire.                                                                                        Salter, Thomas Bell, M.D., F.L.S., Ryde,
                                                                                                              Isle of Wight.
Ramsay, William, M.A., F.S.S., Pro-
   fessor of Humanity in the University                                                                   Sanders, William, F.G.S., {Local Trea-
                                                                                                              surer), Park Street, Bristol.
of Glasgow,  {Local Treasurer)                                                                       The
                                                                                                  ;       Satterthwaite, Michael, M.D., Grosvenor
                                                                                                              Street, Manchester.
College, Glasgow.
                                                                                                          Schemman, J. C, Hamburgh; at L.
Ranee, Henry, Cambridge.                                                                                     Thornton's, Esq., Camp Hill, Bir-
                                                                                                             mingham.
Ransome, Robert, Iron Foundry, Ipswich.
                                                                                                          Schlick, Le Chevalier, Rev. Charles Has-
Rawlins, John, Birmingham.                                                                                   sell's. Fox Earth's near Newcastle-

Rawson, Thomas William, Saville Lodge,                                                                        under-line, Staffordshire.

Halifax.                                                                                                  Schofield, Robert, Mount House, Cliee-
                                                                                                             tham Hill, Lancashire.
Read, William Henry Rudston, M.A.,
                                                                                                          Scholes, T. Seddon, Bank, Cannon Street,
F.L.S., Hayton near Pocklington,                                                                              Manchester.

Yorkshire.                                                                                                Scholey, William Stephenson, M. A., Clap-
                                                                                                             ham, London.
Reade, Rev. Joseph Bancroft, M. A.,
                                                                                                          Scholfield, Edward, M.D., Doncaster.
F.R.S., Stone Vicarage, .'\ylcsburv.
                                                                                                          Scorcsby, Rev. William, D.D., F.R.S.,
                                                                                                             Torquay.
BOOKS ARE SUPPLIED GRATIS.

Sedgwick, Rev. Adam, M.A., F.R.S.,          Sutcliffe, William, 4 Belmont, Bath.
   Woodwardian Professor of Geology in      Sykes, Lieut.-Col. William Henry, F.R.S.,

   theUniversit.yofCambridge,audCanonof        47 Albion Street, Hyde Park, London.
   Norwich ; Trinity College, Cambridge.
Shaen, William, Crix, Witham, f>ssex.       Ta3'ler, Rev. John James, B.A., Man-
Shanks, James, C.E., 23 Garscube Place,
   Glasgow.                                     chester,
Sharp, William, F.R.S., Rugby.
Sherrard, David Henry, 8b Upper Dorset      Taylor, James, Todmorden Hall, Lan-
    Street, Dublin.
Shortrede, Captain Robert, F.R.A.S.,            cashire.
   H.E.I. C.'s Service, Aden.
Sillar, Zechariah, M.D., Rainford, near     Taylor, John, F.R.S., (General Trea-
    Liverpool.                                 surer), 6 Queen Street Place, Upper
Simpson, Samuel, The Greaves, Lancaster.       Thames Street, London.
Simpson, Thomas, M.D., Minster Yard,
    York.                                   Taylor, John, jun., F.G.S., 6 Queen Street
Sirr,Rev.JosephD'Arcy,D.D.,M.R.LA.,            Place, Upper Thames Street, London.
    Yoxford, Suffolk.
                                            Taylor, Richai-d, F.G.S., Penmear near
Slater, William, Princess Street, Man-          Falmouth.

    chester.                                Taylor, Captain Joseph Needham, R.N.
                                            Taylor, Richard, F.L.S., 6 Charterhouse
Sleeman, Philip, Windsor Terrace, Plj'-
    mouth.                                      Square, London.
                                            Tennant, James, B'.G.S., Professor of Mi-
Smales, R. H., 5 Chatham Place, Wal-
   worth, London.                              neralogy in King's College, London
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;
Smith, Rev. George Sidney, D.D.,
   M.R.LA., Professor of Biblical Greek         149 Strand, London.
   in the University of Dublin ; Augha-     Thicknesse, Ralj)h, jun.. Beech Hill near
   lurcher, Five-mile-Town, Co. Tyrone.
                                                Wigan.
Smith, John, Walton Garth near Hull.        Thodey, Winwood, 4 Poultry, London.
Smith, Rev. Philip, B.A., Cheshunt Col-     Thomas, George John, M.A., Clifton,

    lege, Herts.                                 Bristol.
Smith, Robert Mackay, Windsor Street,
                                            Thompson, Corden, M.D., Sheffield.
    Edinburgh.                              Thompson, John, Little Stonegate, York.
Smyth, C. Piazzi, Professor of Practical    Thomson, James, Glasgow.
                                            Thomson, James Gibson, Edinburgh.
   Astronomy in the University of Edin-     Thomson, William, B.A., The College,
   burgh ; 1 Hill Side, Edinburgh.
Solly, Edward, F.R.S., Professor of Che-        Glasgow.
    mistry to the Horticultural Society of
   London; 1.5 Tavistock Square, London.    Thornton, Samuel, Camp Hill, Bir-
Solly, Samuel Reynolds, M.A., F.R.S.,          mingham.
    Surge Hill, King's Langley, Herts.
Sopwith, Thomas, F.R.S., Allenheads,        Thorp, The Venerable Thomas, B.D.,
   Haydon Bridge, Northumberland.              Archdeacon of Bristol, F\G.S., Kemer-
Spence, Joseph, Pavement, York.
Spiefs, Richard James, 14 St. Giles's           ton Rectory, Tewkesbur}'.
    Street, Oxford.
                                            Tidswell, Benjamin K., 65 King Street,
Spottiswoode, William, M.A., New Street,        Manchester.

    London.                                 Tindal, Capt., R.N., Branch Bank of
Squire, Lovell, Falmouth.                      England, Birmingham.
Stanger, Joshua, Keswick, Cumberland.
Stanger, William, M.D., Cape of Good        Tiime, John A., F.R.G.S., Briarly Aig-
                                                burth, Liverpool.
    Hope.
Stratford, William Samuel, Lieut. R.N.,     Townsend, Richard E., Springfield, Nor-
                                               wood.
    F.R.S., Superintendent of the Nautical
   Almanac ; 6 Notting Hill Square, Ken-    Townsend,R. W., M.A., M.R.LA., Derry
    sington.                                    Ross, Carbery, Co. Cork.
Strickland, Arthur, Bridlington Quay,
    Yorkshire.                              Treveh'an, Arthur, Wallington, Northum-
Strickland, Charles, Loughglyn, Ballag-
    hadereen, Ireland.                          berland.
                                            Tuckett, Francis Fox, Frenchay, Bristol.

                                            TuUoch, James, F.R.S., 16 Montague
                                               Place, Russell Square, London.

                                            Turnbull, Rev. Thomas Smith, M.A.,

                                                F.R.S., Blofield, Norfolk.
                                            Tweedy, William Mansell,Trm-o, Cornwall.
                                            Tyrconnel, John Delaval, Earl of, G.C.H.,

                                                F.G.S., Kiplin Park near Catterick,
                                                Yorkshire.

                                            Vallack, Rev. Btnj. W. S., St. Budcaux

                                                near Plymouth.
10 MEMBERS TO WHOM BOOKS ARE SUPPLIED GRATIS.

Vance, Rev. Robert, 5 Gardiner's Row,         Williamson, Alex. W., Ph.D., Professor
    Dublin.                                       of Practical Chemistry in University
                                                  College, London.
Vaux, Frederick, 17 Red Lion Square,
                                              Williamson, Rev. William, B.D., Clare
    London.                                       Hall, Cambridge.
Vivian, H. Hussey, Swansea.
Vivian, John Henry, M.P., F.R.S., Sin-        Wills, William, Edgbaston near Bir-
                                                 mingham.
   gleton near Swansea.
                                              Wilson, Alexander, F.R.S., 34 Bryan-
Walker, John, Weaste House, Pendleton,            stone Square, London.
    Manchester.
                                              Wilson, Capt. F. (52nd Light Inf ), Dal-
Walker, Joseph N., F.L.S., Calderston            lam Tower, Milnthorp, Westmoreland.
   near Liverpool.
                                              Wilson, John, Dimdyvan, Glasgow.
Walker, Rev. Robert, M.A., F.R.S.,            Wilson, John, Bootham, York.
   Reader in Experimental Philosophy in       Wilson, Sumner, Southampton.
   the University of Oxford ; Oxford.         Wilson, Thomas, Crimbles House, Leeds.
                                              Wilson, William, Troon near Glasgow.
Walker, Thomas, 10 York Street, Man-          Wilson, William Parkinson, B.A., Pro-

     cliGStcr.                                    fessor of Mathematics in Queen's Col-

Wallace, Rev. Robert, F.G.S., 20 Camden            lege, Belfast.

    Place, Bath.                              Winsor, F. A., 57 Lincoln's Inn Fields,
Warburton, Henry, M.A., F.R.S., 45                London.

   Cadogan Place, Sloane Street, London.      Winterbottom, James Edward, M.A,,
Ward, William Sykes, Leath Lodge,                 F.L.S., East Woodhay, Hants.

    Leeds.                                    Wollaston, Thomas Vernon, B. A., F.L.S.,
Waterhouse, John, F.R.S., Halifax, York-          Jesus College, Cambridge.

     shire.                                   Wood, Rt. Hon. Sir Charles, Bart., M.P.,
                                                  Chancellor of the Exchequer, White-
Watson, Henry Hough, Bolton-le-Moors.             hall, London.
Way, J. Thomas, Royal Agricultural So-
                                              Wood, John, St. Saviourgate, York.
   ciety of England, Hanover Square,          Wood, Rev. William Spicer, M.A., Oak-
   London.
Weaver, Thomas, F.R.S., 16 Stafford              ham, Rutlandshire.
   Row, Pimlico, London.                      Woodd, Charles H. L., F.G.S., Hillfield,
Webb, Rev. Thomas William, M.A.,
                                                  Hampstead,
    Cloisters, Gloucester.                    Woodhead, G., Mottram near Manches-

West, William, F.R.S., Highfield House             ter.
    near Leeds.
                                              Woods, Edward, 7 Church Street, Edge-
Westhead, Joshua Proctor, York House,
    Manchester.                                   hill, Liverpool.

Whewell, Rev. William, D.D., F.R.S.,          Wormald, Richard, jun., 6 Broad Street
    Master of Trinity College, and Professor      Buildings, City, London.
   of Moral Philosophy in the University
   of Cambridge ; Cambridge.                  Wright, Robert Francis, Hinton Blewett,
                                                  Somersetshire.
Whiteside, James, M.A., Q.C., 2 Mount-
   joy Square, Dublin.                        Yarborough, George Cooke, Camp's
                                                 Mount, Doncaster.
Whitworth, Joseph, Manchester.
Wickenden, Joseph, F.G.S., Birmingham.        Yates, Joseph Brooks, F.R.G.S., West
Wilberforce, The Venerable Archdeacon             Dingle near Liverpool.

    Robert J., Burton Agnes, Driffield,       Yates, R. Vaughan, Toxteth Park, Liver-
    Yorkshire.
Willert, Paul Ferdinand, Manchester.              pool.
Williams, William, 6 Rood Lane, London.
Williams, Rev. D., D.C.L., Warden of          Yorke, Colonel Philip, F.R.S., 89 Eaton
                                                 Place, Belgrave Square, London.
   New College, Oxford.
                                              Younge, Robert, M.D., Greystones near

                                                   Sheffield.
                                                                      11

ANNVAI. SUBSCRIBERS.

Alexander, W. Lindsay, D.D., Pinkie-                                   Brown, James Linden, Auchtermairnie,

    burn, Edinburgh.                                                        Fife.

Alison, W. P., M.D., V.P.R.S.Ed., Pro-                                Brown, Samuel, M.D., 14 Bath Street,
                                                                          Portobello, Edinburgh,
    fessor of Physic in the University of
    Edinburgh ; Edinburgh.                                            Brown, William, F.R.S.E., 25 Dublin
Allan, Robert, 29 York Place, Edinburgh.                                  Street, Edinburgh.
Allman, George J., M.D., M.ll.l.A.,
    Professor of Botany in the University                             Bryson, Alexander, Edinburgh.
    of Dublin Trinity College, Dublin.
                                                                      Buchanan, George, F.R.S.E., 14 Duke
                                                                   ;
                                                                          Street, Edinburgh.
Anderson, Charles, M.D., 40 Quality                                   Busk, George, F.R.S., Croom Hill,

     Street, Leith.                                                       Greenwich.
Anderson, Charles W., South Shields.                                  Button, Charles, 146 Holborn Bars

Anderson, John, D.D., Newburgh, Fife-                                     London.

     shire.                                                           Caddell, W. A., F.R.S. L.&E., 26 Elder

Anderson, John, 31 St. Bernard's Cres-                                    Street, Edinburgh.
    cent, Edinburgh.
                                                                      Carpenter, W. B., M.D., F.R.S., Pro-
Anderson, Thomas, M.D., 40 Quality
                                                                          fessor of Medical Jurisprudence in
     Street, Leitb.                                                       University College, London ; 6 Regent's
                                                                          Park Terrace, London.
Anderson, Rev. W., M.A., 1 Blacket                                    Carter, G. B., Lord Street, Liverpool.
    Place, Edinburgh.                                                 Chapman, E. J., Professor of Mineralogy
                                                                          in University College, London.
Arbuthnot, Sir Robert Keith, Bart., IG
    Charlotte Square, Edinburgh.                                      Churchill, Alfred, Lord, Blenheim, Wood-

Ashby, S., 37 Northumberland Street,                                       stock.
    Edinburgh.
                                                                      Claudet, A., 18 King William Street,
Atkinson, John, Daisy Bank, Victoria                                      Strand, London.
    Park, Manchester.
                                                                      Cleghorn, Hugh, M.D., Madras Esta-
Bastard,ThomasH.,Charleton, Blandford.                                   blishment; 12 Duke Street, Edin-
Begbie, James, M.D., Edinburgh.                                           burgh.
Beke, C. T., Ph.D., F.R.G.S., 6 St. Mil-
                                                                      Gierke, RightHon . SirG eorge, Bart., M. P.,
   dred's Court, Poultry, London.                                         8 Park Street, Westminster.
Bell, Charles, M.D., 3 St. Colme Street,
                                                                      Coldstream, John, M.D., 51 York Place,
    Edinburgh.                                                            Edinburgh.
Benham, E., 18 Essex Street, Strand,
                                                                      Colfox, William, jun., B.A., Bridport,
    London.                                                               Dorset.
Bennett, J. H., M.D., Professor of the
                                                                      Cooke, John William, Liverpool.
    Institutes of Medicine or Physiology in                           Cooper, Henry, M.D., Hull.
   the University of Edinburgh,                                       Cox, John, Gorgie Mills, Edinburgh.
Benson, Starling, Gloucester Place,                                   Cubitt, Thomas, Thames Bank, Pimlico,
    Swansea.
Bentley, J. Flowers, Stamford, Lincoln-                                   London.
                                                                      Camming, Rev. J. G., M.A., King Wil-
     shire.
                                                                         liam College, Isle of Man.
Berrington, Arthur V. D., Woodlands                                   Cunningham, James, 50 Queen Street,
    Castle, near Swansea.
                                                                          Edinburgh.
Blyth, John, M.D., Professor of Che-                                  Cunningham, Rev. W., D.D., 17 Salis-
   mistry in Queen's College, Cork.
                                                                         bury Road, Edinburgh,
Bolton, Thomas, Stourbridge.
Bossey, Francis, M.D., Woolwich.                                      Cunningham, Rev. W. B., Prestonpans,
Boucli, Thomas, C.E., 1 South Hanover
                                                                          Scotland.
    Street, Edinburgh.
Brand, William, {Local Treasurer), 5'Nor-                             Dale, John A., M. A., 11 Holywell Streef,

   thamberland Street, Edinburgh.                                         Oxford.
Brewster, Sir David, K.H., D.C.L.,                                    Dalinahoy, Patrick, 60 Queen Street,

    F.R.S., V.P.R.S.E., Principal of the                                  Edinburgh.
   United College of St. Salvator and St.                             Dalyell, Sir Jolin (iraham, Bart., Great
   Leonard, St. Andrews.
                                                                          King Street, Edinburgh.
12 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Da Silva, Johnson, Highbury Park South,      Harvey, Alexander, 4 South Wellington
                                                Place, Glasgow.
   London.
Denny, Henry, A.L.S., Philosophical          Harvey, William Henry, M.D., 40 Trinity
                                                 College, Dublin.
    Society, Leeds.
                                             Hawkes, William, Calthorpe Street, Bir-
Dennis, "j. C, 122 Bishopsgate Street,          mingham.
    London.
                                             Henfrey, Arthur, F.L.S., Lecturer on Bo-
Dick, Professor William, Veterinary Col-
   lege, Edinburgh.                             tany at St. George's Hospital ; 1 7 Man-

Dickson, Peter, 24 Chester Terrace, Re-         chesterStreet,Gray's-lnnRoad, London.
   gent's Pai-k, London.                     Hill, William, F.R.A.S., Worcester.
                                             Hincks, Rev. Edward, LL.D., Killyleagh,
Donaldson, John, Professor of the Theory
    of Music, Edinburgh.                         Ireland.

Dunlop, William Henry, Arman Hill,           Hodgkinson, Rev. G. C, M.A., Training
                                                 Institution, York.
    Kilmarnock.
                                             Hopkins, Thomas, 5 Broughton Lane,

Edmouston, Rev. John, Selkirk.                   Manchester.
Evans, G. F. D., M.D., St. Mary's Street,
                                             Hudson, Robert, F.R.S., Clapham Com-
    Bedford.                                   mon near London.
Everest, Lt.-Colonel George, Bengal Ar-
                                             Hunt, Robert, Keeper of Mining Records,
    tillery, F.R.S., Lovel Hill, Windsor.       Museum, Jermyn Street, London.
Eyton, T. C, F.L S., F.G.S., The Vine-
                                             Hunter, J. D., M.D., Edinburgh.
   yard near Wellington, Shropshire.         Huxtable, Rev. Anthony, Sutton Wal-

                                                dron near Blandford.

Farren, Edwin James, 72 Cornhill,            Irwin, Thomas, Somerset House, London.
                                             Ivory, Holmes, 2 South Street, David
   London.
Field,Charles,Nottingham Place, London.          Street, Edinburgh.
Fleming, Alex., M.D., Professor of Ma-
                                             Jameson, Robert, F.R.S. L.&E., Professor
   teria iVIedica in Queen's College, Cork.      of Natural History in the University of
Fleming, Rev. John, D.D., Professor of          Edinburgh; 21 Royal Circus, Edin-
                                                 burgh.
  Natural Science in New College, Edin-
                                             Jardine, Alex., Jardine Hall, Lockerby.
   burgh ; 22 Walker Street, Edinburgh.      Jerdan, William, .300 Strand, London.
Foster, John N., St. Andrew's, Biggles-      Jones, William, M.D., 4 Orchard Street,

    wade.
Fowler, Richard,M.D., F.R.S., Salisbury.

Gairdner, W. T., M.D., 18 Hill Street,          London.
                                             Johnston, A. Keith, 8 Lauriston Lane,
   Edinburgh.
Gibson, Thomas F., 31 Westbourne Ter-            Edinburgh.

   race, Hyde Park, London.                  Ka}', Alexander, Manchester.
Gillespie, Alexander, M.D., Edinburgh.       Kelland, Rev. Philip, M.A., F.R.S. L.&E.,
Gough, The Hon. Frederick, Perry Hall,
                                                 Professor of Mathematics in the Uni-
   Birmingham.                                   versity of Edinburgh.
Graham, John B., Vere Lodge, Old             Kentish, Rev. John, Park Vale, Edg-
                                                baston near Birmingham.
   Brompton, London.                         Kirkwood, Anderson, 1 Mansfield Place,
Grainger, Thomas, Edinburgh.                     Glasgow.
Greenwood, William, Todmorden, Lan-
                                             Laino', David, F.S.A. Scot., Edinburgh.
    cashire.                       of        Lankester, Edwin, M.D., F.R.S., 22 Old

Gregory, William, M.D., Professor                Burlington Street, London.
   Chemistry, Edinburgh.                     Latham, R. G., M.D., F.R.S., Upper

Grey, Rev. H., ]:).D., Edinburgh.                Southwick Street, Edgware Road,
                                                 London.
Hall, Sir John, Bart., Dunglass, Had-        Lawson, Henry, F.R.S., 7 Lansdown

    dington.                                     Crescent, Bath.
                                             Lee. Very Rev. John, D.D., V.P.R.S.E.,
Hamilton, Robert, 42 Queen Street,
                                                  Principal of the University of Edin-
    Edinburgh.                                   burgh.
Hancock, John, Largan, Armagh.                Lees, George, LL.D., Rillbank, Edin-
Hancock, V/illiam Neilson, LL.D., Pro-            burgh.

   fessor of Political Economy in the Uni-

    versity of Dublin ; Dublin.
Harcourt, Rev. L. V., West Dean House,

     Ciiichester.
                 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                          13

Lloyd, Rev. David, Principal of the Pro-     Petrie, William, 3 Upper Woodland
   testant Dissenters' College, Carmarthen.     Place, Charlton near Woolwich.

Lloyd, William, M.D., Army and Navy          Phillip, George, Liverpool.
                                             Pillans,James, Salisbury Road,Edinburgli.
    Club, London.                            Porter, John, 22 Lincoln's-Inn-Fields,

mLow, Dax-id, Professor of Agriculture           London.
                                             Price, Rev. Bartholomew, M.A., Pem-
    the University of Edinburgh.
                                                 broke College, Oxford.
Lowe, W. H., M.D., F.R.S.E., Balgreen,

    Edinburgh.

MacLaren, Charles, 15 Northumberland         Ramsay, Andrew C, F.R.S., Director of

    Street, Edinburgh.                          the Geological Survey of Great Britain,
Macdonald, Alexander, Edinburgh.
Macfarlane, John F., 12 Duncan Street,          and Professor of Geology in University
                                                College, London; Museum, Jermyn

   Newington, Edinburgh.                        Street, London.
McGregor, Robert, M.D., Glasgow.             Randall, William B., 146 High Street,
Mackenzie, J. W., 16 Royal Circus, Edin-
                                                Southampton.
    burgh.                                   Rankin, Rev. Thomas, Huggate, York-
Macknight, Alexander, 1 2 London Street,
                                                  shire.
    Edinburgh.
                                             Rankine, W. J. M., 57 West Nile Street,

Maclagan, Douglas, M.D., Edinburgh.          Glasgow.

Malcolm, R. B., M.D., 76 George Street, Rawhnson, Major H. C, F.R.S., 39 St.

Edinburgh.                                   James's Street, London.

Maxwell, Sir John, Bart., Pollock, Ren- Reid, WiUiam.M.D., Cruivie, Cupar, Fife.

frewshire.                                   Rhind, William, 121 Princes Street,

Millar, James S., 9 Roxburgh Street,         Edinburgh.

   Edinburgh.                                Ricardo, M., Brighton.
Miller, Hugh, Edinburgh.                     Robinson, C. B., The Shrubbery, Lei-

Moir, John, M.D., Edinburgh.                     cester.
Monteith, Alex. E., Inverleith House,        Ronalds, Francis, F.R.S., Chiswick.

   Edinburgh.                                Round, Daniel G., Hange CoUiery near

Morrieston, Robert, F.R.S.E,, 6 Heriot       Tipton.

Row, Edinburgh.                              Russell, J . R., 75 Queen Street, Edinburgh.

Mowbray, J. T., 27 Dundas Street,

Edinburgh.                                   Saull, W. D., F.G.S., 15 Aldersgate

Murray, Andrew, 15 Nelson Street,            Street, London.

Edinburgh.                                   Scarth, Pillans, Leith.

Myrtle, J. Y., M.D., 1 13 Princes Street, Seller, William, M.D., 23 Nelson Street,

   Edinburgh.                                   Edinburgh.
                                             Simpson, James, 33 Northumberland
Nachot, H. W., Ph.D., 113 Princes
   Street, Edinburgh.                            Street, Edinburgh.
                                             Sinclair, Rev. William, Leeds.
Nash, Richard West, Cecil Street, Strand,    Skae, David, M.D., Royal Asylum,
    London.
                                                 Edinburgh.
Neale, Edward V., 34 Charles Street,
    Berkeley Square, London.                 Skane, William Forbes.
                                             Sloper, George Elgar, Devizes.
Necker, Theodore, Geneva.                    Sloper, Samuel W., Devizes.
Neil, Patrick, LL.D.,Canuonmills, Edin-      Smith, John, M.D., Edinburgh,

   burgh.                                    Smith, Robert Angus, Cavendish Street,
Neild, William, Mayfield, Manchester.
Newport, George, F.R.S., 49 Cambridge            Manchester.
                                             Smyttan, George, M.D., Edinburgh.
   Street, Hyde Park Square, London.         Spence, William, F.R.S., 18 Lower Sey-
Nicol, J., F.G.S., Professor of Geology
                                                mour Street, Portman Square, London.
    in Queen's College, Cork.                Spence, W. B., 18 Lower Seymour

Oldham, Thomas, F.R.S., M.R.LA., East           Street, Portman Square, London.
                                             Spence, R. H., 18 Lower Seymour

Indies.                                      Street, Portman Square, London.

Pagan,S. A., M.D., F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.      Spittal, R., M.D., 3 London Street,
Peach, C. W., Peterhead, Scotland.
Pentland, J. B., 5 Ryder Street, St.             Edinburgh.
                                             Stark,James, M.D., F.R.S.E.,Edinburgh.
    James's, London.                         Statham, Henry J., 27 Mortimer Street,
Percy, John, M.D., F.R.S., Birmingham.
                                                 Cavendish Square, London.
u ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Stevelly, John, LL.D., Professor of Na-    Traill, T. S., M.D., Professor of Legal
   tural Philosophy in Queen's College,        Medicine in the University of Edin-
                                               burgh.
    Belfast.
Stevenson, David, 8 Forth Street, Edin-    Tudor, Edward Scripps, Bromley, Mid-

    burgh.                                     dlesex.
Stock, T. S., Bourn Brook Hall, Bir-       Twining, Richard, F.R.S., 13 Bedford

   mingham.                                    Place, Russell Square, London.
Strang, John, LL.D., Glasgow.
Syme, James, Professor of Clinical Sur-    Walker, Charles V., Electric Tele-
                                              graph, South Eastern Railway, Tun-
    gery in the University of Edinburgh.       bridge.

Talbot, William Hawkshead, Wrighting-      Warington, Robert, Apochecaries' Hall,
    ton near Wigaii.                           London.

Teschemacher, E. F., 4 Park Terrace,       Watts, John King, St. Ives, Huntingdon-
    Highbury, London.
                                                shire.
Thompson, James, Kirkhouse near
    Brampton, Cumberland.                  Welsh, John, J 52 Cumberland Street,
                                               Edinburgh.
Thomson, Alexander, Banchory House,
                                           Weniyss, Alexander Watson, M.D., St.
     Kincardineshire.                          Andrew's.
Thomson, Allen, M.D., F.R.S. L.&E.,
                                           Wemyss, William, 6 Salisbury Road,
   Professor of Anatomy in the University      Edinburgh.
    of Glasgow.
Thomson, Rev. James, 10 Earl Street,       Wilson, Daniel, 17 Archibald Place,
    Blackfriars, London.                       Edinburgh.
Thomson, James, Kendal.
Thomson, William Hamilton, 23 Pitt         Wilson, George, M.D., Edinburgh.
    Street, Edinburgh.                     Wise, Robert Stanton, M.D., Ban-
Thomson, Wyville T. C, 8 Athol Place,
    Edinburgh.                                 bury.
Tod, James, Sec. Soc. of Arts, F.R.S.E.,
                                           Wood, Alex., F.R.C.P., Edinburgh.
    Edinburgh.                             Wood, Collingwood L., Hetton Hall,
Tooke, Thomas, F.R.S., 31 Spring Gar-
                                              Fencehouses, Durham.
    dens, London.                          Wood, Rev. W^alter, Elie, Fife.
                                           Wornell, George, 3 North Parade, St.

                                               Giles's, Oxford.
                                                                --;;

BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
                         OF SCIENCE.

   The Published Reports of Proceedings at the Meetings of the Association
may be obtained by Members on application to the under-mentioned Local

--Treasurers, or Agents appointed by them, at the following prices, viz. Re-

ports for 1849 and 1850 at two-thirds of the Publication Price; and for the

purpose of completing their sets, any of the earlier volumes, of which more
than 100 copies remain, at one-third of the Publication Price.

                     TREASURER.                        DEPOT FOR THE REPORTS.

London               John Taylor, Esq.                 Mr. R. Taylor's Printing Office, Red
                                                         Lion Court, Fleet Street.
6 Queen Street Place, Upper Thames Street.

        LOCAL TREASURERS.                              DEPOTS.

York                 William Gray, Esq                    Yorkshire Museum.
Cambridge            C. C. Babington, Esq                 House of the Philosophical Society.
Edinburgh            William Brand, Esq                   Union Bank of Scotland.
Dublin               Dr. Orpen
Bristol              William Sanders, Esq               ..13 South Frederick Street.
Birmingham           James R'ussell, Esq
Glasgow              Professor Ramsay                     Philosophical Institution, Park Street.

MaAnNcChHeEsStTpErR  WGOr. W. OU.rmmeerrooUd, Et,ssqq      Philosophical Institution.

Southampton          John Sadleir Moody, Esq.             The College.
Swansea                                                / Mr. James Orme, Lit. and Phil. Society,
                     John Gwyn Jeffreys, Esq.          ^ j^j^^pgj Y^^j^ g Cheapside, King St.

Associates for the Meeting in 1850 may obtain the Volume for the Year at the same price
                                                          as Members.

  PROCEEDINGS of the FIRST and SECOND MEETINGS, at York

and Oxford, 1831 and 1832, Published at 13s. 6d.

  -- --Contents : Prof. Airy, on the Progress of Astronomy ; J. W. Lubbock, on the Tides
-- --Prof. Forbes, on the Present State of Meteorology ; Prof. Powell, on the Present State
-- --of the Science of Radiant Heat ; Prof. Gumming, on Thermo-Electricity ; Sir D. Brewster,
-- --on the Progress of Optics ; Rev. W. Whewell, on the Present State of Mineralogy ; Rev.
--W. D. Conybeare, on the Recent Progress and Present State of Geology ; Dr. Prichard's

Review of Philological and Physical Researches.
    Together with Papers on Mathematics, Optics, Acoustics, Magnetism, Electricity, Chemistry,

Meteorology, Geography, Geology, Zoology, Anatomy, Physiology, Botany, and the Arts
and an Exposition of the Objects and Plan of the Association, &c.

  PROCEEDINGS of the THIRD MEETING at Cambridge, 1833,

Published at 12*.

  -- -- --Contents : Proceedings of the Meeting ; John Taylor, on Mineral Veins ; Dr.
--Lindley, on the Philosophy of Botany ; Dr. Henry, on the Physiology of the Nervous Sy-
-- --stem ; P. Barlow, on the Strength of Materials ; S. H. Christie, on the Magnetism of the
--Earth; Rev. J. Challis, on the Analytical Theory of Hydrostatics and Hydrodynamics;
--G. Rennie, on Hydraulics as a Branch of Engineering, Part I. ; Rev. G. Peacock, on certain

Branches of Analysis.
    Together with papers on Mathematics and Physics, Philosophical Instruments and Mecha-

nical Arts, Natural History, Anatomy, Physiology, and History of Science.

  PROCEEDINGS of the FOURTH MEETING, at Edinburgh, 1834,

Published at \5s.

 -- --Contents: H. D. Rogers, on the Geology of North America; Dr. C. Henry, on the
-- --Laws of Contagion ; Prof. Clark, on Animal Physiology ; Rev. L. Jenyns, on Zoology ;--
-- --Rev. J. Challis, on Capillary Attraction ; Prof. Lloyd, on Physical Optics ; G. Rennie, on

Hydraulics, Part II.
   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, and Recommendations of the Association

and its Committees.
                                                                     --

  PROCEEDINGS of the FIFTH MEETING, at Dublin, 1835, Pub-

lished at 1 3s. 6d.

 --Contents : Rev. W. Whcwell, on the Recent Progress and present Condition of the
--Mathematical Theories of Electricity, Magnetism, and Heat ; A. Quetelet, Aperfu de
--I'Etat actuel des Sciences Mathematiques chez les Beiges; Capt. E. Sabine, on the Phae-

nomena of Terrestrial Magnetism.
   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Prof. Sir W. Hamilton's Address, and Re-

commendations of the Association and its Committees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the SIXTH MEETING, at Bristol, 1836, Pub-

lished at 12s.

 --Contents : Prof. Daubeny, on the Present State of our Knowledge with respect to Mine-
--ral and Thermal Waters ; Major E. Sabine, on the Direction and Intensity of the Terrestrial
-- --Magnetic Force in Scotland ; J. Richardson, on North American Zoology; Rev. J. Challis,
--on the Mathematical Theory of Fluids; J. T. Mackay, a Comparative Vievy of the more

remarkable Plants which characterize the neighbourhood of Dublin and Edinburgh, and the

--South-west of Scotland, &c. ; J. T. Mackay, Comparative Geographical Notices of the
--more remarkable Plants which characterize Scotland and Ireland ; Report of the London Sub-
--Committee of the Medical Section on the Motions and Sounds of the Heart; Second Report
--of the Dublin Sub-Committee on the Motions and Sounds of the Heart ; Report of the Dublin
--Committee on the Pathology of the Brain and Nervous System ; J. W. Lubbock, Account
--of the Recent Discussions of Observations of the Tides ; Rev. B. Powell, on determining the
--Refractive Indices for the Standard Raysof the Solar Spectrum in various media; Dr. Hodgkin,
--on the Communication between the Arteries and Absorbents; Prof. Phillips, Report of Experi-
--ments on Subterranean Temperature; Prof. Hamilton, on the Validity of a Method recently pro-

posed by G. B. Jerrard, for Transforming and Resolving Equations of Elevated Degrees.
   Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Prof. Daubeny's Address, and Recommen-

dations of the Association and its Committees.

   PROCEEDINGS of the SEVENTH MEETING, at Liverpool, 1837,

Published at 16s. 6d.

  --Contents : Major E. Sabine, on the Variations of the Magnetic Intensity observed at dif-
--ferent points of the Earth's Surface ; Rev. W. Taylor, on the various modes of Printing for
--the use of the blind ; J. W. Lubbock, on the Discussions of Observations of the Tides ;

Prof. T. Thomson, on the Difference between the Composition of Cast Iron produced by the

--Cold and Hot Blast ; Rev. T. R. Robinson, on the Determination of the Constant of Nutation
--by the Greenwich Observations ; R. W. Fox, Experiments on the Electricity of Metallic
--Veins, and the Temperature of Mines ; Provisional Report of the Committee of the- Medical

Section of the British Association, appointed to investigate the Composition of Secretions, and

--the organs producing them ; Dr. G. O. Rees, Report from the Committee for inquiring into
--the Analysis of the Glands, &c. of the Human Body ; Second Report of the London Sub-Com-

mittee of the British Association Medical Section, on the Motions and Sounds of the Heart;

--Prof. Johnston, on the Present State of our knowledge in regard to Dimorphous Bodies ; Lt.-

Col. Sykes, on the Statistics of the Four Collectorates of Dukhun, under the British Govern-

--,ngnt ; E. Hodgkinson, on the relative Strength and other Mechanical Properties of Iron ob-
--tained from the Hot and Cold Blast ; W. Fairbairn, on the Strength and other Properties of
--Iron obtained from the Hot and Cold Blast ; Sir J. Robison, and J. S. Russell, Report of the
--Committee on Waves ; Note by Major Sabine, being an Appendix to his Report on the Vari-
--ations of the Magnetic Intensity observed at different Points of the Earth's Surface ; J. Yates,

 on the Growth of Plants under glass, and without any free communication with the outward
 Air, on the Plan of Mr. N. J. Ward, of London.

    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Prof. Traill's Address, and Recommenda-
 tions of the Association and its Committees.

   PROCEEDINGS of the EIGHTH MEETING, at Newcastle, 1838,

 Published at 1 5s.

  --Contents : Rev. W. Whewell, Account of a Level Line, measured from the Bristol Chan-
--nel to the English Channel, by Mr. Bunt ; Report on the Discussions of Tides, prepared
--under the direction of the Rev. W. Whewell; W. S. Harris, Account of the Progress and
--State of the Meteorological Observations at Plymouth ; Major E. Sabine, on the Magnetic
--Isoclinal and Isodynamic Lines in the British Islands; D. Lardner, LL.D., on the Determi-
--nation of the Mean Numerical Values of Railway Constants ; R. Mallet, First Report upon
--Experiments upon the Action of Sea and River Water upon Cast and Wrought Iron ; R.

 Mallet, on the Action of a Heat of 212° Fahr., when long continued, on Inorganic and Or-

  ganic Substances.

     Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Mr. Murchison's Address, and Recommen-
 dations of the Association and its Committees.
                                                                   ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

   PROCEEDINGS of the NINTH MEETING, at Birmingham, 1839,

 Published at 1 3«. 6rf.

  --Contents: Rev. B. Powell, Report on the Present State of our Knowledge of Refractive
 --Indices, for the Standard Rays of the Solar Spectrum in different media ; Report on the Ap-

 --plication of the Sum assigned for Tide Calculations to Rev. W. Whewell, in a Letter from T. G.

  Bunt, Esq.; H. L. Pattinson, on some galvanic Experiments to determine the Existence or
 Non-Existence of Electrical Currents among Stratified Rocks, particularly those of the Moun-

--tain Limestone formation, constituting the Lead Measures of Alston Moor ; Sir D. Brewster,

  Reports respecting the two series of Hourly Meteorological Observations kept in Scotland ;
 Report on the subject of a series of Resolutions adopted by the British Association at their

-- --Meeting' in August 1838, at Newcastle; R. Owen, Report on British Fossil Reptiles; E.
--Forbes, Report on the Distribution of pulmoniferous MoUusca in the British Isles ; W. S.

 Harris, Third Report on the Progress of the Hourly Meteorological Register at the Plymouth
 Dockyard.

    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Rev. W. Vernon Harcourt's Address, and
 Recommendations of the Association and its Committees.

   PROCEEDINGS of the TENTH MEETING, at Glasgow, 1840,

 Published at 1 5s.

  --Contents : Rev. B. Powell, Report on the recent Progress of discovery relative to Radiant

 Heat, supplementary to a former Report on the same subject inserted in the first volume of the

--Reports of the British Association for the Advancement of Science; J. D. Forbes, Supple-
--mentary Report on Meteorology; W. S. Harris, Report on Prof. Whewell's Anemometer,

--now in operation at Plymouth ; Report on " The Motions atiS Sounds of the Heart," by the
--London Committee of the British Association, for 1839-40; Prof. Schonbein, an Account of
--Researches in Electro-Chemistry ; R. Mallet, Second Report upon the Action of Air and

Water, whether fresh or salt, clear or foul, and at various temperatures, upon Cast Iron,

--Wrought Iron, and Steel; R. W. Fox, Report on some Observations on Subterranean Tem-
--perature ; A. F. Osier, Report on the Observations recorded during the years 1837, 1838, 1839
--and 1840, by the Self-registering Anemometer erected at the Philosophical Institution, Bir-

mingham ; Sir D. Brewster, Report respecting the two Series of Hourly Meteorological Ob-

--servations kept at Inverness and Kingussie, from Nov. 1st, 1838 to Nov. 1st, 1839; W.
--Thompson, Report on the Fauna of Ireland: Div. Vertehrata; C. J. B.Williams, M.D.,
--Report of Experiments on the Physiology of the Lungs and Air-Tubes; Rev. J. S. Henslow,

Report of the Committee on the Preservation of Animal and Vegetable Substances.

    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Mr. Murchison and Major E. Sabine's
Address, and Recommendations of the Association and its Committees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the ELEVENTH MEETING, at Plymouth,

1841, Published at \3s. 6d.

  --Contents : Rev. P. Kelland, on the Present State of our Theoretical and Experimental
--Knowledge of the Laws of Conduction of Heat ; G. L. Roupell, M.D., Report on Poisons ;

T. G. Bunt, Report on Discussions of Bristol Tides, under the direction of the Rev. W. Whewell

--D. Ross, Report on the Discussions of Leith Tide Observations, under the direction of the
--Rev. W. Whewell ; AV. S. Harris, upon the working of Whewell's Anemometer at Plymouth
--during the past year; Report of a Committee appointed for the purpose of superintend-

ing the scientific co-operation of the British Association in the system of Simultaneous Obser-

--vations in Terrestrial Magnetism and Meteorology ; Reports of Committees appointed to pro-
--vide Meteorological Instruments for the use of M. Agassiz and Mr. M'Cord ; Report of a
--Committee to superintend the reduction of Meteorological Observations; Report of a Com-
--mittee for revising the Nomenclature of the Stars ; Report of a Committee for obtaining In-
--struments and Registers to record Shocks of Earthquakes in Scotland and Ireland ; Report of
--a Committee on the Preservation of Vegetative Powers in Seeds ; Dr. Hodgkin, on Inquiries
--into the Races of Man ; Report of the Committee appointed to report how far the Desiderata

in our knowledge of the Condition of the Upper Strata of the Atmosphere may be supplied by
means of Ascents in Balloons or otherwise, to ascertain the probable expense of such Experi-

--ments, and to draw up Directions for Observers in such circumstances ; R. Owen, Report
--on British Fossil Reptiles ; Reports on the Determination of the Mean Value of Railway

--Constants; D. Lardner, LL.D., Second and concluding Report on the Determination of the
-- --Mean Value of Railway Constants ; E. Woods, Report on Railway Constants ; Report of a

Committee on the Construction of a Constant Indicator for Steam- Engines.
   Together with the Transactions pi the Sections, Prof. Whewell's Address, and Recommen-

dations of the Association and its Committees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the TWELFTH MEETING, at Manchester,

1842, Published at 10s. 6d.

 --Contents : Report of the Committee appointed to conduct the co-operation of the British
                                                                     --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

 Asscciation in the System of Simultaneous Magnetical and Meteorological Observations;

 J. Richardson, M.D., Report on the present State of the Ichthyology of New Zealand;

 --\V. S. Harris, Report on the Progress of Meteorological Observations at Plymouth ; Second

 Report of a Committee appointed to make Experiments on the Growth and Vitality of Seeds

 -- --C. Vignoles, Report of the Committee on Railway Sections; Report of the Committee
-- Mfor the Preservation of Animal and Vegetable Substances ; Lyon Playfair, D., Abstract

 of Prof. Liebig's Report on "Organic Chemistry applied to Physiology and Pathology;"

 R. Owen, Report on the British Fossil Mammalia, Part I. ;--R. Hunt, Researches on the

 --Influence of Lighten the Germination of Seeds and the Growth of Plants; L. Agassiz, Report
--on the Fossil Fishes of the Devonian System or Old Red Sandstone ; W. Fairbairn, Ap-

 pendix to a Report on the Strength and other Properties of Cast Iron obtained from the Hot

 and Cold Blast ;-- D. Milne, Report of the Committee for registering Shocks of Earthquakes

--in Great Britain ; Report of a Committee on the Constructi6n of a Constant Indicator for Steam-

 Engines, and for the determination of the Velocity of the Piston of the Self-acting Engine at

--different periods of the Stroke; J. S. Russell, Report of a Committee on the form of Ships ;
-- Report of a Committte appointed " to consider of the rules by which the Nomenclature of
--Zoology may be established on a uniform and permanent basis ; " Report of a Committee on
--the Vital Statistics ot large Towns in Scotland ; Provisional Reports, and Notices of Progress

 in Special Researches entrusted to Committees and Individuals.
     Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Lord Francis Egerton's Address, and Re-

 commendations of the Association and its Committees.

   PROCEEDINGS of the THIRTEENTH MEETING, at Cork,

 ISiS, Published at 12s.

  --Contents; Robert Mallet, Third Report upon the Action of Air and Water, whether

 fresh or salt, clear or foul, and of Various Temperatures, upon Cast Iron, Wrought Iron and

--Steel ; Report of the Committee appointed to conduct the co-operation of the British As-
--sociation in the System of Simultaneous Magnetical and Meteorological Observations ; Sir
--J. F. W. Herschel, Bart., Report of the Committee appointed for the Reduction of Meteoro-

 logical Observations ; Report of the Committee appointed for Experiments on Steam-

--Engines ; Report of the Committee appointed to continue their Experiments on the Vitality
--of Seeds ; J. S. Russell, Report of a Series of Observations on the Tides of the Frith of
--Forth and the East Coast of Scotland ; J. S. Russell, Notice of a Report of the Committee
-- --on the Form of Ships ; J. Blake, Report on the Physiological Action of Medicines ; Report
--of the Committee on Zoological Nomenclature ; Report of the Committee for Registering

 the Shocks of Earthquakes, and making such Meteorological Observations as may appear to

--them desirable ; Report of the Committee for conducting Experiments with Captive Balloons ;
-- --Piof. Wheatstone, Appendix to the Report; Report of the Committee for the Translation
--and Publication of Foreign Scientific Memoirs; C. W. Peach, on the Habits of the Marine
--Testacea ; E. Forbes, Report on the MoUusca and Radiata of the jEgean Sea, and on their
--distribu.ion, considered as bearing on Geology ; L. Agassiz, Synoptical Table of British
--Fossil Fishes, arranged in the order of the Geological Formations; R. Owen, Report on the
--British Fossil Mammalia, Part II.; E. W. Binney, Report on the excavation made at the
--junction of the Lower New Red Sandstone with the Coal Measures at Collyhurst; W.
--Thompson, Report on the Fauna of Ireland: Div. Invertebrata; Provisional Reports, and

 Notices of Progress in Special Researches entrusted to Committees and Individuals.
    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Earl of Rosse's Address, and Recommen-

 dations of the Association and its Committees.

   PROCEEDINGS of the FOURTEENTH MEETING, at York, 1844,

Published at £\.

  --Contents: W. B. Carpenter, on the Microscopic Structure of Shells;--J. Alder and A.
--Hancock, Report on the British Nudibranchiate MoUnsca ; R. Hunt, Researches on the
--Influence of Light on the Germination of Seeds and the Growth of Plants; Report of a

Committee appointed by the British Association in 1840, for revising the Nomenclature of the

-- --Stars; Lt.-Col. Sabine, on the Meteorology ot Toronto in Canada; J. Blackwall, Report

on some recent researches into the Structure, Functions and Economy of the Araneidea

--made in Great Britain; Earl of Rosse, on the Construction of large Reflecting Telescopes;

--Rev. W. V. Harcourt, Report on a Gas Furnace for Experiments on Vitrifkction and other
--Applications of High Heat in the Laboratory; Report of the Committee for Registering
--Earthquake Shocks in Scotland ; Report of a Committee for Experiments on Steam-Engines ;
-- --Report of the Committee to investigate the Varieties of the Human Race; Fourth Report

of a Committee appointed to continue their Experiments on the Vitality of Seeds ;-^W. Fair-

--bairn, oh the Consumption of Fuel and the prevention of Smoke; F. Ronalds, Report con-
--cerning the Observatory of the British Association at Kew; Sixth Report of the Committee

appointed to conduct the Co-operation of the British Association in <he System of Simulta-
neous M'agnetical and Meteorological Observations;-- Prof. Forchhammer on the influence
                                                                   --

  of Fucoidal Plants upon the Formations of the Earth, on Metamorphism in general, and par-

 ticularly the Metamorphosis of the Scandinavian Alum Slate ;--H. E. Strickland, Report an
 the recent Progress and present State of Ornithology ;-- T. Oldham, Report of Committee

 --appointed to conduct Observations on Subterranean Temperature in Ireland; Prof. Owen,

 Report on the Extinct Mammals of Australia, with descriptions of certain Fossils indicative
 of the former existence in that Continent of large Marsupial Representatives of the Order

--Pachydemiata; W. S. Harris, Report on the working of Whewell and Osier's Anemometers
--at Plymouth, for the years 1841, 1842, 1843; W. R. Birt, Report on Atmospheric Waves;
-- --L. Agassiz, Report sur les Poissons Fossiles de I'Argile de Londres, with translation; J.
--S. Russell, Report on Waves; Provisional Reports, and Notices of Progress in Special Re-

 searches entrusted to Committees and Individuals.
     Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Dean of Ely's Address, and Recommenda-

 tions of the Association and its Committees.

   PROCEEDINGS of the FIFTEENTH MEETING, at Cambridge,

 1 845, Publislied at 125.

  --Contents : Seventh Report of a Committee appointed to conduct the Co-operation of the

 British Association in the System of Simultaneous Magnetical and Meteorological Observa-

-- --tions ; Lt.-Col. Sabine, on some points in the Meteorology of Bombay ; J. Blake, Report
--on the Physiological Action of Medicines ; Dr. Von Boguslawski, on the Comet of 1843;
-- -- --R. Hunt, Report on the Actinograph ; Proft Schbnbein, on Ozone ; Prof. Erman, on
--the Influence of Friction upon Thermo-Electricity ; Baron Senftenberg, on the Self-

 Registering Meteorological Instruments employed in the Observatory at Senftenberg ;

--W. R. Birt, Second Report on Atmospheric Waves; G. R. Porter, on the Progress and Pre-

 sent Extent of Savings' Banks in the United Kingdom ;--Pro£ Bunsen and Dr. Playfair,

--Report on the Gases evolved from Iron Furnaces, with reference to the Theory of Smelting

 of Iron ; Dr. Richardson, Report on the Ichthyology of the Seas of China and Japan ;
 Report of the Committee on the Registration of Periodical Pheenomena of Animals and Vege-

-- --tables ; Fifth Report of the Committee on the Vitality of Seeds ; Appendix, &c.

    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Sir J. F. W. Herschel's Address, and Re-

 commendations of the Association and its Committees.

   PROCEEDINGS of the SIXTEENTH MEETING, at Southampton,

 IS+G, Published at I5s.

  -- --Contents : G. G. Stokes, Report on Recent Researches in Hydrodynamics ; Sixth
--Report of the Committee on the Vitality of Seeds ; Dr. Schunck, on the Colouring Matters of
-- --Madder ; J. Blake, on the Physiological Action of Medicines ; R. Hnnt, Report on the Ac-
-- --tinograph ; R. Hunt, Notices on the Influence of Light on the Growth of Plants; R. L.
--Ellis, on the Recent I'rogress of Analysis ; Prof. Forchhammer, on Comparative Analytical
--Researches on Sea Water ; A. Erman, on the Calculation of the Gaussian Constants for
--1829 ; G. R. Porter, on the Progress, present Amount, and probable future Condition of the
--Iron Manufacture in Great Britain; W. R. Birt, Third Report on Atmospheric Waves;

 Prof Owen, Report on the Archetype and Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton ;

--J. Phillips, on Anemometry ;--J. Percy, M.D., Report on the Crystalline Slags ; Addenda to

Mr. Bin's Report on Atmospheric Waves.
    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Sir R. I. Murchison's Address, and Re-

commendations of the Association and its Comtnittees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the SEVENTEENTH MEETING, at Oxford,

1847, Published at 18s.

   Contents :--Prof. Larrgberg, on the Specific Gravity of Sulphuric Acid at diiFerent de-

gree? of dilution, and on the relation wiiich exists between the Development of Heat and the

--coincident contraction of Volume in Sulphuric Acid when mixed with Water; R. Hunt,

Researches on the Influence of the Solar Rays on the Growth of Plants ;--R. Mallet, on

--the Facts of Earthquake Phaenomena ; Prof. Nilsson, on the Primitive Inhabitants of Scan-
--dinavia ; W. Hopkins, Report on the Geological Theories of Elevation and Earthquakes;
--Dr. W. B. Carpenter, Report on the Microscopic Structure of Shells ;-- Rev. W. Whewell and
--Sir James C. Ross, Report upon the Recommendation of an Expedition for the purpose of

completing our knowledge of the Tides ; Dr. Schunck, on Colouring Matters ;-- Seventh Re-

--port of the Committee on the Vitality of Seeds; J. Glynn, on the Turbine or Horizontal
--Water- Wheel of France and Germany; Dr. R. G. Latham, on the present state and recent
--progress of Ethnographical Philology ; Dr. J. C. Prichsu-d, on the various methods of Research
--which contribute to the Advancement of Ethnology, and of the relations of that Science to

other branches of Knowledge; Dr. C. C. J. Bunsen, on the results of the recent Egyptian
researches in reference to Asiatic and African Ethnology, and the Classification of Languages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;
    Dr. C. Meyer, on the Importance of the Study of the Celtic Language as exhibited by the

--Modern Celtic Dialects still extant; Dr. Max Miiller, on the Relation of the Bengali to the
--Arian and Aboriginal Languages of India; W. R. Birt, Fourth Report on Atmospheric
--Waves ; Prof. W. H. Dove, Temperature Tables ; with Introductory Remarks by Lieut.-Col.
--E. Sabine ; A. Erman and H. Petersen, Third Report on the Calculation of the Gaussian Con-

stants for 1829.
    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, Sir Robert Harry Inglis's Address, and

Recommendations of the Association and its Committees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the EIGHTEENTH MEETING, at Swansea,

184.8, Published at 9s.

 --Contents:--Rev. B. Powell.ACatalogueof Observations of Luminous Meteors; J.Glynn,
-- --on Water-pressure Engines ; R. A. Smith, on the Air and Water of Towns ; Eighth Report
--of a Committee on the Growth and Vitality of Seeds ; W. R. Birt, Fifth Report on Atmo-
-- --spheric Waves ; E. Sehunck, on Colouring Matters ; J. P. Budd, on the advantageous use
--made of the gaseous escape from the Blast Furnaces at the Ystalyfera Iron Works ; R. Hunt,

Report of progress in the investigation of the Action of Carbonic Acid on the Growth of

--Plants allied to those of the Coal Formations ; Prof. H. W. Dove, Supplement to the Tem-
--perature Tables printed in the Report of the British Association for 1847 ; Remarks by Prof.

Dove on his recently constructed Maps of the Monthly Isothermal Lines of the Globe, and on
some of the principal Conclusions in regard to Clinlatology deducible from them; with an in-

--troductory Notice by Lt.-Col. E. Sabine ; Dr. Daubeny, on the Progress of the investigation
--on the Influence of Carbonic Acid on the Growth of Ferns ; J. Phillips', Notice of further
--progress in Anemometvical Researches ; Mr. Mallet's Letter to the Assistant-General Secre-
-- --tary ; A. Erman, Second Report on the Gaussian Constants ; Report of a Committee

relative to the expediency of recommending the continuance of the Toronto Magnetical and
Meteorological Observatory until December 1850.

    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, the Marquis of Northampton's Address,
and Recommendations of the Association and its Committees.

  PROCEEDINGS of the NINETEENTH MEETING, at Birmingham,

1849, Published at 10s.

  -- --Contents : Rev. B. Powell, A Catalogue of Observations of Luminous Meteors ; Earl
--of Rosse, Notice of Nebulae lately observed in the Six-feet Reflector ; Prof. Daubeny, on the
--Influence of Carbonic Acid Gas on the health of Plants, especially of those allied to the Fossil

Remains found in the Coal Formation ; Thomas Andrews, M.D., Report on the Heat of

--Combination ; Report of the Committee on the Registration of the Periodic Phaenomena of
--Plants and Animals ; Ninth Report of a Committee appointed to continue their Experiments
--on the Growth and Vitality of Seeds! Francis Ronalds, Report concerning the Observatory

of the British Association at Kew, from Aug. 9, 1848 to Sept. 12, 1849;-- Robert Mallet,

--Report on the Experimental Inquiry conducted at the request of the British Association, on

Railway Bar Corrosion ; William Radcliff Birt, Report on the Discussion of the Electrical
Observations at Kew.

    Together with the Transactions of the Sections, the Rev. T. R. Robinson's Address, and
Recommendations of the Association and its Committees.

   DOVE'S MONTHLY ISOTHERMAL MAPS OF THE GLOBE, with the accompanying

Memoir, Price 5s.

   LITHOGRAPHED SIGNATURES of the MEMBERS who met at Cambridge in 1838,

 with the Proceedings of the Public Meetings, 4to. Price is. (To Members, Zs.)
s                    iQ) 9y\

'S                   :(D ^i

                §·-

       T

                 e

I S.

           ~]
riatell.
                                                                                                                                                                         ri'ihji.
F
^

e-
             H4,pert of the Bfif^As'svc'yn^UlVp.lliO. Sert.

·t andy ThzrA J'ersons of F^bs.

^ ^ i£J  ' '^^^^^

                   -preser-ve-

I '-·    O'^. ^il.. vcip I

eccte-rs favuvd hef^re IT *~Tv^<7rTf -4r^

plural(the. terTTVuiaiton- ef the- fe7n,i,m.nje,

Ediw. jETtneis. JSUyle>a^h. 29. July J850.

                                                                                                            J.!Ba,«ire,la:tli.
        Pthe-t J'cLT-t'ici^les                                                                                                                        S/iO^h^-l. Pex^ticipl^f                                   Il4p,rt ,r th, KfirAjitr Pliun' /:.l«0. Sat

mcL c^  ar-.          i^'  ir       (1p D Q                                                                                                                       'a'?nn far M^'sSwD                                                           I

dr >4\  a^, tic                ^                                                                                                                      aZse tf^tt^n    t-TT                                                          I

                                                                                                                                                      ^ ,. -I^ ^^^^T v':^ Br

                                                                                                                                                          '^ "^       t:TTn

                                                                                                                                                      '

                                                                                                                                                      M« pltt-^aZ

^/vver c?UtriLcters. the firtt um/brmiy^ \T or-                                                                                                               ;?U^                                              CAartict^s fau^id hef,Tt T^ ^^Ivt .,rT? mT-<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                a /' (the t^rm-Ltu'/K^n rf //, fr.mutuu. fifurAl )
                                                                                                                                                      J%i* pOT^xeifiile. Itke fA-at ot-Pi-he^ , r-t r^uZ<ir-ly
                                                                                                                                                      cffmpffsed of fi/ve characters-

                                                                                                                                                      I7u first z-e P^\f^rrify h4>m^ph4'ne^ ^T ya. fm^}

the iMrA of eke /Irrm «<, a^id t^^ fciu^lA fif tAc^                                                                                                   tAe secofui hi  rr tie homaph^ne kl^l sTt,

                                                                                                                                                      iJui tAtr-ii- IS of the form, a^-;

M* ^iA^ /VM, hed^xg tn,                                                                                                                          the
                           rrva^caZieie .rwLffiU^i^-                                                                                                  iJl^ fou,rtK of tAe form Ca cr Ct,. aviA fh^ fiftA Thcjf in tfif lust row t^'rrmn^/^ iri a. flon^orumt

fffrm. ya,C, i^hieA hs mftected te Od^, Co- a^/i                                                                                                      IS in. tAe. tHojcu^U^i^ singular- i^f the f^wm- y^^;
                                                                                                                                                      ihe fcrms Co-, Ca a^r^ C^ repla£in^ t^ets m. JHhel
                      Bun^ al/ways  the seune                                                                                                                                                                   AdffUve and ^Vou-n diffTsnUv infUoted
                                                                                                                                              .
Cu.  the ceniffmuit,

                      »^^ (T3jn)                                                                                                                       & i^hareiaters ef tAe fen-m- t^,                         iiUt.) pa I '« po- 4 "
                                                                                                                                                      fZcfihs f^mt Ca..Cvj                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          lUU" Binris ISlOyl'a^'i 2» Juty J5S0
                                                                                                                                                      fO of the farm, a,Ci

                                                                                                                                                      9 of iJve farm- ya£.
-t af £ntijh AfsocCntion 18oC_  '>iuinc^-ticn.-' far ol'savatLon cf Total Eclipse

^pdip^ /c> I'l/J n.ny.yii sfjs- uity      I -H l! ^ I I

sirdjiJg- JO pu.i ,'./oj,^ii .<7.)y u>iy       ^Ivl il

                                                                         t is

                                                                E5 I

                                          sll^S,|

                                          1 '1

                                          ^S i *

                                                  ·i .3-

                                          HIS
Rtpoi-T ttf £netj/i Afsciatiott J8/i0
        ,·: · '.!i'i.';-i!

                       'i-.ir;!:';;

    ·'  ' ! l!.'''''|

:

        :'
                     ; :-:l'';i;;!';i!!!'

