Memoirs of the life of Dr. Darwin, chiefly during his residence at
Lichfield, with anecdotes of his friends, and criticisms on his writings.

Seward, Anna, 1742-1809.
London, Johnson, 1804.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc2.ark:/13960/t8rb6xj8r

                                          Public Domain
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address.
             LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA.

Class  S5M
 MEMOIRS OF THE LIFE

                                             OF

       DR. DARWIN,

  CHIEFLY DURING HIS RESIDENCE AT LICHFIELD,

                                      WITH

       ANECDOTES OF HIS FRIENDS,

                                                AND

 CRITICISMS ON HIS WRITINGS.

         BY ANNA SEWARD.

                           LONDON :
PRINTED TOR J. JOHNSON, ST. FAUI/S CHURCH-YARD,

                        BY T. BKNSLEV, BOLT COURT.
                                         1804.
EHERftL
          TO THE

RIGHT HONORABLE

THE EARL OF CARLISLE.

                       " \"

MY LORD,

          WHERE hereditary honor s,fplendidfor-

tune, and perfonal graces, have fecured, from
thefirft dawn ofyouth, the external refpefl and
gratifying attention of the world, it isfeldom
found that their poffejfor has emuloiifly and
feduloujly diftilled the fweetnefs from the
 dajjic fountains. There is no flattery in ob-
ferving, that of thoje rare inflances your Lord-
Jhip is confpicuoiifly one. Such energetic in-

 du/iry involves a fuperior claim to ejtimation
 than where it has appeared the only means by

 which native talent and laudable ambition

could have pierced the mifts of obfcurity.
    You, Sir, have nobly chofen to adorn your

rank, hiftead of indolently leaning upon ifs

inherent diftinffion, or even fatisfying yourfelf

                            a 2, with
  IV DEDICATION.

  with the acquirement offenatorial eloquence.
  Profeffedly a difciple of the Mufes, and on

  public proof an highly -favored difciple, you

  miift be interejied in the life and character of
  one of the moft eminent of your poetic contem^

  poraries*

   Iftence, my Lord, do prefume to lay thefe

 IMemoirs of Dr. Darwin at your feet. From

 all hear of Lord Carlijles virtues, as from

 all 1 know of his genius, it is one of my frft

 ivifhes for this Tittle Tra5t, that it may inte-
 refl and amufe a tranfient hour of his leifure,

 and obtain that approbation from him which
 mujl reward biographic integrity, while literary

Ireputation brightens in hisfmik.
        have the honor to be, with the mojl per-

fett refpecJ and efleem,

                     My Lord9
, . Your Lordjhip" s faithful

                           and obedient fervant,

                           AXNA SEWARD.
          PREFACE.

IN publifhing thefe Memoirs of the Life

and Writings of Dr. Darwin, I am con-

fcious of their defects ; that they do not
form a regular detail of biographical cir-
cumftances, even in that moiety of his pro-

feffional exiftence formed by his reiidence

at Lichfield ; while of that which pafled
at Derby I am qualified to prefent no more

than a merely general view.

   My work confifls of the following par-

ticulars : the perfon, the mind, the temper

of Dr. Darwin ; his powers as a Phyfician,
Philofopher, and Poet; the peculiar traits
of his manners ; his excellencies and faults ;
the Petrarchan attachment of his middle

life, more happy in it's refult than was that

of the Bard of Vauclufe*; the beautiful
poetic testimonies of it's fervor, while yet

                          a 3 it
VI PREFACE.

it remained hopelefs ; an inveftigation of
the conftituent excellencies and defects of

his magnificent poem, the Botanic Garden ;

remarks upon his philofophic profe writ-

ings; the characters and talents of thofe

who formed the circle of his friends while

he refided inLichfield; and the very fingular

"and interefting hiftory of one of them,

' well-known in the lettered world, whofe

domeftic hiftory, remarkable as itbyhas
                          is,
been unaccountably omitted the gentle-

man who wrote his life.

   Dr. Darwin's Letters make no part of
thefe Memoirs. Pofleffing few of them

myfelf, and thofe perfectly inconfequential,
no effort has here been made to obtain

them from others. He lived not, like Pope
and Swift, Gray arid Johnfon, in exclufive
devotion to abftracT; literature. During fuch
hours of repofe, compared to his bufy and
hurried life, he might have found leifure
to pour his imagination and Jiis know-

                                    ledge
PREFACE.                               Vll

ledge on the epiftolary page ; but his epif-
tles, though profeffionally numerous, were

Ihort from neceffity, and by choice com-

preffed. He has often faid that he had
not the talent of elegant letter-writing.

Like all other diftinguiihed acquirements,
it can only obtain excellence from frequent

and diffufe practice, unreftrained by the

interfering preffure of extrinfic confider-

ations.

   It was alfo his frequent remark, that

literary fame invariably fuffers by the pub-

lication of every thing which is below the
level of that celebrity which it has already

gained. Letters, through whofe progress
either wit fcatters it's fcintillations, criti-

cifm it's inftruftion, knowledge it's trea-

fures, or fancy it's glow, are not beneath

the dignity of the moft eminent reputation ;
but fince coercive circumflances in a great

meafure precluded thofe efFufions      to the
                                       be no
letters of Darwin, , there would
                                         kind-
                                   a4
Vlll PREFACE.

kindnefs to his memory in obtruding them
upon the public ; none to the public in fwel-
ling out books with materials of no intrinfic

value. It is only zeal without judgment,

and the enthufiafm of partiality, which can

take pleafure in reading a great man's letters,

which might have been thofe of any toler-

ably educated mind, on which genius had

never fhone.

   Biography of recently departed Eminence
is apt to want characleriftic truth, fince it is

generally written either by a near relation,

    Who writes to fhare the fame of the deceafed,

    So high in merit, and to him fo dear !

   Such dwell on praifes which they think they fhare *j

or by an highly obliged friend, whom
gratitude and affection render blindly par-

tial, and who is influenced by a defire of
gratifying, with a defcription of all-excel-

ing endowment and angelic excellence,

* Young's Night Thoughts.

                           the
PREFACE.  IX

the furviving family of the author he com-
memorates ; or by an editor who believes
it highly conducive to his profits on the
writings he publishes, or republifhes, to
claim for their author the unquali-
fied admiration and reverence of man-
kind. All thefe clafles of biographers do

for the perfon whom they commemorate,
what our generally wife Queen Elizabeth
had the weaknefs to requeft her painters
would do for her portrait on the canvafs ;

         *.

they draw a picture without fhades.
   But though people of credulous and

effervefcent zeal may be gratified by feeing
a writer, whofe works have charmed
them, thus inverted with unrivalled genius
and fuper-human virtue, the judicious few,
whofe approbation is genuine honor, are

aware of this truth, aflerted by Mrs. Bar-

bauld in her beautiful, her ineftimable
Eflay againft Inconfiftency in our Expec-

tations. " Nature is much too frugal to
                                              " heap
X PREFACE.

" heap together all manner of finning

" qualities in one glaring mafs *." Every

man has his errors, and the errors of pub-
lic characters are too well known not to

expofe unfounded eulogium to the diftafte

of all who prefer truth to enthuflafm.
They are confcious that the mind, as well
as the perfon, of a celebrated character,
ought to be drawn with difpaffionate

fidelity, or not attempted ; that though

juft biographic record will touch the fail-
ings of the good and the eminent with
tendernels, it ought not to fpread over
them the veil of fuppreffion. A portrait

painter might as well omit each appropriate
diftinction of feature, countenance, and

form, becaufe it may not be elegant, and,
like the Limner in Gay's Fables, finifh
his pictures from cafts of the Venus and
Apollo, as the hiftorian conceal the faults,
foibles, and weakneffes of the individual
whom he delineates.

* Aikin's and Barbauld's Eflays.  it
PREFACE.  XL

   It is this fidelity of reprefentation which
makes Mrs. Piozzi's Memoirs of Dr. John-
fon, and Mr. Bofwell's Tour, and his Life

of that wonderful being, fo valuable to
thofe who wifli not for an idol to worfhip,
inftead of a great man to contemplate, as

nature, paffion, and habit, compounded
his character.

   If thofe biographers had invefted their

deceafed friend with excellence, which no

fbmbre i rri tability had ever overfhadowed ;
with juftice and candor, which no literary
jealoufy, no party prejudice, no bigot zeal
had ever warped ; the public might have

been led, through boundlefs veneration of

one, into injuftice towards many. The
world might have been induced to Relieve
 that all whofe merit he has depreciated,
whofe talents he has undervalued, through
the courfe of his Lives of the Poets, had

 deferred the fate they met on thofe pages.

 Then, to the injury of our national tafte,
 and to the literary and moral character of
 the great Englifh Claffics, more univerfat

                                                            con-
XII PREFACE.

confidence had been placed in the ibphi-

tries of thofe volumes, which feem to have

put on the whole armor of truth by the
force of their eloquence and the wit of

their fatire.

   A paragraph which appeared in feveral
of the late newfpapers, and which con-

tained a ridiculouily falfe print, political for
poetical, mentioned that thefe expeded
Memoirs were undertaken at the requeft of

the late Dr. Darwin's family. A miftaken

rumour; though they certainly had their
rife in the exprefled defire of Dr. Robert

Darwin of Shrewfbury, that I would fup-

ply him with fuch anecdotes of his father's
earlier life, as my intimacy with him, dur-
ing that period, had enabled me to obtain,
and which might affift in forming a bio-
graphic fketch, to be prefixed to his writ-
ings at fome future time. In purpofed
obedience thefe records were begun, but
they became too extended to form only

materials for another perfon's compofition ;
                                                                 and-
PREFACE.  Xlll

and too impartial to pafs with propriety
through the filial channel, though fervently
juft to the excellencies of the commemo-

rated.

   Of thofe years in which the talents and

focial virtues of this extraordinary man ihed

their luftre over the city which I inhabit,

no hiftorian remains, who, with vicinity of
habitation, and domeftic intercourfe with
Dr. Darwin, took equal intereft with my-
felf in all that marked, by traits of him,
that period of twenty -three years, and

which engaged my attention from my
very earlieft youth. Some few of his con-
temporaries in this town yet remain ; but
not one who could be induced to publifli
what their obfervation may have traced,

and their memory treafured.

     His fbmetime pupil, and late years
friend, the ingenious Mr. Bilsborrow, is
writing, or has written, his Life ; but fince
Dr. Darwin conftantly ihrunk with re-
ferved pride from all that candor would

                                                                   deem
XIV PREFACE.

deem confidential converfatioru and which
the world is fo apt to ridicule as vain ego-
tifin ; fince it is underftood that he has not

left biographic documents; fmce Mr. Bilf-

borrow was fcarcely in exiftence when his
illuftrious friend firft changed his fphere of
aftion ; he muft find himfelf as much a
ftranger to the particulars of his Lichfield

refidence, as I am of thofe which were moft

prominent in the equal number of years

he pafled at Derby, Between us,, all will
probably be known that can now with
accuracy be traced of Dr. Darwin.

   To the beft of my power I have pre-

fumed to be the recorder of vanifhed Ge-

nius, beneath the ever-prefent confcioufnefs
that biography and criticifm have their

facred duties, alike to the deceafed, and to
the public ; precluding, on one hand, un-

juft depreciation, on the other, over-valu-

ing partiality.
            MEMOIRS

         THE LIFE AND WRITINGS

             DOCTOR DARWIN.

                      CHAP. I.

DOCTOR ERASMUS DARWIN was the fon
of a private gentleman, near Newark, in
Nottinghamfliire. He came to Lichfield
to pradlife phyfic in the autumn of the
year 1756, at the age of twenty-four;
bringing high recommendations from the
univerfity of Edinburgh, in which he had
ftudied, and from that of Cambridge, to
which he belonged.

    He was fomewhat above the middle
fize, his form athletic, and inclined to cor-

pulence ; his limbs too heavy for exact pro-
                                as portion.
                             MEMOIRS OF

portion. The traces of afevere fmall-pox;
features, and countenance, which, when

they were not animated by focial pleafure,
were rather faturnine than fprightly ; a
ftoop in the fhoulders, ^nd the then pro-
feffional appendage, a large full-bottomed

wig, gave, at that early period of life, an
appearance of nearly twice the years he
bore. Florid health, and the earnest of
good humour, a funny fmile, on entering

a room, and on first accofting his friends,
rendered, in his youth, that exterior agree-
able, to which beauty and iymmetry had
not been propitious.

   He flammered extremely; but whatever
he faid, whether gravely or in jest, was
always well worth waiting for, though the
inevitable impreffion it made might not
always be pleafant to individual felf-love.
Confcious of great native elevation above
the general ftandard of intellect, he became,
early in life, fore upon oppofition, whether

                                                              in
                              DR. DARWIN.

 in argument or condu<t, and always re-

venged it by farcafm of very keen edge.
Nor was he lefs impatient of the Tallies of

cgotifm and vanity, even when they were
in fo flight a degree, that ftricl: politenefs
would rather tolerate than ridicule them.

Dr. Darwin feldom failed to prelent their
caricature in jocofe but wounding irony.

If thefe ingredients of colloquial defpotifm

were difcernible in unworn exiftence, they
increafed as it advanced, fed by an ever-
growing reputation within and without the

pale of medicine.

    Extreme was his fcepticifm to human
truth. From that caufe he often difre-
garded the accounts his patients gave of
themfelves, and rather chofe to colled: his

information by indirect inquiry and by
crofs-examining them, than from their vo-

luntary teflimony. That diftruft and that
habit were probably favourable to his ikill
in difcovering the origin of diieafes, and

                               B 3 thence
4 MEMOIRS OF

thence to his preeminent fuccefs in ef-
fefting their cure ; but they imprefled his
mind and tinctured his converfation with

an apparent want of confidence in man-
kind, which was apt to wound the ingenu-
ous and confiding fpirit, whether feeking

his medical affiftance, or his counfel as a

friend. Perhaps this pronenefs to fufpicion
mingled too much of art in his wisdom.

   From the time at which Dr. Darwin
firfl came to Lichfield, he avowed a con-
viction of the pernicious- effecls of all vi-
nous fluid on the youthful and healthy con-
ilitution ; an abfolute horror of fpirits of
all forts, and however diluted. His own
example, with very fe\v exceptions, fup-
ported his exhortations. From ftrong malt

liquor he totally abftained, and if he drank

a glafs or two of Englifh wine, he mixed it
with water. Acid fruits, with fugar, and
all fort of creams, and butter, were his
luxuries; but he always ate plentifully of

                                                           animal
                                 . DARWIN.

animal food. This liberal alimentary re-
gimen he prefcribed to people of every
age, where unvitiated appetite rendered
them capable of following it ; even to in-
fants. He defpifed the prejudice, which

deems foreign wines more wholcfome than

the wines of the country. If you muft

drink wine, faid he, let it be home-made.

It is well known, that Dr. Darwin's influ-

ence and example have fobered the county
of Derby ; that intemperance in fermented
fluid of every fpecies is almoft unknown
amongft it's gentlemen.

    Profeffional generofity diftingui fried Dr.
Darwin's medical practice. While refident
in Lichfield, to the prieft and lay-vicars of
it's cathedral, and their families, he always

cheerfully gave his advice, but never took

fees from any of them. Diligently, alfo,
did he attend to the health of the poor in

that city, and afterwards at Derby, and fup-
plied their neceffities by food, and all sort

                         B 3 of
6 MEMOlftS OF

of charitable affiftance. In each of thofe

towns, his was the cheerful board of almoft

open-houfed hofpitality, without extrava*
gance or parade; deeming ever the firft
unjuft, the latter unmanly. Generofity,
\vit, and fcience, were his houfehold gods.

   To thofe many rich prefents, which Na-
ture beftowed on the mind of Dr. Darwin,

fhe added the feducing, and often dangerous

gift of a highly poetic imagination ; but he

remembered how fatal that gift profeffion-
ally became to the young phyficians, Aken-
fide and Armftrong. Concerning them, the
public could not be perfuaded, that fo much
excellence in an ornamental fcience was
compatible with intenfe application to a
feverer ftudy ; with fuch application as it
held neceflary to a refponfibility, towards
which it might look for the fource of difeafe,
6n which it might lean for the ftruggle with
mortality. Thus, through the firfl twenty-
three years of his pradlice as a phyfician,

                                                 Dr. Dar-
DR. DARWIN.  i

Dr. Darwin, with the wifdom .ofUlyfles,
bound himfelf to the medical maft, that

he might not follow thofe delufive fyrens,
the mufes, or be confldered as their avowed

votary. Occafional little pieces, however,
Hole at feldom occurring periods from his
pen ; though he cautioufly precluded their

paffing the prefs, before his latent genius
for poetry became unveiled to the public

eye in it's copious and dazzling fplendour.

Moft of thefe minute gems have ftolen into
newfpapers and magazines, fince the im-
pregnable rock, on which his medicinal

and philofophical reputation were placed,
induced him to contend for that fpecies of
fame, which mould entwine the Parnaffian

laurel with the balm of Pharmacy:
   After this fketch of Dr. Darwin's cha-

racter and manners,4et us return to the dawn

of his profeffional eftablilhment. A few

weeks after his arrival at Lichfield, in the

latter end of the year 1756", the intuitive
                             B 4 difcern-
                            MEMOIRS OF

difcernment, the ikill, fpirit, and decifion,

which marked the long courfe of his fuccefs-
ful practice, were firft called into a&ion,

and brilliantly opened his career of fame.

The late Mr. Inge of Thorpe, in Stafford-
fliire, a young gentleman of family, for-
tune, and confequence, lay fick of a danger-
ous fever. The juftly celebrated Dr. Wilks
of Willenhal, who had many years poflefTed,
in wide extent, the bufinefs and confidence
of the Lichfield neighbourhood, attended
Mr. Inge, and had unfuccefsfully combated
his difeafe. At length he pronounced it
hopelefs ; that fpeedy death mufl enfue,
and took his leave. It was then that a
fond mother, wild with terror for the life
of an only fon, as drowning wretches catch
at twigs, fent to Lichfield for the young,
and yet inexperienced phyfician, of recent
arrival there. By a reverfe and entirely
novel courfe of treatment, Dr. Darwin gave

his dying, patient back to exiftence, to
                                                           health,
                            DR. DARWIN.

health, profperity, and all that high repu-

tation, which Mr. Inge afterwards ppffcfled

as a public magiftrate.
   The far-fpreading report of this judici-

oufly daring and fortunate exertion brought

Dr. Darwin into immediate and extend ve

employment, and foon eclipfed the hopes

of an ingenious rival, who redgned the

conteft; nor, afterwards, did any other
competitor bring his certainly ineffectual
lamp into that fphere, in which fo bright
a luminary flione.

   Equal fuccefs, as in the cafe of Mr. Inge,
continued to refult from the powers of Dr.
Darwin's genius, his frequent and intenfe

meditation, and the avidity with which he,
through life, devoted his leifure to fcien-

tide acquirement, and the investigation of

difeafe. Ignorance and timidity, fuperfti-
tion, prejudice, and envy, feduloufly ftrovc
to attach to his practice the terms, rafh,
experimental, theoretic ; not conddering, that

                                                      without

                                             "OF THE
                               A1XMOIRS OF

without experimental theory, the reftoring
fcience could have made no progrefs ; that
neither time, nor all it's accumulation of
premature death, could have enlarged the
circle, in which the merely practical phyii-
cian condemns himfelf to walk. Strength

of mind, fortitude unappalled, and the per-
petual fuccefs which attended this great

man's deviations from the beaten track,
enabled him to fliake thofe mifts from his

reputation, as the lion shakes to air the
dewdrops on his mane.

   In 1757, he married Mils Howard, of
the Ciofe of Lichfield, a blooming and
lovely young lady of eighteen. A mind,
which had native ftrength; an awakened
tafle for the works of imagination; in-

genuous fweetnefs ; delicacy animated by
iprightlinefs, and fuftained by fortitude,

made her a capable, as well as fafcinating v
companion, even to a man of talents fo il-
luftrious. To her he could, with confi-

                                                                 dence.
DR. DARWIN.  H

dence, commit the important talk of ren-
dering his children's minds a foil fit to
receive, and bring to fruit, the ftamina of
wifdom and fcience.

    Mrs. Darwin's own mind, by nature fb
well endowed, ftrengthened and expanded
in the friendfhip, converfation, and confi-
dence of fo beloved, fo revered a preceptor.
But alas ! upon her early youth, and a too
delicate conftitution, the frequency of her
maternal fituation, during the firft five

years of her marriage, had probably a bane-
ful effecl:. The potent {kill, and affiduous
cares of him, before whom difeafc daily
vanifhed from the frame of others, could
not expel it radically from that of her ho
loved. It was however kept at bay thirteen

years.

   Upon the diftinguifhed happinefs of thoic
years, ihe fpoke with fervour to two inti-
mate female friends in the laft week of her

            , which clofed at the latter end of

                                                                  the
12 MEMOIHS OF

the fummer 1770. " Do not weep for my
" impending fate/' faid the dying angel,

with a fmile of unaffected cheerfulnefs.

" In the fhort term of my life, a great
" deal of happinefs has been comprifed.
" The maladies of my frame were peculiar ;
" the pains in my head and ftomach, which
" no medicine could eradicate, were fpaf-

*' modic and violent ; and required ftronger

" meafures to render them fupportable
" while they lafted, than my conftitution
" could fuftain without injury. The pe-
" riods of exemption from thofe pains were

" frequently of feveral days duration, and
" in my intermiffions I felt no indication
" of malady. Pain taught me the value of
" eafe, and I enjoyed it with a glow of
" fpirit, feldom, perhaps, felt by the habi-

*' tually healthy. While Dr. Darwin com-

" bated and afluaged my difeafe from time
" to time, his indulgence to all my wiflaes,
" his active defire to fee me amufed and

                                                            happy,
DR. DARWIN.  13

'" happy, proved inceflant. His Koufe, as

'" you know, has ever been the relbrt of

" people of fcicnce and merit. If, from
" my hufband's great and extenfive prac-

" tice, I had much lefs of his fociety than

" I wiftied, yet the converfation of his

" friends, and of my own, was ever ready

i( to enliven the hours of his abfence. As
" occalional malady made me doubly enjoy
" health, fo did thofe frequent abfences

" give a zcft, even to delight, when I could
" be indulged with his company. My

6C three boys have ever been docile, and

" afFeftionate. Children as they are, I

(< could truft them with important fecrets,

" fo facred do they hold every promife they

c< make. They fcorn deceit, and falfehood
" of every kind, and have lefs lelfiflinefs

"'than generally belongs to childhood. -

" Married to any other man, I do not fup-
" pofe I could have lived a third part of
"" thofe years, which I have pafled with

             . Dar-
  14 MEMOIRS Of

 " Dr. Darwin ; he has prolonged my day*,
 " and he has bleffed them."

    Thus died this fuperior woman, in the
 bloom of life, fmcerely regretted by all, who
 knew how to value her excellence, and paf*
JtonateJy regretted by the felecled few, whom
Ihe honoured with her perfonal and confi-
 dential friendfhip. The year after his mar-
riage, Dr. Darwin purchafed an old half
timbered houfe in the cathedral vicarage,
adding a handfome new front, with Ve-
 netian windows, and commodious apart-
ments. This front looked towards Beacon

ftreet, but had no ftreet annoyance, being

feparated from it by a narrow, deep, dingle,
which, when the Doclor purchafed the pre-
jnifes, was overgrown with tangled briars
and knot-grafs. In ancient days it was the
receptacle of that water, which moated the
Clofe in a fe mi circle, the other half being

defended by the Minfter pool. A fortu-

nate opening, between the oppofite houfes
                                                                     .and
DR. DARWIN.                                             15

and this which has been described, gives it
a profpect, fufficiently extenfive, of pleafant
and umbrageous fields. Acrofs the dell,
between his houfe and the ftreet, Dr. Dar-

win flung a broad bridge of fhallow fteps
with chinefe paling, defcending from his
hall-dooi* to the pavement. The tangled
and hollow bottom he cleared into lawny

fmoothnefs, and made a terrace on the

bank, which ftretched in a line, level with
the floor of his apartments, planting the
deep declivity with lilacs and rofe-bulhes;
while he fcreened his terrace from the gaze
of paffengers, and the fummer fun,

                              By all that higher grew,

" Of firm and fragrant leaf. Then fwiftly rofe
" Acanthus, and each odorous, bufhy fhrub,
" To fence the verdant wall."

   The laft gentleman who purchafed this

lioufe and it's gardens, has deftroyed the

verdure and plantations of that dell, for the
            i purpofe
                             MEMOIRS

purpofe of making a circular coach-road
from the ftreet to the hall- door ; a facrifice
of beauty to convenience, and one of many

proofs, that alteration and improvement are

not always fynonimous terms. To this ru$ m
wbe, of Darwinian creation, reforted, from

it's early rifing, a knot of philofophic friends,
infrequent vifitation. The Rev. Mr. Michell,
many years deceafed. He was fkilled in
aftronomic fcience, modeft and wife. The
ingenious Mr. Kier, of Weft Bromich, then
Captain Kier. Mr. Boulton, known and re-

fpec~ted wherever mechanic philofophy is

underftood. Mr. Watt, the celebrated im-
prover of the fteam engine. And, above all
others in Dr. Darwin's perfonal regard, the
accomplifhed Dr. Small, of Birmingham,
who bore the blufhing honours of his talents

and virtues to an untimely grave.

   About the year 1705, came to Lich-

field, from the neighbourhood of Reading,
.the young and gay philofopher, Mr. Edge-

                                                        worth,
.DR. DARWIN.  17

worth, a man of fortune, and recently mar-
ried to a Mifs Ellars of Oxfordfhire. The

fame of Dr. Darwin's various talents allured

Mr. E. to the city they graced. Then
fcarcely two and twenty, and with an ex-

terior yet more juvenile, he had mathe-

matic fcience, mechanic ingenuity, and a

competent portion of claffical learning, with
the pofleffion of the modern languages.
His addrefs was gracefully fpirited, and

his converfation eloquent. t^e danced, he

fenced, and winged his arrows with more

than philofophic Ikill ; yet did not the con-
fcioufnefs of thefe lighter endowments abate

his ardour in the purfuit of knowledge.
   After having eftabUfhed a friendfliip and

correfpondence with Dr. Darwin, Mr. Edge-
worth did not return to Lichfield till the

fummer of the year 1770. With him, at
that period, came the late Mr. Day, of

Bear-hill, in Berkfhire. Thefe young men

had been fellow-ftudents in the university

c of
IS MEMOIRS OP

of Oxford. Mr. Day was alfo attra&ed bj

the fame celebrated abilities, which, five

years before, had drawn his friend into
their fphere. He was then twenty-four^
in pofleffion of a clear eftate, about twelve

hundred pounds per annum.            Pow-

   Mr. Day looked the philofbpher.

der and fine clothes were, at that time, the

appendages of gentlemen. Mr. Day wrore

not either. He was tall and ftooped in

the fhouldcrs, full made, but not corpu-

lent ; and in his meditative and melan-

choly air a degree of awkwardnefs and
dignity were blended. We found his fea-

tures interesting and agreeable amidft the

traces of a fevere fmall-pox. There was a

fort of weight upon the lids of his large

hazle eyes ; yet when he declaimed,

                       -" Of good and evil,
" Paflion, and apathy, and glory, and fhame,'-'

very expreffive were the energies gleaming
                                                           from
                                DR. DARWI1T.

from them beneath the ihade of fable hair,

which, Adam-like, curled about his brows.

Lefs graceful, lefs amufing, lefs brilliant
than Mr. E., but more highly imagina-

tive, more claffical, and a deeper reafoner ;

ftricT: integrity, energetic friendfhip, open-
handed bounty, fedulous and diffufive cha-
rity, greatly overbalanced, on the fide of

virtue, the tincture of mifanthropic gloom
and proud contempt of common-life fo-

ciety, that marked the peculiar character,

which fliall unfold itfelf on thefe pages. In
fucceeding years, Mr. Day publifhed two
noble poems, The Dying Negro, and The
Devoted Legions ; alib Sandford and Mer-
ton, which by wife parents is put into

every youthful hand.

   Mr. Day dedicated the third edition o
The Dying Negro to Roufleau. That de-
dication has every force and every grace of
eloquence. The fentiments are ftrongly
characleriftic of their writer, except in the

                            c 2, philippic
20 MEMOIRS OP

philippic againft American refiftance ; juft

commenced when the addrefs to Roufleau
was compofed. Generous indignation of
the flave trade, praclifed without remorfe
in the fouthern colonies of North America,

induced Mr. Day to refufe them all credit
for the patriotic virtue of that refiftance to
new and unconstitutional claims, which

threatened their liberties.

   In the courie of the year 17/0, Mr.
Day flood for a full-length picture to Mr.

Wright of Derby. A ftrong likenefs and a

dignified portrait were the refult. Drawn
as in the open air, the furrounding fky is
tempeftuous, lurid, and dark. He ftands
leaning his left arm againft a column in-
fcribed to Hambden. Mr. Day looks up-
ward, as enthufiaftically meditating on the
Contents of a book, held in his dropped right
 hand. The open leaf is the oration of that
 virtuous patriot in the fenate, againft the
 grant of Ihip-money, demanded by King

                                                            Charles
              DR, DARWItf.  21

Charles the firft. A flafli of lightning plays

in Mr. Day's hair, and illuminates the con-
tents of the volume. The poetic fancy,
ancfwhat were then the politics of the ori-
ginal, appear in the choice of fubjecl: and
attitude. Dr. Darwin fat to Mr. Wright
about the fame period. That was a limply
contemplative portrait, of the mod perfecl

refemblance.

During the fummer and autumn of

that year, was found, in Dr. Darwin's cir-
cle, as Mr. Day's viiitor, the late Mr.
William Seward of London ; yet, though
a young man whofe talents were confider-

ably above the common level, he was

rather a fatellite than a planet in that
little fphere. He afterwards became known

to the literary world as one of Dr. John-

fbn's habitual companions, and, in the year

1 795> ne publifhcd Anecdotes of Diftin-
guiihed Perfons ; a compilation of more
induflry in the collection, than grace in

                                c 3 the
22 MEMOIRS O?

the drefs. Mr. W. Seward has not dil-

played in thofe volumes, the happy art

of animating narration. Common occur-
rences, even in the lives of eminent people,
weary attention, unlefs they are told with

elegance and fpirit. From the ardently

fought fociety of men of genius, this gen-
tleman acquired a ftriking degree of wit

and ingenious allufion in converfation,
though it was too uniformly, and too

cauftically, of the farcaftic fpecies ; but
every fort of fire feems to have evaporated
from the language of Mr. W. Seward in

paffing through his pen.

   Mr. Day and Mr. Edgeworth took the
houfe now inhabited by Mr. Morefby, in
the little green valley of Stow, that Hope*
from the eaft end of the cathedral, and
forms, with it's old grey tower on the
banks of it's lake, fo lovely a landfcape.
That houfe was Mr. Day's bachelor man-
fion through the year 17/0; that of Mr.

                                                         Edge-
           DR. DARWIN.                        23

Edgeworth, and his wife and family, in

the enfuing year. All of this city and it's

vicinity, who comprehended and tafted

thofe powers of mind which take the
higher range of intellect, were delighted

to mingle in fuch affociation.

   In February 1775, died Dr. Small, nor

were fo much talent and merit fuffered to

pafs away

" Without the meed of fome melodious tears."

They were given in a fhort elegy, by his
moil valued friend, Dr. Darwin ; which
slegy is engraven on a vafe in Mr. Boul-
ton's garden, facred to the memory of the

ingenious deceaied.

    Ye Gay, and Young, who thoughtlefs of your doom,
        Shun the difgufiful man lions of the dead,

    Where Melancholy broods o'er many a tomb,
        Mouldering beneath the yew's uiiwholcioiue iliade>

                        C 4 If
24 MEMOIRS OP

   If chance ye enter thefe fequefter'd groves,

       And day's bright funfhine, for a while, forego,
    O leave to Folly's cheek, the laughs and loves,

       And give one hour to philofophic woe !

Here, while no titled duft, no fainted bone,

   No lover, weeping over beauty's bier,
No warrior, frowning in hiftoric ftone,

   Extorts your praifes, or requefts your tear,

Cold Contemplation leans her aching head,
   And as on hurran woe her broad eye turns,

Waves her meek hand, and lighs for fcience dead,
   For fcience, virtue, and for Small me mourns !

   Epitaph on Dr. Small of Birmingham,
by Mr. Day.

Beyond the rage of Time, or Fortune's power,
.Remain, cold ftone ! remain, and mark the hour

When all the nobleft gifts that Heaven e'er gave
Were deftined to a dark, untimely grave.

O taught on reafon's boldeft wing to rife,
And catch each glimmer of the opening ikies !

O gentle bofom ! O unfpotted mind !
O friend to truth, to virtue, and mankind,

Thy lov'd remains we truft to this pale (hrine,

Secure to meet no fecond lofs like thine !

                                                        In
DR. DARWIN.                                             25

   In Mr. Day's epitaph there is fome pa-
thos, and more poetry ; but it is far from
being faultlefs. Perhaps it may be it's lean:
error, that the name of the bewailed is

omitted, which Dr. Johnibn has well ob-

ferved, ought always to be involved in the

verfes. It muft, however, be confefled,

that, in this cafe, the noun perfbnal was not

calculated to appear with grace in verfe ;

but that confideration, though it doubtlels

caufed, will not juftify, the omiffion. In
Dr. Darwin's Elegy, it is placed out of all

poiTibility of ludicrous equivoque, and fo

accents the laft line, as to produce no

mean or inharmonious found. The com-

                  in the elegy, of much
is ismendation, alfb,
                                 ; is,
                                                     a
more dignified modefty. Praife may be

allowed to glow even upon tomb/ione, but

fhould never be hyperbolic. The epitaph

too exclamatory and to aflert that no

fecond lofs, fo deplorable, can be fuftained,

infinitely too much for one, who, how>

                                                        cver
26 MEMOIRS OP

ever endowed and adorned, left the world

at large no written teftimony of that im-
puted fuperiority. It is finely observed by

the charming Prior,

          " That the diftinguifh'd part of men,

               By pencil, compafs, fword, or pen,
                Should, in life's vifit leave their name,
              In characters, which may proclaim
               That they, with ardour, flrove to raife

             At once their art, and country's praife;

              And, in the working, took great care
               That all was full, and round, and fair."

   The circumftances of Mr. Day's difpo-

lition, habits, and deiliny were fo peculiar,
as to juftify digreffion from the principal fub-
jedlof thefe pages. Their authorwould deem
it inexcufable to introduce any thing fabu-
lous ; to embellifh truth by the ilighteft co-
louring of fi cYion, even by exaggerating fingu-
larity, or heightening what is extraordinary ;

   but when realities are of a nature to intereft
$ind to amufe in a collateral branch of the

                                                      memoir,
          R. DARWIN.  27

memoir, the reader will not be difpleafed
to turn from it's principal perfonage, dif-

tinguifhed rather by wonderful endowment

than by uncommon occurrences, while the

picture of his friend's more eventful ftory

pafles before their eyes.

   Mr. Day's father died during his infancy,
and left him an eftate of twelve hundred

pounds per annum. Soon after his mother

married a gentleman of the name of Phi-
lips. The author of this narrative has
often heard Mr. Day defer ibe him as one
of thofe common characters, wrho feek to
fupply their inherent want of confequence,

by a bufy teizing interference in circum-

ftances, with which they have .no real

concern.

   Mrs. Philips, jointured with three hun-
dred pounds a year out of her fon's eftate,

was left his fole guardian, or united with
another perfon in the trust, whom ilie in-

fluenced. Herfelf, influenced by fuch a

                      hufband,
^S MEMOIRS OP

hufband, often rendered uncomfortable
the domeftic fituation of a high-fpirited

youth of genius. We may well fuppofe
he impatiently brooked the preceptive im-
pertinence, and troublefome authority of a

man whom he defpifed, and who had no
claim upon his obedience, though he con-
fidered it as a duty to pay fome outward
refpect to the hufband.of his mother.

    She frequently repined at the narrow-

nefs of her jointure, and ftill oftener
exprefled folicitude left Mr. Philips, who
had no fortune of his own, fhould lole
in the decline of life, by lofing her, all
comfortable fubfiftence. It was Mr. Day's
firft aft, on coming of age, and into pof-
feffion of his eftate, to augment his

mother's jointure to four hundred, and to

fettle it upon Mr. Philips during his life.
This bounty, to a man who had needlefsly
mortified and embittered fo many years of

his own infancy and youth, evinced a very

                                                               elevated
DR. DARWIN.                                    39

elevated mind. That fnind had alfo been
wounded by the caprice of a young lady,

who " claimed the triumph of a lettered
" heart/' without knowing how to value

and retain her prize. Before the proofs of

her ficklenefs became indifputable, he

wrote the following beautiful elegyj

Yet once again, in yonder myrtle bowers,
    Whence rofe-lipp'd zephyrs, hovering, Ihed perfume,

I weave the painted radiance of the flowers,

   And prefs coy Nature in her days of bloom.

Shall {he, benignant, to the wondering eyes

  Of the lone hermit all her charms unfold ?

Or, gemm'd with dew, bid her gay florets rife

   To grace the ruftic matter of the fold ?

Shall thefe poflefs her bright, her fragant ftore,
   Thefe fnatch the wreath, by plaftic Nature wove,

Nor wanton fummer yield one garland more

  To grace the bofom of the nymph I love?

For me mall come j with her each fitter grace,
   With her the kindred powers of harmony,

The deep recetfes of the grove mall trace,
   And hang with flowers each confecrated tree*
                                                                            BJithc
3O MEMOIRS OP

    Blithe Fancy too (hall fpread her glittering plumes,
       She loves the white cliffs of Britannia's iile,

    She loves the fpot where infant Genius blooms,
       She loves the fpot, where Peace and Freedom frnile.

   Unlefs her aid the mimic queen beftow,

     In vain freili garlands the low vales adorn j
   In vain with brighter tints the florets glow,

      Or dewdrops fparkle on the brow of morn.

   Opes not one bloflbm to the fpicy gale,
      Throws not one elm it's mofs-wrcath'd branches wi.det,

   Wanders no rill through the luxuriant vale,
      Or, glifVning, ruflies down the mountain fide,

   But thither, with the morning's earlieft ray,
       Fancy has wing'd her ever-mazy flight,

  To hymn wild carols to returning day,
      And catch the faireft beams of orient light.

  Proud of the theft me mounts her lucid car,
      Her car the rainbow's painted arch fuppliesj

  Her fwift wing'd fteeds unnumber'd loves prepare,
      And countlefs zephyrs waft her through the ikies.

  There, while her bright wheels paufe in cloudlefs air.
      She waves the magic fceptre of command,

  And all her flattering vifions, wild as fair,
       Start into life beneath the potent wand.
                                                                                Here,
                        OR.. DARWIN.                31

Here, proudly nodding o'er the vale below,

   High rocks of pearl reflect the morning ray,
Whence gufhimg ftreams of azure ne&ar flow,

   And tinge the trickling herbage on their way.

Thefe, cull'd from every mountain, every plain,
   Perennial flowers the ambient air perfume,

Far off Hern Boreas holds his drear domain,
   Nor chains the ftreams, nor blights the facred bloom.

Through all the year, in copfe and tangled dale,
    Lone Philomel her fong to Venus pours,

What time pale Evening fpreads the dewy ve'rl,
   What time the red Morn bluflies on the iliores.

Illufive vifions ! O, not here, not here,
   Does Spring eternal hold her placid reign,

Already Boreas chills the altering year,

   And blafts the purple daughters of the plain.

So fade my promis'd joys t fair fcenes of bliis,

    Ideal fcenes, too long believ'd in vain,
Plung'd down and fwallow'd deep in Time's abyls !-^-

   So veering Chance, and rnthlefs fates ordain.

Thee, Laura, thee, by fount, or mazy ftream,

   Or thicket rude, unpreft'd by human feet,

I figh, unheeded, to the moon's pale beam ;

    Thee, Laura, thee, the echoing hiils repeat,

                                                                Oleag
32 MEMOIRS Of
   Oh! long of billows wild, and winds the fport,

        Seize, feize the fafe afylum that remains !
    Here Truth, Love, Freedom, Innocence refort,

       And offer long oblivion to thy pains.

    When panting, gafping, breathlefs, on the ftrand
       The fhipwreek'd mariner reclines his breaft,

    Say, ihall he fcorn the hofpitable hand,
       That points to fafety, liberty, and reft ?

    But tJlouy too fooii forgetful of pafl woe,
       Again would'ft tempt the winds, and treacherous fea ;

    Ah ! ihall the raging blafl forget to blow,

        Shall every wintry ftorm be hufli'd for thee ?

  INot fo'! dread the elemental war,

       Too foon, too foon the calm, deceitful, flies ;

   \ hear the blaft come whittling from afar,

    I fee the tempeft gathering in the Ikies.

   Yet let the tempeft roar ! love fcorns all harms,

     I plunge amid the ftorm, refolved to fave j

   This hour, at leaft, I clafp thee in my arms,

       The next let ruin join us in the grave.

  The above verfes imply fome perfidy, or

difappointment experienced by the lady to
                                                        whom
DR. DARWIN.  33

whom they are addrefled. She probably

accepted Mr. Day's addrefles in refent-

ment, and afterwards found ihe had not

a heart to give him. This is no un-
common cafe ; and it is furely better to

recede, even at the church-porch, than to
plight at it's altar the vow of unexifting

love, which no effort of the will can im-
plant in the bofom. It has been obferved,

that marriage is often the grave of love,

but fcarcely ever it's cradle ; and what hope

of happinefs, what hope of a bleffing on
nuptials, which commence with perjury!

   Even at that period, " when youth, elate

and gay, fteps into life," Mr. Day was a

rigid moralift, who proudly impofed on
himfelf cold abftinence, even from the

moft innocent pleafures ; nor would he
allow an aftion to be virtuous, which was

performed upon any hope of reward, here,
or hereafter. This feverity of principle,

more abftrat and Ipecious, than natural
                                D or
34 MEMOIRS OF

or ufeful, rendered Mr. Day fceptical to-

wards revealed religion, though by no

means a confirmed deift.  Moft unlike

Doctor Johnfon in thofe doubts, he re-

fembled him in want of fympathy with

fuch miferies as fpring from refinement
and the fofter affections ; refembled him

alfo, in true compaffion for the fufferings

of cold and hunger. To the power of re-

lieving them he nobly facrificed all the

parade of life, and all the pleafures of
luxury. For that mafs of human charac-

ter w7hich conftitutes polifhed fociety, he

avowed a fovereign contempt; above all

things he expreffed averfion to the modern

plans of female education, attributing to

their influence the fickleness which had

ftting him. He thought it, however, his
duty to marry ; nurfed fy Hematic ideas of
the force of philofophic tuition to produce
future virtue, and loved to mould the in-

fant and youthful mind.

                          Ever
DR. DARWIN.  35

   Ever defpicable in Mr. Day's eftimation
were the diftindlions of birth, and the ad-

vantages of wealth ; and he had learnt to

look back with refentment to the allure-

ments of the Graces. He refolved, if pof-

fible, that his wife ihould have a tafte for

literature and fcience, for moral and pa-
triotic philofophy. So might flie be his

companion in that retirement, to which he
had deftined himfelf; and affift him in
forming the minds of his children to ftub-

born virtue and high exertion. He refolved

alfo, that flie ihould be fimple as a moun-
tain girl, in her drefs, her diet, and her

manners ; fearlefs and intrepid as the Spar-
tan wives and Roman heroines. There

was no finding fuch a creature ready
made ; philofophical romance could not

hope it. He muft mould fome infant into

the being his fancy had imaged.

   With the late Mr. Bicknel, then a bar-

rifter, in confiderable pradice, and of

D 2,         taintlefs
 36 MEMOIRS OF

 taintlefs reputation, and fevcral years older

 than himfelf, Mr. Day lived on terms of

 intimate friendfhip. Credentials were pro-

cured of Mr. Day's moral probity, and with
them, on his coming of age, thefe two

friends journied to Shrewfbury, to explore
the hofpital in that town for foundling

girls. From the little train, Mr. Day, in
'the prefence of Mr. Bickncl, fele&ed two
of twelve years each ; both beautiful ; one
fair, with flaxen locks, and light eyes; her
he called Lucretia. The other, a clear,
auburn brunette, with darker eyes, more

glowing bloom, and chemut treiTes, he

named Sabrina.

    Thefe girls were obtained on written

conditions, for the performance of which
Mr. Bicknel was guarantee. They were
to this effecl: ; that Mr. Day fhould, within

the twelvemonth after taking them, refign

one into the protection of fome reputable

tradefwoman, giving one hundred pounds

                  I to
DR. DARWIN.  37

to bind her apprentice ; maintaining her, if

{he behaved well, till (he married, or began

bufmefs for herfelf. Upon either of thefe

events, he promifed to advance four hun-
dred more. He avowed his intention of

educating the girl he mould retain, with

& view to making her his future wife ;

.folemnly engaged never to violate her

innocence; and if he fhould renounce his

plan, to maintain her decently in fome
creditable family till (he married, when

he promifed five hundred pounds as her

wedding portion.

   Mr. Day went inftantly into France with
thefe girls ; not taking an Engliili fervant,

that they might receive no ideas, except

thofe which himfelf might choofe to im-

part.

   They teized and perplexed him ; they

quarrelled, and fought inceflantly; they

ilckened of the fmall-pox ; they chained

"him to. their bed-fide by crying, and
                               D 3 fcream-
38 MEMOIRS OF

fcreaming if they were ever left a moment

with any perfon who could not fpeak to
them in Engli/h. He was obliged to fit
up with them many nights ; to per tor m
for them the loweft offices of affiftance.

   They loft no beauty by their difeafe.

Soon after they had recovered, croiling the
Rhone with his wards in a tempeftuous
day, the boat overfet. Being an excellent
fwimmer he faved them both, though
with difficulty and danger to himfelf.

   Mr. Day came back to England in eight

months, heartily glad to feparate the little
fquabblers. Sabrina was become the fa*-
vourite. He placed the fair Lucretia with
a chamber milliner. She behaved well,

and became the wife of a refpe&able
linen-draper in London. On his return

to his native country, he entrufted Sabrina

to the care of Mr. Bicknel's mother, with

whom fhe refided fome months in a

country village, while he fettled his affairs
                                                                    at
DR. DARWIN.  39

at his own rnanfion-houfe, from which

he promifed not to remove his mother.

   It has been faid before, that the fame of
Dr. Darwin's talents allured Mr. Day to

Lichfield. Thither he led, in the fpring

of the year i//o, the beauteous Sabrina,

then thirteen years old, and taking a

twelve month's pofleffion of the pleafant

manfion in Stowe Valley, refumed his pre-

parations for implanting in her young

mind the character iftic virtues of Arria,

Portia, and Cornelia. His experiments had

not the fucccfs he wiflied and expected.
Her fpirit could not be armed againft

the dread of pain, and the appearance of
danger. When he dropped melted foal-

ing- wax upon her arms flie did not endure
it heroically, nor when he fired piftols at

her petticoats, which me believed to be
charged with balls, could me help ftarting
afide, or fupprefs her fcreams.

   When he tried her fidelity in fecret-

D 4 keep-
 40 MEMOIRS or

keeping, by telling her of well-invented

dangers to himfelf, in which greater dan-
ger would refult from it's being difcovered
that he was aware of them, he once or
twice detected her having imparted them,
to the fervants, and to her play- fellows.

    She betrayed an averfenefs to the ftudy

of books, and of the rudiments of fci-
ence, which gave little promife of abi-
lity, that fhould, .one day, be refponfible
for the education of youths, who were to

emulate the Gracchi.

   Mr. Day perfifted in thefe experiments,

and fuftained their continual difappoint-
ment during a year's refidence in the vici-
nity of Lichfield. The difficulty feemed to
lie in giving her motive to exertion, felf-de-

nial, and heroifm. It wras againft his plan to

draw it from the ufual fources, pecuniary
reward, luxury, ambition, or vanity. His
watchful cares had precluded all knowledge

of the value of money, the reputation of

                                                           beauty.
DR. DARWIN.  41

beauty, and it's concomitant defire of orna-

mented drefs. The only inducement, there-

fore, which this lovely artlcfs'girl cousd have

to combat and fubdue the natural prefe-

rence, in youth ib bloflbming, of eafc to
pain, of vacant fport to the labour of think-

ing, was the defire of pleafing her protestor,

though me knew not how, or why he be-

came fuch. In that defire, fear had greatly
the afcendant of affection, and fear is a

cold and indolent feeling.

   Thus, after a feries of fruitlefs trials,

Mr. Day renounced all hope of moulding

Sabrina into the being his imagination had

formed ; and ceafing to behold her as his

future wife, he placed her at a boarding -

fchool in Sutton-Coldfield, Warwickfhire.

His truft in the power of education fal-

tered ; his averfion to modern elegance

fubfided. From the time he firft lived in

the Vale of Stowe, he had daily converfed
\vith the beautiful Mils Honora Sneyd of

             Lichfield.
42 MEMOIRS OF

Lichfield. Without having received a

Spartan education, me united a difmtereft-

ed defire to pleafe, fortitude of fpirit, na-
tive ftrength of intellect, literary and fcien-
tific tafte, to unfwerving truth, and to all
the graces. She was the very Honora
Sneyd, for whom the gallant and unfortu-
nate Major Andre's inextinguifhable paf-
fion is on poetic, as his military fame and
haplefs deftiny are on patriot, record. Pa-

rental authority having diffolved the juve-
nile engagements of this diftinguiihed youth
and maid, Mr. Day offered to Honora his
philofophic hand. She admired his talents;
ihe revered his virtues ; me tried to fchool
her heart into fofter fentiments in his favour.
She did not fucceed in that attempt, and in-
genuoufly told him fo. Her fifter, Mifs Eli-
zabeth Sneyd, one year younger than her-

felf, was very pretty, very fprightly, very
artlefs, and very engaging, though count-
lefs degrees inferior to the endowed and

                                                          adorned
DR. DA&WiIN.  43

adorned Honora. To her the yet love-

lucklefs fage transferred the heart, which

Honora had with iighs refigned. Eliza-
beth told Mr. Day me could have loved

him, if he had acquired the manners of

the world, inftead of thofe auftere flngu-
larities of air, habit, and addrefs.

   He began to impute to them the fickle-
nefs of his firft love; the involuntary icinefe

of the charming Honora, as well as that
for which her fifter accounted. He told

Elizabeth, that, for her fake, he would'

renounce his prejudices to external refine-
ments, and try to acquire them. He

would go to Paris for a year, and commit
himfelf to dancing and fencing matters.

He did fo ; flood daily an hour or two in

frames, to fcrew back his flioulders, and

point his feet; he prafHfed the military
gait, the fafhionable bow, minuets, and
cotillions ; but it was too late ; habits, fo

long fixed, could no more than partially be

              over-
44 MEMOIRS OV

overcome. The endeavour, made at in-

tervals, and by vt/tblc effort, was more
really ungraceful than the natural ftoop,

and unfafhionable air. The ftudied bow

on entrance, the fuddcnly recollected af-

fumptlon of attitude, prompted the riiible
inftead of the admiring fenfation ; neither

was the fhowy drefs, in which he came

"back to his fair one, a jot more becoming.
   Poor Elizabeth reproached her, reluctant

but infuppreffive ingratitude, upon which

all this labour, thefc facrifices had been

wafted. She confefled, that Thomas Day,

blackguard, as he ufed jeftingly to ftyle

himfelf, lefs difpleafed her eye than Tho-

mas Day, Jine gent /eman.    he refumcd
   Thus again difappointed,

his accuftomed plainnefs of garb, and

neglect of his perfon, and went again upon

the continent for another year, with pur-

fuits of higher aim, more congenial to his

talents and former principles. Returning

                             to
                                DR. DARWIN.

to England in the year 1773, he faw, that
fpring, Mifs Honora Sneyd united to his

friend Mr. Edgeworth, who was become
a widower; and, in the year 1780, he
learned that his fecond love of that name,

Mifs Elizabeth Sneyd, was alfo, after the
death of Honora married to Mr. Edge-
worth.

   I; was fmgular that Mr. Day fliould thus,
in the courfe of feven years, find himfelf

doubly rivalled by his moft intimate
friend ; but his own previously renounced
purfuit of thofe beautiful young women,
left him without either caufe or fenfations

of refentment on their account.

   From the year 1773 this hitherto love-
renounced philofopher refided chiefly in
London, and amid the fmall and felecl:
circle which he frequented there, often
met the pretty and elegant Mifs Eflher

Mills of Derby fhi re, who, with modern
acquirements, and amongft modiili luxuries,

                                                              fuited
$6 MKMOIR.S or

fuited to her large fortune, had cultivated

her underftanding by books, and her vir-
tues by benevolence. The again unpoliih-

cd ftoic had every charm in her eyes,

          " She favv Othello's vifage in his mind."

But, from indignant recollection of hopes
fo repeatedly baffled, Mr. Day looked with
diftruft on female attention of however
flattering femblance ; nor was it till after
years of her modeft, yet tender devotion
to his talents and merit, that he deigned

to afk Mifs Mills, if me could, for his fake,

refign all that the world calls pleafures ;

all it's luxuries, all it's oftentation. . If,
with him, (he could refolve to employ,
after the ordinary comforts of life were
fupplied, the furplus of her affluent for-

tune in clothing the naked, and feeding
the hungry ; retire with him into the
country, and fhun, through remaining

                                                          exift-
t>R. DARWIN.                              47

cxiftence, the iiife&ums taint of human

fociety.

   Mr. Day's conftitutional fault, like poor
Cowper's, fcemed that of looking with

fevere and difgufted eyes upon thofe venial
errours in his fpecies, which are mutually

tolerated bv mankind. This ftain of m/ i-

fanthropy was extremely deepened by his

commerce with the world, rcftrained as

that commerce had ever been. Satiric,

jealous, and difcerning, it was not eafy to
deceive him ; yet, in a few inftances, he
was deceived by the appearance of virtues
congenial to his own:

" For neither man, nor angel can difcern

" Hypocrify, the only evil that walks

" Invifible, except to God alone."

   To propofals fo formidable, fo furc to

be rejefted by a heart lefs than infinitely

attached, Mifs Mills gladly aflcnted-; but
fomething more remained. Mr. Day in-

                                                              fifted,
  4? MEMOIRS O|

 fitted, that her whole fortune fliould be
 fettled upon herfelf, totally out of his pre-

 ient or future control ; that if flie grew

 tired of a fyftem of life fo likely to weary
 p, wr oman of the world, flie might return
 to that world any hour fhe chofe, fully

 empowered to rcfume it's habits, and it's

,pleafures.

    They married, and retired into the
country about the year 1780, according to
the beft recollection of the author of thefe
memoirs. No carriage ; no appointed fer-
vant about Mrs. Day's own perfbn ; no
luxury of any fort. Mufic, in which fhe
was a diftinguifhed proficient, was deemed
trivial. She banifhed her harpfichord and

mufic-books. Frequent experiments upon

her temper, and her attachment, were made
by him, whom flie lived but to obey and
love. Over thefe flic often wept, but

never repined. No wife, bound in the
ilrideft fetters, as to the incapacity of

                                                     claiming
DR. DARWIN*  49

claiming feparate maintenance, ever made
more abfolute facrifices to the moft im-
perious hufband, than did this lady, whofe

independence had been fecured, and of

whom nothing was demanded as a duty.

   Thus Mr. Day found, at laft, amid the
very clafs he dreaded, that of fafhionable
women, a heart whofe paffion for him
fupplied all the requifites of his high-toned

expectations.

    Some eight or ten years after his mar-

riage, the life of this fmgular being be-
came, in its meridian, a victim to one
of his uncommon fyftems. He thought
highly of the gratitude, generofity, and
fenfibility of horfes ; and that whenever

they were difobedient, unruly, or vicious,

it was owing to previous ill ufage from
men. He had reared, fed, and tamed a

favourite foal. When it was time it

Ihould become ferviceable, difdaining to
employ a horfebreaker, he would ufc it

                               E to
 50 MEMOIRS OF

to the bit and the burthen himfelf. He
was not a good horfeman. The animal
difliking his new fituation, heeded not the
fbothing voice to which he had been
accuftomed. He plunged, threw his maf-
ter, and then, with his heels, ftruck him
on the head an inftantJy fatal blow. 1C
was faid that Mrs. Day never afterwards
faw the fun ; that fhe lay in bed, into the
curtains of which no light was admitted
during the day, and only rofe to ftray alone
through her garden, when night gave her
fbrrows congenial gloom. She furvived
this adored hufband two years, and then

died, broken-hearted, for his lofs.

   Ere the principal fubjecT: of this biogra-
phic traft is refumed, the reader will not
be forry to learn the future defliny of

Sabrina. She remained at fchool three

years ; gained the efteem of her inftru&refs;
grew feminine, elegant, and amiable. This
young woman proved one of many inftances

                                                            tfiat
DR. DARWIN,  51

that thofe modes of education, which have

been fanclioned by long experience, are

feldom abandoned to advantage by inge-

nious fyftem-mongers.

   When Sabrina left fchool, Mr. Day al-

lowed her fifty pounds annually. She
boarded fome years near Birmingham,
and afterwards at Newport, in Shropfhire.
Wherever me refided, wherever me paid
vifits, fhe fecured to herfelf friends. Beau-

tiful and admired, me paffed the dangerous
interval between fixteen and twenty-five,
without one reflection upon her conduct,

one ftain upon her difcretion. Often the

gueft of Dr. Darwin, and other of her
friends in Lichfield, efteem and affection

formed the tribute to her virtues.

   Mr. Day correfponded with her parentally,
but feldom faw her, and never without wit-
nefles. Two years after his marriage, and
in her twenty-fixth year, his friend, Mr.
Bicknel, propofed himfelf ; that very Mr.

                            E Si Bick-
   2 MEMOIRS OF

Bicknel, who went with Mr. Day to the

Foundling Hofpital at Shrevvfbury, and by
whofe furctymip for his upright intentions

the governors of that chanty permitted
Mr. Day to take from thence that beau-
teous girl, and the young Lucretia.

   Mr. Bicknel, high in pradice as a bar-

rifter, was generally thought an advan-
tageous match for Sabrina. More from
prudential, than impaffioned impulfe, did

flic accept his addrefles, yet became one of

the moft affectionate, as well as the beft

of wives. When Mr. Day's confent was
afked by 'his protegee, he gave it in thefc

ungracious words : " I do not refufe my

confent to your marrying Mr. Bicknel ; but

remember you have not afked my advice"
He gave her the promifed dower, five

hundred pounds.

   Mr. Bicknel, without patrimonial for-
tune, and living up to his profeffional in-
come, did not fave money. His beloved

                                                            wife
DR. DARWIN.  53

wife brought him two boys. When the

eldeft was about five years -old., their father
was feized with a paralytic ftroke, which,
in a few weeks, became fatal. His charm-

ing widow had no means of independent
fupport for herfelf and infants. Mr. Day
faid he would' allow her thirty pounds
annually, to affift the efforts which he
expected Ihe would make for the main-

tenance of herfelf and children. To have

been more bounteous nmjl furely have
been in his heart, but it was not in his

yftem. Through the benevolent exertions
of Mr. Harding, Solicitor General to the
Queen, the fum of eight hundred pounck
was raifed among the gentlemen of the
bar for Mrs. Bicknel and her fons ; the

intereft to be the mothers during her life,

and the principal, at her deceafe, to be

divided between her. children.

   That excellent woman has lived many
years, and yet lives with the good Dr.

E 3 Burney
 54 MEMOIRS OF

Burney of Greenwich, as his houfekeeper,
and affiftant in the cares of his academy.
She is treated by him, and his friends,
with every mark of efteem and refpecl due
to a gentlewoman, and one whofe virtues
entitle her to univerfal approbation. Her
name was not in Mr. Day's will, but Mrs.
Day continued the allowance he had made

her, and "bequeathed its continuance from
her own fortune during Mrs. Bicknel's Kfe,

Mr. and Mrs. Day left no child.
   Mr. Edgeworth, having alfo loft his

third wife, Elizabeth, is now the huf-
band of a fourth, a daughter of the re-
verend Dr. Beaufort of Ireland. He had
four children by his firft ; a fon, who of
late years died in America ; Mifs Edge-
worth, the celebrated writer of Stories for
Children, and Moral Tales for Young Peo-
ple, &c. ; Mifs Anna, married to the ingeni-
ous Dr. Beddoes of Briftol ; and Mifs Em-
meline, married to Mr. King, furgeon of the

                                                               fame
DR. DARWIN.  55

fame place, Honora left him an infant
girl and boy, when Ihe died in the year
1780, The former inherited her mother's

name, her beauty, and her malady, and

died of confumption at fixteen. The ami-
able fon yet lives, with fine talents, but
infirm health. By his third wife, Eliza*

beth, he has fcveral children ; and by the

prefent, two or three. From Mr. Edge-
worth's large family elaborate fyftems of in-
fantile education have proceeded : of them
the author of thefe memoirs cannot fpeak,

as flie has never feen them. Other com-
pofitions, which are faid to be humorous

      brilliant, a. re from the fame fource, ,

E 4 CHAP.
MEMOIRS OF DR. DARWIN.  $7

             CHAPTER II.

   IT is now perhaps more than time to re-
fume the recollected circumftances of Dr.

Darwin's life.
    After Dr. Small and Mr. Michell va-

nilhed from the earth, and Mr. Day and
Mr. Edgeworth, in the year 1772, left the
Darwinian fphere, the prefent fir Brooke

Boothby became an occafional inhabitant

of Lichfield ; fought, on every poffibility,
the converfation of Dr. Darwin, and ob-

tained his lafting friendfhip. Sir Brooke

had not lefs poetic fancy than Mr. Day,

and even more external elegance than

Mr. Edgeworth pofleffed when he won

Honora's heart; elegance, which time, its
                                                             general
5? MEMOIRS OF

general foe, has to this hour but little tar-

nifhed in the frame of fir Brooke Boothby.

  A votary to botanic fcience, a deep rea-

foner, and a clear-Jighted politician, is fir

Brooke Boothby, as his convincing refu-

tation of that fplendid, dazzling, and mif-

leading fophiftry, Burke on the French

Revolution, has proved. Ever to be la-

;

       it,

                                                         a

                                                  in
mented is  that national pride, and jea-

loufy, made our efficient fenate, and large

majority of people in thefe kingdoms, un,-
able to difcern the fallacy which fir Brooke's

anfwer unveiled. Fallacy, which has even-

tually overthrown the balance of power

Europe built up, by the ftrong cement

of oppofition, the Republic's menacing and

commanding tower, and wafted in combat

with the phantom, Jacobirufm, the nerves
and finews of defence againft the time

when real danger may aflault Great Britain,,

About the, period at whicli fir Brooke

firft fought Dr. Darwin fought him, alib,
           ;

               Mr. Mun-
       DR. DARWIN.                              59

Mr. Munday of Marketon, whofe exertions,

as a public magiftrate, have through life
been moft benignly fedulous and wife; with

whom,

' The fair-ey'd Virtues in retirement dwell 3*

and whofe ' Need wood Fore ft' is one of the

moft beautiful local poems that has been

written. Its landfcapes vivid and appro-

priate ; its epifodes fweet and interefting ;

its machinery well fancied and original ; its

numbers fpirited, correct, and harmonious ;

while an infufion of fwxet and gentle mo-

rality pervades the whole, and renders

it dear to the heart as to the eye and ear.

Great is the lofs to poetic literature, that, of

this delightful compofition, only a few co-

pies were privately printed, for prefents to

the authors friends and acquaintance ; that

he cannot overcome his reluctance to ex-

pofe it to the danger of illiberal criticifm

from fome of the felf- elected cenfors in

every periodical publication.  The public

        J                         imagines,
  60 MEMOIRS OF

 imagines, that, on each fubjeft difcufled in

 a review and magazine, it obtains the joint
opinion of a fet of learned men, employed
to appreciate the value of publications. -
That in every fuch work many writers are
engaged is true ; yet is it no lefs true that
in each feparate tracl the opinion is merely

individual on every various theme. One
perfon is appointed to review the medical,
another the chirurgical, another the cle-
rical, another the hiftorical, another the
philofophical articles, another the ethics in
profe, and another the poetry ; and each
criticifes Jingly, and unafftfled^ in his ap-
pointed range.

   The moft diftinguiihed of Dr. Darwin's

fcientific friends, who vifited him from a
diftance when he lived in Lichfield, have
now been enumerated.

   He once thought inoculation for the
meafles might, as in the fmall-pox, mate-
rially foften the difeafe ; and, after the pa^
triotic example of lady Mary Wortley Mon^

                                                             tague,
DR. DARWIN.  6l

tague, he made the trial in his own family,

upon his youngeft fon, Robert, now Dr.
Darwin of Shrewfbury, and upon an infant
daughter, who died within her firft year*
Each had, in -confequence, the difeafe fo

feverely, as to repel, in their father's mind,

all future defire of repeating the experi-

ment.

   In the year 1768, Dr. Darwin met with
an accident of irretrievable injury in the
human frame. His propeniity to mechanics

had unfortunately led him to conftrucl: a

very fmgular carriage. It was a platform,
with a feat fixed upon a very high pair of

wheels, and fupported in the front, upon

the back of the horfe, by means of a kind
of probofcis, which, forming an arch, reached
over the hind quarters of the horfe; and

pafled through a ring, placed on an upright
piece of iron, which worked in a focket,
fixed in the faddle. The horfe could thus

move from one fide of the road to the other,
quartering, as it is called, at the will of the

driver, whofe conftant attention was necef-

                                                           fairly
6i MEMOIRS OP

farily employed to regulate a piece of ma-

chinery contrived, but not well contrived, for

that purpofe. From this whimfical car-

riage the Doclor was feveral times thrown,

and the laft time he ufed  had the mif-it,

fortune, from fimilar accident, to breaka
it

                        a
the patella of his right knee, which caufed,

as always muft caufe, an incurable weak-

riefs in the fradured part, and lamenefs^

not very difcernible indeed, when walking

on even ground.

         remarkable, that this uncommon
It
accident happened to three of the inha-
     ;bitants of Lichfield in the courfe of one

     isyear firft, to the author of thefe me-
moirs in the prime of her jouth next, to
         it a              in
Dr. Darwin and, laftly, to the late Mr.
                    ;                     ;
Levett, gentleman of wealth and confe-

quence in the town. No fuch misfortune
was previously remembered in that city,

nor has              once recurred through all the

years which have fmce elapfed.

Dr. Darwin was happy the talents, do-

                                             cility,
fcR. DARWIN.  63

cllity, and obedience, of his three fons. An
high degree of ftammering retarded and
embarraffed his utterance. The eldeft boy,

Charles, had contra&ed the propenfity.

With that wifdom, which marked the

Dodlor's obfervations on the habits of life }
with that deciiion of conduct, which al-

ways inftantly followed the conviction of
his mind, he fent Charles abroad ; at once
to break the force of habit, formed on the
contagion of daily example, and from a
belief, that in the pronunciation of a fo-

reign language, hefitation would be le'fs

likely to recur, than in fpeaking thofe

words and fentences, in which he had been

accuftomed to hefitate. About his twelfth

year he was committed to the care of the
fcientific, the learned, the modeft, and

worthy Mr. Dickinfon, now reftor of Bli-

mel, in Shroplhire.
   That the purpofe of the experiment

might not be fruftrated, Dr. Darwin im-

prefled that good jnan's mind with the ne-

              ceffity
   64 MEMOIRS OF

  ceffity of not permitting his pupil to con-
  verfe in Englifh ; nor ever to hear it uttere3
  after he could at all comprehend the
 French language. Charles Darwin re-
  turned to England, after a two year's refi-
 dence on the continent, completely cured
 of ftammering ; with which he was not

 afterwards troubled ; but his utterance was,

 from that time, fomewhat thick and

 hurried.

     Since thefe memoirs commenced, an

odd anecdote of Dr. Darwin's early refi-
dence at Lichfield was narrated to a friend
of the author by a gentleman, who was of
the party in which it happened. Mr.
Sneyd, then of Bifhton, and a few more
gentlemen of Staffordshire, prevailed upon
the Doctor to join them in an expedition
by water, from Burton to Nottingham,
and on to Newark. They had cold provi-
fion on board, and plenty of wine. It was
midfummer ; the ~day ardent and fukry.
The noontide meal had been made, and

                                                              the
       DR. DARWIN.           It
                                                       6j(
the glafs gone gayly round.  was one of

thofe few inftances, in which the medical
votary of the Naiads tranfgrefled his ge-

neral and Uriel fobriety. If not abfolutely

intoxicated, his fpirits were in high Hate
                             a

of vinous exhilaration. On the boat ap-

proaching Nottingham, within the diftance

of few fields, he furprifed his companions
a

by ftepping, without any previous notice,

from the boat into the middle of the river,

and fwimming to fhore. They faw him:
get upon the bank, and walk coolly over
the meadows toward the town they calleda
to him in vain, he did not once turn his

head.

    Anxious left he mould take dangerous
cold by remaining in his wet clothes, and
uncertain whether or not he intended to

defert the party, they rowed inftantly to
the town, at which they had not defigned

to have touched, and went in fearch of

their river-god.

   In paffing through the market-place

       F                          they
 66 MEMOIRS OF

they faw him {landing upon a tub, encir-
cled by a crowd of people, and refuting

the entreaties of an apothecary of the
place, one of his old acquaintance, who

was importuning hi in to go to his houfe,

and accept of other raiments till his own

could be dried.

   The party, on preftmg through the

crowd, were furprifed to hear him fpeaking
without any degree of his ufual ftammer.

   " Have I not told you, my friend, that
" I had drank a confiderable quantity of
" wine before I committed myfelf to the
" river. You know my general fobriety ;
" and, as a profeffional man, you ought
" to know, that the unufual exiftence of
" Internal ftimulus, would, in its effects

<c upon the iyftem, counteract the external

" cold and moifture."

   Then, perceiving his companions near
him, he nodded, fmiled, and wraved his
hand, as enjoining them filence, thus, with-
out heiitation, addreffing the populace.

                                              " Yc
DR. DARWIN.  67

   " Ye men of Nottingham, liften to me.
" You are ingenious and induftrious me-

tf chanics. By your induftry life's comforts

<c are procured for yourfelves and families.

" If you lofe your health, the power of

" being induftrious will forfake you. That
" you know ; but you may not know, that
" to breathe frefh and changed air con-
" ftantly, is not lefs neceflary to preferve
" health, than fobriety itfelf. Air becomes
" unwholefome in a few hours if the win-
" dows are Ihut. Open thofe of your
" fleeping-rooms whenever you quit them
" to go to your workfhops. Keep the

<e windows of your workfhops open when-

cc ever the weather is not infupportably

" cold, I have no mterejl in giving you

" this advice. Remember what I, your
" countryman, and a phyfician, tell -you.

" If you would not bring infection and

" difeafe upon yourfelves, and to your

<( wives and little ones, change the air you

                      F 2, " breathe,
68 MEMOIRS OF

" breathe, change it many times in a day,
" by opening your windows."

    So faying, he ftept down from the tub,
and returning with his party to their boat,
they purfued their voyage.

   Dr. Johnfon was feveral times at Lich-

field, on vifits to Mrs. Lucy Porter his
daughter-in-law, while Dr. Darwin was
one of its inhabitants. They had one or
two interviews, but never afterwards
fought each other. Mutual and ftrong
diflike fubfifted between them. It is
curious that in Dr. Johnfon's various let-

ters to Mrs. Thrale, now Mrs. Piozzi,

publiftied by that lady after his death,

many of them, at different periods, dated
from Lddvpeld, the name of Darwin
cannot be found ; nor indeed, that of any
of the ingenious and lettered people who
lived there ; while of its mere common-life
characters there is frequent mention, with
many hints of Lichfield's intellectual bar-

                                                           rennefs,
DR. DARWIN.                        69

rennefs, while it could boaft a Darwin,

and other men of claffical learning, poetic

talents, and liberal information.  Of

that number was the Rev. Thomas Seward

Canon-Refidentiary of its Cathedral ;

known to the lettered world as critical

editor of Beaumont and Fletcher's Plays,

in concert with Mr. Simpfon. Their edi-

tion came out in the year 1750. By peo-
ple of literary tafte and judgment, it is

allowed to be the beft commentary on

thofe dramatic poets which has appeared ;
and that from the lucid ability of Mr.

SewarcTs readings and notes. Strange, that

dramas, fo entirely of the Shakefperian

fchool, in the bufmefs and intereft of their

plots ; in the ftrength and variety of their

characters ; and which, in their fentiments

and language, poflefs fo much of Shake-

fpeare's fire, fliould be coldly and ftupidly

negle&ed in the prefent day, which has

not yet forgotten to proclaim the Bard of

Avon to be, what he furely   the firft
F
   3                               poet

                        is,
7O MEMOIRS OF

poet the world has produced. Shakefpeare
has had few more fpirited eulogifts than

Mr. Seward, in the following lines, written

about the year 1740, and publilhed, toge-
ther with other little poems of his, in
Dodfley's Mifcellany.

                          /

     Great Homer's birth feven rival cities claim,
    Too mighty fuch monopoly of fame !

    Yet not to birth alone did Homer owe
    His wond'rous worth, what Egypt could beftow,
    With all the fchools of Greece, and Aria join'd,
    Enlarg'd th' immenfe expansion of his mind.
    Nor yet unrivall'd the Meonian ftrain,
    The Britifli Eagle and the Mantuan Swan
    Tower equal heights ; but happier, Stratford, thou
    With uncontefted laurels deck thy brow !
    Thy Bard was thine unfchool'd, and from thee brought
    More than all Egypt, Greece, or Afia taught 5
    Not Homer's felf fuch peerlefs honours won,
    The Greek has rivals, but thy Shakefpeare none !

   In the later editions of Dodfley's Mif-

cellany, the word fuoan, in the fourth

                                                           couplet,
                     DR. DARWIN.  71

couplet, is moft abfurdly changed tojwain,
becaufe it chimed more completely to the
foregoing rhyme, Jlra'm, at the expenfe of

every thing like fenfe and accuracy in the

appofite terms ; at the expenfe of making

a bird and a man fly equal heights ere

balloons were dreamed of. Mr. Seward

was often heard to laugh at this inftancs

of editorial prefumption and ftupidity*.
   Another of the Lichfield literati, over-

looked by the arrogant Johnfon, was the
Reverend Arch-Deacon Vyfe, the amiable
the excellent father of the prefent inge-
nious Dr. Vyfe of Lambeth, and his gal-
lant brother General Vyfe. Mr. Vyfe was
not only a man of learning, but of Prioric

talents in the metrical impromptu. Gentle

reader, behold an inftance ! and if thou

hateft not rhyme, as does many an ungentle

reader, " worfe than toad or afp," thou
wilt not think it intrufive.

   * This gentleman  was father of the writer of thefe

memoirs.                F 4 Mrs*
72, MEMOIRS OF

    Mrs. Vyfe, herfelf a beautiful woman,
had a fair friend whofe name was Char

lotte Lynes. At a convivial meeting of
Lichfield gentlemen, moft of whom could

make agreeable verfes, it was propofed
that every perfon in company fhould give
a ballad or epigram on the lady whofe
health he drank. Mr. Vyfe toafted Mifs
Lynes, and, taking out his pencil, wrote
the following ftanzas extempore..

       Shall Pope ling his flames

      With quality dames,
And ducheffes toaft when he dines -,

       Shall Swift verfes compofe
      On the Girl at the Rofe,
"While unfung is my fair Charlotte Lynes ?

       O ! were Ph rebus my friend,
       Or would Bacchus but lend
The fpirit that flows from his vines,
      The lafs of the mill,

      Molly Mogg, and Lepell,
Should be dowdies to fair Charlotte Lynes*

Any porter may ferve,
For a copy, to carve

                                            AD
                  DR. DARWIN.                73

An Alcides^ with mufcular chines j

       But a Venus to draw,
      Bright as fun ever faw,
Let him copy my fair Charlotte Lynes*,

      In the midft of gay lights,
      And foreign delights,
For his country the banifh'd man pines j

       Thus, from her when away,

       Though my glances may ftray,

Yet my heart is with fair Charlotte Lynes.

     It is Atropus' fport,

      With her flieers to cut fhort
The thread, which dame Lachefis twines j

       But forbear, you curft jade,

      Or cut mine, not the thread
That was {pun for my fair Charlotte Lynes !

       For quadrille when the fair
        Cards and counters prepare
They caft out the tens, eights, and nines,
       And in love 'tis my fear

     IThe like fate (hall (hare,

Difcarded by fair Charlotte Lynes.

With hearts full of rapture
Our good dean and chapter

                                            Count
                              MEMOIRS OF

           Count over, and finger their fines j
                But- Id give their eilate,
                   Were it ten times as great,

            For one kifs of my fair Charlotte Lynes.

                   The young pair, fpr a crown,
                   On the book laid him down,
            The facrift obfequiouily joins,

               Were I bilhop I fwear

                   I'd refign him my chair,
            To unite me with fair Charlotte Lynes.

                   For my fijrft night I'd go
                 To thofe regions of fnow,
            Where the fun, for fix months, never fliines,
                  And O ! there mould complain
                   He too foon came again
           To difturb me with fair Charlotte Lynes !

   Thefe verfes were much read, admired,
and copied. Mr. Vyfe thought his fair
Charlotte growing too vain in confequence,
and once, when flie was complimented
on the fubjedt in a large company, he fai4
fmilingly,

                                                                            Charlotte
                 DR. DARWIN.             75

" Charlotte the power of fong can tell,
" For 'twas the ballad made the belle."

   The late Reverend William Robinfon
wasalfo a choice fpirit amongft thofe Lich-

fieldians, whofe talents illuminated the

little city at that period. Too indolent for
authorifm, he was, by wit and learning,
fully empowered to have Ihone in that
iphere. More of him hereafter.

    Thefe were the men whofe intellectual
exiftence pafled unnoticed by Dr. Johnfon

in his depreciating eftimate of Lichfield
talents. But Johnfon liked only worfhippers.
Arch-deacon Vyfe, Mr. Seward, and Mr.

 Robinfon, paid all the refpecT: and atten-
 tion to Dr. Johnfon, on thefe his vifits to

 their town, due to his great abilities, his

 high reputation, and to whatever was

 eftimable in his mixed character ; but they

wTere not in the herd that " paged his

 heels," and funk, in fervile filence, under
 the force of his dogmas, when their hearts

                                                                    and
 76 MEMOIRS OF

and their judgments bore contrary tefti-

mony.
   Certainly, however, it was an arduous

hazard to the feelings of the company to

oppofe, in the flighteft degree, Dr. John-

fon's opinions. His Heritor lungs ; that
combination of wit, humour, and elo-

quence, which " could make the worfe ap-

pear the letter reafon ;" that farcaftic con-
tempt of his antagonift, never fupprefied or

even foftened by the due reftraints of good-

breeding, were fufficient to clofe the lips,

in his prefence, of men,, who could have

met him in fair argument, on any ground,
literary or political, moral or characleriftic.

   Where Dr. Johnfon was, Dr. Darwin had
no chance of being heard, though at leaft

his equal in genius, his fuperior in fcience ;
nor indeed, from his impeded utterance,
in the company of any overbearing de-
claimer ; and he was too intellectually great
to be an humble liftener to Johnfon,
therefore he fliunned him, on having ex-

                         3 perienced
              DR, pARWIN.                             77

perienced what manner of man he was.
The furly dictator felt the mortification,

and revenged  offering to avow hisit,
                    ; by
difdain of powers too diftinguifhed to be
                                                   r
an object of genuine fcorn.
                              if
    Dr. Darwin, in his turn, was not much

more juft to Dr. Johnfon's genius. He

uniformly fpoke of him in terms, which,

had they been deferved, w ould have jufti-
fied Churchill's " immane Pompofo,"' as an

appellation of fcorn fince,                           his perfbn

was huge, and his manners pompous and

violent, fo were his talents vaft and power-

ful, in degree from which only prejudice
    it a
and refentment could withhold refpecT:.

Though Dr. Darwin's hefitation in fpeak-

ing precluded his flow of colloquial elo-

quence, did not impede, or at all leflen, thea

Itforce of that concifer quality, wit. Of fa-
tiric wit he poffeffed very peculiar fpecies.

   was neither the dead-doing broadfide of
Dr. Johnfon's fatire, nor the aurora borealis

of Gray, whofe arch, yet coy and quiet
                                                        faftidi-
                             MEMOIRS OP

faftidioufnefs of tafte and feeling, as re-

corded by Mafon, glanced bright and cold
through his converfation, while it feerned

difficult to define its nature ; and while its

effects were rather perceived than felt, ex-
citing furprife more than mirth, and never
awakening the pained fenfe of being the
objecT: of its ridicule. That unique in
humorous verfe, the Long Story, is a com-
plete and beautiful fpecimen of Gray's

Singular vein.

   Darwinian wit is not more eafy to be
defined ; tnjlances will beft convey an idea
of its character to thofe who never con-
verfed with its pofleffor. To give fuch as
are recollected at this moment, it will be
neceflary to recall Mr. Robinfon, already
mentioned as a choice fpirit of Lichfield.
His perpetual ftream of frolic raillery was
of a fpecies fo fingular, as to have exclu-

fively obtained, wherever he was known,

the title of retfor, " The Reftor," as if

there were no other. The odd excurfions
                                                        of
                            BR. DARWIN.

of his fancy were enriched by an exhauftlefs

ftore of claffic, hiftoric, and theological

learning, grotefquely applied to the paffing

fubje&s of converfation, and that with
unrivalled eafe and happinefs. . It is to be
regretted that no records remain of talents

fo uncommon, except in the fading traces

of contemporary recolle&ion, which time

and mortality obliterate fo foon. fre-

quently, during his youth and middle

life, in the fafhionable circles of Bath,
London, and the fitmmer public places,
the whimfical fallies of the Redor's fportive
imagination, which were never coarfe or

low, commonplace or ill-natured, had

confiderable publicity and eclat. They
were like the lambent lightning of a calm

fummer evening, brilliant, but not dan-

gerous. The fweetnefs of his temper was
the fecurity of every man's felf-love; and,

while his humorous gayety " fet the table
" in a roar," the company laughed at their

cafe.

                                                      But
SO MEMOIRS OF

But then good-nature was the only curb

his wit could endure. Without the flighteft

taint of infidelity, Robinfon could not re-

fift the temptation of lancing it even at the

moft ferious objects and themes.

One evening, when he and Dr. Darwin

were in company together, the Reclor had,

as ufual, thrown the bridle upon the neck

of his fancy, and it was fcampering over

the church-yard, and into the chancel,

when the Doftor exclaimed" Excellent !
" Mr. Robinfon is not only a clever fellow,
" but a d
           d clever fellow."

Soon after the fubjeft of common

fwearing was introduced, Mr. R. made a

mock eulogium upon its power to animate

dullnefs, and to feafon wit. Dr. Darwin

obferved, " Chrift fays, Swear not at all.
" St. Paul, tells us we may fwear occa-
" Jlonally. Mr. Robinfon advifes us to
" fwear mceffantly. Let us compromife
" between thefe counfellors, and fwear

" by non-en-ti-ties. I will fwear by my

                                  im-pu-
             DR. DARWIN.              8l

" im-pu-dence, and Mr. Robinfon by his
" mo-deft-y."

   That gentleman, whofe wit, where it

met no equal refiftance, kept an untired
and fparkling courfe, could feldom reco-
ver its track when the jeft and the laugh
were with his adverfary. So often was it
thus when Dr. Darwin and he met, that

Mr. R. rather fhunned than fought the
rencounter. It was curious, that he, who

met indulgence from his clerical and pious
brethren for thofe frolic emanations, wont

to play upon the themes his heart revered,

fhould fo often find himfelf reproved, with

cutting raillery, for the practice, by one

not famous for holding religious fubjecls in

veneration.

Dr. Darwin was converfmg with a bro-

ther Botanift, concerning the plant Kalmia,

then a juft imported ftranger in our green-

houfes and gardens.  A lady', who was

prefent, concluding he had feen  it,  which

in facl; he had not, afked the Doftor what

             G were

             "
<52 MEMOIRS or

were the colours of the plant. He replied,

" Madam, the Kalmia has precifely the

colours of a feraph's wing." So fancifully
did he cxprefs his wr ant 6f confcioufnefs
refpe&ing the appearance of a flower whofe
name and rarenefs were all he knew of the

matter.

   Dr. Darwin had a large company at tea.
His fervant announced a ftranger lady and
gentleman. The female was a conspicuous

figure, ruddy, corpulent, and tall. She held
by the arm a little, meek-looking, pale,
effeminate man, who, from his clofe ad-

herence to the fide of the lady, feemed to
confider himfelf as under her prote&ion.

   " Dr. Darwin, I feet you not as a phy-
" fician, but as a Belle Efprit. I make
" this hufband of mine," and me looked

down \vith a fideglance upon the ani*

mal, " treat me every fummer with a tour
" through one of the Britifli counties,
" to explore whatever it contains worth
" the attention >of ingenious people. On

                                        " arriving
DR.^DARWIN.

** arriving at the feveral inns in our route,

" I always fearch out the man of the

ie vicinity moft diftinguilhed for his genius

" and tafte, and introduce myfelf, that he
" may direct, as the objects of our exartii-
" nation, whatever is curious in nature,

" art, or fcience. Lichfield will be our
" headquarters during feveral days. Come,
" Dodlor, whither muft we go, what muft
" we investigate to-morrow, and the next
" day, and the next ? here are my tablets
" and pencil."

   " You arrive, riiadarri, at a fortunate
" juncture. To-morrow you will have an
" opportunity of furveying an annual ex-
" hibition perfectly worth your attention.
" To-mofroW, madam, you will go to
" Tutbury bull-running."

The fatiric laugh with which he ftam-

mered out the laft word, more keenly-

pointed this fly, yet broad rebuke to the

vanity and arrogance of her fpeech. She

G2           had
84 MEMOIRS OF

had been up amongft the boughs, and

little expected they would break under her
fo fuddenly, and with fo little mercy.
Her large features fvvelled, and her eyes

flaflied with anger " I was recommended

" to a man of genius, and I find him in-

" folent and ill-bred." Then, gathering

up her meek and alarmed hufband, whom

me had loofed when me firft fpoke, under

the fhadow of her broad arm and moulder,

me ftrutted out of the room.

After the departure of this curious cou-

ple, his guefts told their hoft he had been

very unmerciful. I chofe, replied he, to

avenge the caufe of the little man, whofe

nothingnefs was fo oftentatioufly difplayed

by his lady-wife. Her vanity has had a

Iffmart emetic.  it abates the fymptoms,

flie wall have reafon to thank her phyfician

who administered without hope of a fee.

                              CHAP.
DR. DARWIN.  8$

            CHAPTER III.

   ABOUT the year 1771, commenced that
great work, the Zoonomia, firft publiflied
in 1794; the gathered wifdom of three-
and-twenty years. Ingenious, beyond all
precedent, in its conjectures, and embrac-
ing, with giant-grafp, almoft every branch
of philofophic fcience ; difcovering their
bearings upon each other, and thofc fubtle,
and, till then, concealed links by which
they are united ; and with their feparate,
conjunctive and collective influence upon
human organization ; their fometimes pro-

bable, and at others demonstrative, power,

under judicious application, of reftoring that
regularity to the mechanifm of animal life,

                             G 3 which
86 MEMOIRS OF

which is comprehended under the terrr^

health.

It cannot be denied that in the purfuit

of a new and favorite fyftem, Dr. Dar-

win has, in fome inftances, imperioufly re-

jected the adverfe fads which oppofed his

theory. His chapter on InftincT:, highly

ingenious as it        affords proof of his hy-
by
                  is,
pothetical devotion. He there denies, at

leaft ftrong implication, the exiftence of

that faculty fo termed, and which God has
given to his inferior family, in lieu of the
rational. But this wonderfully ingenious

philofopher feeks in vain to melt down in

his fyftem of imitation amongft brutes, the

eternal boundaries which feparate inftincl;

and reafon.

   God, who has exempted the orders of

brutal life from refponfibility for their ac-

tions in this terreftrial fphere, gave them

inftinft, incapable of error, but alfo, be-

yond certain very limited degree, incapa-
a

                       ble
DR. DARWIN.  87

 ble of improvement ; incapable of all that

 are termed the artificial paffions.
     God, who made man accountable, and

 earthly life his {late of trial, gave him the
 nobler faculty of reafon, liable to err,
 but, in countlefs degrees, more connected
 with volition ; and, according to its differ-
 ent degrees of native ftrength, almoft inter-
 minably capable of improvement.

    InftincT: cannot be that lower degree of
 reafon which empowers the animal to ob-
ferve, and, by will and choice, to imitate
the actions, and acquire the arts of his ipe-
 cies ; iince, were it fo, imitation would not

 be confined to his own particular genus,

 but extend to the actions, the cuftoms, and

the arts of other animals ; as men obferve,

 and emulate, the aftions, cuftoms, and

arts of the natives of other countries.
Thus, improvement would have advanced
 amongft brutes, in proportion as it has ad-
 vanced in mankind. That it has not ad-

G4           vance4
88 MEMOIRS OF

vanced in brutal life, through countlefs

generations, we have the teftimony of all

records to afcertain. Therefore is thata

the inftinffrvc faculty muft be     it,
                                         totally

different power to the rational, in as much

as has perfection unknown to reafon,
it
      it     has an incapacity of progreffion

            a
and as

which counteracts that limited perfection,

and renders    it       thoufand fold inferior to

                     a

the expanding, afpiring, and ftrengthening
power of human intelligence. Between the
feparate nature of thofe faculties, infur-

mountable and everlafting are the barriers.

Philofophy cannot throw them down but
                        it

                                                                         ;
in the attempt, as in many another,

Vaulting AMBITION doth o'erleap itfelf,
And falls where would mount."

If the Creator had indeed given to

brutal life that degree of reafon, which

Dr. Darwin allots to    it,  when he aiTerts,

                                                                            that
DR. DARWIN.  89

that its various orders aft from imitation.

which muft be voluntary, rather than from
tmpuJfe, which is re/iftlefs, the refulting mif-

chief of diforder and confufion amongft

thofe claffes had outweighed the aggre-

gate good of improvement; It is reafon-

lefs, will-lefs inftinct, limited but unde-
viating, which alone could have preferved,
as they were in the beginning, are now,
and ever fliall be, the numberlefs divrfions
and fubdivifions of all merely animal life.
As attraction is the planetary curb of the

folar fyftem, confining all orbs to their
proper fpheres, fo is inftincl: the re-
ftraint, by which brutes are withheld from
incroaching upon the allotted ranges and

privileges of their fellow-brutes ; from lof-
ing their diftincl natures in imitation,

blending and endlefs. If imitation were

the fource of brutal acquirements, whence
the undeviating famenefs of thofe acquire-
ments ? whence their never extended limit $

                                                 Wherefore,
 90 MEMOIRS OF

Wherefore, fmce the ear of the feathered
warbler is open to the immenfe variety of
ftrains, poured from the throat of birds of
other plume, whence its invariable choice of
the family fong ? And, when the female
fees fuch numbers of different nefts build-
ing around her for the reception of the cal-
low brood, whence her inflexible attach-

ment to thefamify neft ?
    Dr. Darwin read his chapter on InftincT:

to a lady, who was in the habit of breeding

canary-birds. She obferved that the pair,
which he then faw building their neft in
her cage, were ai male and female, who

had been hatched, and reared in that very
cage, and were not in exiftence when the
mofly cradle was fabricated, in which they
firft faw light. She afked him how,
upon Jiis principle of imitation, he could
account for the neft he then faw building,
being conftrufted, even to the precife dif-

pofal of every hair and fhred of wool, upon

                                                                  the
DR. DARWIN.  91

the model of that, in which the pair were
born, and on which every other canary-

bird's neft is conftrufted, where the proper
materials are furnifhed. That of the pye-

finch, added fhe, is of much comparer

form, warmer, and more comfortable.

Pull one of them to pieces for its materials;

place another before thefe canary-birds, as

p, pattern, and fee if they will make the

flighteft effort to imitate their model ! No,
the refult of their labors will, upon in-
ilinftive, hereditary impulfe, be exaftly the
flovenly little manlion of their race ; the
fame with that which their parents built
before themfelves were hatched. The
Do&or could not do away the force of that
fingle fact, with which his fyftem wras in-
compatible ; yet he maintained that fyftem
with philofophic fturdinefs, though expe-
rience brought confutation from <f thou-

fand fources.

   Mr. Fellowes, the eminent champion in

                                                              our
                          MEMOIRSOF

our day, of true and perfect Chriftianity,

againft the gloomy mifreprefentations of

the Calvinifts, has not lefs truely than

ingeniouily obferved, that " Dr. Darwin's
" underftanding had fome of the properties
" of the rnicrofcope ; that he looked with
" fingularly curious and prying eyes, into
" the economy of plants and the habits
" of animals, and laid open the labyrinth
" of nature in fome of her moft elabo-
" rate proceffes and moil fubtle combina-
" tions ; that he was acquainted with
" more links in the chain of fecond caufcs
" than had probably been known to any
" individual, who went before him ; but
" that he dwelt fo much, and fo exclusively
" on fecond caufes, that he too generally
" feems to have forgotten that there is a

   firft."

   Certainly Dr. Darwin's diftinguifhed
power of difclofing the arcana of nature,

enabled him to explore, and detect, the

                                                             fallacy
DR. DARWIN.  93

fallacy of many received and long-efta-

blifhed opinions \ but the proud confciouf-
nefs that his fcientific wand fo often pof-

fefled the power attributed by Milton to

Ithuriel's fpear, betrayed him, at times,
into fyftematic error. Convinced, by deep
thought and philofophic experience, that
mankind received fo many prejudices for
truths, he looked too jealoufly at all its

moft revered and facred axioms. Beneath

the force of that jealoufy he denied the
power of inftincT:, and folved it into imi-
tation. To have admitted, on the tefti-
mony of all impartial obfervation, all fair
experiment, the unbkndmg natures of in-

ftincT: and reafon, muft have involved that

refponfibility of man to his Creator for his
aftions in this his flate of trial, which

Dr. Darwin confidered as a gloomy un-

founded fuperftition. Unqueftionably, if

reafon, like inftinft, were incapable of
warp from the power of volition, man

                                                          could
94 MEMOIRS OF

could have no vice which might juflly

render hirri amenable to punifliment in a

future ftate ; neither could he have any

virtue for wh'ofe cultivation he might
hope eternal reward. But^ fmce his ra-

tional faculty is choice, not impul/e, capable,

at wilt, of refinement or degradation ;

whether it mall be his pole-ftar to virtue

and piety, or his ignis-fafeuus to vice and
irreligion, it inevitably follows that man is

accountable to God for his conduct ; that

there is a future and retributory flate.

  If this brilliant and dazzling philofopher

had not clofed the lynx's eye of his under-

ftanding on that clear emanation from the

fburce of intellectual as well as of planetary
light, he had indeed been great and illu-
minated above the fons of men. Then

had he difdained to have mingled that art

in his wifdom, which was fometimes found
in his common-life actions, and of which

he not unfrequently boafted.

                              that
DR. DARWIN.  95

   That noble fimplicity which difdains
the varnifh of difingenuous defign in prin-
ciple and in conducl, in converfation 'and
in writing, was the defideratum of Dr.
Darwin's ftrong and comprehenfive mind*
It's abfence rendered his fyftems, which
wr ere fb often luminous, at times impene-
trably dark by paradox. It's abfence ren-
dered his poetic tafte fomewhat mere-
tricious from his rage for ornament ; chilled
his heart againft the ardor of devotion,
and chained his mighty powers within the
limits of fecond caufes, though formed to

foar to INFINITE.

   Ifr however, the do&rines of the Zoo*

nomia are not always infallible, it is a
work which muft fpread the fame of it's

author over lands and feas, to whatever

clime the fun of fcience has irradiated and
warmed. The Zoonomia is an exhauftlefs
repofitory of interefting fads, of curious

experiments in natural productions, and in

                                                            medical
 $6 MEMOIRS OF

medical effe&s ; a vaft and complicated

fcheme of difquiiition, incalculably im-
portant to the health and comforts of

mankind, fo far as they relate to objecls
merely terreftr\al\ throwing novel, ufeful,
and beautiful light on the fecrets of phy-
fiology, botanical, chemical, and aero-

logical.

   The world may coniider the publication
of the Zoonomia as a new era of pathologic
fcience ; the fource of important advance
in the power of difclofmg, abating, and

expelling difeafe. Every young profeflbr

of medicine, if God has given him com-

prehenfion, affiduity, and energy, fhould
devote his nights and days to ftudying this

great work. It will teach him more than

the pages of Galen and Hippocrates ; than
fchools and univerfities know to impart.
Thofe inftruclions which, through the
channel of it's pages, flow to the world,
enabled Dr. Robert Darwin of Shrewsbury

                                                                    to
DR. DARWIN.  97

to attain inftant eminence as a phyfician
in that county, at his firft outfetting, and

in the bloom of fcarcely ripened youth ;
to continue a courfe of praclice, which
has been the bleffing of Shroplhire ; it's
iphere expanding with his growing fame.
That fon, who joins to a large portion of
his father's fcience and fkill, all the in-

genuous kindnefs of his mother's heart.
That fon, whofe rifing abilities and their
early eclat, recompenfed to Dr. Darwin a
fevere deprivation in the death of his
eldeft and darling fon, Charles, of whom
this memoir has already fpbken. He was
fnatched from the world in the prime of
his youth, and with the higheft. charafter
at the univerfity of Edinburgh, by a pu-
trid fever, fuppofed to have been caught
from diflecling, with a flightly wounded
finger, a corpfe in a ftate of dangerouily
advanced putrefaction. When fociety be-
came deprived of his luxuriantly bloffom-

                             H ing
                             MEMOIRS

 ing talents, Mr. Charles Darwin had re-

 cently received an honorary medal from the

 Society of Arts and Sciences, for having

 difcovered a criterion by which pics may be
 diftinguifhed from mucus.

   A few years before Dr. Darwin left

Lichfield as a refidence he commenced a

botanical fociety in that city. It confifled
of himfelf, Sir Brooke Boothby, then Mr.

Booth by, and a Proftor in the Cathedral
jurifdi<Sion, whofe name was Jackfon.
Sprung from the loweft poffible origin,
and wholly uneducated, that man .had, by
the force of literary ambition and unwearied
induftry, obtained admittance into the
courts of the fpiritual la\v, a profitable
{hare of their emoluments, and had made

                                      *

a -tolerable proficience in the Latin and
French languages. His life, which dofed

at fixty, was probably fhortened by late

acquired habits of ebriety. He pafled

through it's courfe a would-be philofopher,
                                                      a turgid
                  flR. DARWIN.              '

                                99

a turgid and iblemn coxcomb, whofe

morals were not the beft, and who .was

vain of lancing his pointlefs fneers at Re-

vealed Religion.

Jackfon admired Sir Brooke Boothby,

and worshipped and aped Dr. Darwin. He
became a ufeful drudge to each in their
joint work, the tranflation of the Linnean

lyftem of vegetation into Englifh from the

Latin. His illuftrious coadjutors exacted of

him fidelity to thcjcnfe of their author, and

they corre<Sed Jackfon's inelegant Englifh,
weeding it of it's pompous coarfenefs.

The Dodlor was probably difappointed

that no recruits flocked to his botanical

ftandard at Lichfield. The young men of

the genteel claffes in that city devoted

themfelves to profeffions with which

natural hiftory had no infeparable con-

nexion. However ufeful, entertaining,

and creditable might be it's ftudies, they

felt little defire to deck the board of fef-

                  H 2,          fion,
 1-00 MEMOIRS OT

fion, the pulpit, or the enfigns of war,
with the Linnean wreaths and the che-
mical cryftallnes. Thus the original tri-

umvirate received no augmentation, yet
the title was maintained. Various obfer-

vations, figned Lichfield Botanical Society,

were fent to the periodical publications,

and it was amufing to hear fcientific
travellers, on their tranfit over Lichfield,
inquiring after the ftate of the botanical

fociety there.

   About the year 17/9, at the houfe of
his friend, Mr. Sneyd of Belmont, whofe
feat in the wild and hilly part of Stafford-

Ihire Moorlands is eminent for its boldly
romantic features, Dr. Darwin wrote an

addrefs to its owner, from the Naiad of

that fcene. Her rivulet originally took its
courfe along the deep bottom of cradling
woods, luxuriantly clothing the fleeply-
floping mountains, which a rough glen,
and this it's brook, divided.

                                            Mr. Sneyd
                     DR. DARWIN.         IOI

Mr. Sneyd caufed the rough and tangled

glen to be cleared and hollowed into one
entire balm, which the brook immediately
filled with the pureft and mod tranfparent

water. Only a very narrow, marginal path

is left on each fide, between the water and

thofe high woody mountains which ihut

the liquid fcene from every other earthly

objecl. This lake covers more than five

acres, yet is not more than feventy yards

acrofs at the broadeft part. The length
                              It

                                                a
                                                          is,
therefore, confiderable.          gradually nar-

rows on it's flow, till fuddenly, and with

loud noife,  it      precipitated down crag-

                 is

gy, darkling, and nearly perpendicular fall

of forty feet. The ftream then takes its
natural channel, lofing itfelf the fombre
                                  in

and pathlefs woods which ftretch far on-
ward.

While we walk on the brink of this li-

quid concave while we liften to the roar,
with which the tumbling torrent pafles
             ;

                           3
                     H away;
1CZ MEMOIRS Ot

away ; while we look up, on each fide, to

the umbrageous eminences, which leave

us only themfelves, the water, and the

iky, we are imprefled with a fenfe of fo-

lemn feclufion, and might fancy ourfelves

in the folitudes of Tinian or Juan-Fer-

nandes. The trees and flirubs which, from

fuch great elevation, impend over the

flood, give it their own green tint without

leflening its tranfparency. Glafly fmooth,

this lake has not a wave till within a few

yards of its precipitance. But it is time to
introduce Dr. Darwin's verfes, already

mentioned. They were written before the

exiftence of the Lake, and while the brook,

it
     by

                    it,
which formed             had the filence imputed

to the poet.

Addrefs of   Water Nymph, at Belmont, to the Owner
O                       of that place.

    I

         a
            i
      Friend to Peace and Virtue, ever flows
For thee roy filent and unfnllied ftream,

                                              Pure
DR. DARWIN.  1OJ

Pure and untainted as thy blamelefs life!
Let no gay converfe lead thy Heps a ft ray
To mix my chafte wave with immodeft wine,
Nor with the poifonous cup, which Chemia's hand
Deals, fell enchantrefs, to the fons of folly !
So (ball young Health thy daily walks attend,
Weave for thy hoary brow the vernal flower
Of cheer fulnefs, and with his nervous arm
Arreft th' inexorable fcythe of Time.

   The exhortation was not difobeyed ; the
benedi&ion was not fruitlefs. Mr. Sneyd
ftill lives to exhilarate the fpirits of his
friends, and to be the bleffing of his neigh-
bourhood. The duties of a public magi-
ilrate, exerted with energy, and tempered
with kindnefs; the hofpitality of his fo-
cial manfion ; his purfuit of natural hi (lo-
ry, and tafte for the arts, are unleflened by
time, and no corporal infirmity allays their
enjoyment. After a lapfe of feventy years
he pafles feveral hours every day, in ail
feafons when the weather is dry, in the
open air, forming for his fcenes new plans

                            H 4 of
 IO4 MEMOIRS OF

 of cultivation and ornament* Look at
 Mr. Sneyd, ye young men of fortune, and

 reflect upon the robuft and happy confe-

 quence of youthful fobriety, of religion,

 morality, and a cultivated mind !

           " The age ofjuc/i is as a lufty winter,

         " Frofty, but kindly,

    In the fpring of the year 1778 the chil-
 dren of Colonel and Mrs. Pole of Radburn,
in Derbyfhire, had been injured by a dan-
gerous quantity of the cicuta, injudicioufly

adminiftered to them in the hooping-

cough, by a phyfician of the neighbour-
hood. Mrs. Pole brought them to the
lioufe of Dr. Darwin, in Lichfield, re-
maining with them there a few weeks, till,

by his art, the poifon was expelled from
their conftitutions, and their health re*
ftored.

   Mrs. Pole was then in the full bloom of

her youth and beauty. Agreeable fea-
                                                             tures i
        DR. DARWIN.                               i  IOC

tures ; the glow of health ; a fafcinating

fmile ; a fine form, tall and graceful ; play-

ful fprightlinefs of manners ; a benevolent

heart, and maternal affe&ion, in all its un-

wearied cares and touching tendernefs,
contributed to infpire Dr. Darwin's admi-
ration, and to fecure his efteem. Soon af-
ter Ihe left Lichfield, with her renovated

little ones, their reftorer fent to his friend,

Mr. Bolton of Birmingham, the following

directions for making a tea-vafe, defigned

as a prefent from the Doftor to Mrs,

Pole.

Friend Bolton, take thefe ingots fine

From rich Potoli's fparkling mine 5

With your nice art a tea-vafe mould,

Your art, more valu'd than the gold.

With orient pearl, in letters white,

Around  To the Faireft," writeit,
                                              j;
And, where proud Radburn's turrets rife,

To bright Eliza fend the prize,

   I'll have no bending ferpents kifs
The foaming wave, and feem to hifs

                                                     No
IO6 MEMOIRS OF

         No fpraxvling dragons gape with he,

           And fnort out fleam, and vomit fire $
          No Naiads weep; no fphinxcs dare;

         No tail hung dolphins fwim in air.
          Let leaves of myrtle round the rim,
         With rofe-buds twirling, fhade the brira j

           Each fide let woodbine ftalks defcend,
          And form the branches as they bend j
           "While oh the foot a Cnpid ftands
          And twines the wreath with both his hands,

              Perch'd on the riling lid above^
          O place a lovelorn, turtle dove,
         With hanging wing, and ruffled plume.
         With gafping beak, and eye of gloom.

              Laft, let the fwelling bofles fhine
         With filver, white, and burnifh'd fine,
           Bright as the fount, whofe banks befidc
           NarcirTus gaz'd, and lov'd, and died.

              Vafe, when Eliza deigns to pour,
          With fnowy hand, thy boiling mower ;
          And fweetly talks, and fmiles, and fips
          The fragrant fleam, with ruby lips,
          More charms thy polifh'd orb fhall fhew
            Than Titian's glowing pencil drew ;
           More than his chifel foft unfurl'd,
           Whofe heav'n-wrought flatue charms the world.

                                                                                                                                              s

                                                               Soon
DR. DARWIN.                                          IO7

Soon after the compofition of thefe gallant

verfes to Mrs. Pole, circumstances arofe

\\hich gave rife to the following ode, not

lefs beautiful, though much lefs gay.

Fly, gentle deeds ! o'er yon unfriendly towers
   Malignant tfars, with baleful influence reign j

Cold Beauty's frown infers the cheerlefs hours,
   And Avarice dwells in Love's polluted fane !

Dim, diflant towers ! whofe ample roof protects

  All that my beating bofom holds fo dear,

Far fhining lake I whofe lilver wave reflects

   Of Nature's faireft forms, the form moft fair j

Groves, where at noon the ileeping Beauty lies ;
   Lawns, where at eve her graceful footfieps rove;

For ye full oft have heard my fecret figbs,
   And caught unfeen, the tear of hopelefs lovej

Farewell ! a long farewell ! your (hades among

   No more thefe. eyes fhall diink Eliza's charms 5
No more thefe ears the mulic of her tongue !

   O ! doom'd for ever to another's arms !

                                                                        Fly,
  1OS MEMOIRS OF

     Fly, gentle fteeds ! my bleeding heart convey
         Where brighter fcenes and milder planets ftrine ;

      Where Joy's white pinion glitters in the ray,
        And Love fits fmiling on his cryftal flirine !

    About the fummer 1778 the Countefs
of Northeik refted at one of the inns in
Lichfield, on her way to Scotland by the
ihorteft poffible ftages. She had been a year
in England, for the benefit of her health,
wafting rapidly by hemorrhage. Ineffec-
tually had the moft eminent phyficians of
London and Bath endeavoured to check
the progrefs of her difeafe. Her youngeft
daughter, Lady Marianne Carnegie, then an
amiable girl of thirteen, now alas no more,
and their friend, Mrs. Scott, were the com-
panions of Lady North efk's journey. Her
ladyfhip told the miftrefs of the inn that

fhe was going home to die, the phyficians
baving confeffed that art could do no rnore

int
                           DR. DARWIK.

in her cafe. The perfon replied, " 1 wifh,
" Madam, that you would fend for our
" Doftor, he is fo famous." Lady Nor-

thefk confented.

   When Dr. Darwin came, he obferved

that he could do little on tranfient obferva-
tion, where the difeafe was fo obftinate,

and of fuch long continuance ; prefled her
to remove with her daughter and friend to

his houfe, and that they would remain his
guefts during a fortnight. The invitation
was accepted. He requefted the author

of thefe memoirs frequently to viilt his

new patient, contribute to amufe her, and

abate the inevitable injury of perpetual

felf- attention.
   Mifs Seward felt herfelf extremely inte-

refted in this lady, and anxious to fee thofe
fufferings relieved which were fo patiently
fuftained. Lady Northeflc lay on a couch^
through the day, in Dr. Darwin's parlour,
drawing with difficulty that breath, which

                                                            feemed
, MEMdlRS OF

fcemed often on the point of final evapora-

tion. She was thin, even to transparency ;
her cheeks fuffufed at times with a flufh.

beautiful, though heftic. Her eyes remark-

ably lucid and full of intelligence. If the

languor of difeafe frequently ovcrfhadowed

them, they were always relumined by
every obfervation to which flie liftened,
on lettered excellence, on the powers of

fcience, or the ingenuity of art. Her lan-
guage, in the high Scotch accent, had
every happinefs of perfpicuity, and always
expreiled rectitude of heart and fufcep-
tibility of tafte.

   Whenever her great and friendly phy-
fician perceived his patient's attention

engaged by the converfation of the reft of

the circle, he fat considering her in medi-

tative filence, with looks that expreffed,  if

" You lhall not die thus prematurely,
" my efforts can prevent it."

One evening, after a long and intenfc

              reverie,
         DR. DARWIN.              Ill

reverie, he faid, " Lady Northefk, an art
" was pradtifed in former years, which

" the medical world has very long difufed;

" that of injecting blood into the veins by
" a fyringe, and thus repairing the waftc
" of difeafes like yours. Human blood,

<e and that of calves and fheep, were
" ufed promifcuoufly. Superftition at-
" tached impiety to the practice. It was

(( put a ftop to in England by a bull of
" excommunication from forne of our

" Popifh Princes, againft the practitioners

<( of fanguinary inje&ion. That it had
" been pra&ifed with fuccefs, we may,
" from this interdiclion, fairly conclude ;
" elfe reftraint upon its continuance muit
" have been fuperfluous. We have a very
" ingenious watch-maker here, whom I
" think I could inftrucl: to form a proper
" inftrument for the purpofe, if you chofe
" to fubmit to the experiment." She

replied  cheerfully,  " that ihe  had not

                                      " the
  112 MEMOIRS OF

" the leaft obje&ion, if he thought it
" eligible/'

   Mifs Seward then faid " If the trial

" fhould be determined upon, perhaps
" Lady Northefk would prefer a fupply

*' from an healthy human fubjecT:, rather

" than from an animal. My health is
 t perfect, neither am I confcious of any
" lurking di&afe, hereditary or accidental.

" I have no dread of the lancet, and will

" gladly fpare, from time to time, fuch a
" portion from my veins to Lady Northefk,
" as Dr. Darwin fhall think proper to
" inje<a."

   He feemed much pleafed with the

propofal, and his amiable patient exprefled

gratitude far above the juft claim of the
circumftance. Dr. Darwin faid he would

confult his pillow upon it.

   The next day, when Mifs S. called
upon Lady N. the Do6tor took her pre-

vioufly into his ftudy, telling her, that he

                                                                 had
                            DR. DARWIN

had rcfigned all thoughts of trying the
experiment upon Lady Northefk; that

it had occurred to him as a laft refource,

to fave an excellent woman, whofe diibr-
der, he feared, was beyond the reach of

medicine; " but," added he, " the con-
" ftruction of a proper machine is fo nice

<f an affair, the leaft failure in its power

" of acting fo hazardous, the chan.ce at
" laft from the experiment, fo precarious,
" that I do not choofe to ftake my reputa-

" tion upon the rifque. If fhe die, the

" world will fay I killed Lady Northefk,

'* though the London and Bath phyficians
" have pronounced her cafe hopelefs, and

" fent her home to expire. They have

"given her a great deal too much medicine.

" I ftiall give her very little. Their fyftem

 ". of nutritious food, their gravy jellies, and

 <( ftrong wines, I have already changed for
 " milk, vegetables, and fruit. No wines ever;

 " no meat, no. ftrong broth, at prefent. If

                            X " this
  114 MEMOIRS Off

 " this alteration of diet prove unavailing,
 " her family and friends muft lofe her."

    It was not unavailing; ihe gathered

 ftrength under the change from day to
 day. The difeafe abated, and in three

 weeks time Hie purfued her journey to
 Scotland, a convalefcent, full of hope for

herfelf; of grateful veneration towards her

phyiician, whofe refcuing {kill had faved

her from the grave ; and full, alfo, of over-

rating thankfulnefs to Mifs S. for the offer

Ihe had made. With her, Lady Northeik

regularly correfponded from that time till

her fuddenand deplorable death. All Lady
N.'s letters fpoke of completely recovered

khealth and ftrength. She fent Mifs Seward
a prefent of fome beautiful Scotch pebbles
for a necklace, picked up by her own
hands, in her Lord's park, and poliihed at

Edinburgh.
    Lady Northeik might have lived to old

age, the bleffing of her family and friends.
                                                           Alas 5
                            DR. DARWIN.

Alas ! the time had paffed "by in which
Mifs Seward was accuftomed to expeft a

letter from her friend !

   Inquiry taught her that Lady Northelk
had perifhed by the dreadfully-frequent
accident of having fet fire to her clothes.
Lady Marianne Carnegie wrote to Mifs S.
the year after, and continued to honor her
with feveral letters while her Ladyfhip lived
with her father at Ethic Houfe, on the

ocean's edge. It was there that ihe de-

dicated many of her youthful years to
the pious endeavour of mitigating Lord
Northeik's deep anguifh for the lofs of his
Lady, which had induced him inflexibly
to renounce all fociety, except with his
own family. That might be faid of Ethic
Houfe which Dr. Johnfon faid of the

Ifle of Raafay, in the Hebrides. " Without
" were the dark rocks, the roaring winds,
" and tumultuous deep ;" but, alas fof

Lady Marianne ! it could not alfo be faid,

                                  12, as
II 6 MEMOIRS Of-
as of Raafay, that " within were the
" focial comforts, the voice of gaiety, the
" dance, and the fong." Yet did me fup-

port, with uncomplaining patience, in the
flower of her youth, this deep folitudc ;
this monotony of natural objects, in which
little variety could be found, beyond the
change of fmiling and frowning feas, the
hufhed and the bellowing waters.

   In the autumn of this year Mrs. Pole of

Radburn was taken ill ; her difbrder a vio-
lent fever. Dr, Darwin was called in, and
perhaps never, fmce the death of Mrs. Dar-
win, prefcribed with fuch deep anxiety.

Not being requefted to continue in the
houfe through the enfuing night, which

he apprehended might prove critical, he
paffed the remaining hours till day-dawn
beneath a tree oppofite her apartment,

watching the paffing and repaffing lights
in the chamber. During the period in

which a life he fo paffionately valued was
             3 in
E>R, DARWIN.  Iiy

in danger, he paraphrafed Petrarch's cele-
brated fonnet, narrating a dream, whofe

prophecy was accomplifhed by the death

of Laura. It took place the night on

which the vrfion arofe amid his flumber.
Dr. Darwin extended the thoughts of that
fonnet into the following elegy.

 Dread Dream, that, hovering in the midnight air,
 Clafp'd, with thy dufky wing, my aching head,
 While, to Imagination's ftartled ear,
 Toll'd the ilow bell, for bright Eliza dead.

 Stretch'd on her fable bier, the grave betide,

A fnow-white fhroud her breathlefs bofom bound,

O'er her wan brow the mimic lace was tied,
And Loves, and Virtues, hung their garlands round.

From thofe cold lips did fofteft accents flow ?
Round that pale mouth did fwecteft dimples play ?
On this dull cheek the rofe of beauty blow,
And thofe dim eyes difTufe celeHial day ?

Did this cold hand unafldng want relieve,
Or wake the lyre to every rapturous found ?
How fad, for other's woe, this breaft would heave !
How light iliis heart, for other's tranfport, bound !

                                 i 3 Beats
Il8 MEMOIRS OF

     Beats not the bell again ? Heav'ns I do I wake?

      Why heave my fighs, why gum my tears anew ?
      Unreal forms my trembling doubts miftake,
      And 'frantic Sorrow fears the vilion true.

      Dream ! to Eliza bend thy airy flight,
      Go, tell my charmer all my tender fears,
      How Love's fond woes alarm the filent night,
      And fteep my pillow in unpitied tears.

   The fecond verfe of this charming elegy
affords an inflance of Dr. Darwin's too ex-

cluiive devotion to diftincl picture in poe-
try ; that it fometimes betrayed him into
bringing objects fo precifely to the eye, as

to lofe in fuch precifion their power of link-

ing forcibly upon the heart. The pathos in
that fecond verfe is injured by the words,
t( mimic lace" which allude to the perforated
borders of the fhroud. The expreffion is
too minute for the folemnity of the fubjecl.
Certainly it cannot be natural for a fhocked
and agitated mind to obferve, or to de-
fcribe with fuch petty accuracy. Befides

                                                                  the
                DR. DARWIN.                          IJ9

the alluiion is not fufficiently obvious.

The reader paufes to confider what the
poet means by " mimic lace" Such paufes
deaden fenfation, and break the courfe of

attention. A friend of the Doclor's

pleaded ftrongly that the line might run
thus,

" On her wan brow thtJJiadoivy crape was tied j"

but the alteration was rejected. Inatten-

tion to the rules of grammar in the firft

v.erfe, was alfo pointed out to him at the '
fame time. The dream is addrefled,

     " Dread dream, that clafped my aching head,"

but nothing is faid to it ; and therefore

the fenfe is left unfinished, while the

elegy proceeds to give a picture of the
lifelefs beauty. The fame friend fuggefted
a change, which would have remedied the

defeft, thus,

" Dread iv;.$ the dream, that, in the midnight air,
" Clafp'd, with it's dulky wing, my aching head,

While to, &c."  I4

                             Hence,
120 MEMOIRS Of

Hence, not only the gramm^tic error would
have been dene away, but the grating
found, produced by the near alliteration

of the harfh dr, in " <fread ^/rearn," re-

moved, by placing thofe words at a greater
diftance from each other.

   This alteration was, for the fame reafon,
rejected. The Doftor would not fpare the
word hovering) which he faid ftrengthened

the piAure ; but furely the image ought
 not to be elaborately precife, by which a
 dream is transformed into an animal, with
 black wings.

     Soon after Mrs. Pole's recovery from
 her dangerous illnefs, Dr. Darwin wrote
 the following little poem.

ODE TO THE RIVER DERWENTy

Written in a romantic Falley near its source.

Derwcnt, what fcenes thy wandering waves behold,

As burfting from thine hundred fprings they ftray,

And down thefe vales, in founding torrents roll'd,

Seek to the fhining Eaft their mazy Way !

                                                    Here
DR. DARWIN.                                       121

Here duiky alders, leaning from the cliff,
Dip their long arms, and wave their branches wide j
There, as the loofe rocks thwart my bounding (kiff,
White moonbeams tremble on the foaming tide.

Pafs on, ye waves, where, drefs'd in lavifli pride,
'Mid rofeate bowers, the gorgeous Chatfworth beams,
Spreads her fmooth lawns along your willowy fide,
And eyes her gilded turrets in your ftreams.

Pafs on, ye waves, where Nature's rudefl child,
Frowning incumbent o'er the darkeu'd floods,
Rock rear'd on rock, mountain on mountain pil'd,
Old Matlock fits, and (hakes his crefl of woods.

But when fair Derby's ftately towers you view,
"Where his bright meads your fparkling currents drmk>
O ! fhould Eliza prefs the morning (Jew,
And bend her graceful footfteps to your brink,

Uncurl your eddies, all your gales confine,
And, as your fcaly nations gaze around,
Bid your gay nymphs pourtray, with pencil fine,
Her radiant form upon your filver ground/

With playful malice, from her kindling cheek

Steal the warm blufli, and tinge your paffing ilream -,

Mock the fweet traniient dimples, as (he fpeaks,

And, as (he turns her eye, reflect the beam !

                                                     Aud
  122 MEMOIRS OP

    And tell her, Dcrwent, as you murmur by,

   How in thefe wilds with hopelefs love I burn,

     Teach your lone vales and echoing caves to figh,
    And mix my briny forrows with your urn ?

    This elegiac ode is rich in poetic beauty.
 The epithet willowy, in the third ftanza,
appeared queftionable, till it was recollected
that it is the weeping willow that was
meant, with which art has adorned the
Derwent in his courfe through the lawns of
Chatfworth. The common fpecies of that

tree has no fpontaneous growth on the

edge of rivers which alternately rum and
flow through their rocky channel in moun-

tainous countries. Common willows bor-

der the heavy, iluggim ftreams of flat and
fwampy fituations. Dwarf- alders, nut- *
trees, and other bufhes of more ftinted

height, and darker verdure, fringe the

banks of the Derwent, the Wie, and the

JL/arkin, on their paflage through the Peak-
                                                          fcenery,
DR. DARWIN.  123

fcenery, and form a more rich and beauti-
ful curtain than the taller, the ftraggling,
and pale-hued willow.

   Matlock is not juftly called Nature's

rudeft child. If his rocks were without

clothing, he might properly be fo called.

Rude gives an idea of barrenneis, and Mat-

lock is luxuriantly umbraged ; much more
luxuriantly than Dove- Dale ; while every
traveller through Derbyshire muft recollect,
how rich and fmiling the Matlock-fcenery,

compared to the favage magnificence of
Eyam-Dale, commonly, though not pro-
perly, called Middleton-Dale.

    There, indeed, we fee rocks piled on

rocks, unfoliaged and frowning. They
form a wall, of vaft height, on either
fide the white limeftone bottom of that
deep and narrow valley, with the little
fparkling rill which fpeeds through it.

   In feveral reaches of the curves, made

by this Salvatorial Dale, it is from the
134 MEMOIRS OP

temperature of the air alone that the

feafons can be afcertained ; fmce there

are no trees, to mark by their foliage the

reign of fylvan beauty; no grafs, to
denote it by its lively hue. Nothing but

the grey, the barren, and lonely rock?,

with, perhaps, a few ftraggling Scotch firs
waving on the tops of the cliffs above ;

and their dufky fprays neither winter ftrips

nor fpring enlivens.

This dale  indeed, " Peak's rudeft
           a
" child." Of late years, injury has beenis,

done to the towery and fantaftic forms;

of many of the rocks, from their having          by

been broken in pieces by gunpowder ex-

plofion, for the fake of mending the turn-

pike roads. The mills, for fmelting the

lead-ore in this dale, blot the fummer

noon, and increafe its fultrinefs                    thofe

volumes of black fmoke which pour out

from their chimnies but in the night

they have  grand effecl:, from the flare

                                                 of
DR. DARWIN.  I2j

of the pointed flames, which ftream amid

the fmoke, and appear like fo many fmall

volcanos.

   Mr. Longfton, of Eyam, has adorned a
part of this fcene by a hanging garden
and imitative fort. The fteep, winding
paths of the garden are planted with wild
ihrubs, natives of the fteril foil, and which
root their fibres in the failures of the

rocks. The effecl, in defcending thofe

paths from the cliffs above, is very ftrik-
ing. They command the ftupendous
depths of the vale below and a confider-
able portion of its curve.

    About the year 1777, Dr. Darwin pur-
chafed a little, wild, umbrageous valley, a
mile from Lichfield, amongft the only
rocks which neighbour that city fo nearly.
It was irriguous from various fprings, and

fwampy from their plenitude. A mofly

fountain, of the pureft and col deft water

imaginable, had, near a century back, in-

                                                               duced
125 MEMOIRS OF

duced the inhabitants of Lichfield tb build
a cold bath in the bofom of the vale.
That, till the doftor took it into his pof-
feffion, was the only mark of human
int\uftry which could be found in the

tangled and fequeftered fcene.

   One of its native features had long
excited the attention of the curious ; a
rock, which, in the central depth of the

glen, drops perpetually, about three times

in a minute. Aquatic plants border its
top and branch from its fnTures. No
length of fummer drought abates, no rains
increafe its humidity, mr froft congeals its
droppings. The Doftor cultivated this

fpot,

         " And Paradife was open'd in the wild."

   In fome parts he widened the brook

into fmall lakes, that mirrored the valley ;
in others, he taught it to wind between

fhrubby margins. Not only with trees of

                                                            various
DR. DARWIN.                                 127

various growth did he adorn the borders of

the fountain, the brook, and the lakes,

but with various claffies of plants, uniting
the Linnean fcience with the charm of

landfcape.

   For the Naiad of the fountain, he wrote

the following infcription.

SPEECH OF A WATER NYMPH.

   Jf the meek flower of .bafhful dye,

     Attract not thy incurious eye j

   Jf the foft, murmuring rill to reft

     Encharm not thy tumultuous bread,
    Go, where Ambition lures the vain,
    Or Avarice barters peace for gain !

                                         V

   Dr. Darwin reftrained his friend Mifs

Seward's fteps to this her always favourite

fcene till it had aflumed its new beau-
ties from cultivation. He purpofed ac-

companying her on her firft vifit to his
botanic garden, but a medical fummons

into the country deprived her of that

                                                              pleasure.
 128 MEMOIRS OP

pleafure. She took her tablets and pen-
cil, and, feated on a flower-bank, In the

midft of that luxuriant retreat, wrote the

following lines, while the fun was gilding

the glen, and wrhile birds, of every plume,

poured their fong from the boughs.

     O, come not here, ye Proud; whofe breafts infold
    Th' infatiate wifli of glory, or of gold ;
    O come not ye, whofe branded foreheads wear
     Th' eternal frown of envy, or of care ;
     For you no Dryad decks her fragrant bowers1,
     For you her fparkling urn no Naiad pours ;
     Unmark'd by you light Graces fkim the green,
     And hovering Cupids aim their (hafts unfeen.

     But, thou ! whofe mind the well-attemper'd rajr

    Of Tafte, and Virtue, lights with purer day ;
     Whofe finer fenfe each foft vibration owns,
     Mate and unfeeling to difcorded tones j
     Like the fair flower that fpreads its -lucid form
     To meet the fun, but fliuts it to the fiorm ;
     For thee my borders nurfe the glowing wreath,
    My fountains murmur, and my zephyrs breathe f-
     My painted birds their vivid plumes unfold,
     And infect armies wave their wings of gold.

                                                                               And
          DR. DARWIN.

And if with thee fome haplefs maid fhould ftray,

Difaftrous love companion of her way,
O lead her timid ftep to yonder glade,
Whofe weeping rock incumbent alders made !
There, as meek Evening wakes the temperate breeze,
And moonbeams glimmer through the trembling trees,
The rills, that gurgle round, mall footh her ear,
The weeping rock fliall number tear for tearj
And as fad Philomel, alike forlorn,
Sings to the night, reclining on her thorn,
While, at fweet intervals, each falling note

Sighs in the gale, and whifpers round the grot,
The fifter-woe fhail calm her aching breaft,
And fofteft lumbers fleal her cares to reft.

   Thus fpoke the * Genius as he ftept along-,
And bade thefe lawns to Peace and Truth belong j
Down the fteep flopes he led, with modeft {kill, t
The grafly pathway and the vagrant rill ;
Stretch'd o'er the marfliy vale the willowy mound,
Where mines the lake amid the cultur'd ground 3

Rais'd the yo*mg woodland, fmooth'd the wavy green,
And gave to Beauty all the quiet fcene.

   O! may no ruder ftep thefe bowers prophane,
No midnight waflailers deface the plain;

* By the Genius of the place  is meant  it* firft cultivator, Dr.

Darwin ,  K                                                   And
             MEMOIRS OF

And when the tempefts of the wintry day
Blow golden Autumn's varied leaves away,
Winds of the North, reftrain your icy gales,
Nor chill the boibrn of thefe HALLOWED VALES ! *

When Mifs Seward gave this little

poem to Dr. Darwin, he feemed pleafed
           and faid, " fliall fend to the.
with  it,            I                it
                                         it
                                ;
" periodical publications but         ought to
" form the exordium of
                                   a  great work.

" The Linnean Syftem unexplored poeticis

"ground, and an happy fubjeft for the
" mufe. It affords fine fcope for poetic
" landfcape
             ;       fuggefls metamorphofes

                 it

" of the Ovidian kind, though reverfed.

*' Ovid made men and women into flowers,
" plants, and trees. You fhould make

    * Thefe verfes, in their original ftate, as infcribed here, will be
found in Mr. Shaw's Hiftory of Staffordfhire, published in 17Q8, near

four years before the death of Dr. Darwin fee Artiele Lichfield page 347.
Their author chofe to affert her claim to them in the Doftor's lifetime,
fmce they had appeared in the periodical Publications many years before
the Botanic Garden puffed. the prefs,-and had borne her fignature.

                                         " flowers,
                     ;
                                                                      y
t>R. DARWIN.  J3I

ff flowers^ plants, and trees, into men and

" women. I," continued he, " will write
" the notes, which muft be fcientific ; and

<( you mall write the verfe."

   Mifs S. obferved, that, befides her want

of botanic knowledge, the plan was not

ftridly proper for a female pen ; that me

felt how eminently it was adapted to the

efflorefcence of his own fancy.
   He objected the profeffional danger of

coming forward an acknowledged poet.

It \vas pleaded, that on his firft com-

mencing medical profeffor, there might

have been no danger ; but that, beneath

the unbounded confidence his experienced

fkill in medicine had obtained from the
public, all rifque of injury by reputation

flowing in upon him from a new fource

was precluded ; efpecially fince the fubjecl;

of the poetry, and ftill more trie notes,

would be connected with pathology.
   Dr. Darwin took his friend's advice,

K 2,          and
                             MEMOIRS OF

and very foon began his great poetic
work ; but previoufly, a few weeks after

they were compofed, fent the vcrfes Mift

S. wrote in his Botanic Garden, to the
Gentleman's Magazine, and in her name,
From thence they were copied in the
Annual Regifter ; but, without confulting
her, he had fubftituted for the laft fix
lines, eight of his own. He afterwards,
and again without the knowledge of their
author, made them the exordium to the

firft part of his poem, publifhed, for cer-

tain reafons, fbme years after the fecond

part had appeared. No acknowledgment

 \vas made that thofe verfes were the

 work of another pen. Such acknowledg-

 ment ought to have been made, efpecially

 fmce they pafled the prefs in the name of
 their real author. They are fomewhat
 Altered in the exordium to Dr. Darwin's:
 Poem, and eighteen lines of his own are
  interwoven with them.

                                                          In
                          BR.DARWItf

   In September 1780, a playful corre-
fpondence pafled between Dr. Darwin and
Mifs Seward, in the name of their refpeo
tive cats. The fubjecl: was ludicrous as it

was fingular, but the mock-heroic refult
pleafed very generally, as the permiffion

of taking copies had been folicitcd and
obtained by feveral of their acquaintance.
Some literary friends of the writer of

thefe pages, remembering the bagatelles

with pleafure, perfuaded her to infert
them. She is apprehenfive that they may
be confidered as below the dignity which
a biographic Iketch of deceafed Eminence
ought perhaps to preferve ; yet, as in this
whimfically gay effufion, Dr. Darwin ap-
pears in a new light of comic wit and
fportive ingenuity, ihe ventures to comply
with their requeft.

                                                        From
134 MEMOIRS OP

   From the Perfian Snow, at Dr. Dar-
      win's, to Mils Po Felina, at the
       Palace, Lichfteld.

                            Lichfiekl Vicarage, Sept. /, 1760.

 Dear Mifs Pufley,

    As I fat, the other day, bafking my-

felf in the Dean's Walk, I faw you, in

your ftately palace, wafliing your beau-
tiful round face, and elegantly bonded
cars, with your velvet paws, and wh ilk ing
about, with graceful fmuofity, your mean-

dering tail. That treacherous hedgehog,
Cupid, concealed himfelf behind your
tabby beauties, and darting one of his

too well aimed quills, pierced, O cruel
imp ! my fluttering heart.

   Ever fince that fatal hour have I

watched, day and night, in my balcony,

hoping that the ftillnefs of the ftarlight

                                                          evenings
DR DARWIN.  135

evenings might induce you to take the

air on the leads of the palace. Many

ferenades have I fung under your win-
                                                                                                                                                                     L

dows ; and, when you failed to appear,
with the found of my voice made the

vicarage re-echo through all its winding

lanes and dirty alleys. All heard me but

my cruel Fair-one ; me, wrapped in fur, fat
purring with contented infenfibility, or
flept with untroubled dreams.

   Though I cannot boaft thofe delicate

varieties of melody with which you fbme-
times ravim the ear of night, and flay

the liftening ftars ; though you fleep

hourly on the lap of the favourite of the

mufes, and arc patted by thofe fingers

which hold the pen of fcicnce ; and every
day, with her permiffion, dip your white
whiikers in delicious cream; yet am I
not deftitute of all advantages of birth,

education, and beauty. Derived from
Periian kings, my fnowy fur yet retains

                             K 4 the
136 MEMOIRS O*

the whitenefs and fplendor of their

ermine.

   This morning, as I fat upon the Doctor's

tea-table, and faw my reflected features in
the flop-baim, my long white whifkers,

ivory teeth, and topaz eyes, I felt an
agreeable prefentiment of my fuit; and

certainly the flop-baiin did not flatter me,
which fhews the azure flowers upon its

borders lefs beauteous than they are.

   You know not, dear Mifs Pufley Po, the
value of the addrefs you neglecl. New
milk have I, in flowing abundance, and

mice pent up in twenty garrets, for your

food and amufement.

    Permit me, this afternoon, to lay at
your divine feet the head of an enormous
Norway Rat, which has even now ftained

my paws with its gore. If you will do

 me the honor to fmg the following fong,

which I have taken the liberty to write,
as expreffing the fentiments I wifh you to

                                                               enter-
DR. DAHWIN.                                137

entertain, I will bring a band of catgut

and catcall, to accompany you in chorus.

           Air : fpirituofi.

ICats fcorn, who, fleek and fat,

Shiver at a Norway rat ;

Bough and hardy, bold and free,
Be the cat that's made for me !
He, whofe nervous paw can take

My lady's lapdog by the neck ;
With furious hifs attack the hen,
And fnatch a chicken from the pen.

If the treacherous fwain (hould prove

^Rebellious to my tender love,

My fcorn the vengeful paw fhall dart,

Shall tear his fur, and pierce his heart.

                    Chorus.
Qu-ow wow, quail, wawl, moon.

Deign, moft adorable charmer, to pur

your affent to this my requeft, and believe

me to be with the profoundeft refpecl,

your true admirer.             Snow7*.

   * The cat, to whom the above letter was addrefled,
jhad been broken of her prcpenfity to kill birds, and lived

                                                                                          feveral
                               MEMOIRS OF

                            Anfwer.

                                                             Palace, Lichfield,
                                                                       Sept. 8, 1780.

   I am but too fenfible of the charms of

Mr. Snow ; but while I admire the fpotlefs
whitenefs of his ermine, and the tyger-
ftrength of his commanding form, I figh

 in fecret, that he, who fucked the milk
 of benevolence and philofophy, fhould yet
 retain the extreme of that fiercenefs, too
juftly imputed to the Grimalkin race.
 Our hereditary violence is perhaps com-
 mendable when we exert it againft the
 foes of our protectors, but deferves much
 blame when it annoys their friends.

    The happincfs of a refined education

 feveral years without molefting a dove, a tame lark, and
 a redbreaft, all which ufed to fly about the room where
 the cat was daily admitted. The dove frequently fat on
: puffey's backhand the little birds would .peck fearlefsly
 from the plate in which (he was eating.

                                                                        was
DR. DARWIN.  139

was mine ; yet, dear Mr. Snow., my ad-

vantages in that refpeci were not equal
to what yours might have been: but,
while you give unbounded indulgence to

your carnivorous defircs, I have fo far

fubdued mine, that the lark pours his

mattin fong, the canarybird warbles wild

and loud, and the robin pipes his farewell
fong to the fetting fun, unmolefted in my
prefence ; nay, the plump and tempting
dove has repofed fecurely upon my foft
back, and bent her gloffy neck in grace-
ful curves as ilie walked around me.

   But let me haften to tell thee how my
feniibilities in thy favor were, lalt month,
unfortunately reprefled. Once, in the noon

of one of its moft beautiful nights, I

was invited abroad by the ferenity of the

amorous hour, fecretly ftimulated by the

hope of meeting my admired Perfian.

With filent fteps I paced around the
dimly-gleaming leads of the palace. I had

             acquired
 I4O MEMOIRS OF

acquired a taftc for fcenic beauty and

poetic imagery, by liftening to ingenious
obfervations upon their nature from the

lips of thy own lord, as I lay purring at
the feet of my miftrefs,

  I admired the lovely fcene, and breathed

my fighs for thee to the liftening moon.
She threw the long fliadows of the ma-

jeftic cathedral upon the filvered lawn, I

beheld the pearly meadows of Stow Valley,
and the lake in its bofom, which, reflect-
ing the lunar rays, feemed a fheet of
diamonds. The trees of the Dean's \Valk,
"which the hand of Dulnefs had been re-

ftrained from torturing into trim and
dcteftable regularity, met each other in a

thoufand various and beautiful forms.

Their liberated boughs danced on the
midnight gale, and the edges of their

leaves \vere whitened by the moonbeams.

I defcended to the lawn, that I might

throw the beauties of the valley into

                                                       perfpeftivc
                           DR. DARWIN*

perfpeclive through the graceful arches,
formed by their meeting branches. Sud-
denly my ear was ftartled, not by the
voice of my lover, but by the loud and
diflbnant noife of the war-fong, which
lix black grimalkins were railing in honor
of. the numerous victories obtained by the
Perfian, Snow ; compared with which,

they acknowledged thofe of Englifh cats
rud little brilliance, eclipfed, like the un-
important victories of the Howes, by the
puiffant Clinton and Arbuthnot, and the
ftill more puiffant Cornwallis. It fung
that thou didll owe thy matchlefs might

to thy lineal defcent from the invincible
Alexander, as he derived his more than

 mortal valour from his mother Olympia's
 illicit commerce with Jupiter. They

 fung that, amid the renowned fiege of

 Perfepolis, while Iloxana and Statira were
 contending for the honour of his atten-

 tions, the conqueror of the .world deigned

              I to
                             MEMOIRS OF

to beftow them upon a large white female

cat, thy grandmother, warlike Mr. Snow, in

the ten thoufandth and ninety-ninth afcent.
    Thus far their triumphant din was

mufic to my ear ; and even when it fung
that lakes of milk ran curdling into whey,
within the ebon concave of their pan-
ch'eons, wTith terror at thine approach ;

that mice fquealed from all the neighbour-

ing garrets ; and that whole armies of

Norway rats, crying out amain, " the

* f devil take the hindmoft," ran violently

info the minfter-pool, at the firft gleam of
thy white mail through the flirubs of Mr.

Howard's garden.
   But O ! when they fung, or rather yelled,

of larks warbling on funbeams, fafcinated
fuddenly by the glare of thine eyes, and
falling into thy remorfelefs talons ; of

robins, wf arbling foft and folitary upon the

leaflefs branch, till the pale cheek of winter
dimpled into joy ; of hundreds of thofe

                                                          bright
                DR. DARWIN,               143

bright breafted fongfters, torn from their

barren fprays by thy pitilefs fangs ! Alas !

my heart died within me at the idea of fb

prepofterous a union !                 afraid I

  Marry you, Mr. Snow, I am            of our

cannot ; fince, though the laws

community might not oppofe our connec-

tion, yet thofe of principle, of delicacy,
of duty to my miftrefs, do very powerfully

oppofe it.

As to prefiding at your concert, if you

aextremely wifh         may perhaps grant

          ;

             it,

             I
your requeft but then you muft allow me

to nhg fong of my own compofition,

applicable to our prefent fituation, and fet

            by
to mufic my fifter Sophy at Mr. Brown's

the organift's, thus,.

        Air affettuofo.:

He, whom Puffy Po detains              !

A captive in her filken chains,

Muft curb the furious thirft of prey,
Nor rend the warbler from his fpray

                                          Nor
144- MEMOIRS dF 1

             Nor let his wild, ungenerous rage
             An unprotected foe engage.

                 O, mould cat of Darwin prove
               Foe to pity, foe to love !
               Cat, that liftens day by day,
             To mercy's mild and honied lay,
              Too furely would the dire difgrace
               More deeply brand our future race,
              The fligma fix, where'er they range,
              That cats can ne'er their nature change.

             Should I confent with thee to wed,

               Thefe fanguine crimes upon thy head,

           And ere the wifh'd reform I fee,

              Adieu to lapping Se ward's tea !
              Adieu to purring gentle praife
                Charrml as me quotes thy mailer's lays '.
             Could I, alas ! our kittens bring
              Where fweet her plumy favorites fing,
              Would not the watchful nymph efpy
               Their father's fiercenefs in their eye,
               And drive us far and wide away,
              In cold and lonely barn to ftray ?
               Where the dark owl, with hideous fcream,
                Shall mock our yells for forfeit cream,
               As on ftarv'd mice we fwearing dine,
               And grumble that our lives are nine,

                                 Chorus : largo.
                Waal, woee, trone, moan, mall, oil, moule.

                                                         The
                  DR. DARWIN.  145

The ftill too much admired Mr. Snow

will have the goodnefs to pardon the
freedom of thefe expostulations, and ex-
cufe their imperfections . The morning,
O Snow ! had been devoted to this my

correfpondence with thee, but I was in-

terrupted in that employment by the vifit
of two females of our fpecies, who fed
my ill-ftarred paffion by praifing thy wit

and endowments, exemplified by thy ele-

gant letter, to which the delicacy of my

fentiments obliges me to fend fo inauf-

picious a reply.

I am, dear Mr. Snow,

       Your ever obliged,

                               Po Felina.
MEMOIRS OF DR. DARWIN.              147

CHAPTER IV,

DURING the courfe of the year 1780,

died ' Colonel Pole. Dr. Darwin, more

fortunate than Petrarch, whofe deftiny

his own had refembled in poetic endow-

ment and hopelefs love, then faw his

adored Laura free, and himfelf at liberty

to court her favor, whofe coldnefs his

mufe had recorded ; to " drink fofter effu-

" fion from thofe eyes," which duty and

difcretion had rendered repulfive.  He

foon, however, faw her furrounded by

rivals, whofe time of life had nearer parity
with her own, yet in its fummer bloom,

while his age nearly approached its hair

century ; whofe fortunes were affluent and

L 2, patri-
                                  MEMOIRS OF

 patrimonial ; while his were profeffional ;
 who were jocund bachelors, while he had
^children for whom he muft provide.

     Colonel Pole had numbered twice the

years of his fair wife. His temper was

 faid to have been peeviih and fufpicious,
yet not beneath thofe circumftances had
her kind and cheerful attentions to him
grown cold or remifs. He left her a
jointure of fix hundred pounds per annum ;
a fon to inherit his eftate, and two female

children amply portioned.

   Mrs. Pole, it has already been remarked,
had much vivacity and fportive humor,
with very engaging frank nefs of temper
and manners. Early in her widowhood
Ihe was rallied in a large company upon
Dr. Darwin's paflion for her, and was afked
what Ihe would do with her captive

philofopher. " He is not very fond of
" churches, I believe, and if he would go
** there for my fake, I Ihall fcarcely fol-

                                           " low
DR. DARWIN.  149

" low him. He is too old for me."

" Nay, madam, what are fifteen years on
" the right fide ?" She replied, with an
arch fmile, " I have had fb much of that
" right fide !""

"tfhe confeffion was thought inaufpicious

to tife Dodor's hopes ; but it did not
prove 1> ; the triumph of intellect was
completed. Without that native perception

and awSk^ned tafte for literary excellence,
                                             -/

which 9 the firft charming Mrs. Darwin
poflefled, this lady became tenderly fen-
fible of the flattering difference between the
attachment of a man of genius, and wide
celebrity, and that of young fox-hunting

efquires; dafliing militaries, and pedantic

gownfmen ; for fhe was faid to have fpe-

cimens of all thefe clafles in her train.

They could fpeak their own paffion, but

could not immortalize her charms. How-

ever benevolent, friendly, and fweet-tem-

pered, fhe was not perhaps exadly the

woman to, have exclairjied with Akenfide,

                              L 3 " Mind,
150 MEMOIRS or

   " Mind, mind alone, bear witnefs earth and heaven !
    " The living fountain in itlelf contains
   t( Of beauteous and fublime !

   Yet did her choice fupport his axiom
when fhe took Dr. Darwin for her huf-
band. Darwin, never handfome, or per-
fonally graceful, with extremely impeded
utterance ; with hard features on a rough
furface ; older much in appearance than
in reality ; lame and clumfy ! and this,
when half the wealthy youth of Derby-

fhire were faid to have difputed the prize

with him.
    But it was not without fome ffipula-

tions, apparently hazardous to his pecuniary

intereft, that Mrs. Pole was perfuaded to
defcend from her Laura-eminence to wife-

hood, and probably to filence for ever,

in the repofe of pofleffion, thofe tender
ftrains, which romantic love and defpair,
and afterwards the ftimulating reftleflhefs of

 doubtful hope, had occafionally awakened.
                                                    During
DR. DARWIN.  151

   During that viiit to Dr. Darwin, in
which Mrs. Pole had brought her fick

children to be healed by his {kill, {he had
taken a diflike to. Lichfield, and decidedly

faid, nothing could induce her to live
there, His addreffes did not fubdue that

refolve.

   After fo long and profperous a refidence,
to quit that city, central in the Mercian
diftrict, from whence his fame had dif-

fufed itfelf through the circling counties,
feemed a great facrifice ; but the phi-
lofbpher wr as too much in love to hefi-

tate one moment. He married Mrs. Pole

in 1781, and removed dire<5lly to Derby.
His reputation and the unlimited con-

fidence of the public followed him thither,

and would have followed him to the me-

tropolis, or to any provincial town, to which

he might have chofen to remove.

   Why he conftantiy, from time to time,

withftood felicitations from countlefs fami-

lies of rank and opulence, to remove to
                           L 4 London,
         MEMOJRS OF

London, was never exadlly underftood by
the writer of thefe memoirs. She knows

that the moft brilliant profpects of fuccefs
in the capital were opened to him, from

various quarters, early on his refidence at

Lichfield, and that his attention to them

was perpetually requefted by eminent

people.  Undoubtedly thofe profpeds

acquired added ftrength and luftre each

year beneath the ever-widening fpread

of his fame. Confcious of his full habit

of body, he probably thought that the
eftablifhed cuftom of imbibing changed

and pure air by almoft daily journies into

the country, eflential to his health ; per-

haps to the duration of his life. In allu-

fion to that perpetual travelling, a gentle-

man once humoroufly directed a letter

" Dr. Darwin upon the road." When

himfelf wrote to Dr. Franklin, compli-
menting him on having united philofophy

to modern fcience, he directed his letter

                     merely
DR. DARWIN.                       153

merely thus, " Dr. Franklin, America ;"

and faid, he felt inclined to make a ftill
                                  " Dr.
more flattering fiiperfcription.
" Franklin, the World." His letter

reached the fage, who firft difarmed the

lightning of its fatal power, for the anfwer
to it arrived, and was fliown in the Dar-

winian circles ; in which had been quef-
tioned the likelihood of Dr. Franklin ever
receiving a letter of fuch general fuper-

fcription as the whole weftern empire. Its

fafe arrival was amongft the triumphs of

genius combined with exertion, " they

<( make the world their country."

   From the time of Dr. Darwin's marriage

and removal to Derby, his limited bio-

grapher can only trace the outline of his

remaining exiftence ; remark the dawn

and expanfion of his poetic fame, and
comment upon the claims which fecure

its immortality. The lefs does fhe regret
this limitation, as Mr. Dewhuift Bilfbury,

                                  his
                                 MEMOIRS OF

his pupil in infancy, his confidential friend,
and frequent companion through ripened
youth, is now writing at large, the life of

Dr. Darwin, who once more became an
happy hufband, with a fccond family of
children, fpringing fail around him. To
thole children the Mifs Poles, as them-

felves grew up to womanhood, wrere very

jneritorioufly attentive and attached. The
eldeft Mifs Pole married Mr. Bromley, and
is faid to be happy in her choice of a
worthy and amiable man. The fecond
Mifs Pole gave her lovely felf to Mr. John

Gifborne, younger brother to the cele-

brated moralift and poet of that name.
   Mr. John Gifborne's philofophic ener-

gies, poetic genius, extenfive benevolence,
ingenuous modefty, and true piety, render

him a pattern for all young men of fortune,
and an honor to human nature. In the

year 1797* he publifhed a fpirited and ele-

gant local poem, entitled, " The Vales of

                                                   Weaver."
1>R. DARWIN.  155

Weaver." It is evidently of the Darwinian

fchool, though in a fhorter meafure, and

has genius to fupport the peculiar manner

of poetic writing which it emulates and
has caught. In this poem we meet appro-
priate and vivid landfcape. Some of the

epithets are perhaps exceptionable, and too

free ufe is made of the word glory in feve-

ral inftances, particularly in its application

to moon-light. Pope's faulty, though ad-

mired fimile, in the laft paflage of the 8th

book of the Iliad, has milled fucceeding

poets ; inducing them to lavifh upon the

lunar effufions thofe terms of fuperlative

fplendor which they fliould referve for the

fun in his ftrength. The Bard of Twick-

enham, fo generally difcriminating, is in-

difcriminate when he ftyles the moon

" refulgent lamp of night/' and its
white and modcft beams " a flood of
" glory." Scholars fay, he found no ex-

ample in the original paflage for this fun-

              defraud-
lj;5 MEMOIRS OF

defrauding magnificence. We do not
find it for the moon in Cowper's more
literal tranflation of the Homeric land-
fcape, two fins againft truth pardoned,

and the fcene, as penciled by Cowper, is
beautiful ; thus :

    As when around the clear, bright moon, the ftars
    Shine in full fplendor, and the winds are huuYd,
    The groves, the mountain tops, the headland heights,

     Stand all apparent j not a vapor ftreaks

    The boundlefs blue, but aether, open'd wide,

 - All glitters, and the fhepherd's heart is cheer'd.

Surely the original does not fandlion an
image which nature never prefents, fince,
when the moon is clear and bright, the
ftars do not fpangle the firmament plen-

teoufly, or fplendidly. A few ftars, and

never more than a few, fometimes glimmer
through her flood of fnowy and abforbing

light. At any rate, fplendor is a falfe
term. When the night is cloudlefs, and

the moon abfent, the ftellar hoft glows

                                                                      and
DR, DARWIN.                                      157

and fparkles very brightly ; but it's refulting

mafs df light by no means amounts to

fplendor.
    Nature hallows, and poetry confecrates

all the moon-light fcenery in Milton. It

is never more charming than in the fol-
lowing inflance.

           Now glow'd the firmament
With living faphirs. Hefperus, that led
The ftarry hoft, rode brightest, till the moon,
Rifing in clouded majefty, o'er all
Apparent queen, unveil'd her peerlefs light,
And o'er the dark her lilver mantle threw.

    Since Pope and Cowper, as translators

of Homer, have been brought into a degree
of comparifon on thefe pages, the writer
of them cannot refift the avowal of her

opinion, that, on tke whole, and confidered

merely as poems, great fuperiority is with
Pope, as to perfpicuity, elegance, and in-
tereft ; the grace of picture, and the har-

                                                          mony
?53 MEMOIRS OF

mony of numbers. In a few ftriking paf-
fages Cowper may be the nobler, but his
mufe is for ever vifibly and awkwardly
ftruggling for literality, where he fliould

have remembered the painter's adage, " It
" is better to fin againft truth than

* ( beauty," fo long as the fenfe is not per-
verted, and nature is not outraged by in-
appropriate epithets, which muft always

injure the diftinftnefs of imagery and

landfcape.

   If, in the preceding inftance, Cowper's

moon-light is chafter than Pope's, fee how
much more grandly the rhyme tranflation,

gives the remaining lines of that clofing

paffage.

     So numerous feemM thofe fires, the bank between

    Of Zanthus, blazing, and the fleet of Greece,
    la profpecl all of Troy; a thoufand fires

     Each watch'd by fifty warriors, feated near.
    The ileeds befide the chariot Hood, their corn
    Chewing, and waiting till the golden-thron'4
     Aurora ihould reftore the light of day.

                                 COWPER'S HOMER, Firfl Edition,

                                                  Nothing
                              DR. DARWIN.

   Nothing can be more confufed and un-*
happy than the language of this paflage.

It is left doubtful whether it is the fires

that are blazing, or the river that by re-

flection blazes ; and, " the bank between,"
is ftrange language for " between the

banks." Chewing feems below the dig-

nity of heroic verfe, and the compound

epithet golden-thron'd, fine in itfelf, is
ruined as to effecl, by clofing the line when
its fubftantive begins the next, Obferve
how exempt from all thefe faults is Pope's

tranflation of the fame paragraph,

    So many flames before proud Ilion blaze,
    And lighten glimmering Zanthus with their rays.
    The long reflection of the diftant fires
     Gleam on the walls, and tremble on the fpires.

   A thoufand piles the dufky horrors gild,

    And fhoot a (hady luftre o'er the field.
    Full fifty guards each flaming pile attend,
    Whofe umber'd arms, by fits, thick flafhes fend.
    Loud neigh the courfers o'er their heaps of corn,

             ardent warriors wait the rifing morn.

                                                         Poetry
                             MEMOIRS or

    Poetry has no pidure more exquifitc
than we meet in the fecond, third, and
fourth lines ; but an infinite number,
equally vivid and beautiful, rife to the
reader's eye, as it explores the pages of
Doc~lor Darwin's Botanic Garden.

   While the powers of metrical landfcape-

painting are the theme, not unwelcome to

thofe who feel its inchantment, will be

inftances which muft prove that they are

poflefled by Mr. John Gifborne in a degree

which would difgrace the national tafte if

they fliould be fuffered to pafs away with-

out their fame. " The Vales of Weaver"

is this young man's firft publication. Be-

neath thanklefs neglecl the efflorefcence

of a rich imagination will probably fink
blighted, like the opening flowers of the

fpring before an eaftern mildew, no more
to rife in future compofitions to the view

of that public which had eftimated fo
coldly the value of the firft.

                                                     We
DR, DARWIN.                                  l6l

   We have read various defcriptions of a

winter's night, and it's enfuing' morning ;
but the following fketch is not borrowed

from any of them. We feel that it was
drawn beneath a lively remembrance of

real impreffion made on the author's mind

by the cireumftances themfelves ; therefore,

it will not fail to touch the vibrating chords
of recollefted fenfation in every reader of

fenfibility. Book-made defcriptions are
trite and vapid ; but nature is inexhauftible

in her varieties, and will always prefent to
the eye of genius either new images, or fuch
combination of images as muft render them
new ; and they will rife on his page in the
morning freflinefs of originality. Thefe

facred arcana me referves for the poet, and

leaves the mere verfifier to his dull thefts.

       VALES OF WEAVER.                      As
IO Wootton ! oft love to hear

Thy wintry whirlwinds, loud and clear ;
With dreadful pleafure bid them fill
My liftening ear, my bofom chill.

                                          M
                     MEMOIRS OF

                               sr

As the fonorons North aflails
Weaver's bleak wilds, and leaflefs vales,
With awful majefty of might
He burfts the billowy clouds of night j
Booms* the refounding glens among,
And roaring rolls his fnows along.
In clouds againft my groaning fafti
Broad, feathery flakes inceflant dafh,
Or wheel below, and mingling form
The frolic pageants of the ftorm.
Hark ! with what aggravated roar
Echo repeats her midnight lore;
Rends her dark folitudes and caves,

And bellowing {hakes the mighty graves f <

   Couch'd on her feat the timid hare
Liftens each boifterous fweep of air ;
Or peeps, yon blafted furze between,
And eyes the fnow- bewildered fcene;
Jnftant retraces her fhuddering head,
And neftles clofer in her bed.

All fad and ruffled, in the grove

The fieldfare wakes from dreams of love ;

Hears the loud north and fieety fnow,
And views the drifted brakes below ;

   * A word admirably expreffing the noife of winds, and applied to
it kerc for the firft time in poetry.

*} Th numerous tumuli on Weaver and the adjacent hills.

                                                         Swift
                DR. DARWIN.                 163

Swift to her wing returns her beak,
And mivers as the tempefts break.
Up ftarts the village-dog aloof,
And howls beneath his rifted roof ;
Looks from his den, and blinking hears
The driving tumult at his ears !
Inftant withdraws his fearful breaft,
Shrinks from the ftorm, and deals to reft.
So* {brinks the pining fold, and fleeps
Beneath the valley's vaulted deeps 5
Or crops the fefcue's dewy blade,
And treads unfeen the milky glade ;
Forms by it's breath fair opening bovvers,
Tranfparent domes, and pearly (bowers.

               Thus night rolls on till orient dawn
           Unbars the purple gates of morn,
             Unfolds each vale and fnow-clad grove,
           Mute founts and gloffy banks above.

   * So flirinks the pining fold,'] It often happens that fheep in

this and in the Peak country, are immerfed many feet deep in fnow
for feveral days before they are difcovered. The perpetual fleam from
their noftrils keeps the fnow, immediately over their heads, in a dif-
folving ftate, and hence a tunnel is conftantly forming through the
heaps above. This tunnel greatly facilitates their difcovery, and fup-
plies them with abundance of frefh air. The warmth of thefe animals
foon diffolves the furrounding fnow, and at length the drift is fo com-
pletely vaulted, that they are able to ftretch their limbs, and fearch for
fubfiftence. It is afierted that fheep have been frequently found alive
after having been entombed -in the fnow during a fortnight.

                                 M 2 Thin
164                  MEMOIRS OP

     Thin ftreaky clouds,, convex'd by ftorms,
     Slowly expand their tiffued forms 5
     Long bars of grey and erimfon bright
     Divert the golden threads of light j

     Till glory's nafcent curve difplays

     One fplendid orb, a world of rays !
     Then lightens heaven's etherial bound,
     And all the fpangled country glows around.

   Now that we have obferved what power

this author poffefles to bring back to our
recolle&ion a ftormy night .in winter, fuc-
ceeded by a ruddy dawn, blazing upon it's
frofted landscape, let us turn to his mifty
morning, in the fame feafon, gradually
clearing up into a mild and funny day.

                   When Winter's icy hand
     Whitens Britannia's fhivering land,
     Then flow the billowy vapors glide,
     And roll their lazy oceans wide.

     Oft have I mark'd from Mathfield's brow,

     Her mift-embofom'd realms below,
     While, here and there, a foaring tree

     Waded amid the vapory fea,
     And Alh bourn's fpire to diftant fight
     Tower'd, like a maft, in dubious light.

                                                 If,
                  DR. DAIOVIN.               165

If, through the paly gloom, the fun
With ftruggling beams his journey won,

Soon as he rais'd his crimfon eye

With tranfport flafli'd th' illumin'd iky ;
The vane, rekindling at his blaze,
Shot, like a meteor, through the ha?,e j
The trees in liquid luftre flovv'd,
And all the dim tranfparencc glow'd,

           The ruftic, on his fields below,
           Shoves from his lot the melting fnowj

              Salutes the welcome change, and feems

           To tafte of life's diviner ftreams;

            Breathes with delight the temperate air,
           And views, with half-clos'd eyes, the boundlefs

                      glare.

   What a pretty fummer fcene rifes in

the following verfes from the fame poem !

                                     Wide fpread
          An elm uprears his reverend head ;

  * A Lapland fcene, which fucceeds to the laft line, is omitted, not

from its want of poetic beauty ? but merely to (horten the quotation.

                                       M3 His
1 66 MEMOIRS OP

           His front the whifpering breeze receives,
           The blue iky trembles through it's leaves j

         A cottage group beneath his fhade,

           Their locks with flowers and rufhes braid j
           And, gurgling round dark beds of fedge,

          A brook juft fhows it's filver edge.

   But now, turning from The Vales of

Weaver, let us feek the Botanic Garden.

The commencement of that poem in 1779
has been previoully mentioned, with the
circumftance which gave it birth. It con-
fifts of two parts ; the firil contains the
Economy of Vegetation, the fecond the
Loves of the Plants. Each is enriched by
a number of philofophical notes. They
ftate a great variety of theories and experi-

ments in botany, chemiftry, electricity,

mechanics, and in the various fpecies of
air, falubrious, noxious, and deadly. The
difcoveries of the modern profeflbrs in all

thofe fciences, are frequently mentioned

with praiie highly gratifying to them. In

                                                           thefc
DR. DARWIN.  167

thefe notes explanations are found of every

perfonified plant, it's generic hiftory, it's

local fituation, and the nature of the foil

and climate to which it is indigenous; it's

botanic and its common name.

   The verfe corrected, polimed, and mo-
dulated with the moft fedulous attention ;
the notes involving fuch great diverfity of

matter relating to natural hiftory ; and the
competition going forward in the Ihort re-

cefles of profeffional attendance, but chiefly
in his chaife, as he travelled from one place

to another, the Botanic Garden could not

be the work of one, two, or three years ;

it was ten from its primal lines to its firft
publication. The immenfe price which
the bookfeller gave for this work, was
doubtlefs owing to confiderations which'

infpired his trutt in it's popularity. Bo-
tany was, at that time, and ftill continues
a very fafhionableftudy. Not only philoib-

phers, but fine ladies and gentlemen, fought

M4           to
 l6S MEMOIRS QF

 to explore it's arcana. This poem, there-
fore, involved two claffes of readers by
 whom it would probably be purchafed.
Every fkilful Botanift, every mere Tyro in
the fcience, would wifh to poflefs it for
the fake of the notes, though infenfible,

perhaps, as the verieft ruftic, to the charms

of poetry ; while every reader, awakened

to them, muft be ambitious to fee fuch a

conftellation of poetic ftars in his library ;

all that gave immortality to Ovid's fame,

without the flighteft imitation of his man-

ner, the leaft debt to his ideas; fince,

though Dr. Darwin often retells that poet's
ftories, it is always ^vith new imagery and

heightened intereft.

   Certainly it was by an inverfion of all
cuftom that Dr. Darwin published the fe-
cond part of his poem firft. The reafon

given for fo extraordinary a manoeuvre in
that advertifement which led the younger

fitter before the elder on the field of pub-
                                                          lic
DR. DARWIN.                      169

lie exhibition, is this, that the appearance

of the firft part had been deferred till ano-
ther year, for the purpofe of repeating fome

experiments in vegetation.

   The Doclor was accufto'med to remark,

that whenever a ftrange ftep had been taken,

if any way obnoxious to cenlure, the alleged

reafon was fcarcely ever the real motive,
His own fingular management in this in-
ftance, and the way in which he accounted

for proved cafe in point. He was
confcious that the fecond part of his work
would be more level than the firft to the
it
       it,

                              a
comprehenfion, more congenial to the tafte

of the fuperficial reader, from it's being

much lefs abftrad: and metaphyfic, while
     pofleffed more than fufficient poetic

matter to entertain and charm the enlight-
ened and judicious few. They, however, he
well knew, when his firft part mould appear,
would feel it's fuperiority to the earlier pub-
lication, it's grander conceptions, it's more

                                 fplendid
170 MEMOIRS OF

fplendid imagery, though lefs calculated
to amufe and to be underflood by common

readers. Thofe of that laft number who

had purchafed the firft part would not like

to poflefs the poem incomplete, and there-

fore would purchafe the fecond. The ob-
fervations of this paragraph refer to the
poetry of the work, and to the two claffes
of readers who would value it chiefly on
that account. The notes to each part

muft render them equally valuable t6 the
votaries of botany, and other modern

fciences.

   It is with juft and delicate criticifm that
Mr. Fellowes again obferves of Dr. Dar-
win's poetry : " In perfpicuity, which is
" one of the firft excellences in poetic as
" well as profe compofition, this author
" has perhaps few equals. He is clear,
" even when defcribing the moil intricate
" operations of nature, or the moil com-
" plex works of art ; and there is a lucid

                                                          tranf--
   DR. DARWIN

" tranfparency in his ftyle through which

" we fee objects in their exact figure an4
" proportion ; but Dr. Darwin's poetry
" wants fenfation ; .that fort of excellence

" which, while it enables us to fee dif-
" tinctly the objects defcribed, makes us
" feel them acting on our nerves."

   A little reflection  is,perhaps, neceflary
                                 a
precifely to underftand this criticifm, dif-

tinguifliing between vivid poetry which

does not excite fenfation, and vivid poetry

which does excite it. Inftances will beft

elucidate the diftinction. See the twro

following defcriptions of wintery even^

ing, late in autumn.

,                BOTANIC GARDEN,

   Then o'er the cultur'd lawns and dreary wafte,
   Retiring Autumn flings her howling blaft,
   Bends in tumultuous waves the ftruggling woods,
   And ihowers her leafy honors on the floods,

   In withering heaps colle&s the flowery fpoil,
   And each chill infeft fleeps beneath the foil.

                                                       Quoted
  172 MEMOIRS OF

    Quoted from a fonnet of Mr. C. Lloyd's
 published with Mr. Colridge's poems.

     Di final November ! me it fooths to view,
        At parting day, the fcanty foliage fall
         From the wet fruit-tree, or the grey Hone wall,

     Whofe cold films gliften with unwholefome dew;
     To watch the fweepy mifts from the dank earth

         Enfold the neighbouring copfe, while, as they pafs,
        The filent rain-drop bends the long, rank grafs,
     Which wraps fome bloflbm's immatured birth $
         And, through my cot's lone lattice, glimmering grey,
        Thy damp chill evenings have a charm for me,
     Difmal November !

   The pi&ure is equally juft and ftriking
in both the above quotations ; but the firft,
though more dignified, does not thrill our
nerves, and the fecond does. We admire
in the former the power and grace of the

poet ; in the latter we forget the poet and
his art, and only yearn to fee images re-
flefted in his mirror, which we have annu-
ally, and many times fliuddered to furvey
in real life.

                                                  When
         DR. DAKWIN.                            173

When Dr. Darwin defcribes the glow-

worm, fuppofing it's light to be phofphoric,

he thus exhorts his allegoric perfonages*

the nymphs of fire, meaning the ele&rical

powers.

Warm, on her morTy couch, the radiant worm,
Guard from cold dews her love-illumin'd form,'
From leaf to leaf condud the virgin light,
Star of the earth, and diamond of the night !

   Nothing can be more poetic, more bril-
liant than this pi&ure; yet, when Shake-

fpear fays,

 i

   " The glow-worm fliows the morning to be near,
   " And 'gins to pale his ineffectual fire,"

we feel fenfation which the more refplen-
dent pidture of this infeft had failed to in-
fpire, notwithftanding the pleafure it had
given us, the admiration it had excited.

   Probably the reafon why Dr. Darwin's

                                                            poetry,
 174 MEMOIRS OF

poetry, while it delights the imagination,

leaves the nerves at reft, may be, that he

feldom mixes with the picturefque the (as
it is termed in criticifm) moral epithet,
.meaning that quality of the thing men-
tioned, which pertains more to the mind,
or heart, than to the eye, and which, in-
ftead of picture, excites fenfation. Shake-
fpear gives no diftincT: picture of the glow-
worm, lince the only epithet he ufes for it
is not defcriptive of its appropriate luftre,
which has a tint fpecified in the enfuing
quotation.

            " From the bloom that fpreads
    " Refplendent in the lucid morn of May,

     tr To the green light the little glow-worm fheds
     '* On mofly banks, when midnight glooms prevail,

    " And Silence broods o'er all the (helter'd dale."

  If Dr. Darwin alfo omits to mention the

particular hue of this infect, when it is
luminous, he conveys that hue to the

                                                         imagi-
                         DR. DARWIN,                         175
imagination when he fays,
                                      " Star of the

<( earth," fince the largeft and brighteft

ftars have the fame mafter-tint. Offian

fays, " Night is dull and dark, no ftar
" with its green, trembling beams -I"

   But Shakefpear's moral epithet, ineffec-

tual, does better than paint it's object. It

excites a fort of tender pity for the little

infecl, mining without either warmth or

ufeful light, in the dark and lonely hours.

   j

      BOTANIC GARDEN.

   Anr? now the riling moon, with luftre pale,
   O'er heaven's dark arch unfurls her milky veil,

   This pi<5iure is charming: yet when
Milton paints the fame object thus,

"     " Now reigns,
"
   Full orb'd, the moon, and   with more    pleafant  Jight,
   Shadowy, fets off the face  of things/-

the charm is on the nerves, as well as on
                                                                  the
                  MEMOIRS OP

the eye.  The moral epithet pkafant,

excites fenfation, while the pifturefque

epithet, Jhadowy, has all the truth, the

grace, and power of the pencil. It is that
charm on the nerves to which Mr. Fellowes

fo well applies the word, fenfation. It

feems a new term in criticifm, and is ufe-

ful to exprefs what pathos would exprefs
too ftrongly, and therefore with lefs accu-
racy. Pathos is the power of affecling the
heart ; by fenfation is meant that of acling

upon the nerves.

    Beneath their torpor, the heart, ,or the
paffions, cannot be affected ; but the nerves
may be awakened to lively, or penfive plea-
fure, by compofition which, not exciting
any pofitive paffion, may not act upon the

heart in a degree to juftify the application
of the word, pathetic ; and for this gentler,

fubtler, and more evanefcent influence,

which almoft imperceptibly touches the

                              paffions
            DR. >AR\YIN. .                     1/7

paffions without agitating them, Mr. F.'s

term is happy.

   Dr. Darwin's excellence confifts in de-

lighting the eye, the tafte, and the fancy,
by the ftrength, diftinclnefs, elegance, and
perfect originality of his pictures ; and in

delighting the ear by the rich cadence of

his numbers ; but the paffions are generally

afleep, and feldom are the nerves thrilled

by his imagery, impreffive and beauteous

as it or his landfcapes, with all their
It

     is,
               by
                                         ,
vividnefs.

       may, however, be juftly pleaded for
his great work, that it's ingenious and novel

plan did not involve any claim upon the

affections. We are prefented with an

highly imaginative and fplendidly defcrip-
tive poem, whofe fucceffive pi&ures alter-

nately poffefs the fublimity of Michael

Angelo, the correclnefs and elegance of
Raphael, with the glow of Titian whofe
                                            ;

landfcapes have, at times, the ftrength of

            N Salvator,
                               MEMOIRS OF

 Salvator, and at others the foftnefs of
 Claude; whofe numbers are of ftately
 grace, and artful harmony ; while its allu-
 fions to ancient and modern hiftory and
 fable, and its inteffperiion of recent and
 extraordinary anecdotes, render it extremely
 entertaining. Adapting the paft and re-
 cent difcoveries in natural and fcientific
 philosophy to the purpofes of heroic
 verfe, the Botanic Garden forms a new

 clafs in poetry, and by fo doing, gives to

 the Britifh Parnaflus a wider extent than

it poflcfled in Greece, or in ancient, or
 modern Rome.

    Nor is it only that this compofltion takes

unbeaten ground, and forms an additional

order in the fanes of the Mufes, it forms
that new order fo brilliantly, that though
it may have many imitators, it will proba-
bly never have an equal in it's particular
clafs ; neither would it's ftyle apply happily
to fubjecls lefs intrinfically pidurefque. The

                                                                 fpecies
t>R. DARWIN.  179

fpcies of praife here given to this work

is all that it's author defired to excite.

We have no right to complain of any

writer, or to cenfure him for not pofleffing
thofe powers at which he did not aim, and
which are not neceffarily connected with

his plan.

   To the fubj eft Dr. Darwin chofe, his
talents were eminently calculated. Nei-

ther Pope nor Gray would have executed
it fo well; nor would Darwin have written
fo fine an Eflay on Man, fo inwerefting a
Churchyard, or fo lovely an Ode on the
profpecl: of the fchool at which he was
educated, had that fchool been Eaton.
He would not have fucceeded fo trantcend-

ently on themes, which demanded cither
pathos, or that fort of tender and delicate

feeling in the poet, which excites in the

reader fympathetic fenfation ; or yet in the

facred morality of ethic poetry, which
however it may admit, or require that

N 3 fancy
l8o MEMOIRS OP

fancy adorn it with fome rare, and lovely

flowers, " allows to ornament but a fecond
" place, and always renders it iubordinate
" to intrinfic worth and juft defign." To

whomfocver he might have been practically
inferior on themes he has left unattempted,

he is furely not inferior to Ovid ; and if

poetic tafte is not much degenerated, or
fliall not hereafter degenerate, the Botanic

Garden will live as long as the Metamor-

phofes.

   That in his poetic ftyle Dr. Darwin is a

mannerift cannot be denied; but fo was

Milton, in the Paradife Loft ; fo was Young,
in the Night Thoughts ; fo was Akenfide,
in the Pleafures of Imagination. The Dar-
winian peculiarity is in part formed by the
very frequent ufe of the imperative mood,
generally beginning the couplet either with
that, or with the verb aclive, or the noun

perfonal. Hence, the accent lies oftener

on the firft fyllable of each couplet in his

                  i verfe
               DR. DARWIN.                                                        l8i

verfe than in that of any other rhymift ;

and it in confequence, peculiarly fpirited
* is,

           by
                                                     is
and energetic. Dr. Darwin's ftyle alfb

distinguished  the liberal ufe of the fpon-

dee, viz. two monofyllables, equally ac-

cented, following each other inftantly in

fome part of the line.

Spondees, judicioufly ufed, vary and in*

creafe the general harmony in every fpecies

of verfe, whether blank or rhyme. They

preferve the numbers from too lufcious
fweetnefs, from cloying famenefs, from

feeble elegance, and that, by contracting

the fmoothnefs of the daclyls, and the
rich melodies of the iambic accents. So

difcords refblving into concords, infpirit
the ftrains of muiical composition. But

      poffible to make too frequent ufe of
the fpondee in poetry, as of the difcord in
mufic. Dr. Darwin's ear preferved him
it

     is

                                   3
                                                             is
* This explanation                                               for the ladies.
                   N
                                                                                  from
l8a MEMOIRS OF

from that exuberance; but Mr. Bowles, one
of the fineft poets of this day, often renders

his verification, which
        by                  at times, moft

                   it

                                        is,
                                                       a

                                                    a in
exquifitely fweet, harfh, by the too fre~

quently-recurring fpondee.

   From that gentleman's verfe couple of

inftances may be felecled, to fhow, one,

that harmony may be improved by fpar^
ing ufe of that accent, and injured in the

other,  ufmg too freely.

             MR. BOWLES' HOPE.

But lufty Enterprife, with looks of glee,
- Approach'd the drooping youth, as he would fay>
Come to the wild ivoods and the hills with me,

   And throw thy fullen myrtle wreath away
        I*

                         *

                             I
                                                                                                              !
                                                                                                                               ?
     BOWLES* ELEGIAC STANZAS,

Haft thou not vifited that pleafant place,
   Where in this hard world have happieft been,

A.nd fhall tremble at thy lifted mace,

   That hath fiercd all on which tifefeenid to lean

        Death.

                                                          The
         DR. DARWIN.  183

   The recurrence of two equally accented
words three times in the ftanza, and twice

in the laft line, incumbers the verification,

while the fmgle ufe of the fpondee in the
preceding four lines, from Hope, gives it
grace and beauty. Dr. Darwin, in the
following paflage, has ufed it frequently,
without producing any fuch dead weight
upon the verfe. The quotation is from
the charge of the Botanic Queen to the

Nymphs of Fire, a poetic alleg6ry for the
influence of the fluid matter of heat in for-
warding the germination and growth of

plants.

   Pervade, pellucid forms, their cold retreat !
Ray, from bright orbs, your viewlefs floods of heat !
From earth's deep ivaftes electric torrents pour,
Or fhed from heav'n the fcintillating ihower!
Pierce the dull root', relax its fibre trains,
Thaw the thick blood that lingers in its veins !
Melt with 'warm breath, the fragrant gums that bind

Tk' expanding foliage in its fcaly rind 1

                                    N 4 And
I4 MEMOIRS OP

     And as in air the laughing leaflets play.
    And turn their fhining boforas to the ray,
     Nymphs, TN\\hfweeifmile, each opening flower invite,
     And on its damaik eyelids pour the light !

    On reflection, it fhould feem that it is
the fituation of thefe twin accents in the
line, which prevents their frequent recur-

rence from producing harfhnefs. It will

be obferved in the laft quotation, that all
the many fporidees are preceded by two
lyllables ; and that it is only when they
are preceded by an odd fyllable, either one
or three, that they increafe the harmony
by their fparing, and injure it by their
frequent appearance. One fyllable only
goes before the fpondee in this line from
the Botanic Garden.

    The wanjlars glimmering through the filver train.

Three iyllables in this verfe from the fame
poem.

    Where now the South-feat heaves its wafle of froft.

                                                        Again,
                           DR. DARWIN.

Again,

      LoudJJtrieks the lone thrujli from his leaflet's thorn.

And, in that laft inftance, the fpondee re-
curring twice in one line, harihnefs is the
refult. Once ufed only, and the harihnefs
had been avoided; thus,

      And Ihrieks the lone thrufo from the leaflefs thorn.

   The following is a couplet where the

fpondee fucceeding to three monofyllables

has an exquisite effect of found echoing

fenib.

                 BOTANIC GARDEN.

       With paler luftre where Aquarius burns,
        And Ihowers thejtil/fnoiv from his hoary urns.

   We find another ftriking peculiarity in
Dr, Darwin's ftyle, that of invariably pre-

                                                        fenting
l86 MEMOIRS OF

fenting a clafs by an imperfonified indivi-
dual ; thus,

     Where, nurs'd in night, incumbent Tempeft (hrouds
    The feeds of thunder in circumfluent clouds.

Again,

    Where, with chill frown, enormous Alps alarms

   A thoufand realms horizon'd in his arms.

Again,

     Sailing in air, when dark Monfoon enmrouds
    His trophic mountains in a night of clouds.

   Similar inftances crowd the pages of

the Botanic Garden. There is extreme

fublimity in the whole of that paflage,
which converts the monfoon winds into

an individual monfter,

         That fhowers on Afric all his thoufand urns.

   Dr. Johnfon, Mr. Burke, and Dr. Parr,

have the fame habit in their profe ; " Cri-
" ticifm pronounces/' inftead of " Critics

                                  " pronounce/"
R. DARWIN,  187

" pronounce." " Malignance will not

" allow," inftead of " Malignant people
" will not allow." " Good-nature refufes
" to liften," inftead of " a good natured
" man refufes to liften," and fo on.

This manner of writing, whether in

verfe or profe, fweeps from the polilhed

marble of poetry and eloquence, a number
of the flicks and ftraws of our language ;

its articles, conjunctives, and p repetitions.

Addifon's ferious Eflays are fo littered
with them and with idioms, as to ren-

der it ftrange that they fhould ftill be
confidered as patterns of didadic oratory.
No man of genius, however, adopts their

diffufe and feeble ftyle, now that the

ftrength, the grace, and harmony of profe -
writing, on the dignified examples of our

later eflayifts, fenators, and pleaders, give

us better examples. Thefe obfervations

relate folely to the grave compofitions of
the celebrated Atticus. The quiet, eafy,

            elegant
l88 MEMOIRS OF

elegant gaiety of his comic papers in the

Spectator, remains unrivalled.

   It has been already obferved in the courfe

of this tract, that Dr. Darwin's mufe ranges

through nature and art, through hiftory,

fable, and recent anecdote, to vary, infpirit>

and adorn this her luxuriant work. If fhe

imperfonizes' too lavifhly ; if devoted to
picture, fhe covers every inch of the walls
of her manfion with landfcapes, allegoric

groups, and with fmgle figures ; if no in-

fterfticial fpace is left to increafe the effect

of thefe fplendid forms of the imagination ;
yet be it remembered, that it is always in

the reader's power to draw each picture
from the mafs, and to infulate it by his

attention. It will recompenfe by its gran-

deur, its beauty, or its terrific grace, the
pains he may take to view it in every light,

ere he proceeds to examine other objects

in the work, which he will find of equal
force and fkill in their formation.

                                                      Dr.
DR. DARWIN.  189

   Dr. Darwin gives us, in this poem,

claffic fables from Homer, Virgil, and Ovid,
and fo gives them, places the perfbns of

each little drama in fuch new and intereft-
ing fituations and attitudes, that he muft
indeed be a dull profe-man who lhall ex-

claim undelighted, " This is an old ftory."

             CHAP.
MEMOIRS OF DR. DARWIN.  igt

             CHAPTER V.

ANALYSIS of the firft part of the Botanic

Garden.

     THE ECONOMY OF VEGETATION.

   After that landfcape of the fcene which
forms the exordium, the Goddefs of Botany

defcends in gorgeous gaiety.

    She comes ! the Goddefs ! thro* tke whifpering air,
    Bright as the morn., defcends her blulhing car 3
    Each circling wheel a wreath of flowers entwines;
   And gemm'd with flowers the filken harnefs (nines j
   The golden bits with flowery ftuds are deck'd,
   And knots of flowers the crimfon reins connect.
   And now on earth the lilver axle rings,
   And the fhell finks upon it's flender fprings j
   Light from her airy feat the Goddefs bounds,
   And fteps celeftial prefs the panfied grounds.

                                                        Spring
s                                      MEMOIRSit,

       if    Spring welcomes her with fragrance and!
         with fbng, and, to receive her commiffions,
         the four Elements attend. They are alle-;
         gorifed as 'Gnomes, Water-Nymphs, Sylphs,
         and Nymphs of Fire. Her addrefs to each
         clafs, and the bufinefs fhe allots to them,
         form the four Cantos of this firft part of

         the poem.

            The Ladies of Ignition receive her pri-
         mal attention. The picture with which
         her addrefs commences, is of confummate

         brilliance and grace ; behold reader, and
         judge this praife be too glowing

                 Nymphs of primeval fire, your veftal train
                 Hung with gold trelTes o'er the vafl inane
                 Pierc'd with your filver Ihafts the throne of night,
                 And charm'd young Nature's opening eyes with light,
                 When Love Divine, with brooding wings unfurl'd,
                  Call'd from the rude abyfs the living world.

            The Darwinian creation, which enfues,

         charms us infinitely, even while we recoi-

                                                               led
DR. DARWIN.                                          193

 lecl; its fimpler greatnefs on the page of

  Mofes, and on its fublime paraphrafe in the
[ Paradife Loft. The creation in this poem

  is aftronomic, and involves the univerfe ;

 and as fuch is of excellence yet unequalled

 in its kind, and never to be excelled in the

 grandeur of its conceptions*

Let there be light, proclaim'd th' Almighty Lord,

A fionim'd Chaos heard the potent word j

Through all his realms the kindling ether runs,

And the mafs Harts into a million funs.

Earths round each fun, with quick explofion, burll,

And fecond planets iffue from the firft $       *

JBend, as they journey, with projectile force,
Jn bright ellipfis, their reluctant courfe ;

Orbs wheel in orbs, round centres centres roll,

And form, felf-balanc'd, one revolving whole;
Onward they move, amid their bright abode,

Space without bound, the bofom of their God.

   The word of the Creator, by an allufion to
theeffeds of a fparkupongunpowder,fetting

into inftant and universal blaze the ignited
particles in Chaos, till they burft into count-

                                  o lefs
194 MEM O1HS OF

lefs funs, is an idea fublirne in the firft

degree.

   The fubfequent comments of the God-
defs on the powers of the nymphs of fire,
introduce lovely pictures of the lightning

and the rainbow ; the exterior fky, the
twilight, the meteor, and the aurora-bore-
alis ; of the planets, the comet, and all the

etherial blazes of the univerfe.

    She next exhibits them as fuperintend-
ing the fubterranean and external volcanos.

     You, from deep cauldrons and unmeafur'd caves,
      Blow flaming airs, or pour vitrefcent waves)
      O'er fhining oceans ray volcanic light,
     Or hurl innocuous embers through the night.

     She compares them to Venus and her
 Nymphs, after they had dcfcended to the
 cave of Vulcan. The claffic fable forms a
 varied and lively little drama. The God-

 defs proceeds to remind her hand-maids of

 their employments ; fays, they lead their
                                                     glittering
DR DAK WIN.                                        195

glittering bands around the finking day,
and when the fun retreats, confine, with

folds of air, his lingering fires to the cold
bofom of earth.

O'er eve's pale forms diffufe phoiphoric light,
And deck with lambent flames the (brine of night.

    Surely there cannot be a more beautiful

defcription of a vernal twilight. The phof-
phorefcent quality of the Bolognian ftone,
Beccari's prifmatic fhells, and the harp of
Memnon, which is recorded to have

breathed fpontaneous chords when fhone
upon by the rifmg fun, are all compared to

the twilight glimmerings of the horizon ;
fo alfo the luminous infecls, the glow-
worm, the fire-flies of the tropics, the fa-

bulous ignis fatuus, and the gymnotus elec-
tricus, brought to England from Surinam

in South America, about the year 1783 ;
a fifh, whofe eleclric power on provo-
cation, mortal to his enemy. He com-

                                                                    pared
o

       2,

                  is,
                           is
t<j6 MEMOIRS op

pared to the Olympic eagle, that bears the

lightning in it's talons.
   Dr. Darwin considers the difcovery of

the ufes of fire, as the earlieft and moft
important of the artificial comforts. Hence,
the Goddefs praifes her nymphs of that
element, as the primal inftruclers of

favage man. Its dangerous excellence is
illuftrated by the fevere beauty of the fer-
pent-haired Medufa, as it blazes on the

fhield of Minerva.

    They are next addreffed as the patron-
effes of chemiftry ; teaching the ufes of

gunpowder, and infpiring Captain Savery

with the invention of the fteam- engine.
The unpoetical name renders this intro-
duction of a real perfbn amidft allegoric

beings, unhappy ; efpecially fince no dra-
matic circumftance in his deftiny recom-

penfes the infelicity. A defcription of that

eminently-ufeful machine is given with

                                                                   the
DR. DARWIN.  197

the accuracy of a mechanic philofopher,

and the dignity of a great poet. A pro-

phecy follows, that it's powers will, in fu*

tare times, be applied to the purpofes of

facilitating land and water carriage, and
in navigating balloons.

   The wonderful effeds of this vaft ma-

chine are fuppofed to referable the exploits

of Hercules, and feveral of thofe exploits

are very finely pictured.

   All the operations of electricity next pafs

in review ; a lovely female receiving the
fliock on a waxen elevation ; alfo a circle

of young men and women electrified.
Their refulting fenfations are described

with perfecl truth and elegance*, and the
effefts of this difcovery in paralytic cafes
nre thus exquifitely mentioned,

Palfy's .cold hands the fierce concuffion own,
And Life clings trembling on her tottering throne.

o 3 Such
198 MEMOIRS OF

   Such powers in this artful lightning are
compared to thofe of the natural; its de-
leterious excefs, to the fire of heaven that
fcathes the oak ; its milder degree, to the
fairy rings, which the poet believes to have
been imprinted by the flalhes of the thun-
der {term darting on the grafs and. circu-
larly blighting it.

   The difaftrous fate of profeflbr Richman,
at Peterfburgh, purfuing electric expert
ment with fatal temerity, rifes to the eye,

and makes the reader a fhuddering fpec-

tator of its progrefs and refult.
    Dr. Franklin, with his preferving rods,

 is compared to the celebrated Florentine
 gem, Cupid fnatching the lightnings from
 Jupiter, which the poet confiders as a
 noble allegory, representing Divine Juftice
 difarmed by Divine Love. The poetic

 fcene, from the Gem, is one of the fweeteft
 little dramas of this poem ; fo fweet, there

                                                                            is
                            DR. DARWINV

is no refilling the temptation of here exhi-
biting it to thofe to whom the work itfelf

may not inftantly be acceffible.

    Thus when, on wanton wing, intrepid Love
    Snatch'd the rais'd lightning from the arm of Jove,
    Quick o'er his knee the triple bolt he bent,
    The clufter'd darts and forky arrows rent j
    Snapp'd, with illumin'd hands, each flaming ftiaft,
    His tingling fingers (hook, and ftamp'd, and langh'd.
    Bright o'er the floor the fcatter'd fragments blaz'd,
     And Gods, retreating, trembled as they gaz'd.

    Th' immortal Sire, indulgent to his child,

    Bow'd his ambrofial locks, and Heav'n relenting, fmil'd.

   Of the great fuperiority of poetic to

actual piclure, this paflage is one of the

countlefs proofs, perceived by every reader

who has power to meet the ideas of the
Bard. Suppofe the fubjecT: of this little
fable to be engraven, or painted with the

utmoft excellence, yet the exquifitely natu-
ral action of the infant god fhaking his
fingers, and laughing and ftamping, from
that degree of pain experienced on flightly

                              o 4 touching
2CO /  MEMOIRS OF

touching an ignited fubftance ; the feat-

tering over the floor the broken darts and

arrows of the lightning ; the alarmed dei-

ties retreating, and the indulgent nod and

increasing fmile of Jupiter, are all progref-

five circumftances which genius may paint

on the imagination, but not on the canvafs.

   The Goddefs next adverts to the influ-

ence of her nymphs on animat circulation,

from the theory of the phofphoric acid

colouring and warming the blood, and

hence becoming an indifpenfable ingredient

in vital formation

From the crovvn'd forehead to the proftrate weed c

   This theory is illuftrated by the noble
fable of Eros, or Divine Love, ifluing from
the great egg of night,, floating in chaos ;
but furely the image of this celeftial love
is too gay for the fublimity of its birth ;

" gaudy wings, foft fmiles, golden curls,

                                                                  and
DR. DARWIN,                             2OI
-but not the hieroglyphic Cupid.
" and filver darts," might fuit the cyprian

Higher far

And with myfterious reverence we deen.

   Her Nymphs thus eulogized,

    The Goddefs paus'd, admir'd, with confclous pride,
    Th' effulgent legions marlhall'd by her fide,
    Forms ipher'd in fire, with trembling light array d,
    JEns- without weight^ and fubftance without ftade,

   It may be obferved of the two laft lines
that the imagination, which could with

fuch appropriate and novel beauty inveft
its ideal perfonages, cannot be too highly
appreciated, and we might as well difdain
the fun for often dazzling us with excefs

of fplendor, as to fuffer the occafional re-
dundance of ornament in this extraordinary

work, to make us cold and infenfible to it's
original, bold, and, in their clafs, peerlefs
excellences,

      \ The
232 MEMOIRS OF

   The ufe of words entirely Latin has

been objected to this poem, as ens for life,

in the laft verfe of the above quotation.
Nieenefs of ear probably induced its tub-
ftitution, and that from the proximity of
the word light in the preceding line, which
would have been of too iimilar found to
life, had life been uied inftead cf it's Latin

iynonifm, ens.

   The Botanic Queen now proceeds to
appoint the nymphs of fire their taiks.

She bids them awaken the weft wind, chafe

his -wan cheeks, and wring the rain-drops
from his hair; bids them blaze around the
frofted rills, and ftagnant waters, and
charm the Naiad from her filent cave,
where me fits enfhrined in ice, clafping her
empty urns. She is compared to Niobe.

    Our Poet feems to have forgotten him-
felf in thus throwing the year back into
the fkirts of winter ; fince, in opening this

                                                         Canto,
DR, DARWIN.  20J

Canto, he had defer! bed the iprirg in all

her glory, \vhen the Botanic " Queen de-
fcended, and the imperfomzed elements

received her.

   The nymphs are alfo commanded to
affail the fiend of froft; to break his white

towers and cryftal mail ; to drive him to
Zembla, and chain him to the northern

bear. A fimile enfues, in which the gram-
pus, and the fcene of the whale fifhery, in

all the ftrength of poetic colouring, meets
the attention of the reader,

   Suppofed influence of the principle of

internal heat in vegetation induces a com-

mand to thefe its agents to pour electric

torrents from the deep waftes of earth,
which may pierce the root, relax the fibres,
and thaw the fap of plants, flowers, and
trees. The ailerted confequence of their

obedience to this command produces a

noble fketch of the umbrageous wilds of

                                                           Canada,
204  M E AJ O I R S O F

Canada. Their operations are oddly com-

pared to the effects 'of the fympathetie

inks, and of a picture drawn in them ; and

a receipt to make them is given in a note.

   The nymphs are now exhorted to quit

the fummer-regions when the dog-ftar

ihall prefide in them. It's often blighting
influence on the fruits of the earth is illuf-

trated by an alluiion to the fate of Semele.
Then rifes an iceland fcene, and an aftro-

nomic perfonification. Look at
                    if          cour-

                                             it,
                                                          in
teous reader, and      with eyes of Indiffer-

ence, arraign the power of prejudice

thy mind, or fufpecl: thy want of tafte for

the higher orders of poetry.

There, in her azure coif, and ftarry flol^,
Grey Twilight fits, and rules the {lumbering Polrj
Bends the pale moon-bearrr round the fparkling co:Ui
And ftrews with livid hands eternal froft.

   An agency of the ignited particles in
creation, that of feparating the ice-iflands,

fancifully induces  a  commahd from the

                                Goddcf^
Dft. DARWIN.  2C

Goddefs, that her nymphs Ihould float their
broken mafles of ice to the torrid climates,

It is adorned with the fcripture incident,

Elijah, on mount Carmel, invoking ^fire
from heaven, and the incident is given
with all the Darwinian power.

   This Canto terminates with the obedi-
ence of the nymphs, and a iimile for their
departure. They ftart from the foil, and

wing their duteous flight,

    While vaulted ikies, with ft reams of tranlient rays,

     Shine as they pals, and earth and ocean blaze.

   A comparative description of the fire-

works exhibited in great cities for the re-

turn of peace and liberty, after the cruel
oppreffions of war, is of the moft accurate

precifion ; but it is faulty as a iimile, from
it's extreme inferiority to the imaginary

objects which it is meant to illuftrate. The
nymphs of fire, flying on their appointed

errands., in every direction, illuminating,
                                                        with
2O6 MEMOIRS Of

with evanefcent flafhes, the whole horizon,
the fea, and the land, is fo grand an idea,

that the wheels, the dragons, the ferpents,

the mock ftars, and funs, of that ever
childifh exhibition, become ludicrous, as
fucceeding to a picture of fuch gay fub-
limity ; for fublimity is not always confined
to fombre obje&s. Proofs that it is not, are
found in the Paradife Loft. When Adam
obferves to Eve, on the approach of the

angel Michael, that the glorious fhape feerns
another morning rifen oil mid- noon, the
idea is no lefs fublime than it is gay.

   This apprehended injudicioufnefs of the

fire- work fimile fuggefts the remark, that
a few fuch erratic luxuriances of a pic-
turefque fancy, together with the peculiar
conftruclion of the Darwinian verfe, and

it's lavifh perfonification, enabled an highly

ingenious fatirift to burlefque the Loves of
the Plants, by the Loves of the Triangles.

Eminently fortunate for it's purpofe was
                                                                  the
                           DR. DARVV IN.

the thought of transforming cubes, and
cones, and cylinders, and other technical
terms of mathematic and mechanic fcience,
into nymphs and fwains, enamoured of
each other. The verfe of this ironical
poem is not only Darwinian, but it is
beautifully Darwinian. The very flightly
allufive power of feveral of the fimilies in
the Botanic Garden, is ridiculed with, in-

finite fubtlenefs and wit ; while the little

ftories in this hurlefque, fo comic in their
fcantinefs of refemblance, are very elegantly

told. That brilliant fatire amply refutes
Lord Shaftefbury's fyftem, that ridicule is
the teft of truth, and that it is impoffible

to ridicule with eftecl what is intrinfically

excellent. The warmeft admirers of Dr.
Darwin's fplendid poem, and of the inge-
nious theories and ftated experiments of

the notes, muft yet be amufed with fuch

grotefque imitation of each ; juft as they

                                                                        are
08 MEMOIRS OF

are diverted with the burlefque,  in the
Critic, of the death of Hotfpur,  and of

Eve's beautiful proteft to Adam*

Sweet is the breath of morn, &c.

   On the fubjecl of this fatire, Dr. Dar-
win wanted prefence of mind. Inftead of

pretending, as he did, never to have feen or

heard of the Loves of the Triangles, when

queftioned on the fubject, he mould volun*
tarily have mentioned that fatire every

where, and praifed it's wit and ingenuity,
He ought to have triumphed in a juft con-

fcioufnefs, that his poem could lofe none

of it's charms with the few, whofe praife
is fame, by the artful refemblance of this
falfe Florimel ; fecure that it's mock graces,

brilliant as they are, would foon melt away,

like the Nymph of Snow in the Fairie
Queen, while the genuine charms of his
rnufe muil endure fo long as the Englifh

                                                         language
DR. DARWIN.  2O9

language lhall exift ; nay, fliouldthat perifh,

Tranflation would preferve the Botanic

Garden as one of ks gems ; if not in ori-

ginal brightnefs, would at leaft retain all

that hoft of beauties which do not depend

upon the perhaps intransfufable felicities

of verbal expreffion. The lavifh magnifi-
cence of the imagery in this work, Genius

alone, bold, original, creative, and fertile
in the extreme, could have produced.
It's profufion may cloy the faftidious, it's
/pleridor may dazzle the poetically weak
of fight ; but ftill it is the refult of that
power, which Shakefpear chara&erifes
when he fays,

The Poet's eye, in a fine phrenzy rolling,

Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven,
And as Imagination bodies forth
The form of things unknown, the Poet's pen
Turns them to lhape, and gives to airy nothing

A local habitation, and a name.

P SECOND
2IO MEMOIRS OF

                     SECOND CANTO

   Opens with the charge of the Botanic

Queen to her Gnomes, who are here re-
ftored to that benevolent character allotted
to them by Roficrufms, and which, to fuit
his purpofe, Pope rendered malignant, in

the Rape of the Lock. She addrefles them

as miniftrant fpirits to fubterranean vege-

tation, and fpectators of all the aftrono-
mic and terraqueous wonders of creation ;
of the Sun exploding our planet, the Earth,

from his crater.
    Except to introduce an extremely fine

defcription of the fun's figns in the zodiac,
it would be difficult to guefs why the

Gnomes fliould be fuppofed to have pur-
fued the flying fphere, and encircled the
year's flarry girdle. Thoie fliould feem
employments better fuited to the allotted

nature of the Nymphs of Ignition, or at
Icaft of the Sylphs, than of thefe their

                                                        fubter-
DR. DARWIN.                211

iubterranean fitters. The epithet ardent,

" your ardent troops," is a feldom-found

inftance of inaccuracy in this poem, cor-

rected and polifhed with fuch elaborate

care ; eager, active, any thing rather than

an adjective metaphorically taken from

fire, the affigned element of the nymphs

recently difmifled.

   Next rifes the golden age, and Earth is
invefted with Edenic privileges and ex-

emptions. We are told, in a note, that

there is an ancient gem, reprefenting Venus

rifing out of the fea, fupported by two

Tritons ; that the allegory was originally an

hieroglyphic pi&ure, before letters were

invented, defcriptive of the formation of

the earth from the ocean. The poet takes
this opportunity of prefenting to his readers
the moft beautiful portrait of Venus, firft

emerging from her parent deep, that has
been given by any Bard, ancient or modern ;

and it's features are unborrowed as they

                     p 2,  are
 212 MEMOIRS OF

 are peerles. She has about her the trace*

 of the humid element, from which flic
 rifes, and they increafe her general lovcli-
 nefs and grace ; wringing, with rofy

 fingers, her golden trefles, as they hang
uncurled around her fair brows, while

bright drops of water roll from her lifted
arms, wander round her neck, ftand in
pearls upon her polifhed fhoulders and
back, and ftar with glittering brine her
whole lucid form. Thus the Darwinian
Venus,

         O'er the fmooth furge, on filver fandals flood,
        And look'd enchantment on the dazzled flood.

   The firft terreftrial volcano is next de-
fcribed ; an earthquake of incalculable

magnitude, producing continents and
iflands on the before united and level earth,
with feparating oceans rolling between

them. The birth of the Moon is now
reprefented as thrown from the Earth near

                                                                 the
                DR. DARWIN.  213

the fouth-pole, in confequence of this
primal convulfion, by the explofion of
water, or other vapors of greater power.

The lunar birth is thus beautifully prefent-

ed to the eye,

 When rofe the continents, and funk the main,
And Earth's huge fphere, exploding, burft in twain,
Gnomes, how you gaz'd, when from her wounded fide,
Where now the South-fea rails its wafte of tide,
Rofe, on fwift wheels, the Moon's refulgent car,
Circling the folar orb, a lifter ftar -,
Dimpled with vales, with fhining hills embofs'd,
And roird round Earth her airlefs realms of froft.

The difficulty of introducing theii

charming images any other way than by

reminding the Gnomes of what they are

fuppofed to have feen, gives us, in this ad-

drefs, the noun perfonal in apoftrophe, with

a frequency which, far from being graceful,
becomes almoft ludicrous ; as, " Gnomes,
" how you gaz'd ! &c."
                             " Gnomes,

" how you fhriek'd !"        " Gnomes

                p 3 <f how
214 MEMOIRS OF

 " how you trembled !" but infinite is

 the poetic fancy with which the hypo-
 thefis is maintained, of the earth being
ftruck from the crater of the fun, and the
 moon from the firft terreftrial volcano.

    The Goddefs now reminds her fubter-
ranean hand-maids of their affiftance in

having formed into marble and other petri-
fic fubftances, the diflblving fhells which

covered the prominent parts of the earth,
thrown up from her ocean in that firft

convulfion, by fub- marine fires. Sculpture
is here introduced, and poetic cafts of the

famous ancient ftatues, the Hercules, An-

tinous, Apollo, and Venus, rife from the
page, Roubilliac, unqueftionably the firft

ftatuary of the modern world, is praifed
with enthufiafm ; and Mrs. Darner, the

ingenious miftrefs of the chifel, with

delight.

   To the Gnomes is next imputed the
power of extra&ing the faline particles

                                                           from
DR. DARWIN.                                 215

from different kinds of earths; from prof-

trate woods, and from morafles ; and this

introduces the defcription of a town in the

immenfe falt-mines of Poland. Witb his

peculiar ingenuity, this Bard of Fancy ihows
us the faline city ; and that, and the ftatue
fuppofed to be Lot's wife, the river and
temple, gleam and fparkle on the imagi-
nation of every reader who has imagination.

To thofe who have it not, the magnificent
pageantries of this poem will pafs unreflecT;-

ed, unimpreffive,

And, like the bafelefs fabric of a vifion,
Leave not a wreck behind.

    Perfonification is furely carried too far
l^hen, in the next paffage, azotic gas is

made the love of the virgin air, and fird

transformed into a jealous rival, indignant
of the treacherous courtfliip. The trio arc

compared to Mars, Venus, and Vulcan, :

and the Homeric tale, of the enmefhed-

                                  P 4 ' pair,
 2l6 MEMOIRS OF

pair, is told again. The mechanifm of the
net; the ftruggles of the guilty goddefs to
efcape; her impatient exhortations to her
nymphs, to difunite the links of the iron
net- work; her efforts to conceal her beau-
ties from the furrounding deities, have all
that truth to nature with which criticifm

has juftly obferved, Shake/pear draws the

manners of his imaginary beings. With
much more of that appropriate verity has

Darwin told this ftory than Homer, and
not more voluptuoufly. This is the only
paflage in the Botanic Garden which can
juftly be taxed with voluptuoufnefs, and
with Homer its author mares the cenfure.

Homer, whofe morality has been fo loudly,
but fo partially applauded, fince his deities

are all either libertine or unjuft ; and of
his heroes, only one is in himfelf a virtu-
ous man, and he defends the caufe of his

guilty brother, and does not once urge the

reiteration of the ftolen wife to her in-

                                                          jured
DR. DARWIN.  217

jured hufband, an atonement not only in
itfelf due, but which muft have raifed the

fiege, faved the city, and fpared immenfe

effufion of human blood. The ftory, if

really founded on hiftoric circumftances,

might not have authorifed the reftoration
of Helen, but it was in the poet's power
to have made Hector urge it.

  If the Homeric fable of Mars and Venus,

in Vulcan's net, repeated by Darwin with

new circumftances, more pifturefque, not

more indelicate, forms one fomewhat li-

centious paffage in the Botanic Garden,
the Iliad contains feveral which are equally-

voluptuous, even after Pope has chaftened

them. As to the amours of the Plants and

Flowers, it is a burlefque upon morality to
make them refponfible at its tribunal. The
floral harems do not form an imagi-
nary but a real fyftem, which philofophy
has difcovered, and with which poetry
fports. The impurity is in the imagination

                                                        of
2l8 MEMOIRS OF

of the reader, not on the pages of the poet,

when the Botanic Garden is considered on
the whole, as an immodeft competition.

   From the net of Vulcan, and the lovers
it entangles, the Poet leads us to his forge,
after the mention of iron, as produced by
the decompofition of vegetable bodies.

To perceive the ftrength and truth of the
Forge-picture, no power of imagination,
on the part of the reader, is neceflary ;
memory is iufficient. Who has not feen

a blackfmith's mop, and heard its din ?
Here it blazes and refounds on the page.

The formation of magnetic bars enfues.
Though the power of the magnet has been
known and applied to ufe from very early

times, yet the Poet imputes thefe artificial
magnets to their laft improver, the per-

fonal friend of his youth, Mr. Michel],

mentioned early in thefe memoirs. Of

Mr. Michell's procefs in this improvement
Dr. Darwin has formed another poetic

                                                     defcription,
         DR. DARWIN.  219

defcription, fo diftincT: that the operation

may be performed from perufing it atten-

tively.

    And now we meet an animated apof-
trophe to Steel, praifmg its ufe in navigation,
agriculture, and war. This applaufive
addrefs is one of the grandeft in the poem,
where fo many are grand. What has

poetry more noble than thefe firft fix lines
of that eulogium ?

    Hail adamantine Steel ! magnetic Lord,
    King of the prow, the ploughfhare, and the fword !
    True to the pole, by thee the pilot guides
    His fteady courfe amid the ftruggling tides !
     Braves, with broad fail, th' immeafurable fea,
     Cleaves the dark air, and afks no flar but thec!

   A defcription of Gems lucceeds to that

apoftrophe, as a work of the Gnomes, by
whom, from marine acids mixed with the
fhells of marine animals, and of calcareous,
and argillaceous earths, they are here flip-

                                                              pofed
22&'  MEMOIRS OF

 pofed to be, from time to time, produced.
Thcfe natural transformations are com-

paratively illuftrated by thofe of Ovidian

 fable ; and Proteus-gallantries are retold

even more beautifully than Ovid has told

them, particularly the flory of Europa. It

is here, beyond all poffible tranfcendence,

exquifite, and it clofes with a ipirited com-
pliment to the natives of Europe.

    Returning to the fubjecT:, the Goddefs

reminds her Gnomes of having feen the

fubterranean volcanos forming the various

fpecies of clay ; from the porcelain of
China, and of ancient Etruria, to thofe

ufed in the beautiful productions of its

modern namefake, brought to fo much

perfection by the late Mr. Wedgewood.
The mechanifm of the porcelain of China,
with its ungraceful forms and gaudy orna-
ments, rifes on the page. The fuperiority,
in the two laft circumftances, of our Eng-

lifh Etruria, is aflerted, as producing " un-
                                         " copied
t>R. DARWIN.  421

" copied beauty and ideal grace ;" and its

mechanifm is alfo given, but in terms fo

technical as to fpoil the harmony of the

verfe in that paflage. Satire has caught

hold of the feldom harfhnefs, triumphantly
difplaying it in the Loves of the Triangles*

   Mr. Wedgewood is addrefled as at once
the friend of Art and Virtue. His me-

dallion of the Negro-flave in chains, im-

ploring mercy, is mentioned as reproach-

ing our great national fin againft juftice

and mercy, fo long refilling the admo-

nitions of Benevolence and Piety, in tho
fenate ; alfo another medallion of Hope,
attended by Peace, and Art, and Labour,

" It was made of clay from Botany Bay,
" and many of them were fent thither, to
" fliow the inhabitants what their materials
" would do, and to encourage their in-

*' duftry." The emblematic figures on

the Portland Vafe, fo finely imitated in our

new Etruria, next appear in all the charms

                                                        of
                                MEMOIRS OF

of poetry, while the truth of their ingeni-

ous conftruclion is fupported in the notes
with wonderful learning and precifion, fo

as to leave no doubt on the unprejudiced

mind, that the Bard of Linneus has ex-
plained their real defign. This addrefs

to Mr. Wedge wood clofes with the aflerted

immortality of his productions.
   Coal, Jet, and Amber, are next imperfon-

ized, an individual for the fpecies. The

latter is placed on his " electric throne,"

as a material, the natural properties of
which were the fource of the difcoveries

in el e <Sri city, and from which the name

of that branch of modern fcience is derived,

electron being the Greek word for amber.

Led by its phofphoric light, Dr. Franklin
comes forward in the. aft of difarming the
lightning of its dire effects, by his electrical

rods. His influence in procuring the free-

dom of America is applauded with much

poetic imagery. The Ihort-lived freedom
                                                         of
DR. DARWIN. .                       223

of Ireland, in her acquirement of felf-legif-

lation, is allegorized by " the warrior Li-

" berty, helming his cqurfe to her fhores."

   Another bold figure of Liberty fucceeds,
prefented as a giant form, flumbering with-
in the iron cage and marble walls of the
French Baftile, unconfcious of his chains,
till, touched by the patriot flame, he rends

his flimly bonds, lifts his coloffal form,

and rears his hundred arms over his foes ;

calls to the good and brave of every country,
with voice that echoes like the thunder of

heaven, to the polar extremities ;

        Gives to the winds his banner broad unfurl'd,
       And gathers in its fhade the living world !

   This lublime fally of a tco-confidig

imagination has made the poet and his

work countlefs foes. They triumph ovef

him on a refult fo contrary ; on the mortal
wounds given by French crimes to real
liberty. They forget, or choofe to forget,

                                                            that
               MEMOIRS OF

that this part of the poem (though pub-

lifhed after the other) appeared in 1791,

antecedent to the dire regicide, and to all

thofe unprecedented fcenes of fanguinary
cruelty inflicled on France by three of her

republican tyrants, compared to whom the

moft remorfelefs of her monarchs was mild

and merciful.

   The Botanic Queen now reminds her
Gnomes of the means they had ufed to

produce metallic fubftances ; and, from the

mention of filver and gold, me ftarts into

a fpirited and noble exclamation over the
cruelties committed by catholic fuperfti-

tion, in the Eaft and Weft Indies ; and

from them me turns, with equal indigna-

tion, to the Slave Trade, that plague-fpot

on the reputation of our national huma-

nity ! that crying fin in the practice of our

national religion! Greatly is it to the honor

of our Englim poets, within the laft twenty

years, that, w7ith very few exceptions, the

          '                beft
2
DR. DARWIN.  225

beft and moft highly-gifted of them have

fought their way to fame beneath the ban-

ners of Freedom and Mercy, whofe eternal

nature no national or individual abufe, no

hypocritical affumption, can change.

   Thefe inftances of unchriftian barbarity
lead to the ftory of the cruel and impious

Cambyfeson his march tofubdue Ethiopia,

after having deftroyed the temples and de-

vafted the country of Thebes, and mafTa-
cred its inhabitants. The fate of that

army is defcribed which he fent to plunder

the temple of Jupiter, and which perifhed
in the defert overwhelmed by fand. The
Gnomes are confidered as minifters of that
juft vengeance, and of the famine by which
it was preceded ; and this, by withholding

the dews, and blafting vegetation, and by
fummoning the whirlwinds which caufe

the fatal rife of the fand-tornados. The

iucceffive horrors that overtook this army
are depided W7ith the higheft intereft and

Q grandeur,
 226 MEMOIRS OF

 grandeur. They rife in climax till the
 final overwhelming is thus brought to the
 fhuddering imagination of the reader.

                                    awhile the living hill
        Heav'd with con vul five throes, and all was ftill !

language has nothing of more genuine

fublimity.

    Turning from this dread tragedy, the

Botanic Queen aflumes a livelier ftrain,
and compares her little minifters to the

planets in an orrery. That beautiful ma-
chine is defcribed with it's fairy-mimicry
of the ftellar evolutions. She exhorts her
nymphs to the practice of feveral benevo-
lent operations, guarding againft the mif-
chiefs of elementary excefs. Hannibal's

renowned march over the Alps, againft
tyrannic Rome, and the fuppofed means
by which Ke facilitated his progrefs, are

held up to their imitation. To this fuc-

ceeds an exhortation to feed the embryons,
                                                                 and
DR. DARWIN.                                   227

and forward the parturition of trees, plants,
and flowers. For thofe offices a medical

fimile occurs, and afterwards a fcripture
ftory is told, Peter releafed from prifon by
an angel, and to that angel the illuftri-
oufly benevolent Howard is compared.

   Imputed affiftance, on the. part of thefc
fubterranean nymphs, in the chemical
decompofition of animal and vegetable
fubftances, introduces the ancient fable of

the flaughtered, buried, and affurgent
Adonis. His ftory is told with not lefs

added poetic excellence than, with accef-
fion of perfonal beauty, he is faid to have
arifen from the dark manfions of Profer-

pine, and to have returned to Venus. Dr.
Darwin's reafons, given in the note to this

paflage, for rejecting former interpretations

of that allegory, are convincing ; and his
fubftituted folution is not only highly in-

genious, but deeply philofophic ; and good

ienfe fanclions the conjecture.               This

                                        Q 2,
 22$ MEMOIRS OF

   This fable clofes the addrefs of the
Goddefs to her Gnomes. Their elfin flight

on their appointed errands, is defcribed
with playful elegance, and compared to
the fucceffive fhadows that pafs over a

funny vale beneath the light clouds. With

that comparifon the fecond Canto termi-

nates. If the Gnomes make their exit

with lefs poetic fplendor than their prede-
ceflbrs, it muft be confidered that the
Nymphs of Fire are perfonages of more
mtrinfic dignity.

                THE THIRD CANTO

     Opens with a charge to the Water
Nymphs, and we are told that the Goddefs
gives it in tones fo fweet and fbnorous as
to fliake the wrinkling fountains, curl the
deep wells, rimple the lakes, and thrill the

rivers*

   The three firft words felefted to exprefs
the different kind of aclual vibration on the

                                                       fountains,
DR. DARWIN.  229

fountains, wells, and lakes, are inftances of

that nice difcrimination which imparts fo

much vitality to verfe, and gives back to

the reader his faded recollection of the ob-

jeCts of nature in their comparative dif-
tinftions. Though he may have viewed
them often with unexamining eyes, yet no
fooner do they arife before him on the

poetic page than he recognifes their truth
with the thrill of delight ; for who that
looks into the records of the Mufes, how-

ever infenfible to the creations of Fancy,

can view without pleafure the faithfully
reflefled image of nature in the fubtle
variety of her lineaments.

 Thick as the dews which deck the morning flowers*
' Or rain-drops twinkling in the fun-bright fhowers,
 Fair nymphs, emerging in pellucid bands,
 Rife, as me turns, and whiten all the lands.

   Their miftrefs tells them alfo, how much
flue is confcious of their power and ufe, in

the formation, fuftenance, and protection of

                             Q3
                           MEMOIRS OF

the vegetable world. In the exordium of

this charge we meet a couplet rivalling in
pifturefque beauty the lines in Collins'
charming, though rhymelefs Ode to Even-
ing, when he tells the grey-ftoled per-
fonage, that, from his hut on the mountain
fide, he loves to contemplate, in a fliowery
twilight,

        The hamlets brown, and dim-difcover'd fpires,
        And hear their limple bells, and mark o'er all

                   Her dewy fingers draw
                   The gradual, dufky veil.

    The Botanic Queen fays to her aqueous
 mmiftry in thefe rival lines,

        Your lucid hands condenfe, with fingers chill,
         The blue mift hovering round the gelid hill.

    This charge has one harm line ; thus,

             And as below fhe braids her hyaline hair.

     The employment gentle, the attitude
 graceful, that harfhnefs of meafure which

                                                                           is
BR. DARWIN.  231

is often fkilful when ufed to exprefs violent

exertion, is here cenfurable.

   Thefe new vicegerents are praifed as
feeding the harveft, filling the wide-ribbed
arch with hurrying torrents, to affift the
operation of the mill and the progrefs of
the barge, and leading the refluent water
to it's parent main. Thefe operations on
the water induce a fimile for the progref-
five and returning courfe of the blood.
The purpureal tint it gives to the fair com-
plexion of youthful beauty ; the warm
glow to her hair, the laugh of health to

her lip, and it's lightning to her eyes, form
a lovely piclure in this fimile ; and it clofes
with a medical obfervation in a fine poetic

figure.

   Juft difcernment will not ceafe to ad-

mire the facile fuccefs and artful grace
with which this Poet fubdues the difficulty

of rendering all forts of fcience fubfervient
to the purpofes of high heroic verfe ; or

to obferve how feldom even the moft

Q4           technical
232 MEMOIRS OF

technical terms diminifh the harmony

of his meafure, or the elegance of his

imagery.

   Mighty fvvay is attributed to the aque-
ous ladies over thofe realms of fcale and

fhell, which are covered by the fea ; and
they are coniidered as architects of the
pearly palaces of the fifli. The modern
experiment of fmoothing rough waves
with oil, is coniidered as their fuggeftion ;
alfo various fub- marine and benevolent in-

fluences. To them the birth of rivers,
from the Alpine fnows. The Danube, the

Rhine, and the Tiber, are mentioned ; the

laft as flowing through his degenerate
realms with diminifhed waters. The fea-
tures of that degeneracy are marked ; the
race of patriots, heros, and legillators, long
iince become fingers, dancers, and monks ;
and the paffage concludes with this fublime
picture of the prefent ftate of that long-

yenowned river :

Parts with chill ftream, the dim religious bower,
Time- mouldered baftion, and difmantled tower 5

                                                   By
                         an. DARWIN^

      By alter'd fanes, and namelefs villas glides,
     And claflic domes, that tremble on his fides 5
     Sighs o'er each broken urn and yawning tomb,

    And mourns the fall of Liberty and Rome.

   Rivers being the iubjecT:, the Nile and

it's annual overflow, gives rile to grand
allegoric imagery, and to nobly-imagined
fcenes. That overflow is afcribed to the
monfoon winds, which deluge Nubia and
Abyflinia with rain.

    Sailing in air, when dark Monfoon enmrouds
    His tropic mountains in a night of clouds 5
    Or, drawn by whirlwinds, from the Line returns,
    And fhowers on Afric all his thoufand urns j
    High o'er his head the beams of Sirius glow,

    And, dog of Nile, Anubis, barks below.
    Nymphs, you from cliff to cliff attendant guide,
    In headlong cataracts, the impetuous tide ;
    Or lead o'er waftes of Abyffmian fands

    The bright expanfe to Egypt's iliowerlefs lands.

   Her towns, her temples, and fultry plains
are contrafted with a fublime description
of Hecla and his burning mountain. It's
column of boiling water is transformed into

                                                         a ma-
2J4- MEMOIRS OP

a malignant Sorcerefs, whofe baleful fpells
had been broken by the power of thefe

benevolent Naiads.

   The hypothecs, that warm falubrious

fprings are produced by fteam arifing from
water falling on fubterranean fires, and
that this fteam is condenfed between the

ftrata of incumbent mountains, and col-

lected into fprings, occafions a fportive

addrefs to Buxton. It is fucceeded by an
elegant compliment to the Duchefs of
Devonfhire, leading a train of Graces from

Chatfworth to that tepid fountain. From
the epithet fairy given to legions, we fhould
fuppofe thefe Graces a part of the machinery
of the Poet ; but, as the paflage proceeds,
it defcribes beautiful young women bath-
ing with fuch exquifite precifion, that the
fcene of action coniidered, it becomes im-
 poffible to contemplate them as ideal per-

 fonages, efpecially as the laft couplet is

 utterly at war with aerial fubftance ; thus,

                                                                                   Round
DR. DARWIN.  235

      Round each fair Nymph her dropping mantle clings,
     And Loves emerging (hake their fhowery wings.

    The Loves, which are indifputably ma-

chinery, confufe the picture, if the Nymphs

alfo are of that fpecies. The expreffion,
fairy legions, is to be regretted ; it renders

the lively and lovely defcription ame-
nable to Dr. Johnfon's cenfure of a pafTage

in one of our poets, " that it is metaphoric
" in one point of view, and literal in

 (< another."

    The Duke of Devonlhire's public fpirit

 and architectural tafte, next become the

theme, and they involve a charming pic-
ture of the Crefcent, that gem of Grecian
art in Britain ; and of the new plantations
which furround it. Derbyfhire ftone has an
 amber tint, and hence the Buxton Qrefcent
 rifes a golden palace in the defert.

    The Goddefs next congratulates her
Water Nymphs on having celebrated the

                                                                  odd
236 MEMOIRS OP

odd nuptials of pure Air and inflammable
Gas. We had heard of their courtihip
earlier in the poem. That courtfhip, and

this their marriage, forms one of the wild-
eft extravagances of the work ; but the
Homeric fable, which illuftrates the airy
bride and groom, is charming in the firft
degree. Juno, attired by Venus, to cap-

tivate Jove. With the moft luxuriant

fancy, and with new circumftances, this
little drama rifes again on the Darwinian

page. It will not lofe, but gain in a juft
eftimation of poetic merit, by comparifon

with the tranilations, by Cowper and Pope,
of this celebrated part of the Greek Poet's
machinery. Let them be compared, and
firft Cowper's literal tranilation, firft edition.

                              Firft, (he lav'd all o'er
        Her beauteous body with ambrofial lymph;
        Then polifh'd it with richeft oil divine,
       Of boundlefs fragrance. Oil, that in the courts
         Eternal only fhaken through the ikies

                                                                                       Breath'4
DR. DARWIN.                           237

Breath'd odours, and through all the diftant earth *.
Her whole fair body with thefe fweets bedew'd,
She pafs'd the comb through her ambrofial hair,
And braided her light locks ftreaming profufe

From her immortal brows ; with golden fluds
She made her gorgeous mantle fail before j
Etherial texture, labour of the hands

Of Pallas, beautified with various arts,

And brac'd it with a zone, fring'd all around
An hundred fold j her pendants, triple gemm'd,
Luminous, graceful in her ears me hung f- .
And covering all her glories with a veil
Sun-bright, new woven, bound to her fair feet
Her fandals elegant. Thus full attir d
In all her ornaments, me iflued forth,
And beck'ning Venus from the other powejfll

Of Heav'n apart, the Goddefs thus befpake.

Pope's tranflation of the fame pafTage.

 Here firft me bathes, and round her body pours
Soft oils of fragrance, and ambrofial mowers.
The winds perfum'd, the balmy gale convey
Through heav'n, through earth, and all th' aerial way,
Spirit divine I whofe exhalation greets
The fenfe of Gods with more than mortal fweets.

Obfcure and very awkward expreffion.  f Moil unpoetic.
                       MEMOIRS OF

Thus, while (he breath'd of heav'n, with decent pride
Her artful hands the radiant treffes tied ;
Part o'er her head in (Inning ringlets roll'd,
Part o'er her (houlders wav'd like melted gold 5
Around her neck a heavenly mantle flow'd

That rich with Pallas' labour'd colours glow'd ;
Large clafps of gold the foldings gather'd round $

A golden zone her fwelling bofom hound ;

Far-beaming pendants tremble in her car,
Each gem illumin'd with a triple (tar;
Then o'er her head (he cafts a veil more white
Than new fall'n fnow, and dazzling as the light}
Laft, her fair feet celeftial fan dais grace.
Thus ifluing radiant, with majeftic pace,
Forth from the dome th 1 imperial Goddefs moves,
And calls the mother of the Smiles and Loves.

   Pope has mown better tafte in female

drefs than his mafter. A zone with an

hundred folds of fringe upon mud be
                   is

                                    it,

                                                             a
very heavy and inelegant ornament. The

zone of plain gold, fubftituted by the

rhyme tranflator,  grander and more

graceful as well as more fimple.

Darwin, who gives this fable after his

own manner, tells us, that Venus not only

                                  lent
DR. DARWIN.  239

lent the ceftus, but attired the Goddefs

herfelf ; and paffing over the claffic cere-

mony of the bath, and the operation of the
oils, which perhaps he thought too Hotten-

totifli, he defcribes more concifely, yet not

lefs brilliantly, this magnificent labour of

the toilette; thus,

     So, rob'd by Beauty's Queen, with fofter charms,

     Saturn! a woo'd the Thunderer to her arms j
    O'er her fair limbs a veil of light (he fpread,
    And bound a ftarry diadem on her head j
    Long braids of pearls her golden trefles grac'd,
    And the charm'd ceftus fparkled round her waift.

   The ceftus is here a vifible and brilliant
ornament, inftead of being, as Homer af-
terwards tells us, hid in Juno's bofbm.
Pope, in a note to this paffage, obferves,

that, by this difpofal, the Poet meant to

convey an idea of the matron-like modefty
of Juno, who conceals what is to render

her engaging ; while Venus, wearing the
ceftus in open fight, oftentatioufly difplays
the means by which me captivates : but

              7 this
           MEMOIRS OF

this fort of lefler morality belonged not

to the times in which Homer lived ; nei-

ther is peculiar delicacy at all characleriftic

of the Juno he has drawn. His more

probable reafon for making her hide this

ornamental fpell, was the danger that Jupi-
ter, if he faw the borrowed zone, fo often

feen on the perfon of his daughter, would

know  it,  and, confcious of it's power to

excite paffion, would have been aware of

the defign of his wife, and either not al-
lowed of the interview, or difarmed the-

girdle of it's magic. Supreme wifdom muft

have foiled difcavercd art. Neither of thefe
fuppofitions occurred to Dr. Darwin, or
perhaps his Juno alfo had hidden her gay

talifman.

   Homer exprefsly fays, Juno did not take
her chariot on this conjugal vifit; but Dar-

win allots her that mode of conveyance,

and the change enabled him to affign to

the Emprefs of Heaven her due pomp and

                       {lately
DR DARWIN.  241

{lately retinue. Upon this imperial and

celeftial equipage the modern poet has
laviflied all the fplendorsof his imagination.
Cupid is the charioteer, and Zephyr flies
before, fhowcring rofes from his wings ;

Naiads and Dryads, Fawns and Wood-Boys
are in the train. The reader is empowered,
by diftinctnefs of poetic dcfcription, to pur-
fue the chariot with his eye, as it afcends .
the fteeps of Ida, now loft in it's thick
woods, now in full blaze, winding around

it's rocks.

   But furely there is an error of judgment
in making Cupid wring an arrow to the
breaft of Jove, as the retinue approaches,
fince that mode of awakening the paffions
of Jupiter for his queen, renders the charm-

ed ceftus a fuperfluous gift. And again, this
gay car is reprefented as drawn by doves ;
from- which it fhould feem that Venus had
lent her equipage, as well as her girdle, on

that occafion.

                                 R The
242 MEMOIRS OF

   The addrefs of the God to his Goddefi

is incomparably more elegant in the verfe

of Darwin than in the tranflation of Cow-
per, or even of Pope. Thus fays Cowper,

\vith all that cramp literality which hob-
bles through his verfion.

    Soon he accofted her, and thus inquir'd :

   " Juno, what region feeking, haft thou left
    " Th' Olympian fummit, and haft here arriv'd
   " With neither fteeds nor chariot in thy train ?"

                               POPE.

     Fix'd on her eyes he fed his eager look,
     Then prefs'd her hand, and thus tranfported fpoke :

    " Why comes my Goddefs from th' etherial Iky,
    " And not her fteeds, and flaming chariot nigh ?*"

                           DARWIN.

     Pierc d on his throne, the darting Thund'rer turns.
     Melts with foft fighs, with kindling rapture burns j
     Clafps her fair hand, and eyes, in fond amaze,
     The bright Intruder with enamour'd gaze ;

    " And leaves my Goddefs, like a blooming bride,

    " The fanes of Argos, for the rocks of Ide j
     M Her gorgeous palaces, and amaranth bos^crs,

    " For clirT-top'd mountains, and aerial towers ?"
            3 But
                            1>R. DARWIN.

    But to refume the Botanic Goddefs and
her enumeration of the interefting employ-
ments of her third clafs of Nymphs ; their
difpofal of all thofe bright waters which
make Britain irriguous, verdant, and fertile.

We find this beautiful couplet in the courfe
of the paflage :

       You, with nice ear, in tiptoe trains pervade
       Dim walks of morn *, or evening's filent (hade,

    She then places them on the fhore,

liftening to it's paufmg murmurs, and to

the fong of the Nereid, as on her playful

fea-horfe fhe glides over the twilight- main.

Another exquifite pidure arifes, profefledly
from an antique gem. Great fkill is fhown
in varying the attitude, appearance, and
employments of this beautiful Sea-Nymph,
on her voyage, from thofe of Europa,
croffing the fea on her bull, in the preced-

* What exquifite picture !  ing
               R 3-
244 MEMOIRS OF

ing Canto. Her's is a day, and this is a

night voyage. Europa draws up her feet

beneath her robe, fearful of touching the

water ; thcjecure Nereid drops them care-
lefsly down. Europa clings timidly round

the neck of her Taurus, and refts her cheek
upon the curls of his forehead, while her
mantle floats unheeded on the breeze. The

Nereid has no apprehenfion ; flie and her
fteed are both in their element. She gives
him the rein, lifts her eyes to the evening
ftar, and fmgs the birth of Venus. She
reftrains her arching veil, with her hands,

from floating on the gales of night, while
the mantle of, Europa was abandoned to
the day-breeze. The Nereid is without

fear, and therefore attends to the prefer-

vation of her drefs ; Europa is fomewhat

frightened, and therefore pays no attention
to hers. Thefe differences, however ap-

parently, are not really trivial. The mere
verfifier knows not how to create them.

                                                        The
DR. DARWIN.  24$

The Poet knows their importance; how

much they will infpirit his portraits, and
diftinguiih them from each other. In the

progrefs of this epifode the Nereid loofes
her veil (we may conclude the wind had
fallen) and we meet the following defcrip-
tion of a very graceful operation, that of a

lovely female combing her lavifh treffes :

O'er her fair brow her pearly comb unfurls
Her beryl locks, and parts the waving curls ;

Each tangled braid, with/glift'ning teeth unbinds,
And with the floating treafure mulks the winds.

   This is not a repetition of the employ-
ment of the new- born Venus, in the fecond

Canto. She had recently /emerged, and
therefore her hair muft neceffarily hang

uncurled, and flie is in the attitude of

wringing the water from her golden trefles;
than which no pofition can be more fa-
vourable to female fymmetry.

     Do&or Darwin's poem paints every
attitude and employment which, in either

                          R3 fex,
246 MEMOIRS OP

fex, can be rendered elegant. No author

ever had a mind more keenly awakened
to grace in all its varieties, or could more
exquifitely paint it.

   That perception, and that talent, the, in
his clafs of compofition, peerlefs Richardfon
poflefled in an equal degree. No profe-
writer ever was, or perhaps ever will be, fb

great a painter ; and to that power what a

conftellation of other endowments contri-
buted to immortalize the pages of ClarhTa

and Grandifon ! Novels no longer, but

Englifli Claffics, tranflated into every Eu-

ropean language, and in all foreign countries

confidered as fome of the nobleft efforts of
Britifh Genius, ,

    But the Darwinian Nereid has been left
 a, little before hey time; other eircum-
 fiances attend her, too poetic to remain

 unnoticed. Her fong " thrills the waves ;"

 and the lhadowy Forms of Night gleam on

 the margin of the fliore, " with pointed

                                                               ears/ 1
            DR. DARWIN.                           247

" ears/' to denote the a<5l of liftening.

Perhaps that chara&eriftic had been better

omitted, fmce it belongs to brute, not to

human animals, and is at war with the

imaginary grace of thefe twilight forms.

The Moon paufes, and the Stars ihoot from

their fpheres to liften. That laft circum-

ftance is evidently from Shakefpear's alle-

gory in The Midfummer Night's Dream,

alluding to the confpiracies formed in favor

of the imprifoned Queen of Scotland, by
the Duke of Norfolk, and other noblemen

of the court of Elizabeth. This is the

allegory :

I faw a Mermaid on a Dolphin's back

Uttering fuch dulcet and harmonious founds,
That tlje rude fea grew civil at her fong,
And certain ftars ihot madly from their fpheres,

To hear the Sea-Maid's mufic.

   That he might guard againft the dif-
pleafure of Elizabeth for this fally, it is
immediately followed by as high an allego-
ric compliment paid to herfelf.

                           R 4 On
243 MEMOIRS OF

   On the Poet's difmiflal of the Nereid,
the death of Mrs. French of Derby, is
introduced as a fubjecl: of forrow to the
Water- Nymphs of its riv^er. This picture
of Milcena is very lovely, ftraying with her
infants on the banks of the Derwent, and

pondering, with fcientific eye, the infefls
and plants on the fhores of that flream.
There is a tender ftrain of morality in this
pafTage ; but the annexed epitaph on Mrs.
French, however beautiful as poetry, is by

no means fit for it's originally purpofed
fituation, a tombftone in the great church

at Derby. The author of thefe memoirs
is ignorant whether, or not, it is there in-

fcribed. " Clouds of filver, and Beauty
" pleading for her hufband's errors at the
" throne of God/' may form a very poeti-

cal, but it is a very heathenim refurre&ion.
   The mention of Brindley, the Father of

commercial Canals, has propriety as well

as happinefs.  Similitude for their courfe,
                                                         to
       I
       DR. DARWIN.                                                249

to the finuous track of a ferpent, pro-
duces a fine piclure of a gliding animal of
that fpecies, and it is fucceeded by thefe

fupremely happy lines :

So, with flrong arm, immortal Brindley leads            !

His long canals, and parts the velvet meads $                ft,
Winding in lucid lines, the watery mafs
Mines the firm rock, or loads the deep morafs ;
With riling locks a thoufand hills alarms,

Flings o'er a thoufand ftreams it's filver arms $
Feeds the long vale, the nodding woodland laves,
And Plenty,, Arts, and Commerce, freight the waves.

   Nymphs, who erewhile on Brindley's early bier,
On fnow-white bofoms (hower'd th' incefTant tear,
Adorn his tomb! Oh, raife the marble bu
Proclaim his honors, and protect his duft

With urns inverted, round the facred flirine
Their ozier wreaths let weeping Naiads twine,
While on the top mechanic Genius ftands,

Counts the fleet waves, and balances the fands!

There  note to this paflage, which
it

                   is
                      a
                                                     a
urges the duty of erecting monument to

Brindley in Lichfield Cathedral. Certainly
    would be to the credit of thofe who

                                                                  fhould
250 M KM (MRS OF

                      ;

                        it,

                                                          a
fhould iubfcribe to raife fince the county

of Stafford has been fo materially benefited

by byhis fuccefsful plans but in the above

   aaeulogium, Dr. Darwin has given him
             is
more enduring memorial than ftone or

marble could beftow.

The mechanifm of the pump next
                      it

                           is
                                          is
defcribed with curious ingenuity. Com-

mon as the machine,   not unworthy

of place in this fplendid compofition, as

being, after the finking of wells, the earlieft

of thofc inventions, which, in fituations

of exterior aridnefs, gave ready acceffion to

water. This familiar object illuftratedis

       picture of Maternal Beauty adminif-

tering fuftenance to her Infant. To that

fucceeds an energetic reproof, and pathetic
admonition to mothers in affluent life,

whom indolence, or diflipation, feduces to

the unnatural neglect of that delightful
duty. For an infant flumbering on the

maternal bofom which has nourished him,

                                              there
                         DR. DARWIN.

there is the following allegoric fimile, of no

common elegance :

    Thus, charm'd to fweet repofe, when twilight hours
     Shed their foft influence on celeftial bowers,
    The cherub, Innocence, with fmile divine,
     Shuts his white wings, and fleeps on Beauty's flyine.

   The Ode to Morning, in Elfrida, con*
tains a nearly refembling image ; thus :

           Away, ye Elves, away,
            Shrink at ambrofial morning's living ray !
        That living ray, whofe power benign
          Unfolds this fcene of glory to our eye,
            Where, thron'd in artlefs majefty,
        The cherub Beauty fits on Nature's ruftic flirine.

    Probably to the involuntary plagiarism

of forgotten impreffion, we owe this fifter-
piflure on the page of Dr. Darwin,

   The ufe of water by the fire-engine next

occurs. Poetry has nothing more fublime

than this, the preceding pidure of a Town

on Fire :

      From dome to dome when flames infuriate ciimb, ;
      Sweep the long tfreet. inveft the tower fublirne ;

                                                                                      Gi!4
?52 MEMOIB5- OF j

    Gild the tail vanes amid th' aftonifh'd night,
    And reddening heaven returns the fanguine light j
    While, with vaft ftrides and briflling hair, aloof
    Pale Danger glides along the falling roof;
    And giant Terror, howling in amaze,
    Moves his dark limbs acrofs the lurid blaze :
    Nymphs, you firft taught the gelid waves to rife,,
    Hurl'd in refplendent arches to the ikies j
   In iron cells cqndens'd the airy fpring,
    And imp'd the torrent with unfailing wing ;
    On the fierce flame the fliower impetuous falls,
   .And fudden darknefs fhrouds the fhatterd walls j
     Steam., fmoke, and dufl, in blended volumes roll,
    And Night and Silence repoffefs the pole.

   Dryden, in his Annus Mirabilis, has
defcribed the great fire in London. Some
very fine lines occur in that defcription,
but it is prolix and feeble in comparifbri
with the above.

   The melancholy circumftances of the
Woodmafon family, and that of Lady
Molefworth, each of whom fuffered dread-

fully by fire, are next pourtrayed with
much pathetic folemnity, and the Water-

                                                     Nymphs
DR. DARWIN.  253

Nymphs are reproached for not having

.prevented thofe evils.

    After this mournful little drama, the

Botanic Queen allots new tafks to thefe

her hand-maids in the care of vegetation,
and they are beautifully fpecified. To
them fucceeds an highly interefting pic-
ture of Sympathy in a female form, bend-

ing over a rock to affift the fhip- wrecked
mariners ; fhe is Ihown afterwards as fup-

porting feeble Age on her arm, pouring

balm into the wounds of Sorrow ; match-

ing the dagger from Defpair ; lulling Envy
to fieep, and while fhe repofes, .ftealing her
envenomed arrows from her quiver. An

animated eulogium on a benevolent young

lady of Ireland, diverfifies thefe commif-

fions; alfo three of Hercules' labors. A

flooded country, is prefented in the deluged
Etolia ; and the Water Fiend, who caufed
the inundation, and whom Hercules fub-

dues a fecond time, when affuming the
                                                            form
 254 MEMOIRS or

 form of a make, it attempts tb efcape from
 the hero. It is thus admirably pictured :

      Then to a fnake the finny Demon turn'd,
     His lengthen'd form, with fcales of filver burn'd ;
     Lafh'd, with refiftlefs fweep, his dragon-train,
     And (hot meandering o'er th' affrighted plain.

    Perhaps the defcription of the Fiend's
next transformation into a Bull, is not

eminently judicious ; the terms " filver
" hoofs," and " flowery meadows," which

might well have fuited the gentle bull of
Europa, are too nice and gay to harmonize
well with the enraged monfter, one of
whofe horns was torn off by Hercules,

Of the habits and manners of that formi-

dable Brute, when incenfed, a very inferior
Poet, lately deceafed, has given a more

impreffive picture. We fometimes find
one or two good paflages in the writings of
ordinary verifiers. Sternhold's and Hop-
kins' nonfenfical and vulgar tranflation of
the Pfalms, contain eight lines which Pope

                                                         profefled
DR, DARWIN.                                                       255

profefled to envy. Though Hurdis was
chofen Profeflbr of Poetry in Oxford con-

trary to Pope's precept,

          Let fuch teach others who themfelves excel*

yet he has given a defcription of the
only very terrific Engliih animal, which,
when weeded of a long interrupting di-
greffion in the middle of about thun-

der-ftorm, forms the moft natural portrait
of malicious Bull that can perhaps be

found any of our poets thus,
a

      in

                                                     ;

                                     it,

                                                               a

                      Tis pleafure to approach,

And, by the ftrong fence mielded, view fecure
Thy terrors, Nature, in the favage Bull.

Soon as he marks me, be the tyrant fierce,

To earth defcends his head hard breathe his lungs
Upon the dufiy fod. A fulky leer

Gives double horror to the frowning curls
That wrap his forehead and ere long heard,
From the deep cavern of his lordly throat,

The growl infufferable. Tramples then
*
                               *j

                                              ;

                                                          is
Hire comes in the impertinent thunder ftorm.

                                                                  The
                            MEMOIRS OP

    The furly Brute, impatient of difdain,
    And fpurns the foil with irritated hoofj
    Himfelf inhaler of the dufty fod;
    Himfelf infulted by the pebbly mower,
    Which his vain fury raifes. Nothing fear'd,
    Let him, incens'd, from agitated lungs
    Blow his fhrill trump acute till echo ring,
    And, with a leer of malice, deal away,
    Affault and vengeance fwearing ere be long !

   The laft com'mand of the Botanic God-
defs to her Water- Nymphs, enforces their

duties to plants and flowers ; to render the
vales irriguous, and to feed with their rills

the floral and herbaceous roots. To the

courfe of this moift nutriment through the
vegetable fibres, is compared that of the
chyle through the human frame ; and to
that, another fimile fucceeds. As the firft
is fcientific, fb is the fecond pi<flurefque ;
it is a Turkifli pilgrimage to Mecca, con-
fifting of various caravans on their road
over the fultry and fandy defert, and meet-
ing with a pure rill, which, defcending
from diflant rocks, had taken it's courfe

                                                      through
bR. DARWIN.                                                                                             257

through the wafte plain. The parched

Travellers alight, kneel on the brink in

a

                             it,

                                                    is
grateful joy, and, bending over afluage
their third. This rill fomewhat fud~

denly becomes lake, and reflects the eager

and delighted multitude. With this little

fcenethe com miffions to the Water-Nymphs
Conclude, and their obedient flight

fcarcely lefs poetically featured than that

of the Nymphs of Fire. The fimilies,
which illuftrate the flight of the aqueous
minifters, are the evolutions of the water-

fpider, and the exercife of Ikaiting amongft
the natives of northern climates. The laft

thus admirably defcribed
is

                                  a
                                                           s

                                                                           a
                                                                                :

                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                     ;
So where the North congeals his watry mafs,

Piles high his fnows, and floors his feas with glafs,
While many month, unknown to warmer rays,
Marks it's flow chronicle by lunar days
Stout youths and ruddy maids, fportive. train,
Leave the white foil and rufti upon the main.
From ifle to ifle the moon-bright fquadrons ftray,
And win, in graceful curves, their eafy way

                                                                                                        On
                              MEMOIRS OP

     On ftep alternate borne, with balance nice
     Hang o'er the gliding fteel, and hifs along the ice.

FOURTH AND LAST CANTO OF THE
          ECONOMY OF VEGETATION,

Confifts of a charge to the Sylphs, as be-

nevolent fpirits, to protecl the vegetable
fubftances, after they had emerged to light
and air ; to defend them from all the malig-

nant operations of nature, and to cherifh

and affift the influence they may receive
from all her vital and benign powers.

   The deadly and falubrious winds ; the

volcanic and peftilential airs ; the Tornado,
dreadful to mariners, &c. ; every thing here

has animal life and confcioufnefs. It was

the author's plan, and he could not, at leaft
in his own idea, depart from it with pro-
priety. Hence, the Sylphs alfo are re-

minded of having prefided at the nuptials
of the pureft of the Airs with Light. The
paffage which ulhers in this whimfical

                                                        marriage,
                            DR, DARWIN.

marriage, is very beautiful, the expreffion,

" fimpering lips," excepted ; but it was

difficult to find variety of terms equally
happy where the effect of pleafurable fen-
fations on the countenance mufl fo often

be defcribed. From thefe aerial nuptials
vital fpirit is fuppofed to proceed, which
pervades and animates all nature. The
loves and marriage of Cupid and Piyche

are prefented, poetically pictured from the

well-known gems. This life-infufing air
is contrafted with the Syroc of Italy, and
the Simoon of the African defert. The

laft is prefented as a Demon. Univerfal
perfonification was the order of the Mufe
in this work, not to be infringed ; elfe,
when circumftances are in themfelves fub-
lime (and moft things terrible in nature
become fublime in poetry), they are more
likely to be of diminimed than increafed
force, by the addition of fabled endow-

ment. A comparifon between the Simoon

                                  s 3 defcribed
                             MEMOIRS OF

defcribed literally by Southey, in his Joan
of Arc, and figuratively by Darwin, will
perhaps evince the truth of this obfer-

vation.

   The Botanic Queen fays to her Sylphs,

       Arreft Simoon amid his wafle of fand,
        The poifon'd javlin balanced in his hand !

        Fierce on blue ftreams he rides the tainted air,
        Points his keen eye, and waves his whirling hair j
        While, as he turns, the undulating foil
         Rolls it's red waves, and billowy deferts boil.

   This is a fine picture of the Demon ot
Peftilence. The fpeed of his approach is
marked by the ftrong current of air in
which he pafled, and by the term whiffling
annexed to his hair. The winds have

hitherto, almoft exclufively, poffeffed that
term. Here transferred to the lifted hair

of the Demon, it increafes the terrific powder
of his approach. But let the Simoon be

viewed where it's terrible graces are native,
                                                                  and
DR. DARWIN.  26l

and no attempt made to heighten them by
allegory.

           JOAN OF ARC, lOtll BOOK.

                                             Ominous fear
      Seizes the traveller o'er the tracklefs fands,
     Who marks the dread Simoon acrofs the wafte

    Sweep it's fwift peflilence. To earth he falls, <
    Nor dares give utterance to the inward prayer,
    Deeming the Genius of the defert breathes
    The purple blaft of Death.

   We are informed by travellers, that to

inhale the leaft portion of this mephitic
blafl is fatal. They therefore fall on their
faces, and hold their breath till it has parfed

over them.

   But the Darwinian perfonification of
the Tornado fublimely heightens the hor-

ror of that watry peft. It fucceeds that of

the Simoon; and the Fog, invefted with
animality, forms an immediate and ftrik-
ing contraft to the preceding monfters.

It is drawn with fuch fmgular felicity of

                                s 3 imagi-
2,62 MEMOIRS OF

imagination that there is no refilling 'the

defire of quoting the paffage here :

   Sylphs, with light (hafts, you pierce the drowfy Fog,
   That lingering (lumbers on the fedge-wove bog,
   And with webb'd feet o'er midnight meadows creeps,
   Or flings his hairy limbs o'er ftagnant deeps.

   The benevolent little fpirits are then

exhorted to combat Contagion, ftealing
from charnel-vaults to bring death to the
people. The plague, which in 1636 raged
in Holland, is here introduced, with a
beautiful ftory of faithful Love prevailing

over the defire of felf-prefervation. A

young maid is firft feized in a, till then, un-
infected family. This admirable line de-
notes the dread of it's other individuals to
 approach, affift, or comfort her,

       And ftarting Friendmip fhunn'd her as me pafs'd.

    Perceiving herfelf deferted, and fearing
 to fpread the infe&ion amongft thofe fhe
 loved, Ihe feeks the garden, determined to

                                                                         die
DR. DARWIN.                                    263

die there. Her betrothed lover hears of
her fituation, and purfues her thither;

raifes a tent ; procures her food, covering,
and medicines ; binds her fevered brows,

and ftrews aromatic herbs and flowers upon
her pillow. He efcapes the contagion
himfelf, and reftores his beloved miftrefs to

health. The Poet has very fweetly told

this interefting tale ; a fmgle epithet is
perhaps the only word it contains which

could be altered to advantage. It is in the

following line,

And clafp'd the bright infection in his arms.

   The adjeclive bright is too gay for it's
fituation ; fair, or kvd, would be more

fubdued, and in better keeping with the
mournful tendernefs of the narration.

   Lefs bold, fays the Poet, was Leander,
eying, as he fwam, the love-lighted tower.
Lefs bold alfo, Tobias, inftrucled by an
angel to drive away the demon from the

fatal bride.

                             s 4 The
364 MEMOIRS OP

    The Sylphs are now applauded by their
Queen for having inftrufted Torricelli and
Boyle, concerning the properties of air,
it's preflure and elafticity. The operations
of the weather-glafs and air-pump are
defcribed with philofophic accuracy and
poetic elegance. Young Roffiere's dire
.fate, precipitated from his flaming mont-

golfier, comes forward here, and is pictured

\vith great poetic ftrength ; nor is the il-
luftration of that lamentable event, by the
fable of Icarus, lefs happy in it's novel and

mournful graces ; his faithlefs and fcattered

plumage dancing on the wave ; the Mer-

maids decking his watry tomb, ftrewing
over his corfe the pearly fea-flowers, and
{hiking, in the coral towers, the paufing

bell, which echos through the caves of

Ocean ! Surely it is not poffible to admire
too fondly the beautiful and exhauftlefs
varieties of this darling Bard of Fancy.

    Critics have aflerted, that the poetic
                                                           mind
DR. DARWIN.  265

mind has little effiorefcence after middle

life ; that, however the judgment may
ftrengthen, the vivid luxuriance of the

imagination abates. Milton's Paradife Loft,
Darwin's Botanic Garden, and Cowper's
Talk, each began after life had many years

declined from it's meridian, confute the

dogma. Dr. Johnfon has combated it's
fallacy, and with more truth obierved, that

fo long as the understanding retains it's
ftrength, the fancy, from time to time,

acquires added vigor and new ftores of
imagery. Nor does the extreme poetic
inferiority of the Paradife Ptegained to the
Paradife Loft, at all difprove the converfe
proportion. We are to look for that in-

feriority in the fo much more reftraining

nature of the Jubje? t for poetry, above all

others, improper. Poetry ! to whofe very

exiftence, if it is to deferve it's name, an

infinitely larger portion of inventive and *

figurative ornament is neceffary than the
                                                     hallowed
266 MEMOIRS OF

hallowed fobriety of the New Teftament

and it's myfteries, can admit without the
moil revolting impropriety. It's choice, as
the theme of an Epic Poem, was a radical
error, which neceflarily involved thofe long
trains of comparative profaicifm, over which
we yawn, however fometimes awakened
by noble paflages to recognife ftrength,
which, though feldom put forth, we feel
to be undiminifhed ; to difcern fome rays

of light which, amidft their infrequency,

we yet perceive to be unfaded.
   Frefh commendation is next given to the

Sylphs for their infpirations in the mind of
Dr. Prieftley, concerning his analyfis of the
atmofphere. The paflage is moft poetic,
although purely chemical. Air calcining

the phlogiftic ores is termed the marriage
of Ether with the Mine. Thefe nuptials

are illuftrated by the retold ftory of Pluto

and Proferpine. There is much propriety

in this illuftration, fince Lord Bacon has

                                                        explained
DR. DARWIN,  267

 explained that fable as an hieroglyphic

 allufion, to fignify " the combination, or
 " marriage of etherial fpirit with earthly
 " materials."

    A whimfical pofiibility is next fuppofed ;

 that Dr. Prieftley's difcoveries will here-

 after enable adventurers to travel beneath

 the ocean in large inverted fhips and div-

ing balloons. A note to this paffage afferts,

that the experiment was fuccefsfully made

'by a Frenchman in the reign of James the

Firft, and it ftates the particulars. A fplen-
did fub-marine voyage next occurs. It

is to the warm tropic feas and lhadowy

ice-ifles of the polar regions, and to be
performed by Britannia. Her tears are to
flow as Ihe pafles over the fad and vifible
remains of fliip-wrecked lovers, mercantile

and fcientific adventurers, particularly thofe

of Day and Spalding, who each perilhed in

their diving-bells. Here the deplored fate

                                                         of
268 MEMOIRS OF

of Captain Pierce, his family and fellow-

voyagers, thus forms a tragic drama:

 Oft o'er thy lovely daughters, haplefs Pierce !
 Her fighs mall breathe, her forrows dew their hearfe.
 With brow upturned to heav'n, " We will not part/'
 He cried, and clafp'd them to his aching heart.
 Dam'd in dread conflict on the rock,y grounds,
 Crafh the ihock'd marls, the daggering wreck rebounds ;
 Through gaping feams the rufhing deluge fwims ;
 Chills their pale bofoms, bathes their fhuddering limbs ;
 Climbs their white fhoulders, buoys their flreaming hair,
 And the laft fea-mriek bellows in the air.
 Each, with loud fobs, their tender (ire carefs'd,
 And gafping, ftrain'd him clofer to her breaft.
 Stretch'd on one bier they fleep beneath the brine,
 And their white bones with ivory arms entwine.

   The third, fourth, and fifth, couplets of

the above quotation, are extremely fine

pictures, and " found never echoed fenfe"
with more folemn horror than " and the
" laft fea-fhriek bellowed in the air." The

defcription ought to have clofed with that
line, and the next couplet fhould have im-

                                                        mediately
BR. DARWIN.  269

mediately folio wed the paternal exclamation.

Beyond the utmoft power of the pencil do
the fix grand verfes of this paflage image

death by fhipwreck ; but the " white bones
and " ivory arms"of the concluding line, are

every way exceptionable. They difturb the
awful impreffion made on the mind by the
laft fea-fliriek. Aiming to be pathetic they
are in reality ludicrous, the ivory arms of
bones ! The bones of ivory arms we might
underftand, though it would be affecled

expre-ffion, but the converfe terms feem

nonfenfe. One of the firft of our exifting
poets, Mr. Crowe, public orator at Oxford,

whofe compofitions, by their genuine ex-
cellence, atone for their too limited quan-
tity, has told this fad ftory with folemn

and fimple beauty in his Lewefdon Hill,
one of the nobleft local poems in our
language. In his narration we find no-

thing which can ftrictly be termed pidtu-
refque, though the four introduttory lines

                                                                        are
                                 MEMOIRS OF

are highly fo ; but we find a great deal of
Milton's manner in the progrefs of the
tale, written in view of the rocks on which

the Halfewell {truck.

                LEWESDON HILL.

        See how the fun,, here clouded, afar off
        Pours down the golden radiance of his light
        Upon th' enridged fea, where the black fliip
        Sails on the phofpher-feaming waves. So fair,
        But falfely flattering, was yon furface calm,
        "When forth for India fail'd, in evil hour,
       That vefiel, whofe difaftrous fate, when told,
       Fill'd every breail with horror, and each eye
       With piteous tears, fo cruel was the lofs !

      Methiiiks I fee her, by the wintry ftorm

         Shattcr'd and driven along paft yonder ifle '
         She drove, her lateft hope by ftrength or art,

       To gain the port within it j or at worft,
      To fhun that harbourlefs and hollow coaft,

       From Portland eaftward to the Promontory,
       Where (till St. Albans high-built chapel Hands.
       But art nor ftrength avail her, on flie drives,

      In ftorm and darknefs, to that fatal coaft !
       And there, mid rocks and high o'erhanging cliffs,
       Dafti'd piteoufly, with all her precious freight

                                                                                   Was
DR. DARWIN.                                      271

Was loft, by Neptune's wild and foamy jaws
Swallow'd up quick ! The i ichlieft laden {hip

Of fpicy Ternate, or that, annual fent
To the Philippines o'er the fouthern main

From Acapulco, carrying marTy gold,
Were poor to this; freighted with hopeful youth
And beauty, and high courage undifmay'd
By mortal terrors j and paternal love,
Strong and unconquerable, even in death.
Alas ! they perifii'd all, all in ONE HOUR !

   Refuming the principal fubjecT: of thefe

ftridures, we find the harmonic difcoveries

attributed to the aerial hand-maids. Their

miftrefs fuppofes them to have breathed
their grand and exquifite infpirations into
the ear of Handel; to wake the tones on
the fliell of Echo ; to melt in fweet chords

upon the Eolian harp ; and on the lips of

Cecilia to breathe the fong. Another
lovely picture arifes here, from an ancient
gem, Cupid on a Lion's back, playing on a
lute.

   The Goddefs proceeds to confider her

                                                      Nymphs
                              MEMOIRS OF

Nymphs of Air as Minifters of Divine Ven-

geance on the Guilty, through the medium
of tempefts, and the peftilential winds of
the Eaft, as Samiel, Harmattan, &c. and
the fcripture ftory of the fate of Senacherib
is told. The ravage of death, produced
by thofe peftilential gales, forms a fublime
perfonification ; thus,

     Hark ! o'er the camp the venom'd teirrpeft fings !
     Man falls on man j on buckler buckler rings ;
     Groan anfwers groan 5 to anguifh anguilh yields,
     And death's dread accents {hake the tented fields,
     High rears the Fiend his grinning jaws, and wide
     Spans the pale nations with coloflal ftride :
     Waves his broad falchion with uplifted hand,
    And his vaft ihadow darkens all the land !

   Whether by coincidence or plagiarifm
on the part of Dr. Darwin, is uncertain,
but in Mr, Sergeant's noble prophetic Ode
on the Woes of the Houfe of Stuart, com-
mencing with fair unfortunate Mary's cala-
mities, we find the laft fublime image, thus,

                       i From
               DR, DARWIN.                      273

   From Orkney's flormy fteep
The fpirit of ths ifles infuriate came ;

    Round him flam'd the ar&ic flame,
His dark cloud lhadow'd the contentious deep !

   This Ode was publiflied in 1788.             The
Economy of Vegetation in 1791.

That poem proceeds with another ex-

hortation to the etherial Cohorts to protecl

the vernal children ; impart the talifman

which guides the veering winds, and, by

it's influence, enchain Boreas and Eurus,

fo often fatal to early luxuriance, vegetable

and animal. Thus mall they, (he beau-

tifully fays,

Rock th' uncurtain'd cradle of the year.

   The deftrudion and reproduction of the
aoofphere, is allegorifed by a monfter of
magnitude more immenfe than that of
Satan, when, on the page of Milton, he
{hides from hill to hill. This is a Came-

lion beneath the northern conftellation.

                           T We,.
                                  MEMOIRS OF

We find much grandeur of fancy in this

 aerial giant. His groan is the thunder, his

figh' the tempeft, as he fleers his courfe to
the fouth, and fpreads his iliadowy limbs

over the line, with froft and famine in his
track. The Sylphs are adjured to direct

his courfe .to benevolent purpofes ; to cool

Arabian vales with his antarctic breathing ;
and, in the following harmonious line,

               To fcatter rofes o'er Zelandic fnows.

   This allegory concludes unhappily, with
a perfonal compliment to Mr. Kirwan,

(i who has publiflied a valuable Treatife

" on the/temperature of Climates." Thofe

Compliments to ingenious profeffors would
often find their more proper place in the
notes, except where they form a fimile ;
but, as in this inftance, a living man placed

between the dragon wings of an imaginary

and immeasurable moniler, is a ridiculous

                                                                     idea.
DR. DARWIN.  275

idea. Often, through the courfe of this
work, does fuch intermixture of adual and

ideal beings difturb and interrupt, rather

than agreeably diverfifjr, the courfe of the
allegory. The foon-enfuing mention of
the celebrated Herfchel, and his ftellar dif-

coveries, is made in the form of a fimile,
and is therefore unexceptionable ; and it

p'affes on to the following charming apof-

trophe to the Stars.

Roll on, ye Stars ! exult in youthful prime,
Mark, with bright curves, the printlefs fteps of Time!
Near, and more near, your beamy cars approach,
And lefiening orbs on lefiening orbs incroach.
Flowers of the Iky ! ye too to age muft yield,
Frail as your filken filters of the field j
Star after {tar from heavn's high arch lhall rufh,
Suns (ink on funs, on fyftems fyftems rufti^
Headlong, extin6t, to one dark centre fall,
And Death, and Night, and Chaos cover all 5

Till o'er the wreck, emerging from the ftorm,

Immortal nature lifts her changeful form;
Mounts from the funeral pyre on wings of flame,
And foars, and fhines, another and the fame.

T 2 Returning
                               MEMOIRS OF

     Returning to the vegetable embryons,

 of which the Goddefs, between her men-
 tion of Kirwan and Herfchel had fpoken,

 fhe thus beautifully fays :

     Lo ! n each feed, within it's tender rind,

      Life's golden threads, in endlefs circles wind j
      Maze within maze the lucid webs are roll'd,
     And, as they burfl, the living flames unfold.

    The whole paflage is equally fine, and

clofes thus :

     Life buds, or breathes, from Indus to the Poles,
   t And the vail furface kindles as it rolls.

   We find the fame image applied to
Light in the firft Canto, as it is here to
Vitality. Speaking of Chaos the Poet

fays :

        Through all his realms the kindling Ether runs;

   Yet, far from ceniuring the very infre-
quent repetitions, which we may find
through this great work, wonder and praife

                                                     will
DR. DARWIN.  277

will rife in the mind of every true lover of

the poetic art, contemplating that ex-

hauftlefs variety of ideas, imagery and
expreffion, which light up the fubjeci with
a thoufand torches, kindled at the orb of

Genius.

   Skilful blendings of philosophic know-
ledge with poetic fancy, now occur in the
birth and growth of plants and flowers.

They are compared to the kindling and
expanfion of animal life in the Crocodile,
burfting from it's egg on the fhores of

the Nile. It is a grand picture, though
of fomewhat forced introduction. The

charge on it's progrefs contains inftruction
to gardeners, though it is addrefled to the

Sylphs, and adorned by the parable of
Aaron's rod. The banilhment of noxious

infects by their cares, is enforced by the

example of the Cyprepedia, a flower curi-

oufly refembling the large American Spider.
Linneus aflerts, that it catches fmall birds

T3 -         as
2?8 MEMOIRS OF

as well as infeSs, and has the venomous

bite of a ferpent ; and a French naturalift
narrates, that it catches the humming bird
in it's ftrong nets. The circumftance is
thus elegantly pifiured in the Botanic

Queen's horticultural adjurations,

      So where the humming-bird, in Chili's bowers,

     On r rmuring pinions robs the pendent flowers j

     Seeks where fine pores their dulcet balms diftill,
     And fucks the treafure with probofcis bill,
     Fell Cyprepedia, &c.

    The difeafes of plants are next pointed

out, and they are illuftrated by a curious

facl in glafs-making. The pictures of

various flowers next rife on the page, in
botanic difcrimination, and in all the hues

of poetry. The exotic wealth of the Royal
Garden at Kew is celebrated ; and the con-
fcious pride of it's river, on the occafion, is

thus fweetly fancied :

Delighted Thames through tropic umbrage glides,

The flowers antartic bending o'er his fides ;

Drinks the new tints, the fcents unknown inhales,

And calls the Sons of Science to the vales,    Poetic
                                 DR. DARWIN.

     Poetic homage is then paid to our King
 and Queen, to their virtues, their tafte for
 Botanic 'Science, and to the fair human
 Scions which themfelves have raifed.

    The Goddefs compliments her aerial
Legions on attending the chariot of the
Morning round the earth, on leading the
gay Hours along the horizon ; on fhower-
ing the light on every dun meridian, and

on purfuing, from zone to zone, the per-
ennial journey of the Spring. She commif-
{ions them, on this their radiant tour, to
bring her rich balms from the hallowed
glades of Mecca, Arabian flowers, Italian

fruits, and the tea-plants of China; alfo

    Each fpicy rind which fultry India boafts,
    Scenting the night-air round her breezy coafts ;
    Roots, whofe bold ftems in bleak Siberia blow,
   And gem with many a tint th' eternal fnowj
    Barks, whofe broad umbrage high in ether waves
    O'er Ande's fteeps, and hides his golden caves.

   Thus, with happy art, the Poet diverfifies
                              T 4 and
280 MEMOIRS or

and animates floral enumeration with
gleams of every-regioned landfcape.

   The Sylphs are then commanded to raife
an altar to Hygeia ; to call to it's rites the
difperfed Sifterhood, the Water Nymphs,
from their floating clouds, their waves and
fountains; to ftamp with charmed foot,
and convoke the Gnomes from their fub-
terranean palaces ; and to beckon from
their fpheres the veftal forms of fire ; that
thus, in full congregation, they may win
the Goddefs of Health with unwearied
vows. The pidurefque attitudes of fupplU
cation, which ihe dictates, are eminently
 beautiful ; and, with a patriotic apoftrophe
 to Hygeia, the Britifh Queen of Botany

 concludes her embafly.

         O wave, Hygeia, o'er Britannia's throne
         Thy ferpent-wand, and mark it for thy own !
           Lead round her breezy coafts thy guardian trains,
          Her nodding forefts, and her waving plains !
           Shed o'er her peopled realms thy beamy fmile,
          And with thy airy temple crown her ifle I

                                                      The
DR. DARWIN.                        281

The Goddefs of Botany now afcends

with as much elegance as fhe had defcend-

Ifed, and with more magnificence.  the

reader is fufceptible of poetic beauty ; if he

can feel that what never can be feen in

reality, may yet be painted naturally ; a

ftricT: furvey of this poetical afcenfion will

enable him to perceive, what indeed count^
lefs other inftances in this Poem evince,

that it's Author moft eminently poffefled

that rare talent.

The Goddefs ceas'd, and calling from afar
The wandering Zephyrs, joins them to her car 5
Mounts with light bound, and graceful as fhe bends,
Whirls the long lalh, the flexile rein extends 5
On whifpering wheels the filver axle Hides,
Climbs into air, and cleaves the cryftal tides $
Burft from it's pearly chains, her amber hair
Streams o'er her ivory fhoulders, buoy'd in air;
Swells her white veil, with ruby clafp confin'd
Round her fair brow, and undulates behind 5
The leflening courfers rife in fpiral rings,
Pierce the flow-failing clouds, and tfretch their Ihadowy

        wings.

                                   if
                                          MEMO1K.S OF

  If we could fee a light vehicle mount the

horizon, it's wheels would whifper, it's axle
ilide ; fo would it climb into air, fo divide
the etherial currents, as a boat divides the

waves of the river or the fea ; the courfers

would rife in fpiral rings and pervade the
clouds ; their wings would appear fhadowy

till they melted into air. Thus concludes
the Economy of Vegetation.

                                                        CHAP.
DR. DARWIN.  283

                  C H A P T E R VI.

   WE now come to yet more playful com-

pofition in the fecond part of this Poem,

as the floral fyftem is a lighter and lefs
important theme than the elementary pro-
perties, however generally gay the robes in
which poetic imagination has drefled them
both ; but let it never be forgotten that

the fexual nature of plants has a demon-

ftrated existence.

   The Preface to this fecond part is a
compendium .of the Linnean fyftem. The

Poem makes lively, yet very modeft claims
for the fucceeding metamorphofes, amid
whofe lighter graces we meet with paffages

of intrinfic grandeur and fublimity.

                                                         LOVES
                                 MEMOIRS OF

             LOVES OF THE PLANTS,

   In which the Poet ordains that the Mufe
of Botany fhall fucceed to it's afcended
Emprefs, as hiftorian of the fcene, and
didlatrefs to it's dramatis perfonas. He

introduces her by invoking, in his own per-

fbn, the attentive filence of the winds, the

waters, and the trees, and by requefting the

infefts to paufe upon their wings. Eight

different infecls are mentioned, and each

forms a ftriking picture of it's whole fpe-

cies, by the Poet having feized and exhi-
bited it's mofl characleriftic feature. He

next apoftrophifes the Mufe who " led the
" Swedim Sage by her airy hand," intreating

her to fay how tiny Graces dwell on every
leaf, and how the Pleafures laugh in the

bell of a bloflbm.
    The Ovidian metamorphofis of the

flowers then commences. The floral ladies,
and their harems, rife to the amufed eye

          7 in
' DR. DARWIKT.  28$

in all the glow of poetic colouring. At-

tentive to diverfify them by the varieties

of landfcape, we generally find this Pqet

producing contrafted fcenery by the intro-

duction of flowers or plants which arc

indigenous to climates ftrikingly the reverfe

of each other. Much of that happy fldll
has been difplayed in the Economy of

Vegetation, and inftances may be feleded

from this it's brilliant precurfor, After

feveral plants and flowers have pafled be-

fore us in the femblance of beautiful wo-

men, with their trains of adoring lovers,
we find the folio wing fketches of contrafted

landfcape attached to the feiftory of the

focial heath-plant, Anthoxa, or vernal grafs,
and the lonely Ofmunda, which grows on
moift rocks and in their caverns.

Two gentle fhepherds, and their lifter wives,
With thee, Anthoxa, lead ambrofial lives $
Where the wide heath it's purple bed extends,

And fcatter'd furze it's golden luftre blends,
                                                                          Clos'd
                                   MEMOIRS OF

          Clos'd in a green recefs, unenvied lot!
         The blue fmoke rifes fromlheir tnrf-built cot>
         Bofom'd in fragrance bluih their infant train,
          Eye the warm fun, and drink the filver rain.

             Beauteous Oimunda feeks the n'lent del),
         The ivy canopy, the dripping cell.

    In the defcription of the Chondrilla and

her five amicable lovers, we find, in their
accordant iympathy \vith each other, a
fuppofed refemblance to the unifon-ftrings

of the Eolian harp ; and there is a fweet
enumeration of the excellences of it's varied
ftvre of tones and expreffion.

   To the picture of the Lychnis fucceeds

that of Gloriofa Superba, with her fuc-
ceffive train of lovers, the fecond number
rifing to maturity when the firlt periili.
This libertine lady of the groves introduces
the. ftory of the celebrated female Volup-
tuary, in the reign of Louis the Fourteenth,
Ninon de L'EncIos, whofe beauty and
graces are recorded to have been trium-

      i phant
                              DR. DARWIN

pliant over the power of Time. The ftory
of that paffion, fo terrible in it's confe-
<juences, with which me unintentionally
infpired her natural fon by Lord Jerfey of

England, is finely told in this part ; that

fon, totally unconfcious of his birth and
fatal nearnefs of blood to the charming
Madam de L'Enclos ! In the firft edition
of the Loves of the Plants this extraor-

dinary woman received both perfonal and
mental injuftice from the prelude to that
{lory. She is there reprefented by the
Poet, as wrinkled, grey, and paralytic ;
circumftances incompatible with the poffi-

bility of the attachment, and contrary to
the rcprefentation of her biographers.
Upon their teftimony we learn that Ninon
retained a large portion of her perfonal

beauty and graces to an almoft incredible
period ; that it was confiderable enough

to procure her young lovers at the age of

                                                             eighty,
 288 MEMOIRS OF

eighty, whofe paffion for her, however
inconceivable, could not be interefted, as
file was not rich, and much too delicate
in her fentiments to purchafe the attention

of the other fex.
   When her fon, by Lord Jerfey, was a

young officer about Court, known to her
but unknown to himfelf, Madame de

L'Enclos was fcarcely forty years old, a

period at which a very captivating degree

of beauty and grace is fometimes found
in the female fex. Of their exiftence at

a confiderably later pefiod, the Englifh
fafhionable circles, at this hour, exhibit

fome remarkable inftances,

   In the firft edition of this Poem what is
here fatal fmiles was harlot fmiles, an

epithet moft injurious to Madame de
L'Enclos. Her attentions to her ion,
however affectionate, muft have been
purely maternal, though fo deplorable in

                                                           their
                DR. DARWIN.

their confequcnces. The declaration by

which fhe repulfes his impious fait, entirely
acquits her of the leaft defign to infpire him
with paflion. Dr. Darwin was influenced
by the author of this Memoir to refcue
the form of Ninon from the unreal decre-

pitude he had imputed to and her prin-a
ciples from fuch unnatural excels of de-
                                 it,
pravity.

  If we may credit her hiftorians, Ninon

was an exception to maxim of the Duke

de Rochefaucault, which has perhaps very

few exceptions, viz. " Generally fpeaking,
" the leaft fault of an unchafte woman
" her unchaftity." Confidering this remark
                                      is,
as an axiom, the reafon probably                is
                                      that

chaftity being the point of honor, as well

as of virtue in women, it's violation has  a

ftrong tendency to engraft deceit and ma-

lignity upon the fecret confcioufnefs of

felf-abafement  ;      confcioufnefs more fatal

                    a

to the exifience of other good qualities

                       U than
 290 .MEMOIRS OF

 than voluptuoufnefs itfelf ; a confcioufnefs

 too likely to produce hatred and envy to-

 wards people of fpotlefs reputation, toge-
 ther with a defire to reduce others to their

 own unfortunate level. The great Moral-

 ift of the Old Teftarnent, fays, " There is
 " no wickednefs like the wickednefs of a
 " woman;" not becaufe the weaker fex

 are naturally more depraved, but from the
 improbability that a fallen female iliould
 ever, even upon the fincereft repentance,

regain the efteem and confidence of fociety,
while it pardons a male libertine the inftant

 he feems difpofed to forfake his vice, and
too often during it's full career.

    But the fault of Madam de L'EncIos

was fingle, and furrounded by folid virtues.

Truth, fmcerity/ difinterefted friendfhip,
economy, generofity, and ftrid pecuniary
juftice, marked her commerce with the

world, and fecured to her the friendfhip

and countenance of the moft eminent

                                                                  people
DR. DARWIN.  291

people of that epoch, both as to talents and

character.

   The rigid and pious Madame de Main-

tenon never ceafed to be her avowed and

intimate friend, as appears from a moft
interefting dialogue which pafled between

them after Maintenon became the wife of
Louis the Fourteenth. It will be found
in the Memoirs of Madame de L'Enclos,

which are elegantly tranflated from the

French into our language, and were pub-

liftied by Dodfley in 1761. It is a very

brilliant and entertaining work.
   After the animation of the Silene, or

Catch Fly, as an enchantrefs ; after that
of the Amarylis, illuftrated by a beautiful
pifture of a church vane in the fetting fun,
the Ilex, or Holly, corries forward with her

giant lovers, grafping their thoufand arrows.

With this metamorphofis we find involved

a lovely allufion to Needwood Foreft, the

late pride and glory of Staffordmire, now
                             u 3 facrificing,
292 MEMOIRS OF

facrific'mg, with all it's proftrate honors, to
a popular fcheme of apprehended utility.

   Mr. Wright's pictures are here introduced
as a fimile ; but it muft be confefled that

not the moft diftant firnilitude can be

traced between them and the Ilex, or Holly,
which, as enchanters and giants, guard the
Foreft; but the poetic copy of thefe un-

allulive landfcapes is tranfcendent.

                            %

   The immenfe Kleinhovia, indigenous to
the plains of Orixa, is prefented as an ama-

zonian nymph ; and as the male parts or

the tree are, in nature, fupported by the
female, me is pourtrayed in Herculean
beauty, bearing in her arms her puny
lovers, trembling beneath the confcioufnefs

of her fuperior ftrength. A grand picture

of the Grecian Thaleftris, appropriate to
the fubje&j thus illuftrates the transform-

ation :

So bright Thaleftris fhook her plumy creft,
And bound in rigid mail her Dwelling breaft,

                                              PoistJ
DR. DARWIN.                                       293

Pois'd her long lance amid the walks of war,
And Beauty thunder'd from Bellona's car;
Greece, arm'd in vain ; her captive heroes wove
The chains of conqueft with the wreaths of love.

   The noble landfcape of the late and
wintered period of Autumn, quoted in an
early part of thefe Memoirs, introduces the
perfonification of the Tulip. The bul-
bous root of flowers is termed by Linneus

the hybernacky or winter-lodge of the young

plant. He fays, " Each bulb contains the
" leaves and flowers in miniature, which
" are to be expanded in the enfuing fpring."
The fame embryon miniatures are found
in the buds of the Hepatica, the Daphne-
Mezereon, and at the bafe of Ofmunda-

Lunaria. The Tulip, in poetic animation,
is a beautiful Matron, flying from the chill

and ilormy feafon to a lone cavern. She

is then prefented as fitting in that retreat,

and nurfmg her infant on her bofom till
warmer days lhall come. A pretty allufi ye

                                u 3 defcription
                            MEMOIRS OP

defcription of the Dor-moufe, and it's

half-year's flumber, adorns that paflage.
     Colchicum Autumnale, or Autumnal*

meadow- fweet, afcends amid the troubled
air, with her attendant lovers. Thus emi-
nent in beauty is the flellar fimile for that
flower :

    So {nines, with filver guards, the Georgian flar,
    And drives, on Night's blue arch, his glittering car j
    Hangs o'er the billowy clouds his lucid form,
    Wades through the mill, and dances in the ftorm.

   The Helianthus, or Sun-flower, becomes
a Dervife, and leads his devout trains to
worfhip the rifmg orb of day. Since the
head of that majeftic plant always, and by
nutation, follows the courfe of the fun, it
properly aflumes the name and habits of a

Dervife or Bramin. With this and the

three fucceeding metamorphofes, in them-

felves full of beauty and grace, the Drofera,

or Sun-dew, the Lonicera, or Honey-fuckle,

      the Alpine Draba, fweet traits of con-

                                                             trafted
         DR. DARWIN.                               295

trafted landfcape are blended ; with Heli-
anthus, the warm unfhadowed lawns of
morning ; with Drofera the moid, the
rufh-enwoven and mofly fcenes in which

me wantons; with Draba, the icy caves

and volcanos of Tenerif, amid which flie

builds her eyry,

           Afpiring Draba builds her eagle neft ;

and we are told that,

Her tall fliadow waves o'er the diflant land.

When we learn, from the note on this

paflage, that Draba is one of the Alpine

graffes, we wonder that fo minute and
dwarfifli a plant mould become fo vaftj,

commanding, and imperial in her tranf-

formation. The Poet next exercifes his

Proteus art upon Vifcum, Mifletoe, which
never grows upon the ground, but grafts
itfelf upon the branches of trees. This
aerial nymph is fhown as an angel of air,

feeking amongft it's clouds her foaring

lovers.  u 4 When
MEMOIRS C F

  WTien Zoftera, GrafTwrack, (which gr
at the bottom of the ocean, aud, rifmg to it's
top, covers many leagues with it's, leaves,)
comes forth from beneath the wand of this

potent magician, we meet one of the hap-
pieft fallies of his fportive pen. She is

fhown as Queen of the coral groves ; her

palace in the fea, fupported on cryftal
columns ; it's turrets roofed with lucid
{hells, which dart their every-coloured rays

afar into the deep; the fhadows on it's

floor, philofophically defcribed from the

rifing and breaking of the exterior billows ;

the rrierrnaid-:tram enweaving orient pearls

in her hair ; her fhooting up to the furface

like a meteor ; afcending the ftrand, and

fummoning, by a loud-ftruck fhell, her

fea-born lovers to attend her progrefs ;

creative imagination, the high and peculiar

province of the genuine Poet, has few

more beautiful creations than this marine

pidure and fcene,

                   That
       DR. DARWIN.                                                                            297

That curious plant of the polar regions,

the Barometz, from it's exterior refemblance

       is

                                        ;

                                is,
                                     by

                                                 it
to a fheep or lamb,           poetic magic,

transformed into that animal, and to the

Whale  compared furely on no other

poffible relation, than as both the odd

plant and the fea-monfter, are natives of
the ardic regions. The Whale, however,

makes grand poetic picture
       a

                                             d
                                                is

                                                                                  1

                                                                 :

                                                       it
Since then, the thing itfelf  rich and rare,
Exclaim not, f( How the         came there*!"

     Mimofa, Seniltive-plant, becomes a
nymph of infinite delicacy. The objects
aptly chofen to illuftrate the nervous fenfi-
bility with which that plant recedes from

the approaching hand, are thus defcribed,

and furely with no common happinefs
       *

                                          it
                                             it

                                                                                           5

                                                                           :
So finks, or riles, with the changeful hour,
The liquid filver in it's glaffy tower

So turns the needle to the pole loves,

With fine vibrations quivering as moves,

       Parody of Pope's lines on the Amber.

                                                                                     The
 298 MEMOIRS OP

   The Anemone and her modern-lite ob-
jefts of comparifon, by no means form one
of the gems of this poem, however har-

monious the lines. A lady's calafh and a.

landau are out of their place in high heroic
numbers. The Anemone and her triviali-

ties, are fublimely contrafted by the rock-
born Lichen, both in fcenery and accom-
plifliment. She has too much dignity
from her furrounding landfcape to have, or
to want an illuftrative fimile. Her habita-

tion is on the top of Snowdon, nodding

over the tumultuous river Conway ; the
hour midnight ; the ftars and cold moon
gilding the rifted rocks ; the whirlwind
and dark thunder-florin rolling and burft-

ing below the fummit of the mountain.
From it's topmoft ftone the transformation
of the Dipfaca conveys us to a valley
glowing beneath the long prevalence of the
dog-ftar, when the channel of every rill is
dry, and the parched earth gapes. The

                                                       perfoni-
DR. DARWIN.  299

perfonification of the plant has every grace-
ful charm of a languid, beauty.

   The Rubia, Madder, a plant ufed for the
purpofe of making a crimfon dye, is com-

pared to Medea bending over her caldron,
in which youth was reftored by immerfion.

It is an apt allufion to the faded beauty,

who reftores her loft bloom by rouge.

   Vallifner, a curious aquatic plant of the
Rhone, apoftrophifes, when, in her human
form, the ftars and moon, filming at mid-
night on the ihores of her watery home ; and
the fea-wecd, Ulva, with her young family,

guarded on the deep by Halcyons, ferves to
introduce the famous Galatea in her Ihelly

chariot, dsawn by Dolphins over the Ocean.
She has more ftate and more fuperb at-

tendants on her maritime progrefs, than

Europa, in the fecond Canto of the Eco-

nomy of Vegetation, or than the Nereid,
in the third ; though in the piclure of

                                                           Galatea
                               MEMOIRS O-F

Galatea there is perhaps a lefs degree ol
originality.

   But, upon the transformation of the
Tremella, Star-jelly, (a fungus often found
in the ftate of tranfparent jelly, after it has

been frozen in autumnal mornings,) the
Poet has lavifhed fome of the fineft effu-

fions of his fancy. It is furely the tranf-
cendent paflage of this fecond part of Dr.
Darwin's Poem. No eye has fcen, or ever
can fee a beautiful Nymph frozen into an

ice-ftatue ; but admit the poffibility, and
every circumftance of the gradual petrifica-
tion is no lefs natural than it is lovely ; nor
can any degree of admiration be too high
for the beauty and grace of the defcription,

It is fuperior to the Ovidian Daphne.
   This Canto now prepares to clofe ; the

Mufe of Botany perceives a tempeft ap-
proaching, and fhe is led by Wood-Nymphs
into their moft fequeftered bowers. They
fufpend her lyre upon their laurel trees, and

                                                            bind
DR. DARWIN.                                          3OI

bind her brow with myrtles. If flie had

no other claim, the Tremella alone ought

to give her wreath unperifhahle bloom.

Symptoms of the impending fliower are

given with that accuracy, with w7hich,

on every occafion, this genuine Poet ob~

ferved the objects of nature, thus :

1 Now the light fwallow, with her airy brood,

 Skims the green meadow and the .dimpled flood.
 Loud flirieks the lone thrum on herleaflefs thorn;

 Th' alarmed beetle blows his bugle horn 5

  Each pendant fpider weaves/ with fingers fine,

 Her ravdl'd clue, and climbs along the line ;
 Gay Gnomes, in glittering circles, Hand aloof
 Beneath a fpreading mufti.room's ample roof;
  Swift bees> returning, feek their waxen cells,
 And Sylphs hang quivering in the lily's bells 5
 Through the ftill air defcend the genial (bowers,
 And pearly rain-drops deck the laughing flowers.

   An Interlude in profe fucceeds to this
Canto. It is a fuppofed dialogue between
the Poet and his Bookfeller, in which the

former gives us his ideas of the conftitution
                                                         of
 302 MEMOIRS or
of true Poetry. His firft fpeech, " I am
 " only a flower-painter, or occafionally
" attempt a landfcape," is neither true, nor

did Dr. Darwin defire that it fhould be

 confidered as veritable.

    In the courfe of this Interlude he will

be found making much higher claims for
himfelf, and too exclufively limiting poetry

to the fphere of picturefque expreffion ;

yet his criticifm on this line in Pope's

Windfor Foreft is perfectly juft,

          And Kennet fwift, for filver Eels renown'd.

Since, whenever objects are introduced
in verfe, which, plainly mentioned, can
excite no intereft, it is queflionlefs the
Poet's duty to awaken interesting remem-

brance of them by little piclurefque touches,

fuch as we find in the Doctor's fuggefted

change of that line, to

        And Kennet fwift, where filver graylings play.

   His ftriclure upon Burke's ftyle in profe,

                                                                               as
. DR. DARWIN.  303

as much too ornamented, has furely little

juftice. Eloquence can only be produced

by a ftricl union of ftrength and ornament.
The Corinthian pillar is not lefs ftable than
the Doric ; not lefs firm on account of it's
flowers. Dr. Darwin here feems to wifh

that profe mould be precluded by it's
plainnefs from Hiing into eloquence. He
wifhed to keep profe too plain, and his warm-

eil admirers will furely acknowledge that
he infifts upon poetry being drefled with
too elaborate magnificence. We find him

in this Interlude s very ingenious on the fub-

jecT: of allegoric figures,, alfo on that of
dreams, and in his comparifon of them t@
the reveries which the true Poet excites
in his intelligent readers; but he is greatly

indeed miftaken when he reprefents tfye

art of exciting fuch rapt and abftrafted fen-

fations as folely confifting in pi<flurefque
writing. Inftrudion, pathos, all the gran-

deur and beauty of moral and religious

                                                   fentiment,
304 METMOI1RS OF

ientiment, are here turned over to the

profe writer, as if they were not equally

capable of giving fafcinating power to
verfe, as well as to oratory. The follow-

ing paffages are not piclurefque ; but no

pi&ures ever prefented by the rrmfes, are
more potent to imprefs, thrill, and capti-
vate that mind which is alive to the magic

influence of their art :

Some fay, that, ever 'gainft the feafon comes

At which our Savior's birth is celebrated,

The bird of dawning fingeth all night long;
And then, they fay, no fpirit walks abroad;
The nights are wholefome ; then no planets firike,
No fairy takes, no witch hath power to charm,
So hallow'd and fo gracious is the time!

                                                                   HAMLET.

            I fled, and cried out Death j

Hell trembled at the hideous name, and figh'd
Through all her caves, and back refounded Death

                                                             MILTON,

                               if prayers       That
Could alter high decrees, I to heaven's throne

Would fpeed before thee, aad be louder heard
DR. DARWIN.                                                        305

That on my head all might be vifited.
Thy frailty and infirmer fex forgiven,
By me committed, and by me expos'd.

                                                          MILTON.

Remember March ! the ides of March remember !

Did not great Julius bleed for juftice' fake ?
What villain touch' d his body, that did flab,

And not for juftice ? What ! fhall one of us,

That ft ruck the foremoft man in all the world

But for fupporting robbers, fhall we now

Contaminate our fingers with bafe bribes,

And fell the mighty fpace of our large honors

For as much tram as may be grafped thus ?

I had rather be a dog, and bay the moon,

Than fuch a Roman.

                    JULIUS CJESAR.

Plac'd on this ifthmus of a middle ftate,

A Being darkly wife and rudely great j
With too much knowledge for the Sceptic fide,
With too much weaknefs for the Stoic's pride,

He hangs between, in doubt to act or reft,
In doubt to deem himfelf a god or beaft 5
In doubt his mind or body to prefer,

Born but to die, and reafoning but to err ;

Sole judge of truth, in endlefs error hurl'd,
The glory,, jeft, and riddle of the world.

                          POPS, on the Conftru&ion of Man,

                                x Not
306 MEMOIRS OF

Not e'en a fpot unfought the hero gave,

No ! till his foes had earn'd                           it,  not grave
                                                             it a  !
    WESLEY, of King William the Third,                                  !

Reflect, that leflen'd fame ne'er regain'd,is                              !
That virgin honor once always ftain'dis
Timely advis'd the growing danger fliun,
Better not do the deed than weep donea

No penance can abfolve guilty flame,I                                         !
Nor tears, that walh out fin, can wafh out fhame.
                       a                                                        \
                                              HENRY AND EMMA.
                                                     !
Methought heard voice cry, Sleep no more
Macbeth doth murder fleep the innocent lleep                                       1
Sleep, that knits up the ravell'd fleeve of care,
itThe death of each day's grief, fore labour's bath,
Balm of hurt minds, chief nourimer in life's feaft

 Still cried, Sleep no more, to all the houfe,
'Glamis hath murder'd lleep, and therefore Cawdor
 Shall fleep no more, Macbeth mall fleep no more!

   Who will call thefc paflages profaic                                               ??
Who are they that will not confefs them

to be poetry, -and fuch poetry as requires no
aid from picture to eftahliih it's claims

                                                           Perhaps
DR. DARWIN.                                   307

Perhaps Dr. Darwin would not have deem-
ed them fufficiently adorned, fince all there

is to the heart and nothing to the eye. To

be coniiftent with the criticifm of this his

Interlude, he muft have aflerted their de-

ficiency, and thus have proved that, while
his imagination was fo richly exuberant ;
while fublimity, as well as beauty, attended
the commanding march of his Mufe, there
was a radical defect in his poetic lyftem,
which would for ever have incapacitated
him from being a firft-rate Epic or Dra-
matic w7riter ; but as nature hovered over
the cradle of Shakefpear, and gave him her
golden keys, to unlock the gates of the
Paffions, fo did Imagination over that of
Dr. Darwin, and put into his grafp her
magic wand, and fpread over his form her

every-coloured robe.

SECOND CANTO.

Again the Goddefs (hikes the golden lyre,     With
And tunes to wilder notes the warbling wire,

                                x2
                      MEMOIRS OF

With foft, fufpended Hep Attention moves,
And Silence hovers o'er the liftening groves.

The fecond line of the paflage is too alli-

terative, and therefore palls upon the ear.

Alliteration is an edge tool in the Poet's

hand, improving or injuring his verfe, as it

is judicioufly or injudicioufly ufed. Homer,

Virgil, Ovid, Spenfer, Milton, and all the

beft poets, have employed it to admirable

cffeft ; and to admirable effecl has Dr. Dar-

win frequently employed  it,though not in
                                it
this inftance.         often increafes, and fome-
a                                     is
                                          a
              is It
times entirely constitutes, that power which,

by metaphoric expreffion that literal

terms would neither fo concifely nor fo

well explain,          called pi&urefque found.

To increafe the harmony of verfe, allitera-

tion muft be \vith the vowels, the liquid

a
          /,

                   by
letter or the fonorous letters m and n,

and even with them it's too frequent ufe in

poem, or too lavifli repetition in fingle

line or couplet, will injure what  defigned

7                                              to
DR DARWIN.                              3O9

to improve, as in the above fecond line
of this fecond Canto. Dryden, in his
noble Ode on St. Cecilia's Day, has alli-

terated with the hiffing f, in two lines,

which he meant fhould be peculiarly

mufical ; thus,

Softly fweet in Lydian raeafures
Soon he footh'd the foul to pleafures.

   A foreign ear would not endure the

lines, which, however lively, are certainly

not tender, not harmonious ; yet the^ and
all the harfher confonants, are capable of
producing, by fkilful application, that

" echo of found to fenfe," which is fo

eminently defirable in poetry. When Mil-
ton obferves in the Paradife Loft,

                    So talk'd the fpirited fly fnake,

the line attains, folely by alliteration, the

perfect hifs of the ferpent ; and Pope, in
his Homer, by a mafterly intermixture of

the vowels and the fonorous confonants

                             x 3 with
310 MEMOIRS OP

with his alliteration of the letter^ has
nobly conveyed to our ear the peculiar noifc
of the ocean- waves when they are loud on

the beach ; thus,

                    t
           Silent he wander'd by the founding main.

   The murmur of a calm fea has been well
exprefled by the alliteration of the follow-

ing line :

          Slow on the damp and fhelly (bore (lie flray'd.

    There is fomewhere a line, in which a
 poetafter, mentioning the violet, fays,

               Where blue it blooms with balmy breath.

 He thought he had hammered out an im-
 menfely fine verfe, though in facl it is to
 the ear no whit more agreeable than,

                  Three blue beans in one blue bladder.

 The letters b and p make miferable alli-
 teration. Milton has ufed the harm letter
 r, to very fine efFecl in the following lines :

                                                                                     Vex'd
DR. DARWIN.  311

        Vex'd Scylla, bathing in the fea that parts
        Calabria from the hoarfe Trinacrian ftiore.

   Dr. Beattie, in his charming Minftrel,
has fo ufed alliteration as to produce two
of the moft harmonious verfes in our

language.

        Young Edwin, lighted by the evening ftar,
        Lingering and liftening, wander'd down the vale.

   This digreffion into general criticifm will

not be thought irrelevant to the peculiar

theme of tbefe pages, when it is confidered
that, for the prefumption of cenfuring, even

in one inftance, the eminently harmonious

numbers of the Botanic Garden, it was
requifite to juftify fuch cenfure by examin-
ing the ufe or abufe of that habit of ftyle,
which ftrengthens or enfeebles, adorns or

mifbecomes the verfe, as the good or bad

tafte of the writer fliall direft it's appli-
cation. Churchill has ridiculed alliteration
in a line of fingular felicity, for an unworthy

                              x 4 purpofe,
                             MEMOIRS OF

purpofe, a fatirical paffage on the beautiful
poetry of Mafon ; thus,

                        . I, who never pray'd
               For apt alliteration's artful aid.

   But the ridicule intended for the fwect
Swan of the Humber, falls equally on
the elder claffics of Greece, Rome, and

England.

   The firft transformation of this fecond
Canto is the Carline Thiftle. We learn,

from a note on the paffage, that it's feeds
are furnifhed with a plume, by which they
are borne through the air. Carlina, in
human fhape, is reprefented as fabricating
Dasdalion wings for herfelf and offspring,
with moft ingeniously defcribed mechanifm,

and with happier fuccefs than thofe of the

renowned mechanic in ancient fable.

   And now fucceeds, in happy fimilitude,

a balloon-voyage, exacT: and accurate to the

circumftances of aerial journeying in the

firft inftance, and fublime in the imagi-
                                                              native
DR. DARWIN.                                             313

native part, the aftronomic allufions : they
are thus given :

 Rife, great Mongolfier! urge thy venturous fligh*
 High o'er the moon's pale, ice-reflected light ;
 High o'er the pearly ftar, whofe beamy horn
 Hangs in the eaft, gay harbinger of morn $
-Leave the red eye of Mars on rapid wing,
 Jove's iilver guards, and Saturn's dufky ringj
 Leave the fair beams, that, ifluing from afar,
 Play, with new lurtre, round the Georgian ftar;
 Shun, with ftrcng oars, the fun's attractive throne,
 The fparkling zodiac, and the milky zone,
 "Where headlong comets, with increafing force,
 Through other fyflems bend their blazing courfe \
 For thee Caffiope her chair withdraws,
 For thee the Bear retrads his lhaggy paws.
 High o'er the north thy golden orb (hall roll,
 And blaze eternal round the wondering pole.

 So Argo, rifing from the fouthern main,

 Lights with new fiars the blue, etherial plain ;
 With favoring beams the mariner protects,
  And the bold courfe, which firft it fteer'd, dire&s.

   So beautifully does this high priefl of

Fancy choofe to conftellate the firft ad-
yenturous Aeronaut.

                                                        In
                             MEMO-IRS.OF

   In the animation of Linum Flax we
are prefented with the exa6teft-poffible
defcription of the machinery, and the art
of weaving ; and in that of Goffipiam,
Cotton Plant, the late Sir Richard Ark-
wright's apparatus at Matlock, with the
whole progrefs of it's operations, is brought

distinctly before the eye, recalling them to
thofe by whom they have been examined,
and inftructing in their progrefs thofe who

never beheld them.

   So, in the perfonification of Cyperus
Papyrus, under the name of Papyra, ano-
ther art, that of printing, pafles before us
with equal precision. The leaves of this
plant were firft ufed in Egypt for paper,
and gave the name, which it retains to this
day ; fo, leaf, or folium, for the fold of a
book. We have here, in fweet verfifica-
tion, the whole procefs of that ineftimable
invention, which paints thoughts, founds,
and numbers, in myilic and imperilhable

                                                          characters ;
DR. DARWIN.  315

characters; imperifhable, at leaft, during
the reign of Time. Yes, it was the en-
couragement given by that art to the fci-
ences, which enabled this Bard to throw
over them all his fplendid robe of defcrip-

tive poefy. The venerable and celebrated
Mrs. Delany, fometime deceafed, and her
miraculous Hortus Siccus, are here intro-

duced as a fimile to Papyra ; but defcrib-
ing a totally different art from hers, even
that of a mere artificial flower- maker, this
fimile, which bears fb little refemblance to

writing and printing, forms one of the

moft cenfurable paflages in the whole poem.

Mrs.Delany, in her reprefentation of plants

 and flowers, native and exotic, and wrhich
 fill ten immenfe folio volumes, ufed nei-
 ther the wax, mofs, or wire, attributed to

 her in this entirely falfe defcription of her

 art. She employed no material but paper,

 which flie herfelf, from her knowledge of
 chemiftry, was enabled to dye of all hues,

                                                                   and
                             MEMOIRS OF

and in every fhade of each ; no implement

but her fcifibrs, not once her pencil ; yefc
never did painting prefent a more exacl

reprefentation of flowers of every colour,

fize, and cultivation, from the fimple hedge
ajid field-flower, to the moft complicated
foliage that Horticulture has multiplied.

This lady, once Mrs. Pendarvis, the friend
and correfpondent of Swift, and in her

later years honored by the friendfhip and

frequent viilts at Windfor, of the King,

Queen, and Princefles, began this her af-

tonifhing felf-invented work at the age of
feventy-four. The Poet here mifreprefents

her as being affifted by her virgin train. She
had no afliftant ; no hands, but her own,

formed one leaf or flower of the ten vo-
lumes. Her family were mortified by a
defcription which they juftly thought de-

graded her peculiar art; and remonftrated
with Dr. Darwin on the occafion, exprefl*-
ing a wifh that future editions might con-

                                                             tain
DR. DARWIN.  317

tain it's more juft pilure on his poetic

page. He faid, the defcription in the note
was accurate ; but that truth in this, as in

many other inftances, being lefs favourable
to poetry than ficlion, he did not chofe to

alter the text.

   The Lepfana, the Nymphea alba, and
the Calendula, whofe flowers, as do many
other flowers, open and fhut at certain
hours of the rifing and declining day, are
transformed into elegant female watch-
makers. Linneus calls the forty-fix flow-
ers of this order, the Horologe, orWatch of
Flora. This transformation involves an
highly poetic defcription of the art that
traces the march of Time. The progreffivc
mechanifm which completes a watch, is
traced with accuracy, and, in the men-
tion of it's ornamental trophies, we meet
iublime imagery; fuch as Time dafhing
Superftition from it's baft, and the Hours

leading their trains around the wreck ; but
                                                              die
 318 MEMOIRS Of

 the Moments are imperfonized with too
much quaint prettinefs. The whole of
this imagery is an imitation, as indeed the
Author afterwards acknowledges, of the fol-
lowing paffage in Young's Night Thoughts,

         Each Moment has it's fickle, emulous

       Of Time's enormous fey the, whofe ample fweep

         Strikes empires from the root; each Moment plies
        His little weapon in the narrower fphere

       Of fweet domeftic comfort, and cuts do&n

        Our faireft blooms of fublunary blifs.

   The Hours leading their trains around
the wrecks their parent had made, and
planting amidft them the growth of fci-
ence and tafte, is an original and beautiful
addition in Dr. Darwin's imitative paflage.
The Moments are obnoxious to his own
criticifm in the firft Interlude ; they be-
come unpleafing from being too diftinftly
defcribed, with their kifles and their baby
hands. Perhaps the perfonified Moments
are not lefs diftinclly pourtrayed in the

                                                                   above
DR, BARWIN.  319

above paffage from the Night Thoughts ;

but there, a penfive interesting morality
cafts over them a foftening veil ; while

their gayer appearance and employment
on the Darwinian page, brings them into
glaring, and perhaps almoft ludicrous view.

    That unpleailng change, which takes

place in the Helleborus after impreg-
nation, produces, in it's metamorphofis, a
fair nymph, fuddenly fmitten by a loath-
fome diftemper, which utterly deftroys her

charms. An odd comparifon enfues, the
fuppofed aclual transformation of Nebu-

 chadnezzar into a beaft ; whereas the"

 Scripture only fays, that he dwelt with the

beafts of the field, and took their prone
 habits. His imputed change into their
Jhape is ingenioufly, but fomewhat ludi-

 croufly painted ; and we are apt to fancy
 the Euphrates flandered in thefe lines,

 which finely defcribe a river of fluggim

 and fullied current :

             Lolls
32O MEMOIRS O?

      Lolls his red tongue, and from the reedy fide

     Of flow Euphrates laps the muddy tide.

   That harmonioufly-named river of the

Eaft, has too long rolled through our ima-
gination in beautiful and lucid currents,

for us to like this reverfe picture of it's

ftreams. One of our poets, probably Mil-

ton, has fomewhere faid,

            . and by the verdant fide

         Of palmy Euphrates.

   At laft, fince the {Ituation of Babylon
was certainly flat and marfhy, Dr. Darwin

is probably corre<fl in this inftance, how-
ever obftinately our /enfations may refufe
to grant that one of the rivers which en-
circled Paradife can deferve to be fo de-
fcribed; but there, as it was nearer it's
fource in the mountain Niphates, it would
certainly be more pure ; befides, that it

may be fuppofed to have become polluted
                                                                    by
DR. DARWIN.  321

by it's progrefs through lefs hallowed earth*

The laft line of the Nebuchadnezzar-tranf-
formation is burlefque, by reafon of the

epithet pendant **

          Nor Flattery's felf can pierce his pendant ears.

And the alliterating p makes the found of
the line difpleafing as is the image it

conveys.

   The Menifpernum, Indian-berry, which
intoxicates fifh, being of the clafs two fe-

males, twelve males, here affumes the

form of two Sifter Nymphs, fcatteririg

their inebriating berries on the waters*
The Popifh legend of St. Anthony preach-
ing' to the fiih, and converting them to
Chriftianity, forms the whimfical and not
very pleating illuftration. It's language
violates the third commandment deplor-

ably.

   The Papaver, Poppy, becomes a drowfy
Enchantrefs of malignant operation ; but

                                Y her
                                                        OP

her fomnifcrous palace is defcribed in thefe
lovely numbers :

        Sopha'd on filk, amid her charm-built towers,
        Her meads of afphodel, and amaranth bowers,
         Where Sleep and Silence guard the foft abodes,
       In fullen apathy, Tapaver nods.
         Faint o'er her couch, in fcintillating ftreams,
        Fafs the light forms of Fancy and of Dreams.

   Her enchantments are poetically given
from old Tales of the Genii, and fhe i?
compared to Hermes driving the Ghofts to
the ihores of Erebus ; and again his em-
ployment to the drawings of Mifs Emma
Crew, a compliment of very forced intro-

duction.

   The Ciftus, a plant whofe tranfient, but

plenteous Sowers expand in fucceffion

on the firfl warmth of May, becomes a
Nymph, who calls her train to choir the
birth of that month. She is obeyed, and
a very exquifite fong enfues, in which the
altered meafure relieves the ear. Without

                                                                 any
DR. DARWIN.  323

any perceivable chain of thought, the fud-
den death of the fair Cifta, ferves to ufher
in a fine piture of an hoar-froft landfcape,

diflblving inftantaneoufly beneath a change

of keen to foft wind, accompanied by the

emerging fun.
    Cinchona, Peruvian bark tree, paffes

before us as a Peruvian Maid, on her way
to the altar, which, in Quito, me had raifed

to the goddefs Hygeia, and of which Ihe
is the adminiftrant prieftefs. Her progrefs

thither, and her ceremonies at the ihrine,

and her prayer to the Goddefs, are beauti-

ful ; the perfonified Difeafes fublime, par-
ticularly Ague. The accidental manner,
in which, it is well known, the medicinal

virtues of the bark were firft difcovered, is

here conveyed to the reader with the hap-
pieft ingenuity, as a dictate of Hygeia to
her Prieftefs, in anfwer to the prayer.
Cinchona is commanded to yield her fa-
cred forefts to the axe, and to ftrew their

                  f z bitter
 24 MEMOIRS OP

bitter foliage on the rivers. She obeys ;
her lovers fell the trees, and impregnate the
waters with the leaves, while pale infe&ed
fquadrons kneel on the margin, and health

and bloom return as they drink. All this

forms a complete and charming little

drama. It needed no illustration, but it
has a very ferious one, that of Mofes in the
Wilderncfs, ftriking the rock, " fo that
" the waters flowed out."

   To the bark-metamorphofis fucceeds
that of the Digitalis, Fox-glove, of whofc

now experienced, though not infallible vir-
tue, in dropfical cafes, Dr. Darwin claims
the iirft difcovery. The bloated and cada-
verous form of Dropfy appears, and his un-

quenchable thirft is compared to that of

Tantalus in thefe four admirable lines:

         So bends tormented Tantalus to drink,
        While frgm his lips the refluent waters (brink ;
         Again the riling ft ream his bofom laves,
         Aud thirft confumes him 'mid circumfluent waves.

                                                        Hygeia
DR, DARWIN.                                         325

   Hygeia affumes the form of Digitalis;

waves over the difeafed her ferpent- wreathed

wand, " and charms the ihapelefs monfter

'' into man."

   To her is compared the good Bifliop of

Marfeilles, when the plague raged in that

city; alfo the generous and aclive Mayor
of London, when London was under firm-

3ar vifitation. From him the Poet fiides

into a moft animated contemplation of the

great Howard's virtue, and afferts that the
rays of philan trophy

Dart round the globe from Zembla to the Line 5      He
O'er each dark prifon plays the cheering light,
As northern luftres o'er the vault of night j

From realm to realm, by crofs or crefcent crown'd,
Where'er mankind and mifery are found,
O'er burning fancis, deep waves, or wilds of fnow,
Thy Howard, journeying, feeks the houfe of woe;

Down many a winding ftep to dungeons dank,
Where anguifh wails, and galling fetters clank;

To caves beftrew'd with many a mouldering bone,
And cells, whole echoes only learn to groan j

Where no kind bars a wbifpering friend diiclofe,

Ko fun-beam enters, and no zephyr blows,
326 MEMOIRS OF

    He treads inemulous of fame 6r wealth,
    Profufe of toil, and prodigal of health ;
    With foft perfuafive eloquence expands
     Power's rigid heart, and opes his clenching handsj
     Leads ftern-ey'd Juftice to the dark domains,

   If not to fever, to relax the chains j

    Or guides awaken'd Mercy through the gloom,
     And (hows the prifon fitter to the tomb ;
     Gives to her babes the felf-devoted wife,
    To her fond huiband, liberty and life !

     The fpirits of the good, who bend from high,
     Wide o'er thefe earthly fcenes* their partial eye,
     When firft, array 'd in Virtues pure>ft robe,
     They faw her Howard traverfing the globe j
     Saw round his brow the fun-bright glory blaze
     In arrowy circles of unwearied rays,
     Miftook a mortal for an angel gueft,
     And alk'd what feraph-foot the earth imp reft.
     Onward he moves, Difeafe and Death retire,
     And murmuring Demons hate him, and admire.

   If praife for a fmgle verbal beauty may

 not degrade the exalted merit of the above

 quotation, the biographer would obferve
 that it's word inemulous has a fvveet effect,

                                     \

 and that, flie believes, it is there in firft

                                                           coinage.
DR, DARWIN.  327

coinage. Unambitious, the word in com-
mon ufe for that meaning, is comparatively
hard and cumbrous in verfe.

   This citation conftitutes far the fublim-
eft eulogy by which Poetry has immortal-
ized the matchlefs Howard, Mr. Hayley's
noble Ode alone excepted. That was the
earlieft tribute to his high worth, and it is
admirable in a degree which only Darwin
has equalled, and which perhaps no Poet

can excel.

   The Gnomes now fufpend the again
iilent lyre on the ftrine of Hygeia ; the

Sylphs flacken the firings, and catch the
rain-drops on their fhadowy pinions, while
a Naiad prepares the tea-urn. The lad

Canto clofed with a Ihower. That it
ihould rain alfo in the termination of this,
is a famenefs which furprifes us from an
imagination fo various. Then furclj there

is too flrong a contrail between the folernn

and dignified praife of Howard, imrnedi-

                                  y 4 ately
328 MEMOIRS OP

ately preceding, and the light and frolic

idea which places a Mufe, the recent Hif-
torian of virtue fo truly great, at the tea-
table ! It is out of keeping, as the painters

fay.

   We meet ingenious and juft criticifm in

the Interlude to this fecond Canto. Aware

of the frequent want of evident refem-
blance between his fubjeds and their fimi-
lies, Dr. Darwin fhelters himfelf under the
authority of Homer, which perhaps will

not entirely fecure his practice from cen-

fure ; fmce, if Homer's fimilies do not often

touch the object with which they are com-

pared, at all points, yet are they never fo

it

     is
           a

                        a
                                        is

                                                                    ;

                                               it
                                                           it,
utterly without connexion with                                         as

feveral which may be found in this poem.

That poetic fimile mould not be precife

in it's refemblance certain, at leaft that

the more fublime, or more beautiful,

for not quadrating exactly yet                                       ought to

poffefs fuch degree of affinity                                      with the
                                                                      fubjea,
R. DARWIN.                       329

fubjcct, that when the theme and \Cs
illuftration are viewed together, we may
feel, though we cannot verbally demoii-
ftrate the perfect juftnefs of the fimilitude.

   Thus, in general, are the families of
Homer conftructed, and thus Milton's,
feveral of which, in the Paradife Loft, are
grander than moft of thofe in the Iliad and

Odyfley. A deceafed modern Poet has

given one of extreme beauty, which, from

it's aptnefs without precifion, bears exactly
that relation to the object it illuftrates
which a poetic firnile ought to bear.

There is no obvious connexion between

our idea of youthful beauty, paled and

fhadowed over by death, and a vernal day-
fpring, which rifes cold and rainy :

Her face was like an April morn
Clad iu a wintry cloud:

yet when Poetry connects them, we are

immediately fenfible of their interefting

                                                       affinity.
330 MEMOIRS OF

affinity. Death itfelf cannot at firft conceal,
however it may fhroud the traits of youth,
and of what once was lovelinefs ; neither
ean the dull iky and nipping wind prevent
our perceiving the youth of the year, when
April has put forth her frefh grafs and
rerdant fprays.

   In the courfe of Dr. Darwin's fecond

Interlude, there is fine difcrimination be-
tween the tragic and the difguftingly hor-

rid; and his cenfiire of the painters for
their frequent choice of difagreeable fub-
jefts for their pencil, fiich as torture and
carnage, is perfectly juft.

                    THIRD CANTO.

    From the penfive graces of this exor-
dium refult extended ground of cenfure
for the undignified fituation of the Mufe
at the clofe of the fecond Canto ; /mce her
modern Tea-table is here converted into a
grafly throne, bedewed with tears, around

                                                     which
DR. DARWIN.  331

\vhich float the thin forms of Sorrows and

Apprehenfions, of Sighs whifpering to the
chords of her lyre, and Indignations, half
unfheathing their fvvords. Thefe fame

Indignations are new allegoric perfonages,

and may be of dubious welcome. The
Paffions, with fuoords by their fides, form
imagery which is liable to give a ludicrous
impreffion ; yet we fhould remember, that
Milton puts a fword into the hand of the
archangel, Michael, in the 6th book of the
Paradife Loft, and Pope into that of a Ghoft
in his Elegy to the Memory of an unfor-
tunate Lady ; but Milton gives the weapon
dignity by inverting it with flames, on the
authority of Scripture, and Pope foftens
off the literality by it's imputed indiftincT:-

nefs, and by the epithet vtfionary. " VV'hy
" dimly gleams the vifionary fword ?"

    Circea, Enchanter's Nightihade, is the

firft transformation in this Canto. We

learn from the note to the paflage, that
                                                            it
                             MEMOIRS OF

it grows among the mouldering bones
and decayed coffins of Sleaford Church,
I^icolniliire, and that it was celebrated in
the myfteries of witchcraft, and for the
purpofe of raifmg the devil.

    As the Tremella is the moft beautiful,

fo is Circea the fublimeft transformation
of the four Cantos. Her marriage with
the two Fiends ; it's portentous figns which
precede the fatanic nuptials ; the fcream-

ing bats, the owls, and the dog of midnight

howling the epithalamium ; the burfting
ground ; the afcending Demons ; their pro-
grefs with the grim Bride to the violated
temple ; thofe fhapelefs fpeclres, which,

by glimpfes of the moon through the co-

loured glafs, are feen to quiver on the walls,
as Circea and her horrid bridegrooms pafs
along the ailes, that difmally echo their

fteps ; the unbleffed wine with which they
pollute the chalice ; their hideous laugh

                                                         which
                           DR. DARWIN.

which difturbs the filence of the choir ; and
the impious mummery of the nuptial rites;

all thefe circurnftances were conceived, and

are expreffed with prodigious ftrength of

fancy.

   The Laura- cerafus, twenty males, one
female, appears next, as the Pythian prieft-
efs * delivering her oracles. This is her
grand portrait :

      A vaunt ye vulgar ! from her facred groves,
       With maniac tfep, the Pythian Laura moves 5

       Full of the God her labouring bofom fighs,
        Foam on her lips, and fury in her eyes,
        Strong writhe her limbs j her wild difhevell'd hair
        Starts from her laurel wreath, and fwims in air,
       While twenty prietfs the gorgeous Ihrine furround,
        Cin&ur'd with ephods and with garlands crown'd,
        Contending holts, and trembling nations wait
       The firm immutable behefts of fate ;
        She fpeaks in thunder from her golden throne,
       With words unwill'd, and wifdom not her own.

   * The Pythian prieftefs is fuppbfed to have been made drunk
with the infufion of laurel leaves, when fhe delivered her oracle*.
The intoxicatior. or inspiration, is finely defcribed by Virgil.

         ? To
                               MEMOIRS OF.

   To the Pythian Laura is compared the
diftrefs of a beautiful nymph in flumber^

beneath the influence of the night- mare.

It is a poetic picture after Fufeli. The

fquab and grinning Fiend, as he fits on the
bofbm of the fleeping Maid, and his moon-

eyed mare, looking in through the bed-
curtains, are pictures of ludicrous horror.
They are drawn with rival ftrength by the
Poet and Painter ; and are contracted by

the lovely form of the agitated ilumberer ;
but tliefocciffion of her convulfive appear-
ances which the Poet brings to the eye,
affords another inftance of the fuperior
power of the pen to that of the pencil,
when each are directed by the impulfe of

true genius.

    The perfonification of the Indian fig-
tree is made a vehicle of introduction for
 the fcenery of Dovedale and Ham, the cave
 of Thor, the Saxon God, and all the fan-
 guinary -fublimities of his dru^dical rites.

                                                         The
        BR.. DARWltf.     33J

The only connexion between the fubjc&
                       that " each branch
and it's illuftrationa
                             is,

                                        a

                                      in

                                                                    ;a
" of the large fig-tree of India, emits
" flender, flexile, depending appendage
" from it's fummit, like cord, and which

" roots into the earth, and rifes again

" and the Hamps arid Manifold, rivers of
" the Dovedale vicinity,
                          their courfe

" over  romantic moor, fink fuddenly
" into the earth, and rife again in Ham
" gardens, after their fubterranean pafTage
" of three miles."

   Impatiens, Touch-me-not, from the pe-
culiar nature of the plant, and the elaftic
motion by which throws it's feeds to
great diftance, has, in it's transformation,
fufficient affinity to the ftory of Medea,
here introduced as it's fimile. Nowhere

   that ftriking poetic legend finely told.
The paffions of jealoufy and defpair, ex-
cited the mercenary ingratitude of Jafbn,
are here painted in their ftrongeft colours,
is
          by

                          it

                                                  fo

                                                                                 a

                          rifmg
                               MEMOIRS OP

 rifmg in power and force, till the dire

 filiacide clofes the epifode.

    Thofe eleclrical properties of the Die-
tamnus, Fraxinella, aflerted by Dr. Darwin
as having witnefled them in the ftill fum-

mer nights after long draught, induces him
to transform her alfo into an enchantrefs,
and the hour and feafon in which me cele-
brates her magical rites, is thus fweetly
fpecified :

        What time the Eve her gauze pellucid fprcads
         O'er the dim flowers, and veils the mifty meads,
         Slow o'er the twilight fands and leafy walks,
       In gloomy dignity, Di&amna ftalks.

   The deleterious tree, the Mancinelia :
the Urtica, Englim nettle, and the Lobelia
longiflora, a deadly plant of the Weft In-
dies, form a continuation of Enchant reflcs.
and their metamorphofe is attended by ftill
darker traits of demonifm. As the firft and
laft of thefe three vegetables have life-de-
ftroying properties, and the Englim nettle
only inflicts a ilight and tranfient pain, ih<:

                                                         ought
DR. DARWIN.  337

 ought not to have appeared in fuch com-
 pany. Her comparative infignificance is

 that of a wafp between a cobracapella and
 a rattle-make. The ruins of Palmira are
 described as a fimile to the mifchiefs of the

 four preceding witches, but why or where-

 fore defies all poetic guefs; however, the

 fault of utter inconneclion is atoned by
the grandeur of this fombre pi<flure.

   To that fucceeds the embrutality of the
Upas Tree, now fuppofed to be of fabulous
exiftence. It is preceded by a beautiful

landfcape of the Ifle of Java, in the centre
of which this dreadful tree was aflerted to
have flood. The feas of glafs, the noble

rocks, the ever-fummered gales, and the
fylvan graces which zone that large ifland,
form an exquifite contraft in this paflage,

to the defolation round the Hydra Tree of
Death, as it's author fublimely calls it. The

Upas Tree becomes a terrific monfter under

the wand of our potent magician. The
                             z enormous
338 MEMOIRS OF

enormous dragon is grand, with his un-

 numbered heads extending over ten fquarc

leagues, and with many infant ferpents
growing out of him, like thofe of Sin in
the Paradiie Loft ; a dragon, that

         Looks o'er the clouds, and hiffes in the florin.

Into a monfter the Upas muft be made.
This Poet's fyftem of vegetable animality
would not permit it to remain in that fo
much more impreffive though quieter
horror, with which it is defcribed in the

Dutch furgeon's narrative. A lonely tree

by the fide of a rivulet, in a barren and (tony
valley, circled round by vail and Iterile
mountains; no tree but itfelf! no hedge!

no blade of grafs ! no wing of bird ! no-

thing that breathes to difturb the dreadful
iilence ! dead bodies fcattered about the

wafte in every various ftage of putridity ;
and the tree itfelf exhaling a viiible and

poifonous vapor, inftantly fatal to every
                                                          living
DR. DARWIN.                      239

living thing which breathes the air it taints
within a diameter of fifteen miles! what

furious dragon, even from the pen of Dr.
Darwin, but lofes it's terrors before this
ftill, this ghaftly defolation !

    The profe narration, taken from the
London Magazine, is inferted in the clofe
of the additional notes to the Loves of the

Plants. It has fuch an air of fimple ve-

racity, that we do violence to our feelings
when, on reflection, we refufe to give it

credit. The gum of this tree is there
afferted to be of high price, and ufed to
envenom the Indian arrows; that it is

procured by Criminals under fentence of

death, who redeem their lives if they can

bring from the Upas a box of it's gum ;

an experiment of immenfe hazard, fince

the poffibility of returning depends upon

the perpetually veering winds blowing a

fteady gale towards the tree as the delin-

                  in progrefs of at
quent approaches  z it,

                           2,    leaft

                              a
340 MEMOIRS OF

leaft fifteen miles. The feldomnefs with

which that happens, and the frequency
of the attempt, ftrew the circumjacent
plains with the dead. Faith in this won-
derful tale has melted away in fubfequent

inquiry. Many have faid that Dr. Darwin
certainly believed the > account. He cer-

tainly writes as if he believed it ; yet that

was but to ferve a poetic purpofe; credulity
was not one of his propenfities.

   The Orchis Morio, the parent root of
which fhrivels' up and dies as the young
one increafes, is transformed into a fond

mother, nurfing her infant at the expence

of her own health and life. This ani-
mation is fliort, and, compared to many of

the others, has little intereft ; but it's two
illuftrations have every intereft, and the

fecond forms a very fweet and mournful

epifode. The firft is a lovely picSure of a

wounded deer, efcaping from her ambufhcd

archer, and flying, with her fawn, to the

                                                          wr oodlands,
DR. DARWIN.  341

 woodlands, over plains fpotted with her
 blood ; and, amid thick fhades, hanging

 over her young, and weeping her life away.

Then, in fucceffive fimile, comes the
thrice interefling ftory. An Officer's Wife
with her infants, watching,- from a near
hill, the battle of Minden, in which her
hufband was engaged, is mortally wounded
by a random fliot. We find this incident
related with fo much pathos as almoft to
diffipate the apprehenfion, that Dr. Dar-

win's rage for the pi&urefcjue would, in a

fubjecT: of genuine intereft for the human

paffions, have proved deftruclive to his

powers of awakening them. The mourn-
ful truth of one line in this epifode ought

to fink deep in every human heart, viz.

             The angel Pity fhuns the walks of War.

   Truly honourable is it to the Poets of
this reign, that the beft of thecn have never

ftimulated, but, on the contrary, have
                               z 3 cndea-
342 MEMOIRS Of

endeavoured to meliorate and abate that

belligerent fpirit, always injurious to the
true intereft of this country, and fruitful

in the extreme of human mifery. A fpirit,

by which Britain looks over the Atlantic,
    )p

fhorn of her continental beams ; a fpirit, to

whofe unwarned and perfifting violence in

later years, the lives of the foldiery, and
the comforts of millions of families, were

lavilhed in defiance  of the Gofpel, which
preaches peace on     earth, and good-will
towards men.

 But to return to the epifode ; the lifp^
ing boy, on his father's approach.

Speak low, he cries, and gives his little hand j
Eliza fleeps upon the dew-cold fand j
Poor weeping babe, with bloody fingers prefs'd,
And tried, with pouting lips, the milklefs breaft.
Alas ! we both with cold and hunger quake,
Why do you weep ? Mamma will foon awake !
She'll wake no more ! the haplefs mourner faid !

   Nothing can be more natural and more
affecting than the ideas in this fpeech of

                                                                 the
DR. DARWIN.  v 343

the child, only that dew-cold and milkkfs
are not infantine expreffions.

   The Cufcuta, Dodder, four males two
females. It does not root itfelf in the

earth, but afcends the vegetables in it's
neighbourhood, and ultimately deflroys
the plant on which it had grown to ma-

turity. In this fyftem of animality it is

reprefented as two treacherous coquets,
fmiling to betray ; and, from the circum-
ftance of the plant twining round the
fhrub or tree, which it finally kills, the

ungrateful beauties are compared to the

ferpents, which ftrangled Lac-Toon and his

fons. That ftory here forms a faithful
poetic picture of the celebrated ftatue.

   In the transformation of the Vine into a

Bacchanalian Female,the Doctor introduces,

and enforces his juft and favorite fyftem, of
confidering the free ufe of vinous fluid, in
all it's ftages, as the fource of our mofl
fatal chronic difeafes. They are very

                               z 4 poetically
344 MEMOIRS OF

poetically imperfonifed as they hover round
the fedudive nymph, Vitis, while Chemia
mingles poifon in her bowl. This, fell
group is admirably illuftrated by an image

of Prometheus chained to a rock, with a
vulture devouring his liver. The many
diforders of the liver, fo torturing and
fo fatal, which ebriety caufes, are nobly
allegorized in this fable of him, who is

reprefented as being thus punilhed for hav-
ing ftolen fire from heaven. Dr. Darwin's
note to this paffages deferves to be engraven
on every man's memory, fince it is the
atteftation of a great Phyfician, founded on

an extenfive - practice of nearly half a

century.

   The Cyclamen, Shewbread or Sowbread,

which, " when it's feeds are ripe, gradually
" twifts it's ftalk fpirally downward, till it
" touches the earth, and there inferts it's
" offspring," is changed into a tender

matron, refigning her departed infants to
                                                                  the
          DR. DARWIN.  345

the grave, and breathing a pious hope of
their refurre&ion. The fimile on this oc-
fion is perhaps the fublimeft paflage in the
whole work ; it's real, and, in former ages,

often exifting horrors, tranfcend in ftrength
all Imagination has formed, or can form,
with her train of fpedres, witches, and

demons :

So when the Plague, o'er London's gafping crowds.
Shook her dank wing, and fteer'd her murky clouds j

When o'er the friendlefs bier no rites were read,
No dirge {low chanted, and no pall outfpread j
While Death and Night pil'd up the naked throng,
And Silence drove their ebon cars along,
Six * lovely daughters, and their father, fwept
To the throng'd grave, Cleone faw, and wept.
Her tender mind, with meek religion fraught,

Prank, all-refign'd, Affliction's bitter draught j

* During the laft great plague in London, one pit, to receive the

dead, was dug in the Charter Houfe, forty feet long, fixteen feet wide,

and twenty feet deep, and in two weeks received 1114 bodies. During
this dire calamity there were inftances of mothers carrying their own

children to thofe public graves ; arid of people delirious, or in defpair
for the lofs of friends, who threw themfelves alive into thefe pits.
See Journal of the Plague in 1665, printed for E. Nutt, Royal Ex-

change.

                       Alive,
346 MEMOIRS OF

     Alive, and liftening to the whifper'd groan

    Of other's woes, unmindful of her own.

     One fmiling boy, her laft fweet hope, flic warms,
    Hufh'd on her bofom, cradled in her arms.
    Paughter of woe ! ere morn, in vain carefs'd,
     CJung the cold babe upon thy milklefs breaftj

    With feeble cries thy lafl fad aid requir'd,
    Stretch'd it's fliff limbs, and on thy lap expir'd !
    Long, with wide eye-lids, on her child fhe gaz'd,
    And long to heav'n their tearlefs orbs (he rais'd ;

     Then, with quick foot and throbbing heart, Ihe found
     Where Chartreufe open'd deep his holy ground j
     Bore her laft treafure through the midnight gloom,
    And kneeling dropp'd it in the mighty tomb.

   I" follow next !" the frantic mourner faid,

    ,And living plung'd amid the fettering dead.

   It appears to the author of this memoir,

that, in the above folemn, great, and im-
preffive epifode, only two words, an epithet

and it's fubftantive, " ebon cars," could be

changed to advantage. Ebony has a gloffy
and polifhed black, and is therefore of un-

fuitable refemblance to that vehicle of hor-
ror. Then amid the dreadful truths of the

                                                    defcription,
DR. DARWIN.  347

defcription, the dead cart fliould have been
called by it's fimple name ; car, has g. fine
triumphant found, which fomewhat dif-
turbs the awful horror of the impreffion.

Surely the vehicle without nominal alter-
ation, and with a ftronger epithet prefixed,

that fliould not fpecify it's complexion,

would be better,

While Death and Night pil'd up the naked throng.
And Siknce drove their ghaftly carts along.

   From the banks of the Ontario we have
the Caffia. It is one of thofe American fruits
which are annually thrown on the coaft
of Norway, in wonderful emigration. Dr.
Darwin accounts for it by a fuppofed ex-
iftence of under currents in the depth of
the ocean, or from vortexes of water paff-

ing from one country to another through

caverns of the earth. The Caffia, ten

males one female, is reprefented as a fair
American matron, who, alarmed by the

                                                           rifing
  348 MEMOIRS OF

 rifing tempeft, trufts her children to the
 floods. The Scripture tradition of Mofes,
 committed to the Nile by his Hebrew
 mother, is here told with aptnefs to the
 fubjecT:, with piclurefque beauty, and with
pathetic fweetnefs. This child, refcued
from the flood, and rifing into an ambaf-

fador of Heaven, a mighty Prophet, that

wrefted the fcourge from the oppreffor's

hand, and broke the iron bonds of his na-
tion's flavery, nobly and religioufly clofes
the paffage ; and in that clofe awfully con-
trafts the tendernefs of the opening. From
thence the Poet pafles into another fublime
philippic on the plague-fpot in the moral
and religious health of Britain, her cruel
Slave Trade, and makes this ftriking appeal

to our fenators :

    E'en now, e'en now,, on yonder weftern fhores,
   Weeps pale Defpair, and writhing Anguifh roars :
    E'en now in Afric's groves, with hideous yell,
    Fierce Slavery (talks, and flips the dogs of hell 5

                                                                                          Frona
DR. DARWIN.                                     349

From vale to vale the gathering cries rebound,
And fable nations tremble at the found !

   Ye bands of fenators, whofe fuffrage fways
Britannia's realms 5 whom either Ind obeys 5
Who right the injur'd, and reward the brave,

Stretch your ffrong arm, for ye have power to fave !
Thron'd in the vaulted heart, his dread reforr,

Inexorable Conscience holds his court ;

With ftill fmall voice the plots of guilt alarms,

Bears his malk'd brow, his lifted hands difarms ;

But wrapp'd in night, with terrors all his own,
He fpeaks in thunder when the deed is done.
Hear him, ye fenates ! hear this truth fublime,
He who allows opprefiion, mares the crime.

   No radiant pearl, which crefted Fortune wears,
No gem, that fparkling hangs from Beauty's ears ;
Not the bright liars which night's blue arch adorn ;
Not riling funs that gild the vernal morn,
Shine with fuch luftre as the tear, that breaks,
For other's woe, down Virtue's manly cheeks.

   So admirably does this Bard drop the
curtain of moral truth and humanity over

the tuTues of his fancy, in this the grandeft
of his fecond-part Cantos.

   The Mufe of Botany now retires with

                                                          much
                                  MEMOIRS OF

 much more ferious grace from her choir
 than fhe had done in the preceding Cantos,
 and it becomes her well, from the more

 fombre nature of it's recent themes.

    Alike ingenious and juft are the critical
obfervations with which this third Inter-

lude commences ; they are on the relation

between the arts of Poetry and Painting.
In theprogreft of it's ftri&ures Dr. Darwin
has not fucceeded fo well. When he

would eftablifh affinity between the mea-
fures of metrical and muiical competition,

it was owing to his total want of know-

ledge in muiical fcience that he is vifionary,
abftrufe, and^ incomprehenfible. The in-
itances he gives of fancied triple and com-
mon time in our verfe, by no means fup-
port his theory, after all the pains which
can be taken to comprehend it by thofe who
understand both the arts. His fuggefted

poffibility of luminous harmony, accordant
to that which is vocal, feems metaphyfical

                                                           in
DR. DARWIN.  351

in as wild extreme as the fuppofed analogy
between the meafures of poetry, and the
time of mufic, had been unfuccefsfully ma-

thematical.

   A pleafing inftance of paternal eulogy

occurs in this Interlude concerning the

ingenious difcovery on the harmony of co-
lours, by Dr. Darwin of Shrewfbury. The
demonftrated exiftence of that harmony
gives, as our Poet juftly obferves, Mufic

and Painting undoubted right to borrow

metaphors from each other; " Muficians,

    to fpeak of the brilliancy of founds, and
   the light and made of a concerto ; and
    Painters, of the harmony of colours and

" the tone of a picture ;" but, when he

feeks to extend in our fenforium thefe real

affinities between the nature of colours
and of mufical founds, into an equal re-

lationlhip between the poetical and the

mufical meafures, he becomes incompre-

henfible to thofe who know the nature of

             each
                                     MEMOIRS OF

  each too well to believe it poffible that the
  mechanical divifions of mufical time have
  their correfponding rules in the formation
  of Englifh verfe, whether blank or in

  rhyme. Perhaps the fyftem may, as he

 afferts, extend to the poffibility of fetting

 pictures, as well as verbal expreffions, to
 mufic, but not, furely, as Dr. Darwin fup-
 pofes, with better effect than when mufic is
 adapted to the fentiments or the imagery

 of verfe. The love of novelty only could
have induced fuch a preference. It is con-

ceivable that a picture, whether hiftoric or
fcenic, might be exhibited while fuch har-
monic ftrains are played by a band, as

fiiould well exprefs the paffions and feel-

ings of the hiftoric group before us, or the
particular character of the landfcape ; but

as the picflure has only it's moment, fo
muft the correfponding melody and har-

mony of inftruments have only one {train ;

no fucceffive and contrafted movements.

                                                        Poetry
                             Jt)R. DARWIN.   2,

Poetry and Mufic are both progreflive,                            is,
Painting is ftationary, therefore the natural
union is between the two firft ; and pic-
tures can be worth nothing to the mufician
in his imitative art, in companion with
poetry, whofe paffions and fcenes are

changeful, often contracted, and always

proceeding.

   Again, the poetic Critic emerges into
truth and day-light, when he compares the
nature and privileges of the Greek and
Latin languages with thofe of our own.
Silent about the tones of each, where fu-
periority is univerfally confefled to be with
the two former, he proves that the confti-
tution of the Englifh language from it's
power of more varioufly compounding it's
terms, and from it's greater facility in pro-
ducing perfonifications, better calculated
for poetry than the Greek and Latin. Ac-
cordingly our poetry has more imagery than
that of either of thofe languages. From
this comparifon the author Hides into the

                                   A fubjecl
354 MEMOIRS OF

fubjecT: of plagiarifm from the Ancients, and
from former Bards of this nation. He dif-

is,tinguiflies well what and what not
         a
amenable to that cenfure, and acknow-
                 is
ledges the few paflages of borrowed ideas
                   ;" is
in the three preceding Cantos. He fays,
" Where the fentiment and expreffion are
" taken from other writers without due

" acknowledgment, an author guilty of
" plagiarifm, but not on the teftimony of
" fmgle words and cafual phrafes
                                  and

adds, " they are lawful game, wild by,
" nature^ the property of all who can
" capture them. Perhaps few common
" flowers of fpeech may be gathered as
" we pafs over our neighbour's ground,
" but we muft not plunder his cultivated
" fruit." Dr. Darwin forgot that juft

reftraint when he took, unacknowledged,

forty-fix entire lines, the publifhed verfes

of his friend, for the exordium of the firft
part of his work. That extraordinary, and

                                  in
DR. DARWIN.                                     355

in a Poet of fb much genius, unprecedent-
ed inftance of plagiarifm excepted, not one
great Poet of England is more original than
Darwin. His defign, his ideas, his ftyle,
his manner, are wholly his own.

" Bright forms that glitter in the Mufe's ray,
" With orient hues, v aborrow'd of the fun."

                    FOURTH CANTO

Opens with a fun-rife and a rain-bow,
each of Homeric excellence. The Mufe
of Botany gazes enchanted on the fcene,
and fwells the fong of Paphos to fofter
chords. Her Poet adds :

        Long ailes of oak return'd the lilver found,
        And amorous Echoes talk'd along the ground.

   This is almoft verbatim from Pope's

line,

    And more than Echoes talk along the walls.

-

Plagiarifm is atoned when it improves

upon it's original, and that is always to be

2 A 2,       expe&ed
   356 MEMOIRS OF

  expected from genius rich as Dr. Darwin's ;
  but in the prefent inftance we are difap-
  pointed. This generally fo very accurate
  defcriber, here indolently facrifices the
 verifimilitude of the circumftance, rather
 than change his rhymes. Echoes talk in
 the air and along walls^ but we never hear
 their voice at our feet. They are there in

 double inaccuracy, iincc if the oaken viftas

 returned the found, that found is echo ; fb
 we have firft a literal echo, and, immedi-
 ately after, a plurality of perfonified echoes
creeping on all four, and telling their imi-

tative tales where no " Nymph of the airy
" cell," as Milton beautifully terms the

echo, ever deigned even to whifper.
     Suppofe,

        Long ailes of oak the filver founds retain,
        And all their echoes breath'd the amorous ftrain.

   Dr. Darwin proceeds to recall his readers
to the local fituation of his Mufe :

                                                                                         Pleas'd
DR. DARWIN.                            357

     Pleas' d Lichfield liften'd from her facred bowers,
     Bow'd her tall groves, and {hook her flately towers.

   The firft transformation of this Canto is
the Cereus grandiflora, of Jamaica, twenty
males one female. It flowers and becomes

odoriferous during a few hours in the night,

and then clofes to open no more. The
Cerea becomes a Maid of Night, contem-
plating it's " ftellar funs :" and fhe is
compared to the Fairy Queen of Mr.
Mundy's Poem, Need wood Foreft, in a
lovely ftrain, defcriptive of the Elfin So-
vereign/* Of fuch a pleating perfonage a
fecond portrait is welcome. The reader

may be gratified by comparing on this page

the pictures of Titania from two Poets of

whom StafFordfliire may be proud.

NEEDWOOD FOREST.

Hark the foft lute ! along the green   Attendant
Moves, with majeftic ftep; the Queen.

                           2A3
358                       MEMOIRS OF

     Attendant Fays around her throng,
     And trace the dance, or raife the fong;
     Or touch die ftirill reed as they trip,

     With finger light and ruby lip.

     High on her brow fublime is borne

     One fcarlet woodbine's tremulous horn ;

     A gaudy bee-bird's ample plume

     Sheds o'er her neck it's wavy gloom ;

     With filvery goflamer entwin'd,

     Stream the luxuriant locks behind.

     Thin folds of tangled net- work break,
     In airy waves adown her neck j
     Warp'd in his loom, the fpider fpread
     The far diverging rays of thread.

     One rofe-leaf forms her crimfon veft,
     The loofe edge crofies o'er her breaft,
     And one tranflucent fold, which fell
      From a tall lily's ample bell,
      Forms, with fweet grace, her fnowy train,
      Flows, as fhe fteps, and fweeps the plain.
      Silence and Night enchanted gaze,
      And Hefper hides his vanquifh'd rays.

     BOTANIC GARDEN.

     Thus, when old Needwood's hoary fcenes the Night

     Paints with blue ihadow, and with milky light j

     Where Mundy pour'd, the liflening nymphs among,

     Loud to the echoing vales his parting fong,

                                                      With
DR. DARWIN.                                      359

With meafur'd flep the Fairy Sovereign treads,

Shakes her high plume, and glitters o'er the meads $
Round each green holly leads her fportive train,
And little footfteps mark the circled plain j

Each haunted rill with filver voices rings,
And Night's fweet bird in livelier accent, tings.

   The next floral animation, the Tropoe*
olum Majus, Garden Nafturtion, eight
males one female, is introduced by thefe

lovely lines :

Ere the bright Star which leads the morning Iky

Hangs o'er the milky Eaft it's diamond eye,
The chafte Tropceo leaves her fecret bed j

A faint-like glory trembles round her head j

alluding to the " eleftric flafhes, which
" Mifs E. C. Linneus firft obferved about
" this flower in a fummer morning, before
" fun-rife." Aplenty and pompofilluf-

tration is allotted to this flower ; firft the

fire-fly of the tropics ; next the ignis-fatuus,

which Dr. Darwin had deemed fabulous ;

and laft the intrepid Youths of Judea, con-

2, A 4       demned
360 MEMOIRS OF

demned by Nebuchadnezzar to the burn-
ing fiery furnace.

   With fublime fimplicity has the Prophet

Daniel told that ftory. Beneath every
remembrance in favor of the infpired hif-
torian, we are here imprefled and charmed
anew by grandeur of imagery and piclure,

fuited to the miraculous greatnefs of the
fcene. We again behold the blazing de-
luge, the fiery cavern, white with feven-

fold heat ; the three Heroes in the midft :

        And now a fourth, with Seraph-beauty bright,
         Defcends 5 accofts them ; and outfhines the light,
         Fierce flames innocuous, as they ftep, retire,
        And flow they move amid a world of fire !

   How beautiful is the latter part of the

fecond line !
    The Avena, Oat, three males two fe-

males, becomes a pair of mufical nymphs,
alluding to the oaten pipes of early times,
perhaps the firft invented instrument of the

                                                     harmonious
DR. DARWIN.  361

harmonious fcience. The fifter 'Avenas

fmg a lovely paftoral ballad, whofe Ihorter
meafure again, as twice before, in the courfe

of this poem, agreeably relieves the ear.

    Cannabis, Chinefe Hemp, is introduced

by this fine appropriate landfcape, where
China,

    O'er defert fands, deep gulphs, and hills sublime
    Extends her mafly wall from clime to clime;

    With bells and dragons crefts her Pagod -bowers,
    Her fil ken palaces, and porcelain towers 3
    With long canals a thoufand nations laves,
    Plants all her wilds, and peoples all her waves j

     Slow treads fair Cannabis the breezy ftrand,
    The diftaff ftreams diflievell'd in her hand.

   The female form is always attractive
from the poetic pencil of Darwin. Even
the homely diftaff becomes elegant, as in
the hand of a fair Nymph, it's flax is buoy-
ant on the gales of morning. Cannabis
proceeds in her fpinning, and the Graces
hover around her wheel; yet to her is

" ftern Clotho" compared, who weaves

                                                              the
 362 MEMOIRS OF

 the web of Human Deftiny, " the cradle
 " and the coffin binding it's ends;" but the

 Lady is here in her kindeft mood, aufpi-
 cious Fortune turning the giddy wheel ;

    But if fweet Love, with baby- fingers, twines,

     And wets, with dewy lips, the lengthening lines,
      Skein after Ikein celeftial tints unfold,
     And all the filken tiflue fliines with gold.

    Galanthus Nivalis, Snow-drop, fix males
 one female, is introduced as a delicate and

fprightly lady, playing amidft a wintery

fcene of filent floods, white hills, and glit-

tering meadows. She chides the tardy

Spring, and commands the Weft Wind to

ftretch his folded pinions. She awakens
the hoarfe Cuckow in his gloomy cavern,
calls the wondering Dormoufe from his
temporary grave ; bids the mute Redbreaft
enliven the budding groves, and the plighted
Ringdove coo. The Redbreaft, however,

is not mute amid the hybernal filence of

nat ire, he warbles on the hoary fpray.
                                                          Bellis
DR. DARWIN.  363

   Bellis Prolifera, Hen and Chicken Daify,
next becomes an affectionate matron, fur-
rounded by" her happy infants. Their
childiih. fports, with the infects of the ad-
vanced Spring, and with the harebells and
primrofes, form a domeftic fcene of tender
and lively intereft. In the courfe of it a
compound epithet for the Snail brings that

reptile inilantly to the eye :

         Admire his eye-tipp'd horns and painted mail -,

alfo, by the adverb, paufing, " the paufmg
" butterfly," is that gay infect recalled to

us on it's airy evolutions. Venus and her

Loves making arrows for Cupid in Vul-

can's forge, is given as a fimile to that

fcene ; if fimile it may be called which

fimilitude has none. However, the me-
chanifm of bow and arrow-making is pre-
fented with very amufmg precifion.

    Evidently to fupport a fplendid prelufive

defcription of Matlock, and the theory of

                                                                  the
 364 MEMOIRS OP

the warmth of it's fountain proceeding

from internal volcano, is the aquatic plant,
the Fucus, introduced, which, we are told,

foon appears in all bairns that contain
water. The Fucus is reprefented as a
beauteous youth, who bathes his fair fore-
head in the flreaming fountain. The
fcriptural Angel who fhook his plumes over
the pool of Bethefda, illuftrates the Fucus,
prefiding over the falubrious fprings of
Matlock. This fimile has much pro-
priety, fmce Dr. Prieftley informs us that

   great quantities of pure dephlogifticated
    air are given up in water at the points
   of the Fucus, particularly in the fun-

" ihine, and that hence it contributes to
" preferve the water in refervoirs from
" becoming putrid."

   Trapa, four males one female, another

aquatic plant, comes before us ; thus,

Amphibious Nymph, from Nile's prolific bed
Emerging Trapa, lifts her pearly head.

                                            Fair
DR. DARWIN.                                    365

 Fair glows her virgin cheek and modeft breaft,

A panoply of fcales deforms the reft;

Her quivering fins and panting gills fhe hides,
But fpreads her filver arms upon the tides $
Slow as fhe fails, her ivory neck fhe laves,
And makes her golden trefles o'er the waves.
Charm'd round the Nymph, in circling gambols glide
Four Nereid forms, or fhoot along the tide 5
Now, all as one, they rife with frolic fpring,
And beat the wondering air on humid wing;
Now all defcending plunge beneath the main,
And lafh it's foam with undulating train ;

Above, below, they wheel, retreat, advance,

In air and ocean weave the mazy dance ;

Bow their quick heads, and point their diamond eyes,
And twinkle to the fun with ever changing dyes.

   By this picture we are reminded of the
figure of Sin at the gates of hell.

The one feeni'd woman to the waift, and fair,

But ended foul in many a fcaly fold,

Voluminous and vaft !

                       MILTON'S Paradife Loft.

   The enfuing transformation conveys us
from the flat fliores of the Nile to the bafe
of the Andes. The plant is the Ocymum

                                                     Salinum,
366 MEMOIRS OF

Salinum, Saline Bafil, two males two fe-
males. She is complimented with chaftity
as having but one lover. Her fituation

prefents a fine landfcape, and her form is

arrayed in every feminine and modeft at-
traction. The fpray of ocean bathes her
delicate limbs, uncurls her amber-hued
trefles, and encrufts her perfon with faline
films, through which, as from amidft a

Ihrine of cryftal, her beauty beams. To

this faline plant belongs a note extremely

worth the attention of the reader, fince it
contains an opinion of univerfal medical
importance, from one of the moft difcern-
ing phyficians which perhaps the world
has produced. It relates to, by him, fup-
pofed pernicious effect of too free indul-
gence in that moft agreeable of all the arti-
ficial taftes, the love of fait with our food.
The transformation of the Ocymum Sa-

linum brought to the Poet's memory the

unfortunate wife of Lot, whofe ftory is

                                                                      here
DR. DARWIN.                 367

here told with great and pathetic beauty.
Herfelf and hufband are compared to Or-

pheus and Eurydice, to ^Eneas and Creufa.

The ftory concludes with a fine verifi-
cation of the fcriptural piciure of the ruins
of Sodom and Gomorrah. Perhaps it will

be found fomewhat inferior to Mafon's

paraphrafe of the defolation of Babylon.
The reader will compare the paflages, and

judge for himfelf.

BOTANIC GARDEN.

Oft the lone Pilgrim, that his road forfakes,
                                                                                                                    1

Marks the wide ruins and the fulphur'd lakes;
On mouldering piles, amid afphaltic mud,
Hears, the hoarfe Bittern where Gomorrah flood ;

Recalls th' unhappy pair, with lifted eye,

Leans on the cryftal tomb, and breathes the lilent
       "gh.

MASON'S ODE ON THE FATE OF
                TYRANNY.

          Where yon proud City flood
          Now fpreads the ftagnant mud ;
And there the Bittern in the fedge'fhall lurk,

                                                                     Moaning
368 MEMOIRS OF

                    Moaning with fallen ftrain,
                  While fweeping o'er the plain,
            Deftru6tion ends her work.

   Arum, of the clafs Gynandria, or mafcu-
line ladies, becomes an Amazon, in the

modern military garb, and it's appendages.
Dejanira exchanging her diftaff for the
lion-fpoils of her mighty lover, illuftrates
the Haram in a beautiful poetic picture.

  The mule-flower, produced from the union
of the Dianthus Superbus, Proud Pink, and

 the Caryophillus, Clove, produces, in the

transformation of it's parent flowers, a

whimfical but highly ingenious companion
to the Periian fable of the amours of the

Nightingale and the Rofe. With roman-

tic, but exquifite fancy is this amour, and
it's beautifully- monftered offspring, made
out. That curious plant, the Chundali
Borrum, whofe hiftory and ftrange habits
are defcribed in a note to the paflage, is

preceded by an African landfcape of fublime
features, beneath the rage of the Summer

                                                      Solftice,
DR. DARWIN.  369

Solftice, and the poifonous breath of the

Harmattan, the only gale that flits over
the tawny hills. Gafping panthers arc

rolling in the duft, and dying ferpents are

writhing in foamy folds; the woods on

Atlas, blafted by the heats, and the waters

of the Gambia ilirinking in their channels ;

Ocean rolling to land his ilck flioals, and

Contagion (talking along the fhore. Amid

the fultry wafte rifes the graceful nymph,
Chunda, with her brow unturbaned, and

with loofened zone. Her ten lovers are
employed in mitigating for their fajr mif-
trefs the ardors of the climate, with the

umbrella and the fan.

   Of equal excellence, a Greenland picture

contracts, in the utmoft poffible extreme,

the preceding landfcape. A da) lefs horizon,
{Ireaming with the milky light of the

Aurora Borealis, and all the white moun-

tains gleaming to the moon ; Bears {talk-
ing ^flpwly over the printed fnows ; and vaft

                                2 B ribs
                             MEMOIRS OF

ribs of ice, burfting with the noife of loud-
eft thunder. Then is fhown the vernal
difiblution of this fcene, beneath the rifmg
of the pale, frx-months day ; and the Muf-
chus, Coral-Mofs, in the form of an Arcliic-
regioned lover, awakens his Fair One, and
defcribes the fymptoms of returning Spring.

   The lake and fea-plant, -5ga, Conferva

^Egagropila, is next introduced by thi*
beautiful line,

    Night's tinfel beams on fmooth Locti-Lomond dance,

Where the charms of poetic found are felt,
tliat is one of the lines which, after perufaf,
takes poffeffion of the memory, and lingers
on the ear. We are tolcf, in a note, that
this vegetable is found loofe in. many lakes-;
that it is of a globular form, from the fize
of a walnut to that of a melo-n ; does not
adhere to any thing, but rolls from one part
of the lake to the other. HCTQ it becomes a
fair maid, fitting en the banks .of Loch-

                                                Lomond,
DR. DARWIN.  371

Lomcfnd, expecting her lover to fwim to
her from the centre of the water, and

exploring, with anxious eyes, every paffing
wave. Since a number of aquatic plants
had been previouily humanized, it is pro-
bable this is indebted for fuch diftin&ion
to the inclination of the Poet to retell

the celebrated ftory of Hero and Leander,
after Ovid. As a fimile it is perfectly

comparative to the dcfcribed fituation
and folicitude of JEga. Dr. Darwin was
confcious of ^is rarely-equalled talent in

defcriptive ftory ; of his power to bring

objects full and diftincl on the reader's eye,
by attitudes, looks, and employments, pe-
culiar to their fituation. Ovid fays, Hero
hung her lamp in a tower which overlooked

the Hellefpont, that her lover, as he fwam

acrofs the flood, might Tee to fteer his courfe
by it's light. The art of glafs-making, un-

known in thofe times, the danger of the

lamp being blown out muft have been

2 F 2,       imminent.
                             -MEMOIRS OF

imminent. It is therefore natural that

Hero fliould affiduoufly ftrive to guard it

from the wind. Of that pi&urefquc cir-

cumftance Ovid did not avail himfelf. Our
modern Bard has been happier.

    So, on her fea-girt tower, fair Hero flood

   At parting day, and mark'd the dafliing flood,

    "While high in air, the glimmering roeks above,
    Shone the bright lamp, the pilct-ffor of love.

   With robe out-fpread, the waving flame behind,
    She kneels, and guards it from the rifing wind j

    Breathes to her Goddels * all her vows, and guide?
    Her bold Leander o'er the dufky tides ;
    Wrings his v/et hair, his briny bofom warms,
    And clafps her daring lover in her arms.

   The charm of appropriation, as evinced
in the third couplet of the above paifage r

exifb only with the genuine Poet. Merc

tuneful verfifiers krjow nothing of they
reft in general defcription, and general de~

fcription has been long fince exhaufled.
*

                            a

                                     V

                                             it,
Hero \vr,s Priefteft of

                         Genius
    I
DR. DARVVIX.

Genius knows this; he feizes the peculiar
circumftance of the fituation ; pours all his

ftrength and light tfjSon that, and leaves to.

the reader to conceive the whole by that
diftincl and luminous part ; but for which,

the fcene would pafs unimpreffive over the

mind of the examiner, and probably in no
hour of recollection return to it again.

   The" Truffle, a well known fungus,
which never appears above ground, now

meets our attention as a fine lady, married

to a Gnome, ftretched on beds of filvery a-

beftos, beneath a grand fubterianean palace ;

foothed by the mufic of the Eolian ftrings,
which make love to tender Echoes in the

circumjacent caves; while Cupids hover
round and fliake celeftial day from their

bright lamps. It mud be confeffed that

the Emprefs of this proud palace has not
the claim of birthright to her fplendor.

   This perfonification is fucceeded by that
of Caprifica, Wild Fig, as a Nymph who

2, B 3        (lumbers
374 MEMOIRS OP

flumbcrs away her life on a downy couch.
She is betrothed to a Sylph. Her awak-
ening is compared to that of the infect in
a nut, and to a young linnet on the in-

ftant of it's firft flight from the neft.

Caprifica ftrikes a talifman, and her airy
hufband flies to her on the wings of a gnat.

This flight is painted with la vim play of

fancy ; it's fwiftnefs is compared to that

of the electric aura ; it's impatient con--
ftancy to that of the- polar needle. The
Byflus of the northern fhores, which floats

on their feas by day, and is found in their
caverns, we fee ufliered to our notice by a "*

fublime poetic picture of Fingall's Cave, of
which Pennant's Tour to the Ht-brides
contains an engraving. The male and fe-
male of this vegetable become a Youth and
Maid of thofe regions, purfuing their amo-
rous voyage by night, in a boat with green

fails, and lighted to their cave by the ftar

9f Venus.

                                                              Conferva,
DR. DARWIN.  375

    Conferva Poiymorpha, found on the

Englifh fliores, from the changeful appear-
ance of the fubftance, is termed a Proteus

Lover, and is reprefented after that fable.
Beneath this fancy we fee him a Dolphin,
a fpotted Pard, a Swan ; and traits of the
manners of each of thofe animals give po-

etic value to the transformations.

   Adonis, many males many females in
the fame flower. Here is the final meta-
morphofis of this great work ,,qf Imagina-
tion. The multifarious florets in each in-
dividual flower of that fpecies, are made to
affume the human figure, and to become a
band of libertine lovers, who plight their

promifcuoushymencals. To them is com-

pared that licentious inftitution, the Areoi

of Otaheite, as recorded in Cook's Voyages.
   And now the Mufe of Botany difmiffes

her minifters, and clofcs her inchantmcnts,

thus :

             Here
37< MEMOIRS OF

     Here ceas'd the Goddefs. O'er the filent firings
     Applauding Zephyrs fvvept their fluttering wings ;
     Enraptur'd Sylphs arofe in murmuring crowds,

    To air-wove canopies and pillowy clouds ;

     Each Gnome, relu&ant fought his earthly cell,
     And each bright floret cloth'd her velvet bell.
     Then, on foft tiptoe, Night, approaching near,
     Hung o'er the tunelefs lyre his fable ear $
     Gemm'd with bright ftars the ftill, etherial plain,
     And bade his nightingales repeat the drain.

    Thefe laff verfes drop the curtain, with
ferene dignity, over a brilliant little world
of Genius and it's creations. The paflage
may not poffefs the fpirit and fublimity
which attach to a number of others in
this divifion. Probably the Poet remem-
bered the plainnefs with which Homer,
.Virgil, and Milton, clofed their Epics, and

chofe to diffufe over his farewell lines an

emulous fobriety. Perhaps the whole

Canto, with all it's mafs of pidurefque ele-

gance, has more famenefs, lefs grandeur,

lefs fublimity, than any of it's predeceffors
in either part of this magnificent Poem.

         3&
DR. DARWIN.  3/7

It fcems to bear that fpecks and degree of

inferiority to the three former Cantos, as
the Loves of the Plants, confidered as an

whole, bears to the fublimer firft part, the

Economy of Vegetation ; where we find

imperfonifed each various elementary pro-

perty of Creation, as a race of miniftrant
Beings, endowed with fcientific intelli-
gence and benevolent powers. They rife
before us, the Handmaids of Nature, or-

dained to watch over all her operations
and productions, on earth and beneath it ;
in air and in ocean ; as Nature herfelf ap-

pears in the femblarice of the Goddefs of

Botany.

   Perhaps it would have been better if her

proper and general name, Nature, had been

afligned to her in the Economy of Vege-

tation, and the botanic title been referved
exclufively for the Mufe ia the Second Part,
who records the transformations and the

Jovs of the Plants *nd 'Flowers. In that

                                                                      cafe,
                              MEMOIRS OF

cafe, to her alfo would have been refigncd
the floral car and it's gay defcent, and a
vehicle of graver magnificence fupplied it's

place to the " Mighty mother/' immortal

Nature. Nymph, or Goddefs of Botany,
implies empire only over the vegetable part
of creation ; while, in the Economy of
Vegetation, flie prefides over the aftrono-
mic, eleftric, aerial, and mineralogic pro-
perties. Into fo wide a field has the union
of Philofophy with Poetry conducted this
daring Bard. The light of his imagina-
tion will fhine with increafing luftre in the
eyes of future generations, fo long as dif-
cerning Tafte fhall be the Veftal to watch

and fuppiort it's fires.

   Nor let it once be thought that any
error in Dr. Darwin's poetic fyftem ; any

occafional deviation from perfection in the

plan, arrangement, or execution of this his

complicated work, ought to prevent it's
facing confidered as one of the richeft ef-

                                                             fufions
PR. DARWIN.  379

fufions of the poetic mind, that has fhed

luftre over Europe in the eighteenth cen-

tury.
, Human ability never did, and probably
never will', produce an abfolutely perfect

compofition. The author of this memoir

has, from infancy, fedqlouily ftudied and
compared the writings of the diftinguiflied

Bards of her nation, together with the beft
translations of thofe of Greece, Rome, and

modern Italy. She has prefumed to def-
cant upon what appeared to her the grace?
and defecls of the Botanic Garden ; induced

by a convicYion that the unbiaffed mixture

of candid objection with due praife, better
ferves the intereft of every fcience than

blind unqualified encomium upon it's pro-
feffors. Hence, rifing Genius may be

guarded againft the betraying influence of
enthufiaftic homage ; which, charmed by

general excellence, melts down particular
dcfecl in it's fhining rnafs. Sp doing, th

             incxperience4
         MEMOIRS OF

inexperienced and ardent fancy is full as
liable to adopt the faults as to attain the

merits of the author it emulates.

By unprejudiced inveftigation, that fickly,

partial, and faftidious tafte which confines

it's attention and it's praife to a few chofen

and darling writers, may be induced to

reflect, that after juft balance of beauty
      it
and defect, the firft outweighs the latter in
           is
immenfe degree, then attention, love, and
            if if,
applaufe due to that work as an whole,a
                                                a

                                                    is
in which fuch preponderance found.

   Pofterity, not always, yet generally acts

upon that fair principle in the meafure of

fame     allots, when the mifts of preju-

dice, from caufes foreign to the intrinfic

claims of an author, lhall difperfe. Thofc

compofitions which, with confiderable
degree of genius, are yet level to the com-

prehenfion of ordinary minds, immediately

attain their full meafure of celebration                ;

but feldom that poetry of the higherit

                                                                  ordersis
Dtl. DARWIN.  381

orders is exempt from thofe mifts ; it muft

ftruggle through them into full and uni-

     I

Yerfal day.

    The flowly-accumulating fuffrages of
thofe difeerning and generous readers who
delight in fertile and daring Genius, will

accumulate for the Botanic Garden, as

they have for many other poems, whofe

early appreciation was dubious ; whofe
celebration, during the life of their authors,
was far from being uncontroverted. When
that time fhall come, the querulous and

difdainful tones of peevifh prejudice wr ill
not venture to affail the ear of an admiring
Nation, proud of it's diftinguifhed Sons.
Then, however imperfection may ftill be
perceived in this as in all other works of
bold imagination, it will be obferved without

acrimony, and with grateful delight in it's

plenteous atonement.

   No eminent Poet has fo many paffages

which are every way exceptionable, as the

              moft
382  MEMOIRS OF

raofl eminent Poet that this, or perhaps
any other nation has produced from the

morning of Time, our great, our glorious

Shakcfpeare.

                 CHAP.
                                     . BARAVltf.

            CHAPTER VI L

   BEFORE Dr. Darwin flood forth a candi-
date for the Delphic laurels, he was extremely
alive to the beauties of poetic literature,
as it rofe and expanded around him. No

perfon could be more ready to difcern and
to praife it's graces ; but, from the com-

mencement of the Botanic Garden, the
jealous fpirit of authorifm darkened his
candor. When, with avowed delight in
the poetic powers of Cowper's Tafk, the
writer of thefe ftridures, in converfation
with Dr. Darwin and Sir Brooke Boothby,
afked their opinion of that poem, each de-
clared they could not read it through;
each taxed it with egotifm, with profaicifm,
with a rough and flovenly ftyle, and with

                                                            utter
                              MEMOIRS OP

utter want of regular defign. Perhaps
thofe cenfures, unbalanced by juft praife,

ihould not, however, be imputed folely to
unworthy jealoufy in either of thofe gentle-
men ; certainly not to Sir Brooke, at any
rate, who, with all his native brilliance of
fancy, was never tenacious of the Mufes*
favors. Both had always preferred rhyme
to blank verfe, aflerting that it better fuit-

ed the nature of our language. Dr. Dar-
win had ever maintained a preference of
Akenfide's blank verfe to Milton's ; declared
that it was of higher polifh, of more claffic

purity, and more dignified conftruclion.

This preference may fairly allow us to
place his blindnefs to the charms of the
Talk to the fcore of tafie fomcwhat ener-

vated by too much refinement, rather than

to forenefs under rival reputation. A {till

more fcrupulous attachment to claffic ele-

gance attaches to the opinions of Sir Brooke,
refpeding Poetry. It. was thence, .duubt-

                                                                      lefs,
DR. DARWIN.  38$

 lefs, that he became difgufted by the plan-
 lefs wanderings of Cowper's Mufe, in her

 principal work, and by the occafional

 roughnefs and profaicifm of it's ftyle.
Another prejudice in the minds of each

 was likely to have operated in producing
 this injuftice to Cowper. Previous to the

Tafk he had publifhed poems in rhyme,
into which they had probably looked. In
thofe poems, whatever flrength of thought

 may be found, the poetic effentials cer-
tainly are not, inharmonious as is their
verification ; barren as they are of landfcape

 and picture, metaphor and imagery.

    The author of the Tafk was morejuftto
Darwin than he had been to that fpirited,

that interefting, that often fublime, though
not faultlefs compofition. About the year

 1793, Mr. Cowper fent Dr. Darwin a lively
and pleafing encomium in verfe upon the
Botanic Garden. This agreeable eulogy
juitly fays, no Poet who can refufe to

                               2 o beftovr
                             MEMOIRS OF

beftow a wreath on Darwin deferves to

obtain one for himfelf. It was accom-
panied by another poetic tribute from Mr.
Hayley, of yet warmer praife and more

brilliant grace.

   Mr. Polwhele alfb addreffed a fine ion-
net to Dr. Darwin on his Botanic Garden,

who, by inferting it in his work, proved
that he thought highly of it's merit, and
that he confidered fuch praife as genuine

fame. The neglecT: of Mr. Polwhele's poetic

writings is a difgrace to the prefent period

of Englifh literature.
    Our botanic Poet had in general no tafte

for Sonnets, and particularly difliked Mil-

ton's. The characleriftic beauties of the le-
gitimate fonnet, it's nervous condenfation of
idea, the graceful undulation of it's varied
paufe, which blends with the fweetnefs of
rhyme the dignity of blank verfe, were all
loft on Dr. Darwin, at leaft from the time
in which he entertained the defign of be-

                                                        coming
DR. DARWIN.                                   387

coming a profeffed poet. Abforbed in the

refolve of bringing the couplet-meafure to
a degree of fonorous perfection, which
fhould tranfcend the numbers of Dryden

and Pope, he fought to confine poetic ex-
cellence exclufively to that ftyle.

" Defiring much the letter'd world might own

* The countlefs forms of beauty only one."

From the time at which Dr. Darwin

left Lichfield to refide at Derby, on the
irrefiftible injunction of Love, the author

of thefe memoirs will not attempt to trace
more than the outline of his deftiny, not
poffeffing the means of giving it's interior

parts with fufficient precifion.
   The pen which on thefe leaves has pur-

fued him through his afcending day to it's
meridian, may yet remark that Dr. Dar-
win's reputation as a poet firft emanated

from Derby, though his delphic inspirations
commenced at Lichfield ; that as a phy-

fician his renown ftill increafed as time

* c3         rolled
                             MEMOIRS OF

rolled on, and his mortal life declined from
it's noon. Patients reforted to him, more

and more, from every part of the kingdom,
and often from the Continent. All ranks,
all orders of fociety, all religions leaned

upon his power to ameliorate difeafe, and

to prolong exiftence. The rigid and

fternly pious, who had attempted to re-
nounce his aid from a fuppofition that no

bleffing would attend the prefcriptions of a

fceptic, facrificed, after a time, their fuper-
flitious fcruples to their involuntary con-

fcioufnefs of his mighty {kill.
    Wealth muft have flowed in rapidly

 beneath employment of unprecedented

 extent, at leaft in any country practitioner ;
 and from the large fums for which he fold

 the copy-right of his writings, poetic and
 philofophic. The fweet temper and bene-
 volence of that long adored wife, for whofe
 fake he had changed his fphere of action ;

  the numerous young family which rofe

                                                                   and
DR DARWIN.  389

and bloomed around him, rendered the

Lares of his hearth not lefs aufpicious to
Darwin than he had found the gifts of
Fortune and the voice of Renown. His fon

Erafmus, by the former wife, had fettled
at Derby nearly as foon as himfelf went

thither, and in the profeffion of the law
obtained confiderable practice, with fair
reputation. The talents and virtues of his

youngeft fon, by the firft marriage, were

making every promife of that profperity

which has fmce been amply fulfilled.

   The Zoonomia, of fo much elder birth

than the Botanic Garden, fuffered her

poetic younger fifter to precede her on
their entrance into the world of letters, and

did not herfelf appear till the year 1794.

Of the Zoonomia fufficient has been laid

in the former part of this biography, con-

fidering the writer's limited powers to
fpeak of it's excellences and defects.

   About thirteen or fourteen years after
                          20 Dr,
                            MEMOIRS OF

Pr. Darwin's fecond marriage, the Mifs

Parkers, his relations, opened a female

boaiding-fchool at Alhbourn in Derbyfhirc.

To the education of thofe ingenious and

good young women he had paid fome
general attention, and had feduloufly and
warmly, by recommendation and by other
means, exerted himfelf to ferve them.

To promote the fuccefs of their undertak-

ing he publiflied, on it's commencement, a

fmall tract on Female Education. The
precife time of it's appearance is not re-
collected. The compofition was by no
means worthy of Dr. Darwin's exalted

abilities. It's fubject cannot be fuppofed
to have employed much of his confider-

ation.

    The fyftem of his whole life on thaf
theme had been at war with all fort of re-

ftraint on the time, the amufements, and

the diet of children. Irony was the only

 corrective weapon he had ever ufed to his
                                                            own.
DR. DARWIN.  391

own. The docility of them all, and the
talents and good qualities of his three

eldeft fons, one, alas ! cut off in the dawn

of manhood and of fame, and the happy

profpects of the other two, had confirmed

his difdain of incefiant attention to young

people. He always faid, " If you would

" not have your children arrogant, con-
" ceited, and hypocritical, do not let them
" perceive that you are continually watch-
" ing and attending to them ; nor can you
" keep that perpetual watch ^without their
" perceiving it. Infpire them with a dil-
" dain of meannefs, falfehood, and promife-
" breaking ; but do not try to effecl this
" jpurpofe by precept and declamation, but,
" as occafion arifes, by exprefled contempt
" of fuch^as commit thofe faults, whether

" it be themfelves or others. Teach thera
" benevolence and induitry by your own

" example, for children are emulous to

<< acquire the habits of advanced life, and
             " attach
304
393 MEMOIRS OP

" attach to them an idea of dignity and
" importance."

   Perhaps, if Dr. Darwin had to this

incomplicate and fo eafily practicable fyf-
tem, added the infpiration of religion by the

fame means, viz. exprefled contempt for
impiety, and daily example of grateful de-

votion, it would better anfwer the end of

making wife and good men and women,
than all the laboured Treatifes on Educa-

tion which have, of late years, been poured

from the prefs ; Treatifes fo univerfally

read, fo feldom, if ever, even in theflighteft

degree, reduced to practice ! In truth they

muft be found impracticable, inconfrftent

as they are with the eftabliihed habits, of

fociety. Obedience to their directions muft

 devote every prefent generation, at leaft the

maternal part of every prefent generation,

to preparing the future. Every mother
 muft be wholly abforbed in word- watching,
and look -watching, and all this by 'hook

                                                          Yet
DR. DARWIN.  393

Yet was Dr. Darwin aware that thefc

voluminous receipts to make human angels ;

or to make practical philofophers of every

boy and girl in the higher and middle

clafles of life, were too popular for him,
without facrificing the defign of his Tract,

to bring againft them his own concifer

plan ; which, if rational, does away the

utility of them all. His little work could

not ferve Mifs Parkers if it combated the

educating metaphyficians and their unobey-
ing admirers. Avoiding fuch combat, his
Treatife would certainly call the attention

of the neighbourhood to the feminary for
which it was written. Some good rules
for promoting the health of growing chil-
dren will be found on it's pages, and they

 promifed unfeed attention from it's author
 to the difeafed in that fchool. On the

whole, however, it is a meagre work, of

 little general intereft, thofe rules excepted,
       with an odd recommendation of certain

             novels
294- MEMO-IRS QP

novels of no eminence, to the perufal of
young people. That was one of thofe follies
of the wife, which daily prefent them-

felves to our furprifed attention.

   In the year 1791 a fplendid archery*

meeting was held at Drakelow in Stafford*
fhire, the feat of Sir Nigel Grefley. Mifs

Sufan Sneyd *, of Belmont, was diftinguifti-
ed by her fkill and fuccefs in the contefl
of that day. Honoured by Dr. Darwin's

celebration, her name and her unerring
arrow, are on permanent record. The verfes
he wrote on that occafion appeared in the
Derby paper anonymoufly. There were

people who pretended to be judges of verfe,

and yet were in doubt concerning their
author. Before Dr. Darwin acknowledged
them, they were attributed to various verfi-

fiers ; and when the writer of this Trad:,

who faw the Darwinian ftamp on the lines
at one glance, declared they muft be his,

* Now Mrs. Bronghton.

                       Jier
DR. DARWIN.                                                                                 395

her aflertion was repeatedly combated, as if

the peculiar ftyle and manner of his mufe

were not inftantly apparent.

ON A TARGET AT DRAKELOW.

"With fylvan bow, on Drakelow's fliadowy green,
Arm'd like Diana, trod the Cyprian Queen.
O'er her fair brow the beamy crefcent fhone,
And ftarry fpangles glitter'd round her zone j
Love's golden fhafts her fnow-white fhoulders prefs'd,
And the fring'd ribbon crofs'd upon her breaft.

With carelefs eye (he view'd the central ring,

Stretch'd her white arms, and drew the iilken firing!

Mute wonder gaz'd the brazen ftuds betwixtj

Full in the bofs the flying arrow fix'd !

Admiring circles greet the yictor-fair,
And fliouts of triumph rend the breezy air j

Trent, with loud echoes thrills the flowery grounds,

/*And Burton's towers return applauiive founds.

The graceful Huntrefs eyes the gaudy grove,

And bends again th* unerring bow of Love.

Now guard your hearts, with playful malice cries,

And wing'd with fmiles the fhining arrow flies j
With random aim the dazzled crowd me wounds,

The quiver'd heroes ftrow the velvet grounds j                                              Beau

                                                                                       *""
 396 MEMOIRS OP

     Beau after beau expiring, prints the plain,
    And Beauty triumphs o'er the archer train.

        Now, with light bound, fhe mounts her wreathed car,
     Rolls her blue eyes, and waves her golden hair.
     Fond youths bow homage as the wheels proceed,
     Sigh as they gaze, and call the goddefs, SNEYD !

    There are beautiful lines in this little
compofition, but it is not faultlefs. The
fourth and fifth couplet form the moft
ftriking and elegant picture which poetrj

can exhibit of a graceful young woman
employed in arrow-mooting. The epithet
carelefs has the accuftomed felicity of this

author, in giving character to his portraits ;
fince it implies that perfect confcioufnefs

of fkill which precludes all ftrain and effort
of attitude, fo prejudicial to grace ! In thefe
verfes Mifs Sneyd is defcribed as fending
the arrow from the yew, as Dry den makes
Cleopatra caft from her eyes the darts of
Love, on her voyage down the Cydnus ;
DR. DARWIN.  397

        As if fecure of all Beholders' hearts,

            Neglecting Ihe might take them.

   The metaphoric fliooting which fuc-
eceds to acclamations for the fair-one's vic-

tory, had perhaps better have been omitted.

" Beau after beau," founds equivocally to

the ear, in a fcene thronged with bows and
arrows ; befides, beau is in itfelf an effemi-
nate and unchara&eriftic title for a number
of young men in the uniform of Wood-
men, and in manly fport with a weapon,
dignified by it's- ancientry, and by which
Britons of old not only flew the wild boar
and the flag, but repelled their foes when
 warriors cried aloud in the battle,

         Draw, Archers, draw your arrows to the head!

    There is alfo fornewhat too much fplendor
 in the departure of the Conquerefs, for why

 Ihould her vehicle be wreathed? A filver

 arrow, and not a garland, is the coftume of
 archery reward. However, the final couplet

                                                                                   is
398 MfiMOIRS OF

is elegant; the eulogy clofing with the
name of'it's fubjed has an happy effeft.

   Soon after the death of that varioufly-
charming Poet, Mafon, Dr. Darwin wrote
an Epitaph which he defigned fhould be

engraven on his monument. We may be

certain, however, that it has not there been
infcribed. As an infcription for an urn in
a garden or grove, alter a few of the
lines for that purpofe, and the verfes are
excellent, though, from being utterly with-
out religious hope or truft, they are impro-
per for a tomb-ftone.

FOR THE MONUMENT OF THE REV,
      W. MASON, BY DR. DARWIN.

Thefe aweful manfions of the honor'd Dead
Oft (hall the Mufe of Melancholy tread $
The wreck of Virtue and of Genius mourn,

And point, with pallid hand, to Mafon's urn.
Oft fhall fhe gather from his garden bowers *
F;6titious foliage and ideal flowers -,

* Alluding to the poem, Ecjglifli Garden.

                                               Weave
DR, DARWIN.                                           3Q9

Weave the bright wreath, to worth departed juft,
And hang unfading chaplets on his buft ;
While pale Elfrida, bending o'er his bier,
Breathes the Toft figh and flieds the graceful tear;
And ftern Caraftacns, with brow deprefs'd,
Clafps the cold marble to his mailed breaft.
In Incid troops (hall choral Virgins throng,

With voice alternate channt their Poet's fong,
And, O ! in golden characters record
Each firm, immutable, immortal word !

   Thofc laft two lines from the final chorus
of Elfrida, admirably clofe this tribute to the
memory of him who (lands fecond to Gray
as a lyric Poet; whofe Engliih Garden is
one of the happieft efforts of didaftic verfe ;
containing the pureft elements of horticul-
tural tafte ; dignified by fentiments of free*
dom and virtue ; rendered interefting by
epifode, and given in thofe energetic and
undulating meafures which render blank
verfe excellent ; whofe unowned fatires,

yet certainly his, the Heroic Epiftle to Sir

William Chambers, and it's Poflfcript, art

                                                                     at
                                      MEMOIRS OF

         at once original in their ftyle, harmonious
*1 - in their numbers, and pointed in their ridi-

         cule ; whofe Tragedies are the only pathetic
         Tragedies which have been written in our
         language upon the fevere Greek model.

        The Samfon Agoniftes bears marks of a
         ftronger, but alfo of an heavier hand, and is

         unqueftionably lefs touching than the fweet
         Elfrida ; and the fublime Caraclacus.

             Since thefe pages were in the prefs, an
         Epitaph on General Wolfe firft met their

        author's eye in a collection of manufcript
         poetry ; and it bears Dr. Darwin's figna-

         ture. Perfectly in his manner, fhe cannot
         doubt it's authenticity ; elfe the names

        of deceafed people of eminence are fo

          often affixed to compositions they never
         framed, that we ought to look jealoufly at

        all which do not carry to the mind of the
        reader internal evidence of their imputed
         origin. But for fuch evidence the enfuing

          lines had found no place on thefe pages.

                                                               ox
BK. DARWIN.  401

ON THE DEATH OF GENERAL WOLFE.

Thy trembling hills, Quebec, when Viftory trod,
Shook her high plume, and wav'd her banner broad 5
Saw Wolfe advance j heard the dire din of War,

And Gallia's genius fhrieking from afar,
With fatal hade th' aftonifti'd Goddefs flew,

To weave th' immortal chaplet for his brow.
Cyprefs fhe gather'd with the facrA bays,
And weav'd the afp of Death amorig' the fprays.

They fly ! they fly ! th' expiring Hero cried,

Hung his wreath'd head $ thank'd the kind Gods, and
        died.

Will the reader again extend indulgence

to the fpirit of authorifm, tenacious be-

neath a fenfe of recent injury ? As in the
courfe of this little work it's writer has

claimed her own verfes from the fplendid

poem fhe analyfed, fo will he now permit
her to difclaim other verfes, that, by iingu-

lar effrontery (her exiftence confidered)
have been printed fince, with her name

affixed. In the Spring 1803, fhe fent thefe
memoirs to Mr. Johnibn for publication ;
ihe now, January 1804, but firft dif-

2, D         covered
                MEMOIRS OP

covered an illegitimate Sonnet in one of

the Gentleman's Magazines for Auguft or
September laft, with her fignature at full

length. It is addreffed to Mr. Dimond, of

whofe poetic exiftence flie had never heard,

and it praifes a poem of his which flie has
never feeri. One line of the forged fonnet

begins, " Bright Dimond," thus making a

miferable pun from an unfortunate name ;
and the writer's ear was defective enough to
induce his alliterating with the harlh th

thus,

         Young joys awake in many a /^rilling t/trong ;

which laft words form completely the

Gander's hifs.

She finds alfo that thefe alternately-rhym-

ing ftanzas, which call themfelves fonnet^
are interpolated, and given as her's, in the
6th Vol. of Public Characters, recently

publiihed; fee page 554 of that Vol. They
clofe anecdotes of her, that have been

chiefly  collected from previous traces

in the   monthly publications.  All are

                                of
            DR. DARWIN.                                    403

;'"
       ^'.~-'i

of much too partial defcription; and

ftrangely indeed  is      the talent of finging

                       1
agreeably attributed to her, who, confcious

of total want of voice, never attempted to

fmg in her whole life. Amid thefe lateft

anecdotes   ftanza                       quoted from her
            a
                                 is

" Ode to General Elliot on his return from

" Gibraltar," and the quotation has two
grofs mifprints, " mduflrious foldier" for //-
"htftpreioaucse,f"oldiniefrt,eaadndof,"
                                         honour   to  the  lap  of
                                         honour  on   the  lap  of

peace.

   When this fonnet- forgery was contrived,

it's writer forgot that (he, whofe name was

            had, in her Preface to the
affixed to  it it,

                          5
                                  3

                                            It

                                                                       a
Centenary oflegitimate Sonnets, which me

publifhed in 1798, denied to three alter-

nately rhyming ftanzas, clofing writh

couplet, all right to the name of that pe-

culiar and ftricl: order of verfe.                         was

therefore moft unlikely that me Ihould hqr-

felf affume for fourteen lines, written on

the feeble model which fhehad reprobated.
                              D But
4.04 MEMOIRS OF

But it is time to refume a more inte-

refting fubjecT;.            1/99 brought a
                             fortitude of Dr.
   The clofe of the year

fevere trial to the ftoical

Darwin. From the period of his fecond
marriage all had been funfhine in his for-

tune, his fame, and dorneftic connexions;,

but then a ftorm defceadcd upon his peace \
unforefeen, fudden, dreadful ! His eldeft

fon, Mr. Darwin, fo profpcroufly fituated,
without one adequate caufe-for even, tran-
fient affliction, became the vicYim of fecret
and utter defpair. It had often been ob-

lerved that any more than ordinary recur-

rence of profelTional bufmefs perplexed and
oppreffed him. A demand wr as made that

lie lliould arrange and fettle fome compli-
cated accounts, which a difpofition to pra-

craftinate had too long delayed. A difpo-

fition which is always, in a greater or left
degree, punilhed by it's confequences.
Though a remote,, it is the moil frequent

                                                               caufe'
DR. DARWIN.  405

caufe of fuicide, accumulating debts till

their entanglement becomes inextricable,
their weight too heavy to be borne. But
in this cafe it had produced only an accu-

mulation of bufmefs. From the neceffity
of entering upon it Mr. Darwin had feemed
to mrink with fo much dejeftion of fpirit

as to induce his partner to intreat that he

would leave the infpe&ion folcly to his
management. He declined the propofal,
faying, in a faint voice, that it was im*

poffible.

   This was on a December evening, cold
And ftorrny. The river Derwent, which
ran at the bottom of his garden, was par-
tially frozen. About feveii o'clock he ient
his partner out of the way on bufmefs, real
or pretended. Mr. Darwin was on the

couch complaining of the head-ach. Soon

after eight his partner returning found

the parlour vacant. He went to Mr. D/s

upftair apartment; vacant alfo: inquired

2D3          of
406 MEMOIRS OF

of the fervants ; they had not ' feen their

mafter fince this gentleman went out, an
hour before. He waited a few minutes ex-
peeling his friend's return from the garden.

Not appearing, a degree of apprehenfion
feized his mind. He ran thither, and in
the walk which leads to the river, he found
Mr. Darwin's hat and neckcloth. Alarm

was immediately given, and boats were fent

out. Dr. Darwin had been fummoned. He
{laid a long time on the brink of the water,
Apparently calm and collected, but doubt-
lei's fuffering the moft torturing anxiety.
The body could not be found till the next
day. When the Doftor received informa-
tion that it was f^und, he exclaimed in a

low voice, " Poor infane coward !" and it

is faid never afterv/ards mentioned the

fubjecl.

   Mr. Darwin died in very good circum-

fiances, leaving an untainted reputation
for probity and benevolence ; beloved, re-

                                                           fpecled,
DR. DARWIN.  407

fpeded, and mourned by all who knew
him. He never married ; had purchafed a
pretty eftate near Derby, which, with all

his other effecls, he left to his father. The

accounts, whofe apprehended embarraff-
ment had proved fatal to him, were fettled
after his death to the fatisfa&ion of all

parties.

   Though this unfortunate victim of caufe-

lefs defpondency had a gentle, ingenuous,

and affeclionate heart, he attained middle

life without any known or luipecled attach-

ment of the impaffioned kind. There feem-

ed a want of energy in his character, and too
extreme a delicacy of feeling on the occur-
rence of every thing which was in the

flighteft degree repulfive. He had never

loved bufmefs, and his attention to it appear-
ed a force upon his inclinations. While his

profeffion was undetermined, he exprefled

a wiih to go into the Church rather than

the Law. That preference was repulfed

304          by
408 MEMOIRS Ol

by paternal farpafms upon it's indolence
and imputed effeminacy. From infancy to

Ins laft day, Mr. Darwin had fhrunk, with

pained fenfibility, from his father's irony.
Probably from the lefs a dive, lefs fcientific

difpofition of Erafmus, in comparifon with
that of his brothers, Charles and Rqbert,
Dr. Darwin had always appeared colder

towards him than to his other children.

Doubtlefs it wras that inferior degree of
attachment which made the leflbn of ftoi-

cifm fomewhat more practicable on this

trying, this dire occafion. It excited, how-

ever, univerfal furprife to fee him walking

along the ftreets of Derby the day after
the funeral of his fon, with a ferene coun-
tenance and his ufual cheerfulnefs of ad-
drefs. This felf-command enabled him
to take immediate pofleffion of the premifes

bequeathed to him ; to lay plans for their
improvement ; to take pleafure in defcrib-
              DR. DARWIN.  435

ing thofe plans to his acquaintance, and to
determine to make it his future refidence;

and all this without feeming to recoiled:

to how fad an event he owed their pof-

feffion !

The folly of fuffering our imagination to

dwell on paft and irretrievable misfortunes,

and of indulging fruitlefs grief, he often

pointed out, and always cenfured. He re-

lied much on felf-difcipline in that refpect,

and difdained, from deference to what he

termed the prejudices of mankind, to dif-
play the outward femblance of unavailing
forrow, fmce he thought it wifdom to

combat it's reality. On occafions and fub-
jecls which he coniidered trivial, he profiled
to indulge human prejudice ; but whenever

by mock affent, he extended that indulgence,

a flight fatiric laugh and a gay difdain lurk-r

ing in his eye, counteracted the aflumed

Coincidence.  OR circumftanees which

                           touched
41 MEMOIRS OF

 touched him nearly, he acled fteadily upon
his own principles.

    And there were fubjects out of himfelf
on which he was always ferioufly and
earneftly ingenuous. Politics was one. He
hated war, and thought the motives few
indeed, which could vindicate it's homicide,

efpecially in this commercial and fea-de-

fended country. That of forcing America
into internal, unreprefented taxation, and of
interfering, through jealoufy of her prin-
ciples, with the internal government of
France, he utterly difapproved. The event
of both thofe contefts accomplifhed his

prophecies, and juftified his diiapprobation.

   Early in the year, 1800, Dr. Darwin

publifhed another large quarto volume,

intitled, Phytologia, or the Philofophy of
Agriculture and Gardening. The writer
of thefe -pages does not prefume to fpeak
her opinion of this production as a.n whole ;

                                                                  the
DR. DARWIN.  4H

the fubjecl: did not induce her to read it

regularly. Incompetent therefore to declared

opinion as her pemfal may have been, it has

yet convinced her that in parts, at leaft, it

is highly ingenious. Dr. Darwin's convic-
tion that vegetables are remote links in the
chain of fentient exiftence, often hinted in

the notes to the Botanic Garden, is here

avowed as a regular fyftem. The Phyto-

logia infifts that plants have vital organiz-
ation, fenfation, and even volition ; and a

number of inftances are adduced, which

feem firmly to fupport the theory. Cer-
tainly thofe appear to fleep which clofc
their petals at -fun-fet, and unfold them in
the riiing day. Dr. Darwin tells us that
plants poflefs low heat and cold blood, like
winter-fleeping animals, and like them
continue the defcending fcale of exiftence.

   From this theory of vegetable fenfation

fome good may proceed, and no evil can
                                                           flow,
                               MEMOIRS OF

flow. If the affluent improver of his pa-

ternal or purchafed domain, lhall be im-
preffed with it's belief, fuch impreffion
rnuft augment his pleafure in attending to
the fuftcnance, the growth, and comfort of
his trees, his grain, his Ihrubs, and his

flowers. He will fay to himfelf, " It is I

' who enable this little world of vegetation,

" by my care, attention, and kindnefs, to
" fmile upon the fun, and bait delighted

v in it's rays." The labourer in the field

and garden, aflured that the grain and the

plants he is cultivating will not only nur-
ture his fellowr creatures, but are themfelves
eapable of receiving comfort or difcornfort
while yet they grow on the earth, will

thence feel an additional motive to become

worthy of his hire. Every honeft heart is
gratified by the idea of contributing to the

common flock of happinefs. It is an idea

which produces falf-refpecl in the mind^

                                                        which,
DR. DARWIN.                                       413

which, when founded in benevolence, and

not in haughtinefs, is the faireft and moft
productive foil in which the virtues can

grow, whether thofe virtues be lowly and

plain in ignorance and poverty, or height-

ened and refined by knowledge and af-

fluence.

   Of this theory, however, Dr. Darwin is

neither the fource, nor the firft who drew

the fcattered hints of former philofophers
concerning into regular fyftem. The
ingenious and excellent Dr. Percival, of
a

      it,

                      a
                             aa

                               it a

                                              is
Manchefter, preceded him in maintaining
that fyftem from the prefs. Congeniality

on it's fubjecl between mild, temperate,

and religious fage, and bold philofopher

of the modern fchool, who pofleffed the
eye of lynx for nature's arcana, leave

us little reafon to doubt that                    veritable.

Why fliould we fuppofe the chain of ex-

iftence broken at the laft, inert clafs of

                                                  animals,
4*4 MEMOIRS OP

animals, fmce it's continuity is perfectly

confonant to the order of creation ?

The chain that leads from infinite to man,

From man to nothing.  NIGHT THOUGHTS.

     The nourifhment of plants is next
confidered with a view to their health

and increafe ; and ingenious experiments

are ftatcd. The decompofition of water is
afferted to be one of the moil important
difcoveries of modern fcience. Thence

was demonftrated the immenfe proportion

of oxygene or vital air, with which water
is impregnated, in comparifon with air

which is lefs pure. A plentiful fupply of

water abiblutely neceffary to fertilize foil.

The wifdom afferted, and the means
pointed out, of giving artificial and falu-
tary moifture to arid fituations. On the

contrary, where the ground is naturally

too wet and fvvampy, the neceffity of fub-

terranean and fuperficial drains is enforced.

                                                           Sudden
                               * DARWIN

Sudden and violent fhowers extremely
detrimental, from their wafhing down the

ditfufable and foluble parts of the foil into
muddy rivers. It is obferved, that every

fuch ihower conveys through thofe chan-
nels into the fea, many thoufand pounds-
worth of fertilizing matter, thus confider-

ably diminilhing the food of terreflrial
animals, however it may add to the fuf-
tenance of the aqueous tribes. Great at-
tention is neceffary to counteract the mif-
chief of thefe impetuous and impelling

rains, equally noxious to the dry foil and
fituation, as to thofe which are irriguous.

To fuch end we are informed that all hills

fhould be ploughed horizontally, and not
in afcending and defcending furrows ; alfb,

that Hoping fields of pafture-land might be

laid in tranfverfe ridges and deprefiions,
Thus the water of thefe partial inundations
would remain fome hours in the horizon-

tal furrows of the ploughed hills, and in

                                                                  the
4x5 MEMOIRS OP

the tranfverfe hollows of inclined plains,

that are grafs-land. Thefe little detain-

ing refervoiis muft be a great advantage in.

parched iituations, while in thofe which

are wet and fpongy, they might be opened
into each other by the fpade fo as to pre-

vent that lofs of foil which rnuft refuft

from the downward rufh and fpee'dy pair-
ing away of the temporary deluge.

   The great wafte in towns and cities, of
fubftances capable of being converted into

manure, is obferved and deplored ; and

in that refpecl the better police of China
held up to imitation. The author al-
leges, that fimilar practice in Europe

would at once promote the purity and

confequent health of towns, and contri-
bute to the economy and fertility of their

furrqunding countries. He explains  the
means of accomplifuing purpofes fo  de-
fir able .

Here let the biographic pen arreft it's

                courfc,
DR. DARWIN.  417

courfe, nor attempt to follow this pene-
trating and excurfive mind through the

wide and complicated mazes of agricul-

tural dhTertatioru Returning back to the

verge of this vaft field of treafured obfer-

vation and fcientific literature, the memo-
rialift may be allowed to obferve what
never-flumbering attention to the opera-

tions of nature and the prefent Hate of

cultivation; what unwearied refearch into
the records of other philofophers, this book

evinces ! A man of fuch immenfe profef-

fional engagements as Dr. Darwin, cornpof-

ing and publifhing this work only, had built
his lettered reputation upon no narrow or

unftable bafis. But when we confider it as'

a brother-produclion to the Zoonomia, two

large quartos, as bulimy, as fmall a type, and
as crowded writing as the Phytologia ; when
 we confider alfo his fplendid poetic work,

with it's hoft of philofophic notes ; there
is furely no partiality to him, no want of

                                2, E candor
                             MEMOIRS OP

candor to others, in maintaining that it
can only be from native littlenefs or ac-
quired warp of mind, where the greatnefs
and energy of Dr. Darwin's genius and
knowledge are denied. Yet let it be re-
membered, that it is poetic eminence, not
pre-eminence, which has here been de-
manded for his mufe. Superlative epi-
thets have found no place in his eulogium
on thefe pages ; for their author remem-
bers and reveres the exalted claims of his
poetic predeceffors and contemporaries of

the eighteenth century. Incomparable,

unrivalled, matchlefs, are terms of applaufe
which can only be, with truth, applied to
three men of genius in times paft or pre-

fent ; to Shakeipear as a dramatic poet ;

to Newton as a philosopher ; to Handel as
a mufician ; not to Homer, not to Milton,
fince they ftand abreaft with each other,
and divide the epic palm. Perhaps, with-
out trefpafs on literacy truth, Gray might

                                                                 alfo
DR. DARWIN.  419

alfo be termed peerlefs, as a lyric poet, fince
he equals Pindar in the dignity of his

language, in the fublimity of his imagery,

and in the interwoven morality, alternately

aweful and tender ; and fmce he chofe fub-

jecSs fo much more exalted than the Pin-

daric themes, for thofe two great Odes
which place him firil at the goal of the

Lyric Mufe. Their meafures are magnifi-

cent and harmonious to the utmoft power

of the Englifh tongue. Pindar could not

carry that excellence higher in the Greek

language ; therefore if any fuperiority re-

mains to the ancient claffic, refpecting his

metre, it muft refult from the more fono-

rous tones of the Greek, not from tran-

fcendence of genius in it's great lyrift,

compared with the Britifh poet. What-

ever importance the faihion of that period

might attach to Pindar's themes, however

mythologic and hifloric allufion might give

them auxiliar elevation, yet the foot-races

2 E3         Of
420 MEMOIRS OF

'of children, though the fons of princes,
and the chariot-races of youthful heroes,
poffefs no eternity of attraclion compared
to the fubjecl of Gray's Progrefs of Poefy,
'and of his Bard. For the firft, the phyll-
cal and moral powers of the mufes; their
 univerfal influence, in different degrees, in
 every clime ; the three great feats of their
"empire, Greece, Italy, and England, Dra-
 matic, Epic, and Lyric Poetry, fupported
 in Britain by Shakefpear, Milton, and

 Dry den.
    For the fecond, and ftlll greater Ode,

 the fanguinary crime againft the Mufes
 committed by an otherwife illuftrious mo-

 narch, the fuppofed confequences of that
 crime, a train of misfortunes to the remain-
 ing line of the Plantagenets ; it's re^al

  fons,

                Another and another gold-bound brow,

  paffing before us in the awful obfcurity, the

  " darknefs vifible" of poetic prophecy ; the

                                                          acceffion
..DR. DARWIN.                           421

^icceffion of another royal houfe, in which

 the rival rofes were entwined ; the brilliant

reign of it's virgin queen, who was to
carry the profperity and the renown of a
great nation to it's utmoft line ; the day
of poefy, funk in eclipfe from the period of
the maffacre, riling again with redoubled
fplendor in that epoch ; the exultation of
the Cambrian Bard who thus forefees the
reftored glory of his art in the genius of
'him who fung the fairy region, and by that

of the mighty mafter of the fock and buf-

kin ; the continuance of that glory through
future times by the Song of Eden, and the
ilra'ms of fucceffive warblers ; the exulta-

tion doling by the plunge of the injured
Bard amid Conway's deep and tumultuous

flood ! Can pedeftrian fpeed, and the dexte-

rity of the whip and rein, by any effort of

talent, be raifed to the intrinfic grandeur
                                                                                                                                                                     i

of themes like thefe ? Ah ! when will

our fchools and univerfities;           exchange
                                          claffical
                                  3 E3
4.22 MEMOIRS OP

claffical partiality for patriotifm, and be-

come juft to the exalted merits of the
Englifh Poets ? To that fmcere and ardent
patriotifm the author of thefe memoirs
hopes will be remitted her tributary digref-
fion to the fame of Gray.

   Sunday, the eighteenth of April, 1803,

deprived Derby and it's vicinity, and the

encircling counties, of Dr. Darwin ; the
lettered world of his genius. During a

few preceding years he had been fubjecl: to
fudden and alarming diforders of the cheft,
in which he always applied the lancet in-
ftantly and freely ; he had repeatedly rifen

in the night and bled himfelf. It was faid

that he fufpeclcd angina pe^ons to be the

caufe of thofe his fudden paroxyfms, and
that it would produce fudden death. The
converfation which he held with Mrs. Dar-

win and her friend, the night before he
died, gave colour to the report. In the

preceding year he had a very dangerous
       DR. DARWIN,                 423

illnefs. It originated from a fevere cold
caught by obeying the fummons of a pa-

tient in Derby, after he had himfelf taken

ftrong medicine. His {kill, his courage,

his exertion, ftruggled vehemently with
his difeafe. Repeated and daring ufe of

the lancet at length fubdued but, in all
                                   it,
likelihood, irreparably weakened the fyftem.
He never looked fo well after as before   .'

hisfeizure; increafed debility of ftep, and/f.
a certain wannefs of countenance, awak*         f

ened thofe fears for him which great num^          I

bers felt who calculated upon his affiftance

when hours of pain and danger might

come.  was faid, that during his illnefs
       Jt

                      A

                                a
he reproved the fenfibility and tears of

Mrs. Darwin and bid her remember that

fhe was the wife of philofopher.

    The public papers and magazines record*-

ed, with tolerable accuracy, the nature of

his final feizure the converfation he held
       ;

                E

                 4
in  the garden of his new refidence, the

                                   Priory,
424 MEMOIRS 5P

Priory, with Mrs. Darwin and her female
friend ; the idea which he communicated

to them, that he was not likely to live to
fee the effect of thofe improvements he
had planned ; Mrs. Darwin affectionately
combating that idea by observing, that he
looked remarkably well that evening; his
reply that he had generally found himfelf
in his beft health a few days preceding his
attacks; the fpirits and ftrength with
"Which he arofe the next morning at fix to
write letters; the large draught of cold
butter-milk, which, according to his ufual
cuftom, he had fwallowed. All thefe cir-

cumftances early met the public eye ; and,

in the imperfecT: fketches of his life which

'accompanied them, a ftrange habit was

imputed to Dr. Darwin, which prefents
Tttch an exterior of idiot-feeming indelicacy
that the author of this tracl is tempted
"to exprefs her intire difbelief of it's truth;
Viz. that his' tongue was generally hanging

                                                              out
                               DR. DARWIN.

 cut of his mouth as he walked along. She

 has often, cf late years, met him in the
 ftreets of Lichfield, alone and rnufing, and

 never witnefled a cuftom fo indecent.

From the early lofs of his teeth he looked
much 'older than he was. That lofs ex-

pofes the tongue to view while fpeaking,
and Dr. Darwin's mouth certainly thus

difclofed the ravages of time, but by no

means in any offenfive degree.

    It was the general opinion that a glafi
of brandy might have faved him for that

time. It's effecls would have been more

powerful from his utter difufe of fpirits;
but fiich was the abhorrence in which he

held them, that it is probable no intreatics
could have induced him to have fwallowed
a dram, though furely, on any fudden chill

of the blood, it's effecT;, fo injurious on

habitual application, might have proved

restoring.

  . On that laft morning, he had written

                                                                   one
426 MEMOIRS OF

one page of a very fprightly letter to Mr.

Edgeworth, defcribing the Priory, and his
purpofed alterations there, when the fatal
fignal was given. He rang the bell, and
ordered his fervant to s fend Mrs. Darwin
to him. She came immediately, with his
daughter, Mifs Emma Darwin. They
law him Ihivering and pale. He defired
them to fend diredlly to Derby for his

furgeon, Mr. Hadley. They did fo ; but

all was over before he could arrive.                  ,

   It was reported at Lichfield, that, per-

ceiving himfelf growing rapidly worfe, he

faid to Mrs. Darwin, My dear, you muft

" bleed me inftantly." " Alas, I dare
" not, left; " " Emma, will you ? There
" is no time to be loft." " Yes, my dear
" father, if you will direct me." At that

moment he funk into his chair, and ex-

pired !

   The body was opened, but it was faid
the furgeons found no traces of peculiar

                                           difeafe j
DR. DARWIN.  427

difeafe ; that the ftate of the vifcera indi-

cated a much more protracted exiftence ;
yet thus, in one hour, was extinguifhed
that vital light which the preceding hour
had fhone in flattering brightnefs, promif-

Jng duration ; fuch is often the " cunning

   flattery of nature ;" that light, which,
through half a century, had diffufed it's

radiance and it's warmth fo widely ; that
light, in which Penury had been cheered,
in which Science had expanded ; to whofe

orb Poetry had brought all her images;
before whofe influence Difeafe had con-

tinually retreated, and Death fo often
turned afide his levelled dart !

   Awful is the leflbn of fuch an extinc-
tion ; trebly awful in it's fuddennefs. Let
no one fay that it is not more awful than
the iimilar defliny of ordinary human

beings ; for the impreffion made by unex-
 pected, immediate, and everlafting abfence,

 will be diffufive, will be ftrong, in propor-

                                                              tion
 428 MEMOIRS Op

tion-to the abilities and ufefulnefs of thofe
>vho vanifh at once from fociety. We
feel the folemn leflbn fink deep into our

hearts \vhen minds, fo largely endowed- and
adorned, evince, in their fate, the truths
uttered by that fublime Poet *, who made

the threats and the promifes of the Gofpel
the theme of his midnight itrains ; and
thus they admonifh,

        By nature's law, what muft be, may be nova -,
         There's no prerogative in human hours.

       In human hearts what bolder tboughtican rife
       Than man's prefnmption on to-morrow's dawn ?
        Where is to-morrow ? In another world !
        For numbers this is certain, the reverfe
        Is fare to none ; and yet, on this perhaps,
       This peradventure, infamous for lies,
       As on a rock of adamant, we build;

        Though every dial warns us as we pafs,
        Portentous as the written wall, that turn'd,
        O'er midnight bowls, the proud Afiyrian pale!

   Another, and x the laft poetic work of
Dr. Darwin, is now in the prefs. The

                            * Dr. Young.

                                                      Temple
DR. DARWIN.  429

Temple of Nature. His memorialift, oil
thefe pages, has not feen a line of the com-
pofition. The curiofity of the ingenious
muft be ardently excited to view the fetting
-emanation of this brilliant day-ftar ; they
muft hope that neither age, difeafe, nor
'the dread calamity he had endured, in

December 1/99, flicd mift or cloud upon

 it's rays.

    Dr. Darwin died in 'his ilxty-ninth year.
    This TracT: is prefented to the Public
 beneath it's author's idea, that it may pro-
 bably difpleafe two clalTes of readers, fhould

 it attracl their notice; the.. dazzled idola-
 ters of the late Dr. Darwin, who will not

allow that there were any fpots in his fun ;
and that much larger clafs, wr ho, from party
prejudice, religious zeal, or literary envy,
or a combination 'of all thofe motives, are

unjuft to his high claims; at leaft as a
Philofopher and Poet. There is another

clafs of readers, who, if thefe faithful re-

cords fhall be honored by their perufal,
                                                         will
430 MEMOIRS OF DR. DARWIN.

will feel gratified to fee one diftinguiflied
character of thefe times, neither varnifhed

by partiality, nor darkened by prejudice.

They muft be confcious that human beings,
whatever may have been their talents,
whatever their good qualities, are feldom
found perfect, except on the pages of their
eulogifts ; confcious alfo, that, while the
intellectual powers of the wife and the
renowned, excite admiration, their errors
may not lefs ufefully be contemplated a*
warnings, than their virtues as examples.

       LlCHFJELD,
     April 13, 18Q3.

                         THE END.

               T. Bensley, Printer, Bolt Couit, Fleet Street.
                 ERRATA,

"Page 19, 1. 5. after reafoner," infert while."

      do, 1. l.read" refiftance, only juft," 1. 7- read" their refinance."

21, 1. 7, for That," read The refult."
"31, 1. 5, for Thefe" read There."
" "93, 1. 18, for proficience" read proficiency.'*
                 that they would," read " to."
109, 1. 10. for
215,1. 17, for "love" read " lover."
233, 1. 2, from bottom, for " his" read " it's."

243 note, read, "what an."
3 ;oTo LEWISDON HILL add a Note. This poem was printed at

         the Clarendon Prefs Oxford, 1788, and fold by Prince and

Cookeof that city, and Cadell, Rivington, and Faulder, London.

32fi, 1. 1. place a comma after trea<is."
\VRITTEN BY DR DARWIN,

AND SOLD BY J.JOHNSON, IN ST. PAUL'S

1. The BOTANIC GARDEN, with Philofophical Notes,

                    in Two Parts.
     Part 1. The ECONOMY OF VEGETATION.

            2. The LOVES OF THE PLANTS.
In Two Volumes Svo. Embelliihed with Plates., 2 J s. Boards.

2. The TEMPLJE OF NATURE, or the Origin of Society,

A Poem in Four Cantos, with Philofophical Notes and

ll.Plates. Quarto,  5s* or on large paper, 1 1. i6s.

in Boarc

3. ZOONOMIA, or the Laws of Organic Life. In Four

     Volumei Svo. Illuftrated with Plates, 36s. Boards on
     Fine Paper, 48s.

4. PHYTOLOG1A, or the Philofophy of Agriculture and

     Gardening, with the Theory of draining Morafles, and

    an improved Conftru&ion of the Drill Plough. Quarto,

   ll. Us. 6d. in Boards.

5. Plan for the Conduct of Female Education in Boarding
     Schools. Quarto, 5 s.
THIS BOOK IS DUE ON THE LAST DATE
                 STAMPED BELOW

AN INITIAL FINE OF 25 CENTS

WILL BE ASSESSED FOR FAILURE TO RETURN
THIS BOOK ON THE DATE DUE. THE PENALTY
WILL INCREASE TO SO CENTS ON THE FOURTH
DAY AND TO $1.OO ON THE SEVENTH DAY
OVERDUE.

SEP 27 1933  MAR 1 1968 7<>

5Jun'5JC

4'68

             LD 21-50m-l,'33
181668

