The life of Joseph Priestly, LL.D., F.R.S., &c., with critical observations
on his works.

Corry, John, approximately 1770-
Birmingham, Printed by Wilks, Grafton, & Co., 1804.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.hxjfn8

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
>
Ji
I
        THE LIFE

                                           or

   JOSEPH PRIESTLEY, LL. D. F. R. S.

                                *rc. ifc.

         WITH CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS

                                                           OH

                       HIS WORKS.
BY JOHN COKRY, Member of the Philological Society

          "Philosophy baptiz'd
In the pure fountain of eternal love
Has eyes  indeed i and viewing what the  see I
          to indicate a COD to Man.
At meant
Gives him his praise. vet forfeit* not her own."
                                                COWPER.

                             BIRMINGHAM :

PRINTED BY W1LKS, GRAFTON, & CO.

                             1804.
    PREFACE,

AN account of the progress of a virtuous man

through a variety of trying vicissitudes, must ever be
a gratification to the reader of sensibility. Such a
man was the subjet of this biographical sketch, and

the most remarkable events of his history, are here

detailed with truth, and impartiality.

This little work is enriched with anecdotes, com

municated to the author, by persons who were long

eye-witnesses to the dignified conduct of Dr. Priest

ley, as a public character, and to his domestic habits
as a private individual. It may be observed that his

Biographer ought to be a man highly endowed with

eloquence, to give an animated picture of his super
lative merit; but his fame is fully established by his

own inestimable productions, and the more simple '
A2
    .
                                      4

and perspicuous the narrative of his life, the better.
The name of this philosopher will undoubtedly bo
enrolled by the historian with those of the illustrious
few of whom Englishmen are justly proud ·--it
will often be repeated in the same breath with the
names of Bacon, Newton, and Boyle.

     Dr. Priestley endured the ordeal of persecution
with a philosophic serenity which must have been
admirable even to his enemies. Posterity will do jus
tice to the memory of this great man, and the author
of this sketch has felt the purest intellectual pleasure
in the production of even an imperfect memorial of

departed genius.
       .A.DDISON, his valediction, 41
       Appendix, containing extracts from Dr. Priest

ley's works, illustrative of his character, 95.
        Birmingham, cause of the riots at, 23 -- commemo

ration of the French Revolution celebrated in this town,
25 --outrages of the rioters, 26 -- several of them tried at
Warwick, 30.

        Beddoes, Dr. his experiments with oxygen gas, ri

diculed, 62.

         Education, its importance demonstrated, 81.

         Fashionable world, excessive dissipation and de

pravity of, 87.
        Franklin, Dr. the principal philosopher of Ame

rica, 36 --the intimate friend of Dr. Priestley, 55.
                                           6

       PRIESTLEY, JOSEPH, born at Field-head, near

Leeds, 10 -- his favourite studies, 11 --sent to Daventry
to complete his education, 12 -- chosen pastor to a con
gregation of Dissenters --deserted by his flock --circu

lates proposals for opening a school, but without suc
cess, 13 -- removes to Nantwich, where he officiates as
pastor, and opens an academy -- appointed Professor in

the languages and belles lettres in Warrington academy,
14--publishes his rudiments of English grammar--charts
of biography and universal history-- marries --publishes
his history of electricity, 15 --appointed pastor to a con

gregation in Leeds--publishes his history of vision, light
and colours -- becomes a Socinian, 16--presented with

a gold medal by the Royal Society, and elected F. R.S.--
appointed librarian to the Earl of Shelburne --indepen
dence of his principles, 18 -- settles near Birmingham --
controversy with Dr. Horsley, 19 -- aversion of the High
Church party to the Doctor, 22 --riots in Birmingham,

26 --fortitude of the Doctor when the mob were destroy
ing his house, 27 -- escapes to AVorcester, 28-- arrives in
the capital-- appointed successor to Doctor Price, 52--
embarks for America, 33 -- his reception in that country
-- his wife dies, 36 --gradual decline of the Doctor, 38--
Serenity at the hour of death, 41 -- testimony of respect
to his memory, 43 --description of his person and man
ners, 43 to.49 --his precepts to young clergymen, 51 --
critical observations on his writings. 54 --his metaphysi
cal opinions contro\ erted, 69 --his excellent precepts
concerning education, 81 -- his advice to young men, 83
--excellence of his moral character, 87.

        Priestley, Mrs. an account of her death, 36-- beri

character, 47.

        Pringle, Sir John, 57.
         Spirited Vindication of the moral conduct of Dr.
Priestley, by a minister of the Gospel, 88.

         Savile, Sir George, a steady patriot, 67.
        Stanhope, Earl of, 57.
         Thompson, Mr. a letter from, respecting Doctor
Priestley's pursuits in America, 34.
         Women, their influence over the morals and beha
viour of men, 85--a friendly hint to that beautiful part

'of the human species, 86.

         Young men. Dr. Priestley's advice to, 83.

                        ERRATUM.

       Page 27, line 15: -- For " on seeing the flames of his

dwelling ascend, he exclaimed, #("." read, on hearing the

shouts of the mob, he exclaimed, £fc.

N. B. Dr. Priestley's house was demolished by the

rioters with different  instruments, and  not consumed  by
fire. He observes in                                    not
                         his " Appeal,"   " They could

get any fire, though one of them was heard to offer txvo

guineas for a lighted candle ; my son, whom we left behind

us, having taken the precaution to put out all the fires in

the house; and others of my friends got all the neighbours

to do the same. I afterwards heard that much pains

was taken, but without effect, to get fire from my large

electrical machine, which stood in the library."
       THE LIFE

                                          OF

 JOSEPH PRIESTLEY,

                         hh. D. tfc.

Learning and talents, have ever com

manded the respect and the admiration of man
kind. In the dawn of science, indeed, the
inventors of the useful arts were deified by
those to whom they became benefactors by
their discoveries; and the skilful in agriculture,

were considered as super-human.

     Even in the more enlightened ages of Greece
and Rome, their poets and philosophers were
venerated by the people as persons under the in
fluence of divine inspiration ; and although the

              B
                                          10

Athenians in an evil hour sacrificed the immor
tal Socrates to their unjustifiable prejudices,
they afterwards evinced the conviction of error
by the erection of a statue in honour of his
memory.

If polite heathens, thus persecuted and thus

honoured an illustrious character; shall more

polite and polished christians refuse to do jus

tice to the memory of the greatest philosopher
of the age ? Shall Englishmen so long celebrated
for their liberality to men of science, of what
ever clime, refuse the wreath of immortality
to their own countryman, who was an ornament
to their literature, and an honour to their nation.
Shall the inventor of the most trifling utensil

be protected by a patent and rewarded by
the public for his useful invention, while Priest
ley, the man who analysed the most subtle of

the elements, is suffered to slumber in the tomb

without one honorary memorial, except his own
imperishable works? Forbid it national justice,

patriotism, and science !  »

     Yorkshire claims the honour of being the
birth place of Joseph Priestley, the subject of

the following memoirs. He was born on the

24th of March, 1733, at Field-head, near Bir
                                                                          11

stall, eight miles from Leeds. His father was
a respectable and opulent manufacturer . of
broad cloth, but Joseph was destined for higher
pursuits. In the seventh year of his age he was
taken into the protection of Mrs. Keighley, his
aunt, who being childless adopted him. Under
the eye of this lady, who was a strict Calvanisr,
our philosopher received his first religious im

pressions: he daily read a portion of the scrip

tures to her, and his mind was thus imbued with
the purest moral precepts, which had a power
ful influence on his conduct through life.

     His aunt, for whom he felt the utmost affec
tion, even to filial reverence, engaged to pay
the expence of his education, and he received
the first rudiments of learning from the Rev.

Mr. Scott, a dissenting minister, who was mas

ter of the Grammar Shool at Battley, a village
near Leeds. His proficiency in study, and his
attainments in this seminary, even at the age of
eleven, excited the admiration of his friends.
When not engaged in the study of languages,
the books which he most delighted to peruse
were on religion, particularly the allegories of
the ingenious Bunyan; and this early in
clination to read the works of pious men, in
duced his friends to look forward with high
                                          12

expectations that he would become a distin
guished Calvanistic teacher.

To qualify him for the important task of

instructing others in the most important of all

knowledge, young Priestley was sent hy his

pious aunt to the academy atDaventry to study

divinity, under the care of Dr. Ashworth. At

the time he entered the academy he was very

sincere in his belief of the Doctrine of the Tri

nity, but in his twentieth  year, when engaged
in a course of theological  studies, he became an
Arian.

    In the year 1753 Mr. Priestley was chosen

pastor to a congregation at Needham in Suffolk;
but his Arian sentiments were so offensive to

his flock that they gradually deserted him. An

impediment in his speech, also, contributed to
render him unpopular as a preacher, and al
though he afterwards in some measure corrected
this defect, his voice continued low and faulter-

ing.

    Deserted by his flock, Mr. Priestley circu

"lated proposals for opening a school, and his

   Miscellaneous Thoughts on Education" prove
how well he was qualified for the task of a pre
ceptor. But notwithstanding his multifarious
                       13

attainments and the solicitations of those friends

who knew his worth, he could not obtain a sin

gle pupil ! such was the effect of prejudice, and

such the dread that he would inculcate impious
                                                            "
sentiments, that  the  common                  reply  was,     What  !
send my son to    an
                       Arian ! "

Mr. Priestley afterwards removed to Nant-

wich, in Cheshire, where he officiated as minis

ter to a small congregation of dissenters, at a

salary of 30/. per annum. This necessitated him
to open an academy, where he gave proofs of

his excellent qualifications for the instruction of

youth, and his pupils made an admirable profi

ciency under his tuition. While engaged in

this two-fold charge, of preceptor to youth, and

pastor to those of riper years, Mr. Priestley acci

dentally became acquainted with a clergyman of

cthoerdeiastlablfirsiheenddshchipur:ch"  ; of  whom hespeaks with
                                         At    Nantwich" says he,

"the Vicar of Acton, at the distance of one mile,

had a room in his house which he called mine,

Iand which always made use of whenever it

Iwas convenient to me to spend an evening and

sleep from home, which never did, except
with him. He said that he had never known a
dissenter before me, but a common love of sci

Ience brought us acquainted, and have now in
                                                      14.

my possession a telescope made with his own
hands, which he gave me as a token of his friend

ship."*

     In this obscure situation Mr. Priestley con

tinued for some years, which he employed in
the acquirement of useful knowledge; when,
in the year 1761, he received an invitation to
fill the chair of professor in the languages and

belles lettres in Warrington Academy. This

arduous office he performed with the utmost
dignity and propriety, aud his understanding
was enlarged by new philosophic attainments.

His first literary production was a Treatise on

the Rudiments of English Grammar, which was
published in a duodecimo volume in 1761, and
afterwards republished with improvements in
one volume octavo.

     In 1765, while he continued at Warrington
 Academy, he published Charts of Universal
 History and Biography.

 Soon after his settlement at Warrington, Mr.
 Priestley was united to Miss Wilkinson, daugh-

    * Vide preface to " Letters to the Rev. Edward

 Burn, 1790."
                                                15

ter to Mr. Wilkinson, of Bristol. At the time
of their marriage, in 1762, he was 29 years
of age, and his consort nineteen.

    In consequence of the death of some of the
principal supporters of Warrington Academy,
it fell into decay ; but its fame will endure while
Mrs. Barbauld's elegant poem is admired by the
lovers of the muse.

Before the dissolution of this literary estab

lishment, our author in 1767 published an His

tory of Electricity in a quarto volume, and was

presented with the academic honours of LL. D.

for his ingenious productions. He soon after

wards received an invitation from an opulent

congregation of dissenters at Mill Hill in Leeds,

to preside as their pastor. His acceptance of

this offer brought him once more into the vicinity

of his natal spot; and he continued at Leeds five

years, during which period he made a number

olisfhpehdiloisnophhisica"l    experiments, afterwards pub
                             History of Discoveries concern

ing Vision, Light, and Colours."* The Doctor's

experiments with fireworks are yet remembered

* Published in 1772, in 2 volumes quarto.
                                              10

  by several of the inhabitants of Leeds ; and the
 people of that town, in general, treated him
  with great respect, and looked upon him as a
  very extraordinary man.

      By a natural association of ideas they consi
 dered their own reputation united with that of
 their townsman, and were not a little proud of the
 Doctor's increasing celebrity. The society of M r.
 Michel, a clergyman of the established church,

 contributed much to the philosophic discoveries
 of the Doctor, who speaks of him with the great

 est respect, in the work above-mentioned. Ac
 cording to his own account Dr. Priestley became
 a Socinian in the thirty-sixth year of his age,
 or some time in the course of 1769.

                                 t

      The year 1772 was a memorable period to
our philosopher ; his Observations on different

kinds of Air, were published in the Phil. Trans.
For this valuable paper the Doctor received the

gold medal of the Royal Society, and was elect
ed a member of that illustrious body.

     In 1773 Dr. Priestley was appointed chap
lain and librarian to the Marquis of Lansdown.
Accordingly he left Leeds, and went to reside
with his lordship at Calne. This engagement
lasted seven years, during which he was chiefly
employed in the education of his lordship's
eldest son, Lord Wycomb, whom he accompa
nied to Paris. In consequence of a coolness
taking place between the Doctor and his noble
patron, he retired with an annuity of .£150.

      During his residence at Calne he be
came acquainted with Dr. Frampton, of whom
he speaks in the following animated strain of

panegyric, " When I was with the Marquis of

Lansdown, Dr. Frampton, in that neighbour
hood, whose principles in Church and State
were the highest, .&* they are called, of any man's

Ithat ever met with, and who retained a strong

predilection for the family of the Stewarts, and
who retained it till his death, for some time
kept aloof from me ; but a common love of lite

rature at length brought us intimately acquaint
ed ; and at last when his troubles came upon

him, I was, perhaps, the only person who had

his entire confidence, and whom he considered

as his most sincere friend. With some failings,
he was a most extraordinary man. In conversa

tion, and preaching extempore, his talents were,

indeed, wonderful. The last time I heard him

 was at the consecration of a church, by the late
                                                  18

Bishop of London, who had a great friendship
for him. After the service he introduced me to
his lordship, and we dined and spent the day
very agreeebly together.

    " In London, where at this time I spent my
winters, I was happy in the friendship and soci

ety of the most distinguished clergymen that
this country can boast."*

     During Dr. Priestley's residence with his

patron, he maintained the most dignified inde

pendence of principle, and pursued his philo

sophical experiments in preference to political
disquisitions: nay, it was stipulated by the Doc
tor, that during this connection he should not
be required to write on politics; and he assures
us, on his own unimpeachable veracity, that he
never wrote a single pamphlet, nor even a para
graph in a newspaper, while he continued with
the Marquis.

     Assisted by the liberality of his friends, Dr.
Priestley, in 1780, became a resident in the
vicinity of Birmingham. His motive for settling
near this town, was the facility with which he

        * Preface to Letters to the Rev. E. Burn.
                                             19

could perform his philosophical experiments in

chemistry. On the resignation of the Rev. Mr.

Hawkes the Doctor was invited to succeed him
in the pastorship of the New Meeting. In this
important office he conducted himself with pro
priety and dignity, appropriating the Sabbath
Day to devotion, and the rest of the week
to philosophical researches, and controversial
divinity.

     In consequence of the boldness of his senti
ments, the freedom with which he avowed, and
the eloquence with which he promulged Unita-
rianism, he was encountered by a host of oppo
nents. The most remarkable and most eloquent
of these was Dr. Horseley, then Archdeacon of
St. Alban's,whose Animadversionson Priestley's

" History of the Corruptions of Christianity ;"

were at once nervous, animated, and evangelical,

but in some passages too sarcastic. The zeal of
the Archdeacon, who considered the religion of
his ancestors aspersed, may be considered by
the lovers of Orthodoxy as not only pardonable
but laudable ; nay, it appears that the Monthly

Reviewers, whose candour and learning have
 seldom been questioned, freely gave their

decision in favour of Dr. Horseley's Animad

versions.
    To enter into a detail of this important con

troversy would be no easy task; we shall there
fore proceed with the more pleasing object of
biographical narrative.

    While Dr. Priestley was engaged in the ar
duous pursuits of a preacher, a controversialist,
and an experimental philosopher, the Marquis
ofLansdown again invited him to reside at his
country seat, but this kind offer was declined
by our philosopher, who continued the prose
cution of his favourite studies at Fair-Hill, in

the vicinity of Birmingham.

     His polemical writings had rendered him
very odious to the friends of the established
Church; insomuch that some of the lower
class wrote up with chalk on several of the
dead walls in the town, D -- n Priestley.

     Among others who had entered into the
controversy, the Rev. Edward Burn, of St. Ma

ry's Chapel,    Birmingham, in 1790, published
his letters to
                Dr. Priestley, "On the Infallibility

of the Apostolic Testimony concerning the
Person of Christ." To these letters the Doc
tor wrote an answer, in which he plainly avows
himself a decided Unitarian, and at the samr
                                            21

tisie vindicates himself from every imputation
of malevolence against the established Church.

   If"    liberality  of sentiment" says he in his
                      result of general and various
preface,  " be the

acquaintance, few men now living have had a

better opportunity of acquiring it than myself.

This has arisen from the great variety of my

pursuits, which has naturally brought me ac

quainted with persons of all principles and cha

racters. One day I remember I dined in com

pany with an eminent popish priest; the even

ing I spent with philosophers, determined un
believers ; the next morning I breakfasted at

his own request, with a most zealously orthodox

clergyman, Mr. Toplady, and the rest of that
day I spent with Dr. Jebb, Mr. Lindsey, and

some others, men in all respects after my own

heart. I have since enriched my acquaintance

with that of some very intelligent Jews ; and

my opponents, who consider me already as half

a Mahometan, will not suppose that I can have

any objection to the society of persons of that

religion."

    The 14th of July 1791, will long be remem

bered by the Inhabitants of Biimingham with

horror. It would be improper, even at this
                                  22

remote period, to dwell upon the cause or the
effects of the riots, but a short account cannot

be considered uninteresting.

     Dr. Priestley from the commencement of
his residence at Birmingham, had undoubtedly

turned his attention too much from the luminous
field of philosophic disquisition, to the sterile
regions of polemic divinity, and the still more
thorny paths of polemic politics. His tracts on

these subjects amounted to upwards of thirty,
and from his celebrity they had a very general
circulation. As a philosopher he clearly saw de
fects in the most perfect of human institutions,
and expressed himself with a boldness and
freedom which alarmed the neighbouring cler
gy of the established church, and excited their
resentment. The labouring classes in Birming

ham certainly looked upon him as a disaffected

and dangerous man. Incapable of deep reflec
tion themselves, they abhorred his Unitarian
principles as subversive of Christianity, and the
idea that the Church was in danger was propa
gated among them by men of deeper discern
ment, who wished to render Dr. Preistley odious

and unpopular. A very considerable number,

however, of the more enlightened inhabitants,
who were convinced of the Doctor's integrity
                                       23

as a man, sincerity as a preacher, and superla
tive merit as a philosopher, were his strenuous
advocates and admirers.

     The collision of parties became every day
more violent, and the events which were daily
transacting in Fiance kept alive the jealousy

arising from uncongenial opinions.

    At the commencement of the French Revo

lution it was considered as the most felicitous
event which had occurred in the history of
man, and the people of Great Britain and Ire
land, ever attached to liberty, rejoiced in the

emancipation of such a number of the human

species.

     The anniversary of the French Revolution
was celebrated in several cities and towns of
England, on the 14th of July, 1791, without
the smallest interruption ; but in Birmingham
the commemoration of that event was attended
with the most calamitous consequences.

    A few copies of a seditious handbill which

had been left early in the week in a public
house, by some person unknown, and which
had been copied and circulated throughout Bir
                                         24

     .mingham, caused a general ferment in the minds

     of the people. The magistrates offered a re
     ward for the discovery of the author, printer,
     or publisher, but till this hour the dark transac
     tion remains involved in mystery. In this state
     of things, on the morning of the 14th of July,
     the following advertisementwas published in the
     Birmingham Chronicle : --

      Birmingham Commemoration of the French
                              Revolution.

      " Several hand bills having been circulated

     in the town which can only be intended to create

     distrust concerning the intention of the meeting,

     to disturb its harmony, and influence the minds of

     thepeople, the gentlemen who proposed think
                                         it
it      necessary to declare their entire disapprobationis
    a
     of such handbills, and their ignorance of the   it,

authors. Sensible themselves of the advantages

of free government, they rejoice in the exten

sion of liberty to their neighbours, at the same

time avowing in the most explicit manner,

their attachment to the constitution of theirown

country, as vested in the three estates of the

king, lords, and commons. Surely no free-born

Englishman can refrain from exulting in this

addition to the general mass of human happi

ness  ;          the cause of humanity,  the cause

        it
             is
                              2j

 or the people." "Birmingham, July 13, 1791.

      In the morning of the 1 4th, however, as
 there was but too much reason to think that

 means had been used to excite the people to riot,
 the friends of the meeting determined to give

up their intention of dining together ; but the
master of the Hotel, in consequence of having
the dinner countermanded, expostulated with
the gentlemen on the impropriety of not cele
brating the festival as intended, and gave his
opinion that there would be no danger of a tu

mult if they would break up early.

      Accordingly on Thursday afternoon eighty-

one gentlemen met at the Hotel in Temple

Row, where they found a considerable number
of the populace assembled, who expressed their
disapprobation by hisses. The dining room

was decorated with a medallion of his Majesty,

encircled with a glory, on each side of which
was an alabaster obelisk ; the one representing
Gallic Liberty breaking the chains of Des
potism, and the other emblematic of British
Liberty. The utmost harmony prevailed at the
festive board, and James Keir, Esq. of West
Bromwich, a member of the Church of Eng-

                 D
                                              26

land, was chairman. According to a letter

published by him on the occasion, the first toast

was "The King and Constitution
                                              ft                                 and one of
                                                                   a
the last, "Peace and good will to mankind."
                                                                         ;""
     But while the friends of rational freedom                                  a
were thus celebrating one of the most important
events recorded in the history of man; the mob

increased in numbers and insolence, and about

two hours subsequent to the meeting, they broke
every windowin the front of the Hotel, and im

mediately proceeded to the New Meeting-house,
which they set on fire and consumed.

     The frenzy of riot being roused, the mob

continued their depredations notwithstanding
the personal interference of the magistrates.

The cry of " Church King" was re-echoed thro'
the streets, and the Meeting-houses of the dis

senters were doomed to destruction. The Old

Meeting-house was pulled down by an enfuri-
ated rabble; and not content with having burnt
the New Meeting, where Dr. Priestley had

preached, they marched in large body to

destroy his house at Fair Hill, about mile dis

tant from Birmingham.
                                                57

       Here, in perfect security, the doctor was-
 engaged in the pleasing amusements of social
 relaxation with his wife and family, without the
 smallest suspicion of approaching ruin. His
 friends, solicitous for his preservation, hastened
 to apprise him of his danger. He was aston

 ished--the thing appeared to him incredible--

 but their entreaties pravailed upon him by a
 timely retreat to save himself and family from
 the fury of enthusiasm.

      Accompanied by his friends and relatives,Dr.

Friestley retired to Mr. Hawkes's in the neigh

bourhood, and when the rioters arrived at his
house he was walking about in the shrubbery.
On seeing the flames of his dwelling ascend, he
exclaimed with true philosophic equanimity, and

an unaltered countenance, "They cannot injure

me, for I never injured mortal man; I should not

have the least fear to walk among them, to speak
to them, and advise them to desist from vio

lence." A nobler instance of magnanimity is

not perhaps on record ; for when we reflect
that at this moment the philosopher saw not
only his pleasing residence, but his select libra

ry,. his inestimable manuscripts, the result of

numerous experiments, and his philosophical

              d2
                                       2S

apparatus consumed, can we sufficiently admire
that fortitude which could bear such a misfortune
so nobly !

     One of the deluded men who set fire to the
Doctor's house was killed by the falling of a
cornice stone; and our philosopher, leaving his
family to the protection of his friends, escaped in
disguise to Worcester. Next day he set out for
the metropolis, where he arrived in safety.

    It is a fact but too well authenticated, that

some persons of respectability in Birmingham,
who dreaded the influence of the Doctor's deci
sive opinions, used their influence to induce the
rioters to destroy his premises; nay, persons in
the habit of gentlemen, were-discovered secreting
the papers and manuscripts of the philosopher;
which they afterwards sent to men in power, in
hopes that their contents would tend to crimi
nate their formidable opponent.

      But the depredations of the mob did not ter
minate with the destruction of Dr. Priestley's
property. There was no armed force in Bir
mingham, so that they continued their devasta
 tion with impunity. On Friday about noon they

demolished the elegant mansion of Mr. Ry land,
                                         20

at Easy TlilL Many of the rioters who forced
their way into the cellars gotdrunk, and perish
ed by the falling in of the flaming roof of the
building. Six of these infatuated men who
were got outalive, but terribly bruised, were sent
to the hospital. Ten dead bodies were after
wards dug out of the ruins. Among ether things
destroyed in Mr. Ry land's, the most remarkable
was the body of the late Mr. Baskerville, who
by his will ordered that he should be buried in

his own house. A stone closet was erected,.

where he was deposited in a standing posture.

    On Friday afternoon, the 15th of July, the

magistrates swore in several hundred additional.

constables>who attacked the mob at Mr. Ry land's

house, but after a severe contest, in which seve
ral men were wounded, the rioters were victo-.
rious. Bordesley Hall, the country residence
of John Taylor,. Esq. and M.oseley Hall the
property of the same gentleman, were both cle-.

stroyed by the mob. Mr. Hutton's house in
High-street,. with his stock of paper, library,

and furniture, were destroyed or carried away;.
 the houses of several other. individuals were
 pillaged or burnt, and the whole of Saturday the
shops in Birmingham were mostly shut, and bu-

sines was at a stand ; while such was the auda-
                                      30

city of the rioters, that small parties of three
or five actually levied contributions of meat;
drink and money.

     On Sunday the rioters proceeded to Kings-
wood, seven miles distant from the town, and'
destroyed the meeting-house, and the dwelling
of the Dissenting minister, together with the
premises of Mr. Cox.

     The arrival of three troops of the 15th Light

Dragoons on Sunday night, soon after ten, was
announced by the sound of their trumpets,

and the acclamations of the inhabitants. Anx
iety which had been strongly depicted in
every face during the day, was succeeded by
the smiles of joy, and the congratulations of
neighbours. The town was illuminated ; the
rioters, conscious of their delinquency, soon dis
persed, and order was happily restored with
out bloodshed. The loss of the different indi

£viduals by this riot was estimated at 60,000.

and an act of parliament was obtained in 1793,
to reimburse them;

     In the month of August, at the assizes at
Warwick, several of the rioters stood their trial-,
and Mr. Coke, counsel for the prosecution, in
                                    SI

feis address to the jury, justly-observed --" that

there never was an occasion where government
had acted more honourably ; for they had un
dertaken, to the relief of the individual suf

Ifferers, the expence of those prosecutions.

a man was to be persecuted, because he held
this or that religion, or this or that political opi
nion, he ought to leave this country : it did

not deserve the name of his country. Dr.
Priestley both in his private and public cha

racter was an honour to society, and held forth
as bright an example of every virtue as any

man in the country. But if a man's property

was to be destroyed, and his life put in imi-
nent danger, because he held certain political
opinions, or because he preached certain doc
trines, he ought to sell his country and leave it
directly. The Dissenters were as respectable
and quiet subjects as any in the country, and
unless the jury convicted, and convicted with
great attention, those who had been clearly
guilty, persecution would make the Dissenters

increase. It was manifest that they had been,

lately persecuted in the most infamous manner.

    " Gentlemen" he continued, " I have told

you, and you know the fact to be so, that Dr.
Priestley's house was pulled down, merely be
                                      32

 .caase lietvas a Dissenter. You know that this
  is no reason at all. Dr. Priestley's life is ir

 reproachable ; and I believe that he would not
 have escaped with his life, if he had remained

 half an hour longer."

      Of three men, who were tried for begin
 ning to demolish the house of Joseph Priestley,
 LL. D. two were found guilty, one of whom

 was afterwards pardoned, and the other exe
 cuted. Thus two unfortunate men perished in

 consequence of the destruction of the Doctor's
 house, one being accidentally killed on the
 spot, and the other put to death. Unhappy
 deluded mortals, they were the victims of their
 own enthusiasm, while their instigators conti

 nued secure behind the curtain.

      Soon after Dr. Priestley found an assylum
 in London, he was appointed successor to his
 friend Dr. Price, as pastor in the Dissenting
 Meeting at Hackney ; but even here the de
 mon of persecution pursued him ; his political
opinions had given great offence to men in

power, who doubtless dreaded the farther ani
madversions of his keen sarcastic genius. He
therefore received a polite intimation, that his
removal to another country was requisite, and
                                      33

consequently bade a final adieu to his native

land, and embarked for America in 1794.

     We cannot contemplate the departure of

this philosopher to the western hemisphere

without emotion. The future historian will re
cord the fact with indignation, and posterity
will hardly believe it. But Priestley,
whose discoveries diffuse a brilliancy over his
age and nation, only shared the fate of the

great and good of the most celebrated nations --

Aristides, Socrates, and Cicero were also pro
scribed or banished.

     It is to be regretted that we are in posses

sion of so few documents respecting the pur
suits of this philosopher, in the country where
he found a pleasing retreat. His reception on
the shore of Columbia, was certainly not equal
to the expectations of his friends in this coun
try. Yet he was treated with respect, and of
fered the place of chemical professor at Phila
delphia, but he declined that honour..

      He settled at Northumberland Town, on
 the banks of the Susquehannah, about 120 miles
 from Philadelphia, and purchased an estate of
 considerable extent, it is said not less than

             E
                                                 34.

200,000 acres. In a letter from Mr. Thomp
son to his friend Mr. Derry of Birmingham,

the rural pursuits of the Doctor are thus de

scribed :--

    " Dr. Priestley's reply to Tom Paine, will

reach you before it can be printed in Eng
land, and therefore will be a treat to his
friends. The good man is happy in his retire
ment in this land of freedom, nor can the
earnest entreaties of his friends, nor the most
«plendid offer from the university of this State,
draw him again into the busy world. He is
busied in the most rural scenes, and now su
perintending the building of his house oa the
banks of the Susquehannah.

   I" I have been thus particular respecting

Dr. Priestley, because know the esteem in

which you hold him. Calumnies, I doubt not

continue to be raised against him in Birming
ham; they followed him here, in a most scan
dalous pamphlet published upon his arrival ;
and said to be written by an Englishman pur

posely sent by *********, who destroyed his

hive of literary treasure in Birmingham. The
motive for the publication was seen through,
and treated with the contempt it deserved, by
                      33

the people of this country. We are, in truth,

no respecters of persons.            Come from

whatever country, virtue is cherished in Ame

rica.                 " I am, &c.

Philadelphia, Dec. 1       " JoHN THOMPSON."
                 J
11th, 1794.

     Notwithstanding this bright picture ofis,
American liberality, the fact Dr. Priestley'sa

reception among these hewers of wood was by

no means flattering. Had he been mechanic

the people of Columbia would have received
him with open arms.

     Indeed was not to be expected, thatit      a

philosopher, whose scientific attainments werea it
                              ;a                    is
superior to the combined acquirements of the
learned professors of an American college,if

should be received with much sympathy or

respect by people whose ideas are contracted
by agriculture and commerce. America
true has produced Franklin, but undoubt
edly that philosopher acquired much of his
knowledge in Europe and we may judge of
the intellects of his countrymen by their lite

rary productions, they are the most phlegmatic
people upon earth. In the little arts of cun-

       e
          2
                         38

ning and commercial address, however, they

are more than  a match   for even European   Jews.
               Metallic  Tractors," or base  metal
Witness " the

exchanged for gold.

    In America, the serenity of our philosopher
was disturbed by domestic misfortunes. Mrs.

Priestley died of a fever, after a short illness, at

Northumberland Town, September 17th, 1796,

in the 53d year of her age ; and this stroke was
followed by the death of a son.

     His eldest son, however, who married Miss
Ryland, of Birmingham, and had, with his fa

mily, accompanied the Doctor to the Western
Continent, still remained to console his venera

ted father.

            We now come to the contemplation of an
       event, which will long be regretted by the lo
       vers of science-- the death of one of the most

      extraordinary men of the age. It could not be

         supposed that a climate so different from that

       of his native country, could be salutary to a
        man who arrived in America in the 61st year

      of his age. A severe illness at Philadelphia in

        1801, rendered his constitution still more liable
       to sink under the influence of the climate ; and

<
                        37

we are informed, that he never was perfectly

restored to his accustomed good health. His

complaint was indigestion, which produced a

general relaxation of the system. But not
withstanding this debility of body, his mind con

tinued vigorous;* and he continuedhis literary

pursuits with constant  assiduity.  His time was  en
gaged in printing his               History," &   the
                        " Church

first volume of his annotations on the Scriptures.

He also reprinted an Essay on Phlogiston;
wrote his pamphlet of " Socrates and Jesus

compared," and made several philosophical

experiments. Thus the two last years of his ex
istence may be said to have been two of the bu

siest ; and like Newton, Johnson, and several

other great men, his intellectual faculties re

mained unimpaired to the last moment of his

life.

     In the beginning of November 1803, his
complaint became more alarming, but by ju

dicious medical treatmen, and a strict attention

to regimen, he seemed, if not gaining strength,

at least not getting worse. He continued in
this uncertain state till the middle of January

1804; and his friends hoped that his health
would improve with the return of spring. The

       * A strong proof against materialism.
                                            38

DocW himself considered his life as very pre

carious, but his delight in intellectual pleasure

continued ; for " besides his miscellaneous read

ing, he read through the works quoted in his
' Comparison of the different systems of the
Grecian Philosophers with Christianity,' com
posed the work, and transcribed the whole of
it in three months ; so that he has left it ready
for the press. During this period, he wrote

in one day, his second ' Reply to Doctor
Linn.'

     Towards the end of January, his indiges
tion became more alarming, his legs swelled,
and he daily became weaker; insomuch, that
two days previous to his death he could scarcely
walk. On the 4th of February he was unable
to speak for some time ; but, on recovering, he
told his friends, that he never felt happier than
during the time he was deprived of the power
of speech. He expressed his thankfulness to
the great Disposer of events at being permitted
to die quietly in his family, without pain, and
with every comfort he could wish for. Like a
Christian Philosopher, he expatiated with
pious gratitude upon the happy situation in which
it had pleased the Divine Being to place him in
this life ; the great advantage he had enjoyed in

                         *
                                        39

the friendship of some of the best and wisest*
men of the age, and the satisfaction he derived
from having led a useful as well as a happy
life. He gave directions about printing the
remainder of his Notes on Scripture ; and hav
ing looked over the first sheet of the third
volume, he expressed his approbation of the
manner in which it was corrected, by the friend
who was to attend to its completion.

" On Sunday the 5th he was much weaker,

but sat up in an arm chair for a few minutes.

beHe desired that John chapter x. 1.. might

read to him, and stopped the reader at the

twenly-fifth verse,* dwelt for some time on,

the advantage he had derived from reading the

scriptures daily, and recommended thispractice, .

saying that  it  would prove asource  of the purest
pleasure.
             "   We shall all," said  he, " meet

finally ; we only require different degrees of

discipline suited to our different tempers, to

prepare us for final happiness." Mr.

coming into his room, he said,." you see, Sir,

   "* Jesus said unto her, I am Ihc resurrection and

the life: lie that believeth in me, tbuugh he Were
dead, yet shall he live."
                       40

I am still living." Mr.           observed
/" that he would always live" -- " " Yes, believe

I shall ; we shall meet again in another and a
better world." lie said this with great anima

tion, laying hold of Mr.   's hands in both

his own. After evening prayers, when his

grand-children were brought to his bedside, he
"Ispoke to them separately, and exhorted them to
continue to love each other, &c.  am going"

added he, "to sleep as well as you ; for death is

only a good long sound sleep in the grave ; and

we shall meet again."

    " On Monday morning, the 6th of February,

on being asked how he did, he answered in a

faint voice, that he had no pain, but appeared

fainting away gradually. About eight o'clock

he desired to have three pamphlets which had

been looked out by his directions the evening

before. He then dictated as clearly and dis

tinctly as he had ever done in his life, the addi
tions and alterations which he wished to have

made in each. Mr.          took down the sub

stance of what he said, which was read to him. He

observed, "Sir, you have put in your own lan

guage; I wish it to be mine : he then repeated

over again, nearly word for word, what he had

before said, and when it was transcribed and
                                            41

read over to him, he said ' that is right, I have

now done.'

    " About half an hour after he desired that he

might be removed to a cot. About ten minutes
after he was removed to it he died ; but breathed
his last so easily, that those who were sitting
close to him did not immediately perceive it.
He had put his hand to his face which prevented
them from observing it."

     The behaviour of this great man at the hour
of death corresponded with the philosophic se
renity which he had evinced on the most trying

occasions. It reminds us of the expiration of

Addison, and is an additional proof of the triumph
of christian fortitude, over the king of terrors.

"See in what peace a christian can die!"* A

christian? yes, undoubtedly our philosopher was

a believer in Jesus Christ, the Saviour of man
kind ; and whatever difference there might be
in his speculative opinions from that doctrine
which the majority of christians think it their
indispensable duty to embrace, no man who if

                * The last words of Addison-.
                          42

itnhfilnugesn,c"edwiblly  that charity   which    " hopeth all
                          hesitate to   believe,
                                                  that a man

whose life was devoted to the pursuit of truth,

is now in Paradise.

The chamber where the good man meets his fate,

Is privileg'd beyond the common walk

Of virtuous life, quite in the verge of heav'n.
A death bed's a detector of the heart ;

Here real and apparent are the same j

You see the man, you see his hold on heav'n,

If sound his virtue.                              Young.

     Mr. Cooper of Northumberland Town, in a
letter to Mr. Woodhouse, Professor of Chemis
try in the University of Philadelphia; says,

" Your old friend, Dr. Priestley, died this morn

ing without pain at eleven o'clock. He would
have been seventy-one, had he lived till the
24th of next month. He continued chearful

and composed to the end. He had been apprised
of his dissolution for some days."

            With respect to Dr. Priestley's pecuniary

         concerns, he enjoyed a decent competency to

      £the last, for having sustained a loss of 206. it

       was immediately made up by the liberality of
       his friends, and a short time before the news of

        his death reached Europe, a particular friend

S
                                   43

wrote to him from England, to draw upon him
for of+00. per annum, which he might rely up
on for the remainder of his life. His son treated
him with filial reverence and affection, and his
amiable daughter-in-law continued her kind at
tentions to him to the last moment of his life.

The most unequivocal testimonies of respect

and sorrow were given by Dr. Priestley's for

mer hearers of the New Meeting society in Bir
mingham. At a general meeting, held on Sun

day, April  15, 1804-, they unanimously resolved,
" That the  society shall appear in mourning on

the 22d of April, and wear it for two months,

and, that a tablet of white marble with a suit

able inscription expressing the sense entertained

by this society of the late Dr. Priestley's cha

racter and services, be placed within the Meet

ing-house."

     Dr. Priestley was about the middle stature,
or five feet eight inches high. He was slen
der and well proportioned; his complexion was j
fair, his eyes grey and sparkling with intel

ligence, and his whole countenance was ex

pressive of the benig dty of his heart.
He often smiled, but seldom laughed. He was

extretaely active and agile in his motions, he
                                           44

 walked fast and very erect, and his deportment
was dignified.

      His common dress was a black coat without
a cape, a fine linen or cambric stock, a cocked
hat, a powdered wig,* shoes and buckles. The
whole of his dress was remarkably clean, and

this purity of person, and simple dignity of

manners, evinced that philosophic propriety
which prevailed throughout his conduct as a
private individual.

     He commonly walked with a long cane in
his right hand, and was a most excellent pedes

trian. A deist who lived in Birmingham, felt

an earnest desire to dispute with the Doctor on
religion. But being unacquainted with any
person who could introduce him, he resolved to

go to the philosopher's residence at Fair Hill,

aud accost him as he came out to take his custo
mary walk. Accordingly, he went several

times, but such was the activity of the Doctor,
that his visitor could never overtake him, nor

make his business known.

"   * In a letter to Mr. Scholefield,  the Doctor says,
   Since I arrived in America, I have  laid off my wig,
and worn my own hair, which is now quite white."
                                      45

     During his residence at Fair Hill, Dr. Priest
ley rose about 6 o'clock, and commonly retired
to his study, where he continued till eight, when
he met his family at breakfast. He breakfasted

on tea, and after breakfast again went to his

study, accompanied by his amanuensis. He of
ten devoted thewholeof themorningto original

composition, and sometimes divided his time be
tween the study and the laboratory.

     His hand-writing was indifferent, for like
other men of genius, ideas, not characters, were
the objects of his attention.

     When engaged in making philosophical ex
periments he commonly wore a white apron,
and canvass covers drawn over his sleeves. He
dined atone o'clock, and was extremely tempe
rate. He seldom drank wine or spirituous li
quors. In the afternoon he usually took a walk
to Birmingham, and spent some time at the
printing-office where several of his controversial
 publications were printed, and he afterwards
visited some respectable friends. Being an ex
cellent economist of time, he returned home at
an early hour, and generally sat down to sup
per at eight o'clock. This repast commonly con
 sisted of vegetables.
                                           46

      After supper the Doctor called all his
 family together to prayers, and retired to rest
 about ten o'clock.

     By this prudent distribution of time and a
strict habit of temperance, he wasnotonly blest
with health, but with that serenity which ac
 companies regular and virtuous conduct. His
visitors at Fair-Hill were few, and those mostly
of a philosophic turn, with whom the Doctor

often shared

       " The free full converse of the friendly heart,

         Improving and improv'd."

      Such was the manner in which this cele
brated philosopher usually passed his familiar
day, but his arrangement was diversified as
the occasion required, and he sometimes devoted
the morning to active pursuits, instead of intense
studious application.

     As for the management of domestic con
cerns, he was too manly to interfere ; and Mrs.
Priestley was completely competent to the

task, being a most excellent housewife. She
was so thrifty and expert with her needle,
that she not only made her own clothes, but
                                              47

those of her daughter, and her sons while boys.
In her disposition, indeed, Mrs. Priestley was

irascible, and often changed her servants; she
was very strict and authoritive towards them,
often saying she was resolved to have one of her
own teaching; and when any of them made
enquiries respecting something which wasobvi-

ous, she would reply, tartly, " Work with your
head as well as your hands."

     Though an excellent economist and mistress
in her own house, in every sense of the word,
this estimable woman was of a kind disposition,
and generous to her servants. Her house was
one of the most clean and neat in England.
Every apartment and all the furniture evinced
the cleanliness and good management of the
owner, and she made the bed and window cur
tains herself. These facts may appear trivial
to some readers, but they characterize the in
dividual, and prove the propriety of the Doc
tor's observation, when in a letter to a friend in

England, soon after her death, he says, " In
losing m/ wife I have lost my all, for she took

every domestic trouble off my hands.

     No man ever behaved w th more moderation
or benignity tohis dependants thanDr.Ptiestley.
Indeed, so completely was his philosophic mind
absorbed in reflection, that he seldom spoke to
his servants, and was so reserved in his general
deportment, that he appeared like a stranger in
his own house. In moments of relaxation, how
ever, he was exceedingly cheerful and social

among his friends. A pleasing and habitual

smile of benevolence diffused its light over his
countenance, particularly in his intercourse
with his servants, to whom he sometimes pre
sented books, but he seldom gave them any
money, leaving all those pecuniary matters to
his wife.

      So attentive was this virtuous man to the

happiness of those around him, that he left his
servants entirely at leisure on the Sabbath day,
to attend to their duty to their Creator, in what
ever place of public worship they thought pro
per. Nor did he ever use any influence to
bring them over to his own opinions.

     This account of his amiable deportment at

home might seem a paradox to those personswho
have read his strong and caustic controversial
writings ; but the defender of the opinions of a
sect, with his pen in his hand, is a very different

character when uninfluenced by the spirit of
                             49

controversy, and reposing on the bosom of social
happiness. Indeed, the Doctor was convinced
of his too great promptitude to break a lance
with every Knight who presumed to question
the perfection of a system which appeared to
feim " The fairest often thousand."

says"hBee, in"gwahwicahreis  of   my natural infirmity,"

                             too   great a promptness to

write, I never read at ajl ; because if I have any

controversy (except it be of a perfectly amica
ble nature), I prefer having it with persons at
                                   I
a distance,  a"nd  with      whom     have  no  particular
connection.

     His only daughter, who had received a gen
teel education, and was taught music, played
upon the harpsichord, but it does not appear
that the Doctor was attached to the science of

sounds. Miss Priestley was afterwards married

to a Mr. Finch, and died in the year 1 803.

     These authentic particulars, respecting the

domestic habits of our philosopher were com

municated to the author of this Bioghraphical
Sketch, by Mrs. Dalton, of Highgate, near Bir
mingham, to whom he was induced to apply, in

consequence of her having lived a year and a
                                      so

   half in the Doctor's family, during his residence
   at Fair-Hill.

        This place, once the abode of aphilosopher,
   might with more propriety be called Fair-Vale,

   as the elevation above the vale is scarcely per

   ceptible. Dr. Priestley rented this mansion and
   premises of Mr. Humphries, who after the

   riots rebuilt and sold it to Dr. Withering.

   There is nothing interesting in its appearance.

   It is built of brick, two stories high, and sur

   rounded by an inclosure, containing a grass
   plot in front, and a garden and green-house in
   the rear. The situation is rural, at the distance
   of about two hundred yards on the left of the

   highway from Birmingham to Stratford.

   It is impossible, however, to walk on the

   path once trod by the philosopher or the poet,

   without feeling momentary enthusiasm. It is

   consecrated ground, and the traveller who may

   be induced to visit Fair-Hill, will easily disco

   ver the   Doctor's   favourite walk, which is a
   pathway,   shaded
                       by " hedge-row elms and oaks,"

   and communicating with the main road. Here

   wrapt in meditation, he often inhaled the pure

   breeaes, with the properties of which he became

   » welti acquainted, and often hasted home to

v
                                            51

realize some new discovery conceived by his
prolific and comprehensive mind.

     Dr. Priestley was an ungraceful orator; his

voice was low and faultering, and he had a

custom of shrugging up his shoulders.

He performed the pastoral duties, however,

with the most consciencious attention to the
morals of his flock. The youthful part of his

congregation shared his particular care, and he

inculcated the principles   of virtue  and  piety  by
his catachetical lectures.

     Few Christian teachers knew the   important

duties of the pastoral office better   than Dr.

Priestley, and his advice to ministers in" A Free
Address to Protestant Dissenters;" rs, " Let

it appeatby the whole of your behaviour, that
you are serious christians. Let it be seen that
the doctrines of Christianity have a real and

happy effect upon your hearts and lives, and
that, by virtue of a practical faith in its great prin
ciples, you are possessedof an uniform cheerfulness

of mind, and enal/led to live in a firm confidence in

divine providence, under all the events of life, and

prepared to die with composure and good hope.

a2
                                    52

    " Let no taste you may have for any of the

polite arts, as music, painting, or poetry, nor a
capacity for improvement in science, engage
you to make them more than an amusement to

you, or at the most, any more than an object of

secondary consideration. Let not even the study

of speculative theology prevent your applying your
self chiefly to the advancement of virtue among your

hearers.

     " Endeavour to be cheerful, polite (as faras that
term conveys the idea of a reasonable desire to
please), and free from affectation. Take no pains
to conceal any natural peculiarity of manner, that
is innocent in itself, and not offensive to others; for
above all things, simplicity of character, and the
greatest freedom from artifice and disguise, become
the teachers of the religion of Jesus Christ."

Such were the principles, and such the prac

tice of this extraordinary man ; but we must re

gret indeed, that he  turned his attention too much
to the investigation
                      of " speculative theology," and

the revival of obsolete opinions concerning the

soul, in his " Disquisitions relating to Matter

and Spirits," in which he supported the material

system, and considered the soul as homogene

ous with the body.
                                        53

     As an author, Dr. Priestley is distinguished
for the versatility of his talents, the perspicuity
of his style, and the sagacity of his remarks.
Neglecting or disdaining the elegant ornaments
of the rhetorician, he wrote in a plain, familiar,
and clear flow of language, equally intelligible

to the man of taste and the illiterate. It is the

sterling language of good sense, and when he
occasionally calls in the aid of illustration, his
figures are obvious, at once elucidating and
adorning the subject.

    It would be difficult to name another author

in the long and illustrious listof English writers,
who wrote with equal candour, simplicity, and
energy. Truth was to him more precious than
worldly emolument, or the praise of others, and
even those who disapprove of his creed must

 venerate his virtues.

     A critical analysis of the multifarious pro

 ductions of Dr. Priestley would require a com
 bination of talents, of which few human beings
are in possession. If, according to the principle
 laid down by Pope, they were to be investigated
 " With the same spirit as the author writ," it
 would require the united judgment of even our
 best critics, the Monthly Reviewers themselves,
                      54

to give a lucid, full, and satisfactory criticism
on his voluminous publications.
                                      We shall,
therefore make cursory observations on the

nature and tendency of his works, elucidated

by several extracts.

     His first publication was an English Gram
mar upon an improved plan, for the use of his
pupils at Nantwich. This elementary work is
at present but little known.

     Soon after his removal to Warrington Aca
demy, in 1761, he published a Chart of Biogra
phy, which was favourably received by the
public, as was also his Chart of History.

     His  department in language, & as professor
of the
          belles-lettres, called  forth his  critical
powers                                       of Lec
          ; and he published "    A Course

ohtuefretdhsiesopnlmayOeetrdaaptohmryuyscicahaneldrupCdhriiitltioiocsnios, pmah.ny"d,oafIsHnaantrhtaildsemyw,iorehrerk
applied that philopher's theory of association to
noebrje. ctsTohfistapstreo,diunctaiocnle, arhoawndevsear,tisfwaocutoldry
have established his fame, nor is it                                      man
ral and practical utility as Blair's                                      never

                                      of such gene
                                      Lectures.
                                           55

     Natural Philosophy, which had ever been his
favourite study, was the department of science
in which this ingenious man was destined to
shine. Electricity was the first branch of phy
sics, which engaged his attention.

    Accordingly, he wrote " The History of

Electricity," which was published at Warring

ton, in 1767, in one volume quarto. A cir

cumstance which facilitated his success in this
arduous undertaking, was his personal inter

course with the celebrated Dr. Franklin, and

other philosophers.

    This scientific history was read by men of

taste, and passed through five editions. It is

valuable not only for the facts recorded, res
pecting the rise and progress of the science,
but also for several original experiments.

Encouraged by the success of this publica

tion, the Doctor conceived the design of record

Aincgcot hrdeinrigsley,anhdisp"roHgrisetsosryofatnhde   other sciences.

                                                       Present State of

Discoveries, relating to Vision, Light, and

Colours," was published in 1772, in 2 volumes,

quarto. This work was not so favourably re

ceived as his History of Electricity ). the subject
                                      56

had been handled by men of the first rate
talents ; and consequently had not that charm

of novelty which rendered his account of elec
tricity so amusing. The failure of this publi

cation, induced our philosopher to relinquish
his plan, and to turn his attention to a subject
little known, though of the utmost importance.
His "Experiments and Observations on differ

ent Kinds of Air," immortalized his name, and

placed him in the first rank of natural philoso

phers.

     The first volume of this useful work was
published in 1774, in octavo, and inscribed to
his patron the Earl of Shelburne.

    In the preface to the second edition, Dr.

Priestley speaks of his researches with the can
dour and modesty of a philosopher, and with
the humility of a pious man.

   I" find it absolutely impossible," says he,

" to produce a work on this subject that will

be any thing like complete. My first publi

cation I acknowledge to be very imperfect, and

Ithe present, am as ready to acknowledge, is

still more so. But, paradoxical as it may seem,
this will ever be the case in natural science,
                                         51

so long as the works of God are, like himself,
infinite and inexhaustible. In compleatingone
discovery, we never fail to get an imperfect
knowledge of others, of which we could have

no idea before ; so that we cannotsolve one doubt
without creating several new ones."

     The socond volume of this excellent work
was puhlished in 1775, and dedicated to Sir
John Pringle, Bart. President of the Royal So
ciety ; and the third volume, published in 1777,

was inscribed to that noble patriot and philoso

pher, the Earl of Stanhope.

    The results of several curious experimenti
are detailed in these volumes, by our philoso
pher, with candour, and several of his discove
ries are of the utmost importance to mankind.

    In the course of his numerous experiments,

made with air infected by animal respiration,
he discovered that it was restored to its common
purity by vegetation. From which he makes
the following just conclusion :

   " ISince the plants that made use of mani

festly grow and thrive in putrid air; since
putrid air is well known to afford proper now-

               H
                                      58

rishment for the roots of plants ; and since it is
likewise certain that they receive nourishment
by their leaves, as well as by their roots, it
seems to be exceedingly probable, that the pu
trid effluvium is in some measure extracted from
the air, by means of the leaves of plants, and,
therefore, that they render the remainder more
fit for respiration."

   " That plants are capable of perfectly res

toring air, injured by respiration, may, I think,

be inferred with certainty from the perfect
restoration, by this means, of air which had
passed through my lungs, so that a candle would
burn in it again, though it had extinguished
flame before, and a part of the same original
quantity of air still continued to do so.

" These proofs of a partial restoration of air,

by plants in a state of vegetation, though in a
confined and unnatural situation, cannot but

render It highly probable, that the injury which

is continually done to the atmosphere, by the

respiration of such a number of animals, and
                                     of both ve
the putrefaction of  such a masses   part at least,
getable and animal   matter, is, in

repaired by the vegetable creation. And, not
withstanding the prodigious mass of air, that is
corrupted daily by the above-mentioned causes ;
59

yet, if we consider the immense profusion of

vegetables upon the face of the earth, growing
in places suited to their nature, and consequently

at full liberty to exert all their powers, both
inhaling and exhaling, it can hardly be thought
but that it can be a sufficient couterbalance

it,to and that the remedy                            adequate to the

     ;evil."

     IdiscoAvneortehderbymtehtihsopdhiloofsoppuhreifry. in"gair wasalso-
       I                                                Having   ren
          I
dered inflammable air perfectly innoxious by
             I
continued agitation in a trough of water, depri
                             aa
                                             it, isved of its air, concluded that other kinds of

noxious air might be restored, by the same

means and presently found that this was the

case with putrid air, even of more than a year's

standing. shall observe, once for all, that this

process never failed to resore any kind of nox

ious air on which have tried viz. air injured

by respiration or putrefaction, air infected with
the fumes of burning charcoal, and of calcined

metals, air in which mixture of iron filings

and brimstone, that in which paint made of

white lead and oil has stood, or air which has

been diminished by mixture of nitrous air."

Having detailed a number of curious expe-
    H2
                                              60

     riments in corroboration of his theory, he con
     cludes with the following ingenious conjecture:

     " Since water, in these experiments, must have

     imbibed and retained a certain portion of the

     noxious effluvia, before they could be transmitted

     Ito the external air, do not think it improbable

     but that the agitation of the sea, and large lakes
     may be of some use for the purification of the
     atmosphere, and the putrid matter contained in
     in water may be imbibed by aquatic plants, or
     be deposited in some other manner."

          An account of his discovery of nitrous air,

     its antisceptic qualities, &c. is given with his
     usual accuracy in the first volume.

          Several new and valuable discoveries, the

     result of various, and some of them dangerous

     experiments, are detailed in the second volume.

     Among others, the production and properties of

     dephlogisticated air, or, as it is now termed, oxy

     gen  gas, are    most remarkable.   saysSp: e"akIitngmaoyf
     the              this pure air, he
          utility of

     hence be inferred that a quantity of very pure

     air would agreeably qualify the noxious air of

     a room, in which much company should be con

     fined, and which should be so situated that it

     could not be conveniently ventilated ; so that

.''
                                            61

from being offensive and unwholsome, it would
almost instantly become sweet and wholsome.
This air might be brought into the room in casks ;
or a laboratory might be constructed for gene
rating the air, and throwing it into the room as
fast as it could be produced. This pure air
would be sufficient for the purpose of many
assemblies, and a very little ingenuity would
be sufficient to reduce the scheme into pracice.

     " From the great strength and vivacity of

the flame of a candle in this pure air, it may be
conjectured that it might be peculiarly salutary
to the lungs in certain morbid cases, when the
common air would not be sufficient to carry off
the phlogistic putrid effluvium fast enough.
But, perhaps, we may also infer from these ex
periments, that though pure dephlogisticated
air might be very useful as a medicine, it might
not be so very proper for us in the usual healthy
 state of the body: for, as a candle burns out
much faster in dephlogisticated than in common
air, so we might, as may be said, live out too
fast, and the animal powers be too soon ex

hausted in this pure kind of air. A moralist,

 at least may say, that the air which nature has
provided for us is as good as we deserve.
                            62

    " My reader will not wonder, that, after

having ascertained the superior goodness of de-

                                   II

                                                 it,
phlogisticated air, by mice living in and the

other tests abovementioned,        should have the
curiosity to taste myself.           have gratified
                   it it
that curiosity by breathing it,drawingitthrough
                         it
  glass syphon, and by this means reducedaI                                   a

large jar full of to the standard of common

air. The feeling of to my lungs was not sen

sibly different from that of common air but
                                                                   ;

                                                                       I

fancied that my breast felt peculiarly light and

easy for some time afterwards. Who can tell

but that, in time, this pure air may become                                   a

fashionable article in luxury Hitherto only

two mice and myself have had the privilege of

breathing it."*

   Dr. Beddoes in his Medical Pneumatic Institutions,
   *                                                                    that
                                                                        may
               of
                                     if is ;"

                                                                      it
"infuonrmdesr  us of the cord ial effects of oxygen gas, and,
               a certain administration of this gas, sleep
possibly be dispensed with he intends to oppose to
the decays     nature, and         "soHmisumchornrien-ginvaigleortrnaetessd
by this grand restorative,  he

                             that
equals that of a healthy boy." This sage has improved
upon Dr. Priestley's humourous hint, aud certainly ex
cels all other chemists; for he has not, like Prome
theus, brought down celestial fire to animate man, he
may claim the merit of a discovery which will, perhaps,
prevent dissolution. We may now hope to enjoy terres
trial immortality
nished from the    w"hicleheoalrdfualgehaaunndtsdoeaf tmh eanre."  for  ever  ba

    The most delicate bloom will adorn the cheeks of

our ladies, on inhaling portion of this cordial ether,.
                   a
                                      63

     The observations on respiration, and the use
of the blood are ingenious and interesting. The
author having quoted the various opinions of anci
ent and modern phisiologists,makes the following
important conclusion : "That respiration is a true

Iphlogistic process, cannot, think, admit of a

doubt, after it is found that the air which has
served for this purpose,is left in precisely the same
state as that which has been exposed to any
other process. And since all the blood in the

body passes through the lungs, and, according

to Mr. Hewson's observations and others, the
remarkable change between the colour of the

and be a great saving in the article of cosmetics, at the
same time that its exhilirating influence will operate as
a- ionic to invigorate the nervous system.

   " Might not the general use of this enlivening ether,

render our expensive public amusements unnecessay?
since its titillating energy excels our farces in the excite
ment of laughter. Mirth may now be studied as a sci
ence ; aud by the administration of different quantities
of oxygen gas, every gradation of risibility 'may be at
tained, from the gleeful titter of the fine lady, to the
obstreperous roar of the coxcomb.

Perhaps the sapient Dr. B. may, by farther experi
ments, obtain an etherial substance, sufficient to sup
port animal existence without the use of the grosser
elements : then, indeed, like the cameleon, we might
live on air. Our epicures, however, would probably
         to this light  diet,   and prefer turtle,  venison, or
object  roast-beef to   the    Doctor's ambrosia.   -- Satirical
even
View of London.
                                                  64.

venal and arterial blood takes place there, it can

hardly be doubted that it is by means of the
blood, that the air becomes phlogisticated in

passing through the lungs : and, therefore, that
one great use of the blood must be to discharge
the phlogiston with which the animal system
abounds, imbibing it in the course of its circu
lation, and imparting it to the air, with which it
is nearly brought into contact in the lungs; the
air thus acting as the great menstruumum for
purpose." This opinion the author supports,

and illustrates by a series of curious experi

ments.

     Such was the candour of Dr. Priestley, that
instead of arrogating to himself the exclusive
merit of being the founder of a new system of

natural philosophy, respecting aeriform fluids,
he did not adopt a systematic arrangement,
but published his discoveries, hints, and con

jectures for the benefit of the lovers of science.

     One discovery which he made, however, and
which a narrow-minded man would have se
cured by a patent, deserves to be mentioned,
especially as the Doctor, himself, has declared

his conviction of its utility. It relates to the

impregnation of water with fixed air,* and is
                                      65 '

themore interesting, asitcontainssomememoirt

of the author.

    "It was a little after midsummer 1767, thatl

 removed from Warrington to Leeds; and living,
for the first year, in a house that was contigu
ous to a large common brewery, so good an
opportunity produced in me an inclination to
make some experiments on the fixed air, that
was constantly produced in it. One of the first

things that I did in this brewery, was to place

shallow vessels of water within the region of
fixed air, on the surface of the fermenting ves

sels ; and having left them all night, I generally

found, the next morning, that the water had
acquired a very sensible and pleasant impreg
nation ; and, it was with peculiar satisfaction

that I first drank of this water, which, I believe,

was the first of its kind that had ever been
tasted by man.

    " Several of my friends who visited me
while I lived in that house, will remember my

taking them into that brewery, and giving them
a glass of this artificial Pyrmont water, made
in their presence.

   " From 1767 to 1772, 1 never heard of any

          K
                                    65it,

method of impregnating water with fixed airI

it,but that above-mentioned.

**»*»****»# *****»ft*»

    " Being at dinner with the Duke of Nor

thumberland, in the spring of the year last men
tioned, his Grace produced a bottle of water
distilled by Dr. Irving, for the use of the navy.
This water was perfectly sweet, but, like all
distilled water, wanted the briskness and spirit
of fresh spring waters: when it immediately

occurred to me, that I could easily mend that

water for the use of the navy, and perhaps sup
ply them with an easy and cheap method of
preventing or curing the sea scurvy, viz. by
impregnating it with fixed air. For, having

Ibeen busy about a year before, with my expe

riments on air, in the course of which had
ascertained the proportional quantity of several
kinds of air, that given quantities of water could

Itake up, was at no loss for the method of doing

it in general, viz. inverting a jar filled with
water, and conveying air into from bladders
previously filled with air. This scheme im
mediately mentioned to the Duke and the com
pany, who all seemed to be much pleased with

    and expressed their wishes that would at
     I
                                    67
tend to it, and endeavour to reduce it into prac

tice ; which I promised to do.

    " A few days after this, having occasion to

wait on Sir George Savile, I carried with me

a bottle of my impregnated water, and told him

the use that might be made of                                   viz. that of
a
                          a

                                        it,

                                    I
supplying a pleasant and wholesome beverage

for seaman, and such as might probably prevent

or cure the sea scurvy. Sir George, with that

warmth with which he espouses every thing

that he conceives to be for the public* good,

insisted upon writing card immediately to Lord

Sandwich, proposing to introduce me to him as

having proposal for the use of the navy. As

could make no objection, the card was accord

ingly written, and an answer was presently re

turned by his Lordship informing us, that he

would be glad to see us the next day.

********************

    " Presently after this had notice from

the Secretary to the Board of Admiralty, that
*

          K
              2

                          I

                                                             a
         Sir George Savile died some years ago, and a su
perb monument, executed by that ingenious Statuary,

Mr. Fisher, sen. of York, was placed in the Minster of

that city, as a monument of the public spirit and pri
vate virtues of the deceased.
                                        68it,

the College of Physicians were appointed to ex;
amine my proposal, and to make their report
ato the Board, and an early day was fixed for me
to wait upon them, at their Hall in Warwick-
   I
ILane; where, before a very full meeting,

produced a bottle of my impregnated water,

and also, at their request, fetched my apparatus,

and shewed them the manner in which I had

impregnated it. There were present several
of the most eminent Physicians in London ; but
both the scheme and the object of appeared to
be entirely new to every one of them and most
of them seemed to be much pleased with it.

     "Accordingly, favourable report was made
to the Board of Admiralty, and was acquainted
by the Secretary, that the Captains of the two
ships which were just then sailing for the South
Seas, had orders to make trial of the impreg
nated water; and for their use drew out my
directions in writing, and sent drawing of the

necessary apparatus.*

    " As have not to this day, directly or in-

    * These Directions are reprinted in the second Vol.
of Experiments and Observations oil Different Kinds
of Air.
I

                     aI

                         t
directly, made the least advantage ofthis scheme ;

Ibut, on the contrary, am just so much a loser

by it as the experiments cost me, think it is not

Itoo much for the public to allow me, what

believe is strictly my due, the sole merit of the
discovery ; which, with respect to ingenuity. or

sagacity, is next to nothing; but with respect
to its utility unquestionably, of unspeakable
value to my country and to mankind." These
are the sentiments of patriot and man of
virtue.
                   is,
                                        a
                                                                     a

His " Disquisitions relating to Matter and
Spirit," in which he considers the soul homo

geneous with the body,* gave great offence,

and excited much alarm amongst the professors

of orthodox divinity. Indeed the existence of
the spirit of man in separate state unequivo
cally                      a
self,
                                           I is
       proved      by the   words of  our Saviour                       him
                    said              veriLy say                        unto
       " Jesus             unto him,

psc"eooernMec*aoaeTfnpS,thapiioanmencdac.,koimrndogHerinnispgtoaeflbrtMheofaiaantphctgseuislrtiacisaetoylsmisas,tnmmemine,ehn.atecrherleiisenngrDoaopmiiecnorttiorhoterhdee.tohtbsiasmaneTmerhwveeeeosfsncuooh--briws--

elstuhtdateinocsneyi,n,sttteogilmrloewx,issdhteriasinplslceoepnlv,l,eeadsta,oendrtehscdetoeoncAretalimynuiegttshootgyileniftehBeearsingtagat,ieannw.od"hfodwicshaseolnl
it                         it
            it is                     it is

                                                           a
                                                                 ;
                                                                                            :
                        70

thee, to-day shalt thow be with me in paradise."*

The dying ejaculation of Stephen is an additi

onal  :  pr"ooLof rodf  the immateriality  of the human
soul                    Jesus receive my   spirit !" Nay,

long before the coming of the Messiah this
doctrine was embraced by the Jews : " Then

shall the dust return to the earth as it was : and

the spirit shall return to God who gave it."f

     Indeed, the doctrine of immortality, and the
existence of the soul in a separate state, seems to

have been traditionary among mankind, long

before the invention of letters; and it was one
of the greatest incitements to virtue in the most
polished ages of Greece and Rome.

      " The soul, secur'd in her existence, smiles
       At the drawn dagger, and defies its point ;

     jThe stars shall fade away, the sun himself

        Grow dim with age, and nature sink in years
        Bat thou shalt flourish in immortal youth;
        Unhurt amidst the war of elements.
       The wreck of matter and the crush of worlds."

                                                                      Addison.

    The simplified doctrine of Doctor Priestley,

respecting our Saviour, also gave great offence

* St. Luke, cap, 22. verse. 43. Acts, cap 7. verse 59.

         f Ecclesiastes, cap. 12. verse 1i
                            71

to devout christians. It however, so far from
                            it

                               is,
                                                            is
being irrational, that seems founded on the

principles of     sound philosophy.        But                let us
                                         world                  fool
recollect that "  The wisdom of the

ishness with God." The mysteries of his sav

i"ngFogrramcey  are above   human        comprehension.
                  thoughts  are not      your thoughts,

neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord.

For as the heavens are higher than the earth,

so are my ways higher than your ways, and my

thoughts than your thoughts."*
is
                                         is

                                                                                       ,

                                                                        di
    A conviction of depravity and weakness must

make every christian feel his insufficiency to

attain consummate virtue without supernatural

aid. The consolatory promises of the Gospel

    the sinner's best hope. Indeed, the most en
lightened philosopher, who trusts wholly to his
own exertions, might as well think to counter

act the laws of gravitation, and ascend bodily
to heaven, as to become holy without that
vine inspiration which promised to his faithful

followers by our Lord Jesus Christ.
 " God never meant that man should scale the heav'ns

  By strides of human wisdom. In his works,

  Though wond'rous, he commands us in his word
  To seek him rather, where his mercy shines."

                                                                          Cowpex.

*

                                                       8

                                           &
                                                     9,
                Isaiah, cap. 50. verses
                                      72

    That Dr. Priestley, however, made truth
his primary object in all his theological and
metaphysical discussions, we shall readily ac
knowledge ; for such is his own profession, and
the world never had reason to question his

veracity.

In his " Lectures on History and General

Policy," the youthful student may find a trea

sure of historic information, systematically ar

ranged. He   exhibits  "th1 est.geAnseriat lseusrvees sotfohaismtoursye
under three  heads :

the imagination, and interest the passions in

general. 2nd. As it improves the understand
ing. And, 3dly, as it tends to strengthen the
sentiments of virtue." With his usual perspi

cuity he points out the superiority of history

over works of fiction, as more interesting, be

cause it is a narrative of facts, exhibiting a most

impressive view of the dispensations of divine

providence to mankind.

     He then expatiates on the benefit to be
derived from the study of history, as an improve
ment of the understanding.

    "By studying history," as Lord Bolingbroke
observes, " and examining all kinds of causes

and effects, a man may sharpen his penetration.
                                       73

fix the attention of his mind, and strengthen
his judgment." The Doctor, therefore, consi
ders the study of History as anticipated experi
ence, which qualifies a young man to begin
life with a considerable acquisition of what is
called knowledge of the world; which is
often too dearly bought in the school of expe

rience. He then proceeds to elucidate the ad
vantages of studying history, with a view to the

acquirement of political knowledge, and ex
presses himself with that independence and
freedom which he always manifested when in
vestigating this critical subject.

" Political knowledge, it will be said, is

useful only to politicians and ministers of state.

But, besides that, it is a matter of reasonable

curiosity, to examine into the springs of the

great wheel of government, on the just balance

and regular motions of which our temporal se

curity and happiness depend ; and though

political affairs be almost wholly, but not entire
ly out of the sphere of private persons, under

an arbitrary government ; yet in free govern

ments,  as is admirably said  by Lord Bolingbroke,
         public service is    not confined to those
" The

whom the prince appoints to the several posts
in the administration under him. Men of all

            L
                                    74

degrees ought to instruct themselves in those
affairs, wherein they may be actors themselves,

or judges of those who act, or controllers of

those who judge :' and from some one or other
of these classes, no subject of Great-Britain is
wholly excluded."

Another great advantage arising from the

study of history, is, its tending to free the mind

from many foolish prejudices, and consequently

to enlarge the understanding and rectify the

judgment. This he illustrates by examples of

extravagant   patriotism.  "   He          also sanctions the
observations  of Hume         that
                                           the fair sex may

learn in history this important truth, that love is

neither the only, nor always the governing prin

ciple in the hearts of men ; which, from the
reading of novels, frequenting the theatre, and
even the general turn of polite conversation,

they might otherwise imagine."

But the most important use of history, on

which our philosopher dwells with particular

              its tendency to strengthen the
emphasis,     is,
                                        a
sentiments of virtue. On this subject he rea

sons with great force and eloquence, demon
strating the usefulness of true representation

of vicious, as well as virtuous characters.
is

"" The only reason," as he observes,  why

a young person cannot be safely trusted with

viewing the vices, as well as the virtues that

are in the world, is that, if left to himself in

real life, vice may be so circumstanced, as to be

put too inviting to his unexperienced mind.

But, in history, vice never appears tempting."

     " So consistent is theorderof Divine Provi

ifdence, that, thfe scheme* be fairly and com

pletely represented, we may depend upon it
that nothing will be exhibited from which it

may be justly concluded, that vice is eligible
upon the whole. Contrary, therefore, to what
may be apprehended from a promiscous ac
quaintance with the world, through the glass of
history, vicesmay be viewed as safely as virtues.
Nay, they both equally teach wisdom and good

morals. It is even impossible to say, which of

them inculcate the moral lesson with more force.
The excesses of Nero, and the goodness of Mar
cus Aurelius, have the same good effect iiu
history,"

    For the truth of this observation we have

only to appeal to our own hearts; and we shall.
            L.2
                                    78

find, that not only historic narrative, but poetic
fiction, have exercised all the most gene
rous emotions of our nature. How often have
our bosoms glowed with patriotism, while read
ing the story of Leonidas and his Spartan's; or
that of St. Pierre, and theotherCitizensofCalais,
who offered themselves as voluntary victims to
save the city. While we admire the stern
heroic virtue, and nice sense of honour,
which compelled Virginius to kill his beloved
daughter, to preserve her chastity, our indigna
tion is exerted against the detestable Appius,

and the mind is established in the principles of

justice and virtue.

     But the excellent effects of history, in cor
recting the prejudices, rectifying the judgment,
and improving the morals of the student, are

best explained in the Doctor's own illustrations
and reflections. Accordingly, a considerable

portion of the first volume is occupied with strik
ing passages from Universal History, in which

our philosopher has, at once, demonstrated the
vast extent of his reading, and his judgment in.
selection.

     Few works will impart more useful precepts
to the youthful mind, and the man of reflection
                    n

may also find a fund of entertainment and in

formation in these lectures, expressed in a style
perspicuous, pure, and energetic.

     Having given a comprehensive view of the
general uses of history, the author proceeds to

point out its sources; the most advantage

ous method of studying it; and the several

objects which particularly demand the attention
of the student. Having described the series in
which Ancient History should be read, he, by
a natural transition, directs the attention of the
 reader to the study of English History.

     In the second volume, our author takes an

 extensive philosophic survey of the most impor
tant objects which ought to engage the attention
of the reader of history. This subject is dis
 cussed in its various branches, with much
 ingenuity and sound reflection, in a series of
 thirty-six lectures, comprising an interesting
 view of mankind, and a treasure of useful
 facts, which cannot fail to instruct the reader.

      The study of biography is strongly recom

 Ifmended by the Doctor, who observes that, "

 a person read history for real use, and the di
 rection of his conduct in his own profession,
                                      76

 heography will answer his purpose better tfiarr
general history. Lives have been published of
 particular persons of every station and profes
 sion, princes, generals, statesmen, divines, phi-
sophers, and even artists of every kind, which
are of excellent use to inspire a spirit of emula
 tion in persons of the same station and profes

 sion."'

      That select biography is highly entertaining
 and instructive we all know by pleasing expe

rience. It has been defined to be, history teach-

ing by example; but several biographical publi
cations which have recently issued from the

press, are extremely injurious to the morals of

society.

     The lives of kept mistresses, actresses, pro
fligate swindlers, and military coxcombs, hav«
been published with unblushing effrontery, by
unprincipled men,. for the sake of emolument.
Nay, what is still worse, that egotist, Kotzebue,
during the moment of popular phrenzy, which
conferred applause instead of execration, very
modestly obliged the world, asit is politely termed,

Awith an account.of his studies, intrigues, &c.

still greater abuse of biographical composition,
is the attempt sometimes made to adorn licenti
                                       19

Ousness in the spotless robe of virtue, as in the
sketch given of the late Mary Robinson, in which
we behold Mr. Pratt assume the power of cannon-*
ization ! In the epitaph written by him, and
inscribed on the tomb of that unfortunate woman,
she is described as having ascended to Heaven !
Where then is the distinction between vice and

virtue, if the barrier shall thus be broken down

by every scribbling coxcomb who can write an

epitaph ? A very reprehensible and indecent

exhibition of living characters is also compiled
annually, under the specious pretext of giving
 an interesting account of cotemporary merit,
 but which, in truth, is little better than a se
 ries of fulsome eulogies on several persons who
 are invested by the benevolence of the disin
 terested chronicler with virtues which they never

  possessed.

     Such biography, however, did not exist
when Dr. Priestley recommended the study of
that useful branch of history, or it doubtless
would have met his reprehension, as a device

of low cunning, to profit by the curiosity of the

public.

:  the  InDotchteorthtrreeeatscon"cOlufdianng  lectures on history,
                                               Attention to Divine
     80

Providence in the Conduct of Human Affairs;**

In a truly philosophic and masterly series of

reasoning, the Doctor, in his concluding lecture,

" Vindicates the ways of God to man," by rea

sons the most conclusive and convincing. He

"is  decidedly of opinion, that Divine Providence,
     from seeming evil still educing good," con

verts what we consider as calamities into bles

sings. " Let the person who would trace the

conduct of Divine Providence, attend to every

advantage which the present age enjoys above
ancient times, and see whether he cannot per
ceive marks of things being in a progress to
wards a state of greater perfection. Let him

particularly attend to every event which contri
butes to the propagation of religious knowledge ;

and lastly, let us carefully observe all the evils

which mankind complain of, and consider whe

ther they be not remedies of greater evils, or
supposing the general constitution of things
unalterable, the necessary means of introducing

a greater degree of happiness, than could have

been brought about by any other means; at

least, whether they be not, in fact, subservient

to a state of greater happiness." This reason

ing he elucidates by striking proofs from history,
                                        exhortation, that  we
asnhdouldcon"clLuedet sthewitphlainan                      be
                                       duties of morality
                                             81

our rule of life. We see and experience their
happy effects. But let us acquiesce in the
Divine conduct, when we see him producing
the same good and glorious ends, by means
which are apt at first to alarm our narrow appre
hensions; on account of their seeming to have
a contrary tendency."

    His " Miscellaneous Observations, relating

to Education, more especially as it respects the
Conduct of the Mind," published in 1778, are

calculated to instruct both parents and chil

dren.                                              \

     The precepts inculcated in this excellent
work, are such as must improve the head and

heart of every reader. A few extracts will

demonstrate this truth.

    " The  "griefaitt  end of education,"  as the author
                                           great end of
observes,              correspond to the

life, is by no means advancement in the world,

but to inculcate such principles, and lead to

such habits, as will enable men to pass with

integrity and real honour through life, and to

be inflexibly just, benevolent, and good, not

withstanding all the temptations to the contrary,
from the examples of the age we live in. To
                                32

   tomply viith the world; and, in consequence, to

   be the idol of
             :                  an easy thing in comparison

                       it,
                            is
   with this but then the advantages derived from

   nobly withstanding the prevailing vices and
   errors of the age, are infinitely more solid and
   lasting. This conduct makes man satisfied
   a

                      it

                                              a
                                                            a
   with himself: generally ensures the gratitude

   of more enlightened posterity, and, above all,

   the favour of God, and happy immortality.

      " A man who lives to any purpose, musta

   have one object, and have consistent character*"

   * *******************

   If" man's great object be the pursuit of
             a
                            a
                                                     ;

                                          if,
   truth, and the practice of virtue, he may depend
   upon success, and he will ensure the proper

   reward of such conduct provided he have

   no other object to divert him from his pursuit,

   and obstruct him in it. But he must not be

   disappointed, or chagrined,                                 together with

   virtue and knowledge, and in his endeavours to

   promote them, he do not get rich, or become

   popular.

   " Let us, therefore, be satisfied,                          if  we can

   make our children good men, and truly valu-

^
                               8*

able members of society, whether the reception

they meet with in the world be favourable or
unfavourable. If, however, their friends be few,

they will be the more cordial, and contribute
more to the real enjoyment of life. Indeed,
their happiness in all respects, will be more in
reality, than in appearance ; as that of the world
is more in appearance than in reality; and
this exclusive of all respect to futurity, in
comparison of which, however, every thing else-
 is little and insignificant."

      Another moral tract from the pen of this

 philosopher, entitled, " Considerations for the

 Use of Young Men;" published at the low price
 of two-pence, contains precepts of the utmost'

 importance to society,

     " The experience of ages testifies, that mar

  riage at a proper time of life, whereby one man' '
  is confined to one woman, is most favourable to

 health and the true enjoyment of life. It is the

  means of raising the greatest number of healthy
  children, of making the best provision for their
  instruction and settlement in life ; which is suf
  ficient to demonstrate the preference of this to>
  every other mode of indulging our natural pas

   sions.

                    m 2.
                          s*

" Marriage           moreover, of excellent use>
                 is,

                               it
as means of transferring our affections froma
    a
ourselves to others. A series of family cases,

greatly improves, and as were, mellows the

mind of man. It furnishes a kind of exercise

and discipline, which eminently fit him for

great and generous conduct and, in fact, makes;

him superior kind of being, with respect to

the generality of those who have had no family

connections.                                    I
                                                                    .
    " Those persons who give themselves up to                  '

lawless indulgence of their passions, besides be
ing exposed to the most loathsome and painful

disorders besides exhausting the powers of

nature prematurely, and subjecting themselves

to severe remorse of mind have not, whatever
they may fancy or pretend, any thing like the

real pleasure and satisfaction that persons gene
rally have in the married state.
       ;
                                  ;

" Before conclude these observations,
              it I
                          more in the power of young
                      is
shall add, that

women, than of any thing that can be suggested

to young men, either by myself, their friends,
or their own reflections, to bring them into a

right method of thinking and acting in this respect.

       Were      it  sufficiently known to young
      85

men, that a commerce with the abandoned part

of the sex, would be a bar to their acceptance

      I
                 I

                          is I

                                            a it,

                                                                   la
with the modest and worthy part of and that

known profligacy, in this respect, would be real

infamy, the end that have in view would be

effectually answered. But am sorry to ob
serve, that cannot avail myself of an appeal
to the conduct of the generality of young

dies, who have had what called  polite edu

cation, in aid of my argument.

    " Would this amiable part of our species

only do themselves the justice to insist upon the
same strict chastity and honour with respect to
men, which men universally insist upon with
respect to them, our sex would no doubt be as

virtuous as theirs, and then they would make

much better husbands and fathers than they do

now. In countries where no object made of
the chastity of women before marriage, their

morals in this respect are as dissolute as ours.
      it

          is ;

                                          I is
    " It gives me pain to lay any part of the

profligacy of morals in young men to the charge
of young women, whose own morals are so ex

emplary and especially to hint, as must do,

that  in reality owing to their having less

delicacy in this respect than the men have.
But each' sex is naturally the tutor of the other,
and by this aid vices are best reformed, and'

virtues promoted."

     The little tract from which the above quota

tions are taken,. ought to be attentively read
by every young man, who wishes to see his
true interests placed in a clear light. But the

sons of dissipation are in general too deeply
tainted with depravity, to listen to the voice of.

wisdom.

     The many-headed hydraof dissipation seems
to have infected the air of the fashionable world
with its pestiferous breath, insomuch, that mas
querades, gaming, and seduction, are now con
sidered as necessary in high life, as the liveried
menial, and the splendid chariot. The great
vulgar, or at least ninety out of every hundred of
these pampered sons of opulence, who annually

visit the capital, areingenious in the production of
human misery. As the distiller converts whole

some grain into liquid- poison, so they, by the
abuse of the blessings of life, render their
existence a curse, instead of a blessing to them
selves and their fellow mortals.

    A candid review of the character of Dr.
                                                 87

Priestley, will convince us, that he was a man of
extraordinary talents and virtues. Indefatig
able in the pursuit of truth, the great primary
object of all his studies; profound in re- "
search; and clear in his illustrations of many
useful discoveries in science. Strictly honest in

his pecuniary transactions ; justice was his guid
 ing star, and his ethical works inculcate piety
 to the great Creator, and universal philan
 thropy.

    "With regard to his speculative opinions, he

 is accountable only to God: Who art thou

 that judgest another man's servant; to his own
 master he standeth or falleth."

       The following observations on this subject,
  communicated by a friend, seem well entitled
  to the consideration of persons who, from a mis
  taken zeal, or fanatical malignity, may be too
  ready to judge rashly of things above their

  comprehension : --

    " I shall be glad to see a life of Dr. Priest

  ley. Your object is to do good, by giving the
  public a fair account of the life of a great and

  useful man. As a philosopher, I highly esteem

  him, and consider him an honour to his country.
                                              S3

I have often regretted that he ever meddled

with politics, which were foreign to his calling,
as an experimental philosopher and chymist ;
and still more so that he ever meddled with ex

perimental divinity, which I am certain he never

properly understood.

    " Many of the religious world imagine the

Doctor to have been a bad man, because he had
a bad creed. But the one is by no means a ne

Icessary consequence of the other. I have known

very bad men who had a sound creed, and have
certainly known good and useful men, who held,

what I thought, a very bad creed. Dr. Priestley,

Ias far as ever had an opportunity of knowing,

was a strictly honest upright man : and when
his outside was so fair, and his life so useful, it
would be a most infamous usurpation of the
prerogative of God, to judge his heart, or even
suspect his motives."

     That the sentiments of Dr. Priestley were
inimical to church establishments, he never

fairttsetmvpotluemd etoofcohnicsea"l.ExpIenrimtheentspreofnacDeiffteorethnet
Kinds of Air," he says, " It was ill policy in
Leo X. to patronize polite literature. He was

cherishing an enemy in disguise, and theEnglish
hierarchy (if there be any thing unsound in its

constitution), has equal reaon to tremble, even
at an air pump, or an electrical machine."

These hostile sentiments raised many opponents,
and the Doctor himself might be compared to
an electrical machine. He certainly produced

fire, but his enemies were the conductors.

     As the powerful champion of civil and reli

gious liberty, he is entitled to our veneration ;
and while we acknowledge that his zeal was
too violent, we cannot withold our approbation
of the motive, which undoubtedly was, a desire
to promote universal happiness.

     His magnanimity and resolution, on the
most trying occasions, evinced heroic fortitude.

A steady advocate for what he thought right;

no danger could shake his resolution. This

firmness of character has been branded by his
enemies with the epithet of obstinacy; but, al

though he was, in common with all human beings,
liable to err, his dignified deportment and sen

timents, amid the most severe and unmerited

revilings and persecution, certainly deserved

the more honourable      appellation of fortitude.

It now will best become   his countrymen, and the
                                                   90

         friends of science throughout the world, to
         remember only his valuable philosophical dis
         coveries ; his manly opposition to petty tyranny;
         and his philanthropy. Let us with a friendly
         and careful hand pluck the nettle of detraction
          from his grave, and be ready to controvert the
         misrepresentations of the base satellites of minis
          terial corruption, who would doubtless rejoice,
         were they able to vilify the memory of a man
          whom they feared whilst living !

             But as well the North's tyrants surveying their skies,
                When electrical splendour's ascend to the pole,

            May forbid the sublime corruscations to rise,

                  AS ATTEMPT TO EXTINGUISH THE LIGHT OF THE SOUL!

             In philosophic retirement he was a most

          amiable character. Affectionate to his friends,
          kind to his domestics, benevolent to mankind,
          and pious to his Creator. His genius, though
          bold and decisive, was not adapted to public
          life. He had too much sincerity to live in a
           world in masquerade; and in this respect resem
          bled his philosophic predecessor, Lord Bacon.

    ********************

                              " Hapless in his choice,

                      Unfit to stand the civil storms of state."

-
                                      91

**********************

               " Him for the studious shade                                  '

Kind nature form'd, deep, comprehensive, clear,
Exact and elegant, in one rich soul,
Plato, the Stagyrite, and Tullyjoin'd.

                                                                   Thomson.

     Since the days of the pious and illustrious
Boyle, we can boast of no experimental philo

sopher equal to Priestley^and when we consider

the wonderful versatility of his talents, and the
activity of his mind, he appears almost a pro

digy-

     Of the great majority of mankind it can only

be said, that they were born, lived so many

years, and died; but to such a man as Dr. Priest

"ley, may be applied the salutation once paid

to the Oriental kings, live for ever!"

     Fame has inscribed his name in the temple
of immortality ; and like other men of genius,
he must live in spite of his own doctrine of

materialism.

As an advocate for freedom of enquiry, and

       N2
                                    92

rational liberty, Dr. Priestley commanded the
esteem of the liberal-minded of every persua
sion. In defence of the privileges of reason, his

arguments were unanswerable, insomuch that
his antagonists were obliged to have recourse

to the old mode of ignition -- they endeavoured
to destroy by fire what they could not confute
by fair and manly argumentation.

     Joseph Priestley was, perhaps, the best re
presentative of the old English character, that
has appeared in the present age of insincere
and foppish refinement; and he may be com
pared with Daniel De Foe, and Andrew Mar
vel, whoso nobly stemmed the torrent of corrup
tion in worse times. Let those persons, then,
who may yet be inclined to condemn this phi
losopher, first candidly peruse his works, and do
aot let them, as is almost always tlte cast;, disap
prove of his sentiments without examination.

     A few narrow-minded individuals may en

deavour to decry their once persecuted coun
tryman, but surely the majority of unbiassed
Britons are too magnanimous to remember only
the errors of a man like themselves. They can
not forget his eminent services. His venerable
                                       93

remains, it is true, are interred in another coun
try far distant from his native land : --
 " By stranger's honour'd and by strangers mourn'd."

     But "though dead, he yet speaketh," in his
excellent moral and philosophical works, which
remain an honourable memorial of his genius
and his virtue.

      " The man resolv'd and steady to his trust,

        Inflexible to ill, and obstinately just,
        May the rude rabble's insolence despise,
       Their senseless clamours and tumultuous cries.
        The tyrant's fierceness he beguiles,
        And the stern brow, and the harsh voice defies,
        And with superior greatness smiles!"

         Not the rough whirlwind that deforms
        Adria's black gulph, and vexes it with storms,

                Nor the red arm of angry Jove,
        That flings the thunder from the sky,
         And gives it rage to roar and strength to fly,

                The stubborn virtue of his soul can move .'"

    Should the whole frame of nature round him break,
           In ruin and confusion hurl'd,

    He unconcern'd would hear the mighty crack,
           And stand secure amidst a FALiiNe worid."

                        THE END.
       AFFENBIX.

The following select passages, from the xeritings of
    Dr. Priestley, are illustrative of his character,

     principles, and abilities, as an author.

  Extracts from "An Appeal to the Public, on the

             Subject of the Riots at Birmingham."

 ^ I Became an inhabitant of Birmingham

in the year 1780, without any other view than
as a proper situation for attending to my philo
 sophical pursuits, in which, having no original

Ifortune of my own, was assisted by a few li

 beral friends of science, who were pleased to
                                    08

think favourably of me in that respect. It was

a plan suggested by the late Dr. Fothergill, and
cheerfully adopted by Sir George Savile, Sir
Stephen Theodore Janssen, Mr. Constable, of
Burton Constable, and Dr. Price; all of them,
it is something remarkable, of different religi
ous persuasions, but equally lovers of experi

********mental philosophy, and disinterested promoters

of it.

    " In two administrations proposals were made

to assist me by a pension. But in both cases 1
declined the overture, chusing rather to be obliged
to generous individuals, notwithstanding some
unpleasant circumstances,occasionally attending
this situation, than add to the burdens of my coun

try.

     " My original and favorite profession, how

 ever, was that of a christian minister, in my
 opinion, the most important, useful, and honor
able of all others; for which, though disconti

nued six years while I was tutor in the academy

Iat Warrington, and seven years while was
Iwith the Marquis of Lansdown, always had
Ithe strongest predilection, and in which never
                                            97

foiled to officiate occasionally, when I was out

of the employment.

********************

    " It was, therefore, with equal surprize and

pleasure that, on Mr. Hawkes's resignation of
his office of minister at the New Meeting in

IBirmingham, had an almost unanimous invi
Itation to succeed him. This, however, ac

cepted, on the express condition of the congre
gation having no claim on me, except on Sun
days ; the rest of the week being devoted to my
philosophical and other pursuits. The other
duties of the place were discharged by my wor

*********thy colleague, Mr. Blythe.

#

    * Such was the bigotry of the clergy of Bir

mingham, that long before I went thither, as

well as during the whole time of my residing
there, they refused to go in the same coach
with the dissenting ministers at funerals, or
walk with them in the procession. We had

Ihoped that they had become ashamed of this

absurd instance of clerical pride, which had
never heard before ; and hoping better things

             o
        93

of Mr. Curtis, who was of a dissenting family,
Mr. Scholefield, the minister of the Old Meet

ing, being invited to a funeral at which he

officiated, sent to know if he might be permitted

to walk along with him. The answer was a

civil but peremptory refusal, and the proposal

Iwas never repeated. When gave the late

bishop of St. Asaph an account of this behavi

our of the clergy of Birmingham, which was

long before my controversy with Mr. Madan,

                              and said,
he expressed much concern atit
                                            it,
that he thought such bigotry had now existed no
                                                            ;
where.

    ''The spirit of the high church party was
conspicuous on the establishment of Sunday
schools in Birmingham. At first persons of all

religious persuasions acted in concert, of which

an example had been set us in London and at
a meeting of all the subscribers, convened for

the purpose, was agreed that the children

should go to whatever places of public worship
their parents should chuse. As there were no
children of dissenters who wanted that instruc

tion, all the Sunday scholars, without exception,
went to the established church, and no com
                                        99        a is,

Iplaint was ever made of this by any dissenter.
But the high church party, not being content
       it awith this, at a meeting of the subscribers, the
business of which was not advertised, the former
rule was rescinded, and the children were then?

absolutely ordered to do what they ever had
done, and always might have done, that attend
the worship of the established church,andno other.

    " The dissenters waited more than year,

to see whether the high church party would
revert to their former more liberal maxims, and
continued their subscriptions. But having
waited so long to no purpose, they opened
their own seperate Sunday schools, with advan

tages, will venture to say, far superior to those
of the establishment, but with liberty to every
parent to order his child to attend whatever
place of public worship he pleased.

    " For true representation of these facts,!

appeal to the town at large. With what truth,
then, can be said, that my coming to Bir
mingham, and my conduct there, was the sole
cause of the animosity between the church peo
ple and the dissenters of that place
                                        100

   " Wishing to discover the cause of this ex
cessive party spirit, and to apply, if I should

Ibe able/some remedy to                      found the dissen

                 I
                               iIt,

                                                                                   a
ters were in possession of all the civil power in

the place, by having the nomination to all the

offices, and though they constantly gave the

principal office, viz. that of High Bailiff, to

member of the Church of England, they chose

to retain the power of nominating, of which

they had long been in possession. This power,

took much pains to persuade the dissenters to

**** ****relinquish, and gradually brought over to my

opinion some of the principal of them.
" spake both to quakers, and to some of
I

              is

                     I
the more moderate of the Church of England on

the subject; and though one of the latter told

me that he knew the temper of the people of

Birmingham better than did, and that he be

lieved no good would come to the measure,
                                                 it
                                                             T
persisted, as well known, in my first opinion;

and no objection was ever made of                by the

dissenters, by any dislike of the measure itself;
but only from the apprehension of the unge

nerous use that might be made of it.             .

··                                           **      *         *
*

                                     ·
                                      10 1

    " Till the application to parliament for the
repeal of the Test Act, I neither wrote nor

preached any thing that had any particular
relation to the principles of the dissenters, and

I sent my sons to the public grammar school,

which is conducted wholly by clergymen, and
the head master* of which, a man of candour,
as well as an excellent classical scholar, occa

sionally visited me.

     " When Mr. Burn came to Birmingham^

having met with him at a committee of the pub

lic library, I thought I perceived in him great

marks of liberality, and on my invitation he
 paid me two visits. In Mr. Madan, whom T

 met at a committee for abolishing the slave
 trade, and who was particularly civil'to methere,

I flattered myself I had found a clergyman en
 tirely to my mind, and one with whom I might
 form a pleasing acquaintance. This I mentioned

 to a particular friend, requesting that he would
 endeavour to bring it about. This, surely, did
 not savour of bigotry. The greatest difference
  of opinion never led me to keep aloof from any

  man.

     " Before I left Birmingham I was happy to

                                   Mr. Price.
              102

hare begun some pleasing intercourse with Dr.
Parr, who had lately come to reside near War

Iwick. We h id visited each other, and am

confident that the continuance of the intercourse

would have been a pleasing circumstance to us.

both, though our religious opinions are very
different, and he was an avowed opposer of the

repeal of the Test Act. When he dined with.

me he was purposely met by Mr. Berington, a

Icatholic priest, and Mr. Galton a quaker. Mr.
Porson was also of the party.    have a pecu

****liar pleasure in the society of persons of diffe

rent persuasions.
                                            » » »9

   " The first difference that I had with any

of the clergy in Birmingham, arose from four
of them withdrawing from our public library,

because my 'History of the Corruptions of Christ

IUanity' had been voted into it ; a measure to

which, it is well known, gave no coun

tenance, but had always opposed
it                                                  on the idea.
                                               it,
that would be better to omit books of contro
versy, till the library should be better stocked:
with books of other kinds, and mor« generally

interesting.
                  103

   " But the great increase of party spirit in the

town, and what, to all appearance, contributed
most to the fatal catastrophe, the cause of

which we are now investigating, arose from the
application of the dissenters for the repeal of
the Corporation and Test Acts, the nature and

tendency of which were strangely mis-appre
hended by the great body of the clergy, and
other zealous members of the Church of Eng

land : For had the repeal taken place, without

their opposition, and with the concurrence of

the Court, no difference whatever would have

been perceived in our condition, and our in

terest, as a dissenting body, would probably

have suffered byit,  as indeed many of us
were well aware.it,

    " The number of dissenters had been evi

dently diminishing before the late application,

and they are greatly increased since, both in Bir
mingham, and in many other parts of the king

dom.

    " Also religion in general, with the peculiar

tenets of having by this means been brought
into notice, and more public discussion, the in
                                                104.

c rease of unitarians, whose sentiments are the most
opposite to those of the Church of England, has
teen in much more than a ten-fold proportion.
These converts to unitarianism consist chiefly
of the middle, and some of the higher rank of
persons, men who are known to read, and think
for themselves, and who of course have influ
ence with others; so that there is now a moral
certainty of this doctrine continuing to prevail
in this and other countries.

#*  * **  * if

    " I did not so much as hear of the intention of

applying to Parliament for the repeal of the Test
and Corporation Acts, till it was determined
upon by the dissenters of London.

    " Had I been consulted, I should rather

have advised for the repeal of that Act of King
William, which makes it actually confiscation of
goods, and imprisonment for life, to deny the doc
trine of the trinity.

*»  ** *  * it

    * They who in their speeches in parliament

quoted my writings, as an authority with the
                         105

dissenters in general, were as ignorant of the

If Idissenters, as they were of the maxims of sound
policy.               had had any weight with the body

of dissenters at that time, we should have joined

the catholics, who generously made the proposal, in

applying for the repeal of all the penal laws in mat
ters of religion. But that golden opportunity

was suffered to pass by, and I fear will never

**more return.        *       * » **
                   *

     '* It being usual on the 5th of November to

give our congregations a discourse-on some sub

ject relating to religious liberty, I made choice

of that of the Test Act, and at the request of my
hearers the discourse was published. But Twill
venture to say, that it is one of the calmest and
most moderate of all discourses that were ever

written on a political subject.

    "What, now,.was the conduct of the clergy

throughout England,,and especially at Birming
ham, on this occasion ? Endeavours were used
to render the dissenters the objects not only of
exclusion from civil offices, but of general odium

and punishment.
                                       106

     " Dr. Price and myself were particularly

pointed out as seditious and dangerous per
sons, the very pests of society, and unworthy
the protection of government.

    " Being particularly pointed out by Mr.

Madan, and both friends and enemies looking

upon me as called upon to make some reply, I

did it with great reluctance, as to a clergyman,

whom, on other accounts, I truly respected, and

Iwhom, as living in the same town with me,

might occasionally meet. This reply I made

in a series of ' Familiar Letters to the Inhabitants

<)f Birmingham' and I appeal to any person who

has the least pretension to impartiality, whether
they be not a mild, and good-humoured reply
to unprovoked invective.

    " The effect of this controversy upon the

common people in Birmingham, who were made
to believe, that someway or oiAer., boththe church.
and the state were in danger, and that my ob
ject was the utter destruction of both, was great
and visible enough. On the walls of houses, &c.
                                                   107

    Iand especially where usually went, were to

     be seen in large characters, Madan for Ever,
      Damn Priestley ; No Presbyterians ; Damn

    Ithe Presbyterians, &c. &c. and at one time

      was followed by a number of boys, who left
      their play, repeating what they had seen on
       the walls, and shouting out, Damn Priestley,

     damn him, damn him, for ever, for ever, Ifc. §c.
' This was no doubt a lesson which they had

   Ibeen taught by their parents, and what these,
         fear, had learned from their superiors. Such
      things as these were certainly unpleasant to me;

    I Ibut was conscious had done nothing to de

      serve such treatment; and despising mere ob

    Iloquy, was far from suspecting that it would

      ever lead to the outrages which have since taken

      place."

          Dr. Priestley narrates the principal circum
      stances of the riot at Birmingham, but as a
     sufficient account of that disgraceful transaction

       has been already given (see p. p. 25-27), we
      shall merely give another extract, which is par-
      larly interesting.

       I" What I regretted most was the loss, as

     then supposed, of all my manuscript papers, for
      which no reparation could be made. They c6m-

     sisted of the following particulars :--
              rS
                                   105

I. My Diaries from the year 1752.

II. Several large Common-place Books,

containing the fruits of my reading, almost

Iever since could read with any degree of

judgment.  ..

   III. The Register of my Philosophical

Experiments, and hints for new ones.

    IV. All my Sermons, Prayers, and Forms for

Administering the Lord's Supper, Ifc.

    V. Notes and a Paraphrase on the whole of
the New Testament, excepting the book of

Revelation.

    VI. A New Translation of the Psalms, Pro

verbs, and Ecclesiastes.

   VII. A Series of Letters to the Members of

the New Jerusalem Church, which was lately

opened in Birmingham. A rough draft of a

great part of these Letters happened to be preserv
ed, in consequence of taking a copy of them

by Mess. Boulton & Watt's machine, and from

this I have lately published them.
                                         109

    VIII. Memoirs of my own Life, to be pub

lished after my death.

    X . A great number of letters from my

friends and learned foreigners ; with other
papers.

    X. Illustrations of Hartley's Doctrine of As

sociation of Ideas, and farther Observations on the

Human Mind, the publication of which I had

promised in the preface to my Essay on Educa
tion.

    XI. A course of Lectures on the Constitution

and Laws of England, and another on the His
tory of England.

    XII. My last will, receipts, and accounts.

   " Let any man of letters, arrived as I am, to

 near the age of sixty, consider what must have
been my accumulation of curious papers of va
 rious kinds, from the variety and extent of my
 pursuits (greater unquestionably than that of

most men now living), and think what I could

 not but have felt for their loss, and their dis
 persion into such hands as they fell into, and

 Iwho make as hear, the most indecent and im
                                       110

proper use of them. This makes the case much
worse than that of mere plunder, and the de

********struction of books and papers by Goths and

Vandals, who could not read any of them."

    Extracts from a Tract, entitled " A free

Address to those who have Petitioned for the
Repeal of the late Act of Parliament in favour
of the Roman Catholics. Published in 1780,
price 2d. or 1 2s. per hundred, to give away.

    "You are no advocates you say, for perse

cuting the Papists; and that you who associated

for the purpose of getting a repeal of the late act
in favour of Popery, were not the persons who
burned houses, demolished the public prisons,

Iand let a number of banditti loose upon the pub

lic. am willing to hope that this may have
been the case. But still in the very soliciting
of the repeal of that act, you applied to the civil
authority, for power to lay persons professing
the Roman Catholic religion under such restric

tions, and to expose them to such penalties as
you would be very sorry that yourselves should

lie under, and be exposed to, if divine provi

dence had fixedyour abode in a Popish country.
               Ill

    " In this country we make the Papists our

Ifenemies by becoming theirs. we would make

them friends, we must, as they are in our power,

first act a friendly part towards them. Remove

all the restrictions they are under, and then as

sign any reason, if you can, why they should

not be as much attached to this country, and the
               Ifas any other subjects.
government ofit,
                 it,

                        a
                             a

                                                                                  ?
they were made perfectly easy with respect to

their religion and their civil rights, what could
they have more under Popish prince And,

depend upon that, being men like ourselves,

and having lived in free country, they know

the value of civil liberty as much as you do, and

would risk as much for it.

    " Many of you seem to be more particularly

alarmed at the idea of the Papists having schools.

But there any right more clearly founded in
nature, than that of parents educating their own
children, or of chusing instructors for them
is

                                                                                                ?

    "But admitting the Papists would keep

open schools, and receive all the children and

youth that were brought to them, they cannot,

in this country, compel any parents to send them
                                      112

their children. If they have zeal enough to

teach gratis, let it be counteracted, as it natural

ly ought, by equal zeal on the part of Protes
tants. Let them teach gratis also, and invite
the children of Papists; and do not be like the

dog in the manger, neither do so good a deed
themselves, nor suffer others to do it.**

    " To conclude ; let us not terrify ourselves-,

and especially into acts of inhumanity and wick
edness, by mere chimeras of our own brain.
Let us strictly adhere to the golden rule of the
gospel, a rule of universal application ; viz. to
do to all others as tve would that they should do
to us. Let us consider how we would wish to
 be treated in Popish countries, and make that
the rule of our conduct to Papists in this. Let
 us by all means ever do what is right and good,
 and trust in the Providence o£God tor all con
 sequences."

                        THE END.

      irilks, Grafton % Co. Printersi.Birmivgham.
I

: lit
3 2044 019 172 43(

