Memoirs of Sir Joshua Reynolds, Knt., LL.D. F.R.S. F.S.A. &c. late
president of the Royal Academy : comprising original anecdotes
of many distinguished persons, his contemporaries, and a brief
analysis of his discourses : to which are added, Varieties on art
/ by James Northcote, Esq. R.A.

Northcote, James, 1746-1831.
London : Printed for Henry Colburn ..., and sold by George Goldie, Edinburgh, and John
Cumming, Dublin, 1813.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/gri.ark:/13960/t3bz8xd5c

                                          Public Domain
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address.
To Ka\o"v.
             Digitized by the Internet Archive

                                     in 2014

                                                                                                                                                                /

https://archive.org/details/memoirsofsirjosh01nort
£ni)rtUfJ f>YJtohcrt Cooper livni a Dniwi/ii/ hy John Jat-kson
IWithal Jiuic x^'^jfii? by Jfjciiry CeUiuyi ('o?iduit Street J.ciideii .
                    MEMOIRS

                                                        OF

SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS, KNT.

                           LL.D. F.R.S. F.S.A. &c.

        LJTE President of the royal academy.

                                                               COMPRISING

              ©rigmal ^nertotes;

        OF MANY DISTINGUISHED PERSONS, HIS CONTEMPORARIES;

                                                                   AND A

         BRIEF ANALYSIS OF HIS DISCOURSES.

                                                    TO WHICH ARE ADDE1>,

             VARIETIES ON ART,

        BY JAMES NORTHCOTE, ESQ. R. A.

                                        LONDON:

                               PRINTED FOR HENRY COLBURN,
BRITISH AND FOREIGN PUBLIC LIBRARY, CONDUIT-STREET, HANG VER-SQUASE

                           AND SOLD BY GEORGE GOLDIE, EDINBURGH ; AND
                                            JOHN GUMMING, DUBLIN.

                                                     1813,
                        1
Jamrs Gillet, Primer, Crown-court, Fleet-street, London.
       PREFACE.

   My attempting to write the Life of so illustrious

a man as Sir Joshua Reynolds --a task which Burke
declined and Malone has not performed -- a work,
also, so formidable in my own view of it--may

require some apology for such presumption ; but the

       is,

             I

                             a
truth  that was drawn into         by degrees, as
                                   it
we commonly are to all the sins we commit.
                                        I II
had at first written short Memoir on the subject, I

at the earnest request of a friend, which was

received with marks of approbation.  had also

collected many little anecdotes, which was told

were worth preserving and at length was persuaded
                                ;

to make the present attempt, or rather, may say,

pressed into the service.
              PREFACE.

   Another motive to my undertaking this subject

was, that some of the circumstances which I had to

relate might help to clear Sir Joshua, in respect to

the unwarranted ideas, many persons have entertained,

that he was not the author of his own Discourses,

and that also in his youth he was particularly illite-

rate. That the latter is far from the truth may be

seen in the Letter from him to Lord E-^  , which

is demonstrative of a delicate, elegant, grateful, and

feeling mind ; and is written with admirable simplicity

of language.

   Familiar letters by Sir Joshua are, however, very

scarce : he was too busy and too wise to spend his time
in an occupation ^vhich is more congenial to the idle
and the vain, who are commonly very voluminous in

their production of this article.

  IWith respect to the anecdotes which have inserted
Iin these Memoirs, some few of them, hope, may be

f^ratifying to the Artist ; others may amuse the leisure
                                     PREFACE.

Ihours of my reader; some of them, must acknow-
Iledge, are trifling, and may not do either : but have
Igiven all could recollect, and would not make
Imyself the judge by selection, especially when

reflected, that minute particulars are frequently
characteristic, and that trifles even are often amusing,
when they relate to distinguished persons : therefore

I felt unwilling that any memorial, iiowever slight,

should be lost, as would inevitably happen, in a very
few years.

   It is my fixed opinion, that if ever there should

appear in the world a Memoir of an Artist well given,
it will be the production of an Artist ; but as those

rarely possess an eminent facility in literary compo-
sition, they have avoided the task ; and the labour

of writing the lives of Painters has been left to depend
solely on the skill and ingenuity of those who knew

but little concerning the subject they had undertaken,
inconsequence of which their work is rendered useless
and insipid.
                                  PREFACE.

  I sensibly feel that some parts of these Memoirs

may be judged tedious, some parts weak, and other
parts not sufficiently connected with the original

Isubject; but was not so competent a judge of my
Iown work as to make the proper selection : and also

apprehend that, in a variety of readers, some will be
pleased with what others will despise, and that one

who ])resumes to give a public dinner must provide,
as well as he is able, a dish for each particular palate ;

Iso that if have given too much, it is at my own risk,

and from an earnest desire to satisfy every one.

   The miscellaneous papers which accompany these
Memoirs were the result of my leisure moments : some
of them have already appeared in print, and have
been approved of beyond my expectations ; which

has induced me to collect them into this volume, and
to add considerably to their number. Some few of
the following pages which have been before the public
were given under a feigned character; these retain
their original form without any alteration.
PREFACE.

The subject of these Essays may perhaps be con-

   sidered, in a great degree, as of a confined nature ;

I- although have attempted to treat it frequently in

  Isuch a manner as hoped might afford some small

amusement to the general reader. In order to explain
Imy meaning with more distinctness,
                                     have given

opinions in respect to the arts under a variety of

views, and endeavoured to convey the best advice in

my power, in such a manner as to appear least dicta-

Itorial, for do not presume to be a teacher : however,

if they shall prove to be worth the consideration of

any persons, they will be best suited to those who are
connected with the study of the Arts.

  IIn respect to the volume on the whole, if should

say,by way of excusing its imperfections, and to screen
myself from severe censure, that it was composed
in my idle hours, to relieve my mind when pressed
by the difficulties of my profession, and therefore
ought to be looked upon with a favourable eye, it

Iwould be asked, " Why should, with any pretence
                     PREFACE.

to modesty or justice, suppose that my idlings will,
in any degree, occupy the attention, or contribute to
the amusement, of an enlightened public?" And
on the other hand, declare that has cost me
I                              I it
      I
                                                    if,
          is Iinfinite pains and labour, and that now humbly
                   it it
and respectfully offer to the experienced world as

the very utmost could produce, after all my most

earnest endeavours,     may then very reasonably be

said, that ought to have performed my task much

better, as the effect by no means answerable to such

labour and effort.

   Under these considerations, therefore, shall sayI
no more on this subject; but calmly submit the work to
the animadversion of the public, and rest perfectly
satisfied witii their decision, as on the verdict of the

purest jury, and one from whose judgment there can

be no appeal.
       tVILL OF J. N CmTHC OTE, ESQ.

                                   (From the Observer.)
The will of this deceasedTeteran and eccentric artist has
been proved in Doctors' Commons, and a very extraordinary
document it is. It first directs that his body shall be kept
uniulerred as Ion); as it can be suffered, to prevent the possibi>
.lity of being byiried aliv«, and to be inspected by some com-
petent surt^eon. He desires to be buried either in the vauU
under the New St. Alarylebone Church, near to his late
triends Air. Cosway and Aliss B^olh, or in St. Paul's Ca.
thedral, near his                  late lamented friend                                                                                                      tCinhdantmreays,terK, .SAir.
Joshua Reynokis.                     He directs Francis
and sculptor, will execute a fit and proper monu>
-ment to his memory, for which he orders his cxe.
outers to pay 1,00U/. ; and tbe same artist to execute
a mouument for the deceased's brother, Samuel North,
cote, to be placed in St. Andrew's Church, Plymouth,
at an expense of 200/. He sta-es, that he has completed the
inanuscript, and executed the designs, for a second set of 100
fablas, in continuation of the first, which he is desirous should
be published as speedily after the death of his sister as may
be; and he directs that not less than 1,000/. or more than
.1,400/.shall be expended out of his personal estateii, on en
graving and publishinf^ such fables ; and he requests
that Mr. Edmund Southey ilegcrs, one of the King's
Messengers, will superintend the publication thereof.
He desires his executors, William iiillman, Joseph
Hawker, and Newbold Kinton, will look over his
manuscripts, and therefrom select such as in their judg.
ment are of importance to his memory and character, and
destroy all the rest. He leaves                                                                                                            his  hiof usshee  in Argyle-place                                   to
his sister rent free, for her life ;                                                                                                       and               should not wish                                   to
live there, his executors are to let the same for her benefit on
lease for seven years. Plate, linen, china, household goods,
and furniture, and all and sinj^ular the pictures, prints,
books, and personal estatein Argyle-placc, to his sister, Mary
Northcote, for her life ; and after her decease, furniture,
linen, and chins, or such of them as shall then remain
. (but not pictures, books, or plate), to his servant, Elizabeth
Gilchrist. After the deiith of his sister, he gives to Sit
Stafford Henry Northcote, of Pyncs, in the county of Devon,
Baronet, and his heirs for ever, all the pictures of the North,
ooScoiffrtt"ehJofePsahum"ubiAalliycc,cRoCheuhiynsantrboaulodcsftstethrb;se"y,"NUoabornyntdhoCcntaohiedtee,ePltlFoh*raemtnftodiwllyiooD,am;v"caieonsntuhts;aecirnttihwipnetog"vvoohLlliuui*fmmeDteois-sf
plomas from the Royal Academy ; a volume of birds, by his
father and brother, all to be placed in the library at Pyncs. To
his friend, William IJiliman, of Arpjle-street, 50 volumei of
books, such as            he       may                                                                                                     to select out     of his library,
after the doath           ef       his                                                                                           i)lea8c   To Joseph         Hawker, Esq.,
                                                                                                                                nister.
Richmond Herald of Arms, two pictures he may choose,
except the Northcote family, and 30 volumes of books, aficr
Hillman has choten his. The residue of his estateto hit exe-
cutors in trust, to pay dividends and annual preceeds to his
said tister, for her lite, and after her de'ith, to invest in their
own names 1,250/. in the Three per Cent. Annuities upon
trust, to pay the interest to his late faithful servant, Char,
lotte Gilbert, during her life, and after her death to such
pir»0D8 as she may appoint. The said trustCLS, after thi;
ydeiCaitfhiSoyfvisza*id'  sister,  to  retain                                                                                   to         themselves the following                                            le-
                           I
       William Hillman
                                                                                                                                                             £1,500
                Joseph Hawker                                                                                                                                600
                Nswbold Kinton                                                                                                                               2(K>
And to pay likewise the following lC(;acies: --
                                                                                                                                                                                                               £.
Eliz.  Gilchiist,         duty  offre--Jeo-·-                                                                                   1,600      .PPlleaehhmtileniperJCsaWocukRasdoroeJl,nle,rtshR, e.A              IdO
Mrs.   H iwke',           wife                                                                                                    100                                                              artist      loll
Aislaeipr hHHaawwkKinesr                                                                                                          IdO                                                              landic.ipe  106
                                                                                                                                  100
Prnice Hoare                                                                                                                      100      paintsr                                                             100
ACjMSLMnaairCrmndspa.aytWti.bswMJ.Kt.eloKiClilaoinlaRn,riPrhaxuSrlthiiu,cjcotthtokenonitsrntlsarM,fewneBoedilfodaerr,etR,.No.f    10i      JAT.hbSTorua.mnThyaalsmorCJ,oolhapnteeslaendditor                   110(,00
                                                                                                                                  100                                                              of  the     ion
                                                                                                                                  100
                                                                                                                                  100      Naihanitl H-ward                                                    100
                                                                                                                                  J1fl0O0  William Hazlilt                                                     Ion
                                                                                                                                  ILO      BAdkbm-rea.rhRaomgWerysv, Killi.n^ar'stimstessc·n·-·15060
AValter Roc
William GGdwin

if these pcrsoas be living af:er the death of h\%sister. To the
Jlinister aqd Churchwardens, for the time being, of St- An-
drew's, Plymouth, 200/. duty free, to be invested, and the in.
terest to be laid out in bread and meat to the poor of the s.iid
parish. In a sec«nd codicil he leives Mary Wilsfbrd, wife of
Peter Wil»ford, 500/. duly free.Thomas Lister Parker, 105/.,
aud any one picture he may i-elect, not before c'^osen. Tho.
mas Poynder,of Christ's Hospita1,any oncother pic;ure not be-
fore cho8e.ii: residue to his executors. Personal property under
.25,000/.-- considerably less ifaan, from the penurious habits of
[Mr. Northcote, bis friends expected.
                  MEMOIRS

                                                         OF

    SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

   The last century may be said to have formed an era in the

progressive refinement of the British empire in all matters of
taste ; an era from whence future historians will date our
advancement in the arts, and our rivalry of the most polished

nations.

  In the early part of that century, however, so weak and

puerile were the efforts of almost all our native professors,
particularly in the A rt of Paintings as to reflect equal disgrace
on the age and nation. Philosophers, poets, statesmen, and
warriors, of unquestionable eminence, were our own ; but no
Englishman had yet added the praise of the elegant arts to
the other glories of his country, and which alone seemed
wanting to fill up the measure of British fame. This remark-
able deficiency in the efforts of genius in that department,

                                                                B
2 MEMOIRS OF

may, in a great degree, have arisen from the want of sufficient
encouragement --a natural consequence proceeding from the
customs and manners of the preceding ages. What the fury
of Henry the Eighth had spared at the Reformation, was
condemned by the Puritans, and the Arts, long disturbed by
civil commotions, were, in a manner, expelled from Great
Britain, or lay neglected in the sensual gallantry of the restored
court of Charles the Second : nor were its hopes revived by
the party contentions that immediately followed and wholly
occupied the attention of all men, rendering them unfit to
relish, and without the leisure to protect, the fine arts.

  IIn illustration of this, may add- the observation of an

excellent author, that no set of men can have a due regard for
the Fine Arts who are more enslaved by the pleasures arising
from the grosser senses than from those springing from, or
connected with, reflection. The interests of intemperance and
study are so opposite, that they cannot exist together in the
same mind, or, at least, in such degree as to produce any
advantages to the agent. When we indulge our grosser
appetites beyond what we ought, we are dragged to contrition
through the medium of anguish, and forego or violate that
dignified calmness of the system which is only compatible with
an honorable ambition --the sorceries of Circe, or the orgies of
Bacchus, cannot administer or infuse efficient inspiration to
intellects debauched by unhallowed fervor ; such as sink under
their influence, may, indeed, be negatively contented with
their ignorance of the value of superior merit, but will never
exert their ability for, nor pant with the desire of being
enviable, happy, or renowned.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  s

   The period at length arrived in which taste was to have its
sway ; and to seize and improve the favorable opportunity,
pre^ignted by the circumstances of the times to one possessed
of superior talents and ardour of mind, was the fortunate lot
of Sir Joshua Reynolds : yet, notwithstanding that he carried
his art so much beyond our expectation, and has done so

much, we cannot but lament that he was not more frequently

called upon to exercise his great genius on subjects more
suitable to so enlarged a mind.

  It is worthy of remark, that the county of Devon has

produced more painters than any other county in England ;

whilst, at the same time, it must be noticed, that till very
lately there were fewer collections of pictures, of good ones, at
least, in that county, than in any other part of England of an

equal space.

   Of that county was Thomas Hudson, the best portrait
painter, of his day, in the kingdom, and famous for being the
master of Reynolds ; also Francis Hayman, the first historical
painter of his time ; and Mr. Cosway, R. A., Mr. Humphry,
R. A., Mr. Downham, Mr. Cross, all eminent in their pro-
fession. Of that county also, was Sir Joshua Reynolds,

eminent in the highest degree; this illustrious painter, and
distinguished ornament of the English nation, the subject of

the following memoir, being born at Plympton in Devonshire,

on the 16th of July, 1723. It has been noticed as not

unworthy of record, that this event took place about three
months before the death of Sir Godfrey Kneller, which hap-
pened on the 27th of the succeeding October, as if thus

                                                   B2
4 MEMOIRS OF

perpetuating the hereditary descent of the art ; and preceding
biographers are correct in stating that he was on every side of
his genealogy connected with the clerical profession, as both
his father and grandfather were in holy orders, besides having
a paternal uncle, John, the elder brother of the family, who
was a canon of St. Peter's, Exeter, and held a fellowship of
the College at Eton ; to this latter, Exeter College in Oxford
is much indebted for the bequest of a very valuable library,
and a considerable part of his fortune, of which it became
possessed by his death in 1758. There is a mezzotinto print
of him scraped by Mr. Ardell, from a portrait painted by his
Nephew, now in Eton College ; besides which, it is recorded
that his maternal grandfather was in orders, who had to his
wife the daughter of the Reverend Thomas Baker^ a most
eminent mathematician of the seventeenth century, and one
to whom the Royal Society were, on several occasions, par-
ticularly indebted.

   This gentleman was the son of Mr. James Baker of Ilton

in Somersetshire, who lived in great respectability, and was
steward for the extensive estates of the family of Strangeways
in Dorsetshire. Thomas was born at Tlton in 16*25, and at
the age of fifteen, entered a student of Magdalen, at Oxford,
from whence he was five years afterwards elected scholar of
Wadliam College, in which situation, in the year 1645, he
pj c ved his loyalty by the performance of some little service

for King Charles I. in the garrison of that city. In 1647 he

was admitted A. B. but quitted ttie university without com-
pleting that degree by determination ; and having taken
orders, he was appointed Vicar of Bishop's Nymmet, in Dor-
             SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.      5

setshire, where he resided many years in studious retirement.

Here he applied himself assiduously to the study of mathe-

matics, in which he made a most extraordinary progress ; but

was totally   unknown and   unvalued in his obscure neighbour-
hood, until  1684, when he
                            published his famous " Geometrical

Key" in quarto, and in Latin and English. The Royal

Society now became ambitious of possessing the result of the

labours of his learned life, and having, in particular, but a

short time before his death, sent him some difficult and

abstruse mathematical queries, he returned an answer so

extremely satisfactory, that they voted him a gold medal,
with an inscription dictated by the deepest sense of respect.
This venerable mathematician died in 16'90, and was buried

in his own church at Bishop's Nymmet.

   Joshua Reynolds was the son of the reverend Samuel Rey-
nolds and Theophila his wife, whose maiden name was Potter ;
he was the seventh of eleven children, (five of whom died in
their infancy,) and it has been said by Mr. Malone, that his
father was prompted to give him his scriptural appellation,
in hopes that such a singular, or at least uncommon name,
might, at some future period of his life, perhaps, be the means
of attracting for him the patronage of some person with a
similar prefix. The good man's intentions, if the circumstance
were a fact, were indeed never literally fulfilled ; but instead
of that, had he lived, he might have seen his son become an
honour to his country.

  I do not know on what evidence Mr. Malone gives this

account concerning the introduction of the name of Joshua
6 MEMOIRS OF

Iinto the family, but this know, from undoubted authority,

(having seen it in Sir Joshua's own hand-writing, and there-

fore shall insert it, as it serves to controvert this very impro-

bable story, which otherwise would altogether be unworthy
of notice) that it is certain that Sir Joshua had an uncle, whose

christian name was Joshua, and dwelt at Exeter, and who

was his Godfather, but not being present at the baptism of
his nephew, was represented by a Mr. Aldwin ; the other

godfather being a Mr. Ivie ; and that his godmother was his

Aunt Reynolds of Exeter, represented also by proxy by a

Mrs. Darly. Mr. Malone is in general very correct, but not
Iin the circumstance he has related as above.
                                               hope to be

excused in being thus minutely particular, as it serves to

prove a fact.

   The register of Plympton, however, has, by some negligence
or inaccuracy, deprived him of this baptismal name ; for in that

hreecoisrdstyitleadppe"aJrossethpaht  he was  baptized on the 30th of July, and

                                      son of  Samuel Reynolds, Clerk." It is

difficult to account for this error in any other way than that

which Mr. Malone has given, by supposing that the name

was written     originally on a               slip of paper in an abbreviated
                 son of Samuel                Reynolds," and was at a subse-
form-- " Jos.

quent period entered erroneously by the clergyman or clerk

of the parish.

   The maintenance of this family of six children was a tax
sufficiently heavy on the slender income of the father who
possessed no other resources than those which he derived from
the living of Plympton, and the grammar school annexed
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  7

to it ; the whole amounting to a very small sum : for the
church was only a Windsor curacy, and he was so ill calculated
for the management of a school, that notwithstanding his
possessing a high character for learning, its number was,
before his death, literally reduced to one solitary scholar.
Yet this mortification, which might have overpowered a more

irritable temper, the good old man bore without any dejection

of spirits, and he continued as much as ever beloved and
respected for the variety of his knowledge, his philanthropy,
his innocence of heart, and simplicity of manners.

   Young Reynolds is said to have been for some time instructed
in the classics by his father, who was very assiduous in cul-
tivating the minds of his children, but as it is known that the
son did not display any proofs of classical attainments in the
earlier part of his life, it is most probable that the mass of
general knowledge, by which he was at a later period so emi-
nently distinguished, was the result of much studious applica-

tion in his riper years. A correct classical scholar, however,

he could not be considered in any part of his life. That he
was what the world terms a genius, and of the first order,
cannot be disputed. He possessed talents of the highest kind
which he brought into full and constant action by a laudable
ambition, the ardent desire of acquiring eminence in the pro-
fession which he had adopted.

  It has been ignorantly said, that his father intended him

for the church and sent him to one of the universities where
he received the degree of Master of Arts. This erroneous
notion probably arose from his subsequent honorary degree of
8 MEMOIRS OF

LL. D. I have, however, heard him say that his father at first

intended him for the practice of physic ; and that, if such had

been the event, he should have felt the same determination

to become the most eminent physician, as he then felt to be the
first painter of his age and country. Indeed it was ever his
decided opinion, that the superiority attainable in any pursuit
whatever, does not originate in an innate propensity of the
mind to that pursuit in particular, but depends on the general
strength of the intellect, and on the intense and constant
application of that strength to a specific purpose. He regarded
ambition as the cause of eminence, but accident as pointing

out the means. It is true that, at an early period of his life,

he made some trifling attempts in drawing from common
prints, but this cannot be considered as any proof that his
faculties were more particularly fitted for the study of the
arts than for any other, although it has been brought forward
as such. The same thing has been done by ten thousand
boys before him, and will be done by thousands yet to come,
without any of them ever becoming great artists. Such dis-
plays of childish ingenuity are the most common refuge of
idleness, in order to escape from the labour of a loathsome
task ; they have the double recommendation that they are
not enjoined by command, and that they are more easily

performed with credit to the young candidate for applause as
they are not likely to be scrutinized by any competent judge
of their merits.

There is now one of these very early essays, in the possession

of the family,  wariptteersnp,t.^" tDivoeneviebwy  of a book case, under which
                                                   Joshua out of pure idleness."
his father has
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  9

It is on the back of a Latin exercise. No wonder it should

appear like idleness to his father ; doing that which you are
not required to do, and neglecting to do that which is con-
sidered as your duty, will of course look very like idleness,
and partake of it in a certain degree. Notwithstanding those
little checks from the father, he no doubt perceived that he
had raised himself in the opinion of his parent, which gave
him encouragement to go on ; and it is allowed by his biogra-
pher, that his father, who was himself fond of drawings, and
had a small collection of anatomical and other prints, was

pleased with his son's efforts. We are also informed from the

same authority, that his elder sisters had likewise a turn for
the art before him, and that his first essays were made in
copying several little sketches done by them ; he afterwards
copied various prints he met with among his father's books,
such as those in Dryden's edition of Plutarch's Lives, and
became particularly fond of the amusement. But Jacob Cats'
book of Emblems was his great resource, a book which his

great grandmother, by the father's side, a Dutchwoman, had
brought with her when she quitted Holland.

   Young Reynolds had accidentally read the Jesuit's Per-
spective when he was not more than eight years old, a proof
of his capacity and active curiosity. He attempted to apply
the rules of that treatise in a drawing which he made of his

father's school, a building well suited to his purpose, as it stood
on pillars. On showing it to his father, who was merely a
man of letters, it seemed to strike him with astonishment, and

he exclaimed, Now this exemplifies what the author of the
' Perspective' asserts in his preface, -- that by observing the

                                                    c
 10 MEMOIRS OF

 rules laid down in this book, a man may do wonders ; --for

 this is wonderful."*

    The surprize he excited, and the praise he obtained, natu-
 rally inflamed his ambition to surmount greater difficulties in
 a field of knowledge in which, from the ignorance of those
 about him in the graphic art, he seemed to stand alone. From
 these attempts he proceeded to draw likenesses of the friends
 and relatives of his family with tolerable success. Richard-
 son's Theory of Painting was now put into his hands, where he
 saw the enthusiastic raptures in which a great painter is de-
 scribed ; and it is no wonder that he thought Raffaelle (as he
 himself has said) the most extraordinary man the world had
 ever produced. His mind thus stimulated by a high example,
 and constantly ruminating upon it, the thought of remaining

in hopeless obscurity became insupportable to him. It was

-this feeling which more and more excited his elforts, and in
 the end produced those works which have established his

 reputation on a lasting basis. t It should be remembered, that

* Of this school, an engraving accoinpunies this work, done from an original

picture by Prout, a native of Devonshire. Tlie school itself is one of the best in

the county; it was erected in l664, by Sir Jt)hn Maynard, one of the trustees of

Elizeus Hall, Esq., of Cornwood, near Plyniontii, who gave £1500 per annum to

such uses.

Dr. Johnson, in his Life of Cowley, saysj "That in the windows of his mother's
·f-
                       a

                                    by
                                                                                                            is
apartment, (Cowley's) L^y Spenser's Fairy Queen, in which he very early took

delight to read, till,  feeling the charms of verse, he became, as he relates,

irrecoverably [joet. Such are the accidents which, sometimes remembered, and

perhaps sometimes forgotten, produce that particular designation of mind, and

propensity for some certain science or employment, which                                                        commonly called
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  11

at the time he read Richardson's Treatise, he could know

nothing of ll.iffaelle but from the praise bestowed upon him ;
mere verbal criticism could evidently give him little insight
into the particular beauties or genius of liafFaelle as a painter:
but the enthusiastic admiration of the writer kindled a spark

of the same generous flame in his own breast, and urged him
to pursue the same path of gloVy, because it was the first that

opened itself to his view.

  I have ventured to deliver these opinions the more freely,
Ibecause know them to have been his own, and that, if they

are not received as the truth, no one has ever yet been able to
prove that they are false. Sir Joshua Reynolds's notions on
this subject have, notwithstanding, been sometimes mistaken,

and his reasonings have been therefore charged with incon-
sistency. He never meant to deny the existence of genius, as
this term denotes a greater degree of natural capacity in some
minds than others ; but he always contended strenuously
against the vulgar and absurd interpretation of the word,
which supposes, that the same person may be a man of genius
in one respect, but utterly unfit for, and almost an ideot in,

every thing else, and that this singular and unaccountable

faculty is a gift born with us, which does not need the assist-
ance of pains or culture, time or accident, to improve and
perfect it.

genius. The true genius is a mind of Inrge general powers, accidentally delerinined
to some particular direction. Sir Joshua Reynolds bad the first fondness for l}is
art excited by the perusal of Richardson's Treatise.'

                                                        C2
 12 MEMOIRS OF

    As he had shown so early an inclination towards the arts, a
neighbour and friend of the family (a Mr. C ranch) advised the
father to send his son to London, to be placed under the
tuition of Mr. Hudson, a well known painter of portraits, who
was also a native of Devonshire. This advice was followed,
and Hudson's consent being obtained, young Reynolds was sent
to receive instruction from his preceptor : with this view he
first visited the capital on the 14th of October, 1741, when
he was not quite eighteen years of age ; and on the 18th of
that month, the day of St. Luke the patron of painters, was
placed with his instructor.

   In order to give the reader some idea of the state of the arts

at that time, it must be observed, that Hudson was then
the greatest painter in England ; and the qualification that
enabled him to hold this decided pre-eminence, was the ability
of producing a likeness with that kind of address which, by
the vulgar, is considered as flattering to the person. But after
having painted the head, Hudson's genius failed him, and he
was obliged to apply to one Vanhaaken to put it on the
shoulders and to finish the draperj'^, of both which he was
himself totally incapable. Unluckily Vanhaaken died, and for
a time Hudson was driven almost to despair, and feared he
must have quitted his lucrative employment : he was, however,
fortunate enough to meet with another drapery-painter, named
Roth, who, though not so expert as the former, was yet
sufficiently qualified to carry on the manufactory.

   Such were the barren sources of instruction at the time when
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  13

Reynolds first came to London to be inspired by the genius of

Hudson ! It should be remarked, however, of Hudson, that

though not a good painter himself, yet out of his school were
produced several very excellent ones, viz., Reynolds, Mortimer,
and Wright of Derby, who at that time formed a matchless

triumvirate.

   Yet it appears that Hudson's instructions were evidently
not of the first rate, nor his advice to his young pupil very

judicious, when we find that, probably from pure ignorance,
instead of directing him to study from the antique models, he
recommended to him the careful copying of Guercino's draw-

ings, tbus trifling his time away ; this instance serves to show
the deplorable state of the arts at that time, in this country :

however, the youthful and tractable pupil executed his task
with such skill, that many of those early productions are now

preserved in the cabinets of the curious in this kingdom ; most
of which are actually considered as originals by that master.

   He could not escape, indeed, without the ordinary fate of
excellence, that of exciting jealousy even in the breast of his
master ; who, as it is related, having seen an head, painted whilst
he was yet a pupil, from an elderly female servant in the family,
in which he discovered a taste superior to that of the painters
of the day, foretold the future success of his pupil, but not
without feeling, and afterwards displaying, in his behaviour to
his young rival, some strong symptoms of that ungenerous

passion.

When young Reynolds first came to London, he was sent
14 MEMOIRS OF

by his master to make a purchase for him at a sale of pictures,
and it being a collection of some consequence, the auction-room
was uncommonly crowded, Reynolds was at the upper end of

the room, near the auctioneer, when he perceived a con-

siderable bustle at the farther part of the room, near the door,

which he could not account for, and at first thought somebodj'-

had fainted, as the crowd  and heat were so  great.   HoM'cver
he soon heard the name of                            whispered
                           " Mr, Pope, Mr,   Pope,"

from every mouth, for it was Mr. Pope himself who then

entered the room. Immediately every person drew back to

make a free passage for the distinguished poet, and all those

on each side held out their hands for him to touch as he piassed ;
Reynolds, although not in the front row, put out his hand

also, under the arm of the person who stood before him, and

Pope took hold of his hand, as he likewise did to all as he

passed. This was the only time that Reynolds ever saw that
great moralist. -- Pity that Pope had not known the future

importance of the hand he then received in his own !

IThe above anecdote heard from Sir Joshua himself.

    Reynolds continued only two years with his master, in
which time he made so rapid a progress, that the picture of
his painting, already noticed, having been accidentally seen in
Hudson's gallery, it obtained so universal a preference, that
the preceptor immediately grew doubly jealous of his pupiPs

excellence, and on that account they soon afterwards parted.

Reynolds returned to Devonshire, where he is said, by his

biographer, to have dissipated the three following years,
making little effort and as little improvement, to the great
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                               15

disquiet of his conscience afterwards. Yet it is well known,
that during the period here spoken of, he produced a great
many portraits, particularly one of a boy reading by a reflected
light,* and several others which are undoubtedly very fine, as
he himself acknowledged on seeing them at the distance of
thirty years ; when he lamented that in so great a length of
Iftime he had made so little progress in his art.  it is true,

therefore, that he really lamented his loss of time in that

interval, it arose most probably from a regret that he had not

sooner established himself in London, v4iich he always con-
sidered as the proper field for the display of talents : and it

was, besides, his early and fixed opinion, which might add to

his uneasiness on this subject, that if he did not prove himself

the best painter of his time, vvhen arrived at the age of thirty,
he never should. At the period thus fixed upon by himself,

there can be little doubt that he had, at least, surpassed all

Ihis competitors. At that interval of supposed negligence,

apprehend he was still making his observations on what he

saw, and forming his taste ; and although there were but few

Iworks of art, as have before noticed, within his reach in that

county, still there were the works of one artist, who, notwith-

standing he was never known beyond the boundary of the

county in which he lived and died, was yet a man of first rate

Iabilities ; and have heard Sir Joshua himself speak of this

painter's portraits, which are to be found only in Devonshire,

with the highest respect : he not only much admired his talents

    * Tliis painting, fifty years afterwards, was sold by auction for thirfy-five
guineas. Some portraits of the noble family of Abercorn are also very coiieclly

stated to have brought him into considerable notice at the above period.
16 MEMOIRS OF

as an artist, but in all his early practice evidently adopted his
manner in regard to painting the head, and retained it in some

degree ever after.

IThis painter was William Gandy of Exeter, whom cannot

but consider as an early master to Reynolds. The paintings

of Gandy were, in all probability, the first good portraits that

had come to his knowledge previous to his going to London ;

and he told me himself, that he had seen portraits by Gandy

that were equal to those of Kembrandt, one, in particular, of an

alderman of Exeter, which is placed in a public building in
Ithat city.
             have also heard him repeat some observations of

Gaudy's, which had been mentioned to him, and that he
approved of; one in particular was, that a picture ought to

have a richness in its texture, as if the colours had been

composed of cream or cheese, and the reverse to a hard and

husky or dry manner.*

   Mr. Reynolds and his two youngest unmarried sisters had
now taken a house at the town of Plymouth Dock, in which he
occupied the first floor, and painted various portraits, some of

which evince great capacity, although necessarily embarrassed
by the want of practice and executive power. That of himself
from which the print was taken, accompanying this work,

was executed at this period.

He now began to be employed, much to his satisfaction, as

   * At the end of this Memoir will be found some biographical notices of William
Gandy.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                   17

by a letter which, at the time, he sent to his fcither, who
resided at Plympton, he acquaints him with some degree of
exultation, that he had painted the portrait of the greatest

man in the place --and this was the commissioner of Plymouth

Dock yard.

    Soon after this he lost his father, who died on Christmas-
day, 1746. This gentleman, the Reverend Samuel Reynolds,
as has been before observed, was eminent for his learning and
moral character, to which he united such innocence of heart

and simplicity of manners, that he has often been mentioned as
another parson Adams. He was also what is called an
absent man. The following instance was related by an inti-
mate friend of his, as occurring on a visit which the old
gentleman once made him at his house, about three miles from
Plympton, the place of his own residence.

When Mr. Reynolds set out from his home on horse-back,

he rode in a pair of gambados, that is, a large pair of boots of

a peculiar make, very heavy, and open at the outside, so as

easily to admit the legs of the rider, and which were thus

attached to the saddle. When the old gentleman arrived at his

friend's house, it was observed to him that he had only one
Igambado: " Bless me!" said he, "it is very true, but
I Isure that had them both when set out from home      am
                                                       and

so it proved to be, as the lost gambado was afterwards found

on the road, having dropt from the saddle and his leg without

his perceiving the loss of it. It has been also said, that he

was somewhat remarkable for his taciturnity. His wife's

D
18 MEMOIRS OF

Iname, as have already mentioned, was Theophila, and thence,

in order to avoid superfluous words and questions, whenever

Ihe would choose to drink tea or coffee, he told her, " "When
Isay The, you must make tea ; but when say Offy, you must

make coffee. This, however, if it did take place, must have

been merely as a jest upon his own harmless foible.

  It may seem unlikely that the early success of Sir Joshua

Reynolds should, in any measure, have been connected with
the politics of the times ; yet nothing is more true, for not-
withstanding his own wishes to visit Italy, the mother and
nurse of the arts, still that event might not so soon have
taken place, had it not been for some occurrences, which,
being so considerably instrumental to the gratification of his
desire, even thence possess sufficient importance to be recorded
here, as well as from their relating to the earliest and most firm
friend Sir Joshua ever had.

   During his residence at Plymouth he first became known to
the family of Mount Edgecumbe ; who warmly patronized
him, and- not only employed him in his profession, but
also strongly recommended him to the Honourable Augustus
Keppel, then a captain in the navy, and afterwards Viscount
Keppel.

   This officer not having been paid off at the peace of Aix la

Chapelle, which took place in 1749^ was now about to be
employed on a service in which all the characteristic qualities
of his mind were, for the first time, eminently called forth.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  19

He had indeed long distinguished himself, as well by his
spirited activity as by his agreeable and accommodating
manners, and at the same time, although still a very young

man, displaying the greatest firmness when either his own or

his country's honour was at hazard.

  At this period the long warfare in which almost all Europe

had been engaged, had given ^opportunities to the commanders

of the various Barbary Corsairs to renew their depredations

on the neighbouring states, and that too without paying
attention to the protectiou of any flag whatsoever.

   Some of these depredations had even been committed on

the English flag, which were in some measure submitted to ;
for though these states were even then well known to be

neither powerful nor rich, rendering it thereby easy to compel
a cessation of hostilities, or to purchase an ialliance, yet it had
been our policy to consider it "as not very safe or prudent,

either to show to an indigent race of barbarous pirates that
they had it in their power to exact tribute from a warlike
nation like Great Britain, or to engage in war with a people
who might, in some measure, be even protected by their very
weakness, --a people upon whom no reprizals could be made,
and whose armaments, such as they were, could be renewed,
as often as they were annihilated, with much less inconvenience

than we must have suffered in destroying them.

- Under these circumstances they continued, during the early
part of 1749, to infest the seas and coasts of the Mediterra-

nean ; when the Pope ordered out all his gallies under Monsieur
20 MEMOIRS OF

de Bussy, to put a stop to their insults, if possible. The

Genoese too, once so powerful as a maritime nation, were now
actually unable to oppose those barbarians at sea, and were
reduced to the prudential measure of merely placing guards
along their coast, in order to prevent their landing, as they
had done in several other places, committing the greatest devast-
ation. They were at length, however, able to furnish three gallies,
which they fitted out and sent to join a force collected at the
particular instance of his Holiness, consisting of four gallies
armed by himself, and two ships of war contributed by the
Grand Master of Malta, with two xebecs and four large settees
from some of the other powers.

   Instead, however, of exerting themselves in defence of Chris-
tendom, this armament permitted eleven Algerine ships to
alarm the whole coast of Naples, where they had proceeded in
hopes of seizing the king whilst he was employed in pheasant-
shooting in the island of Procida ; a design, however, in which
they were frustrated, though their insolence was now roused to
such a pitch, through impunity, that they became totally
regardless of all treaties, and pushed some of their cruizers
into the Atlantic in order to capture British vessels.

   On the 7th of May, 1749, the Prince Frederic packet-
boat arrived at Falmouth, having sailed from Lisbon for
that port upwards of two months before, but had been
captured by four Algerine Corsairs who had carried her
into port, where they detained her twenty-three days, on
pretence that the captain named in the commission was not on
board, and that the money and jewels of which they plundered
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  21

her, were the property "of Jews. They treated the crew,
however, civilly, and did not rob them ; and at length

permitted the vessel to return home. At this period Mr.

Keppel was fitting out at Plymouth Dock, in order to proceed
to the JMediterranean station as commodore ; and Mr.
Ueynolds gladly accepted of an earnest invitation to accompany
him during part of the voyage.

   Orders were instantly given by the Admiralty for fitting out
a squadron consisting of the Centurion, Assurance, Unicorn,
and Sea-horse ; in the former of which the commodore was to

hoist his broad pendant. It was intended also that this

squadron should not only carry out presents for the Dey
of Algiers, buttha tthe Commodore should also be empowered

to demand restitution of the money plundered out of the

Prince Frederic.

   As the equipment of the squadron, however, and the pre-
paration of the presents were likely to occupy some time,
the Commodore had orders to proceed immediately to sea
in his own ship, the Centurion, and accordingly he sailed,
accompanied by Mr. Reynolds, on the 1 1th of May, 1749-

   After a passage, rather tedious in point of time, they arrived
at Lisbon on the 24th of that month, where our young painter
saw several grand religious processions and other ceremo-
nies, novel to him, and which he notices in his memorandums.
After a short stay at Lisbon, they proceeded towards Gibraltar,
where they arrived on the 9th of June, and after a few weeks got
under weigh for Algiers, in order to execute the Commodore's
22 MEMOIRS OF

commission. There they arrived on the 20th of July, and
Mr. Reynolds accompanied the Commodore in his visit of
state, when he had an opportunity of being introduced to the
Dey in the usual form ; but the most friendly assurances being
held out, Commodore Keppel thought it unnecessary to make
any longer stay, and immediately sailed for Port Mahon in
the island of Minorca, at which place Mr. Reynolds went

on shore to live on the 23rd of August.

   Here the friendship of the Commodore, as well as his own
merit, soon introduced him to notice, and he was employed
busily in painting the portraits of almost all the officers in
the garrison, and on the station, much to the improvement
of his skill and fortune.

   To General Blakeney, the Governor, he was much indebted

for polite attention ; as that gentleman not only insisted on his
not being at any expence during his stay on the island for
quarters, but also pressed him to a constant seat at his own
table.

   His stay at Port Mahon was however prolonged much

beyond his original intention, by an unpleasant and indeed
very dangerous accident ; his horse having fallen down a
precipice, by which his face was so much cut as to confine him

to his room. At this time it was, I believe, that his lip was so

much bruised as to oblige him to have part of it cut oif ; from
whence arose that apparent contraction which Mr. Edwards
supposes to have been ov/ing to his subsequent illness at Rome
which brought on his partial deafness.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  25

   His recovery now enabled liim to pursue his original plan,
and he for a time took leave of his friend, who had been

literally so during the whole course of the voyage, treating
him in all respects as a brother, affording him the liberal use
of his cabin and library, and introducing him, when in port,
to the first circles in which he associated.

   Before we follow Mr. Reynolds to Italy, it will not be
irrelevant to notice a subsequent anecdote of his friend the

Commodore, who in the course of the ensuing year found

it necessary to return to Algiers in consequence of the renewed
depredations of the Corsairs. Having proceeded with his

squadron to that place, he anchored in the bay, directly
opposite to, and within gun-shot of, the palace, and then went

on shore, accompanied by his captain, and attended only

by his barge's crew. On his arrival at the palace he demanded
an audience, and on his admission to the Divan, laid open
his embassy, requiring at the same time, in the name of his

sovereign, ample satisfaction for the various injuries done
to the British nation.

   Surprised at the boldness of his remonstrances, and enraged   ^
at his demands of justice, the Dey, despising his apparent
youth, for he was then only four and twenty, exclaimed, that
he wondered at the insolence of the King of Great Britain in
sending him an insignificant beardless boy.

   On this the youthful, but spirited. Commodore is said to
have returned an answer in so determined and fearless a
manner as to rouse all the passions of the tyrant, who, unused
24 MEMOIRS OP

to such language from the sycophants of his court, was so faf
enraged as to forget the law of nations, in respect to embas-
sadors, and actually ordered his mutes to advance with the
bowstring, at the same time telling the Commodore, that
his life should answer for his audacity.

   The Commodore listened to this menace with the utmost

calmness, and being near to a window which looked out upon
the bay, directed the attention of the African chief to the

squadron there at anchor, telling him, that if it was his plea-

sure to put him to death, there were Englishmen enough on
board to make a glorious funeral pile. The Dey, having
cooled a little at this hint, was wise enough to permit the
Commodore to depart in safety, and also to make ample
satisfaction for the damage already done, faithfully promising
to abstain from violence in future.

To return, to our subject--Mr. Reynolds now proceeded for

Leghorn, and from thence to Rome. When arrived in this

Igarden of the world, this great temple of the arts, (where

have enjoyed so much pleasure, now almost fading from my

memory,) his lime was diligently and judiciously employed in

such a manner as might have been expected from one of

his talents and virtue. He contemplated, with unwearied

attention and ardent zeal, the various beauties which marked

the styles of different schools and different ages.  He sought
for truth, taste, and beauty at the fountain head.
                                                     It was with

no common eye that he beheld the productions of the great

masters. He copied and sketched in the Vatican such parts of

the works of Raffaelle and Michael Angelo as he thought would
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  25

}}e most conducive to his future excellence; and by his well

directed study acquired, whilst he contemplated the best
works of the best masters, that grace of thinking to which he

was principally indebted for his subsequent reputation as a

portrait painter. In attending more particularly to this,

he avoided all engagements for copying -works of art for the
various travellers at that time in Rome ; knowing that kind
of era ploy nient, as he afterwards said in a letter to Barry, to

I Ibe totally useless -- " Whilst was at Rome, was very little
Iemployed by them, and that little always considered as so

much time lost."

    Whilst pursuing his studies at Rome, several other English

artists were there, to the same intent ; particularly Mr. John
Astley, who had been his fellow pupil in the school of Hud-

son, and of whom Reynolds used to say, that Astley would
rather run three miles to deliver his message by word of
mouth than venture to write a note. Probably his education
had been neglected ; however, he afterwards became a very
rich man by an advantageous marriage which he contracted
with a wealthy lady of quality. The observation of his bio-
grapher on this event is, that Astley owed his fortune to his
form ; his follies to his fortune : indeed, at the period of his

Ilife now allude to, he was as poor in purse, as he ever was as

an artist.

  It was an usual custom with the English painters at Rome

to meet in the evenings for conversation, and frequently to
make little excursions together in the country. On one of
those occasions, on a summer afternoon, when the season was

                                                         E
26 MEMOIRS OP

particularly hot, the whole company threw off their coats, as
being an incumbrance to them, except poor Astley, who alone
shewed great reluctance to take off his ; this seemed very
unaccountable to his companions, when some jokes, made on
his singularity, at last obliged him to take his coat off also.
The mystery was then immediately explained ; for it appeared,
that the hinder part of his waistcoat was made, by way of
thriftiness, out of one of his own pictures, and thus displayed
a tremendous waterfall on his back, to the great diversion of
all the spectators.

   Mr. Reynolds was too much occupied in his studies to de-

Idicate much time to epistolary correspondence : but think it

not improper to insert here the following letter, as the first

sketch of one he sent to his friend and patron . Lord E.,
written with admirable simplicity of language, and rendered
interesting from the elegant, grateful, and feeling mind it
displays, as well as shewing the absurdity of imputing some

others to his pen.

TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE THE LORD E.

MY LORD,

          I" am now (thanks to your Lordship) at
the height of my wishes, in the midst of the greatest works of
Iart that the world has produced.
Ithough a very pleasant one.       had a very long passage,

                              am at last in Rome, having
Iseen many places and sights which never thought of seeing.
I have been at Lisbon, Cadiz, Gibraltar, Algiers, and Mahon.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                           27

The Commodore staid at Lisbon a. week, in which time there

happened two of the greatest sights that could be seen had he
staid there a whole year, --a bull feast, and the procession of
Corpus Chrisfi. Your Lordship will excuse me if I say, that
Ifrom the kind treatment and great civilities
                                               have received
from the Commodore, I fear I have even laid your Lordship

under obligations to him on my account ; since from nothing

but your Lordship's recommendation I could possibly expect
Ito meet with that polite behaviour with which have always

Ibeen treated : had the use of his cabin, and his study of

books, as if they had been my own ; and when he went ashore
Ihe generally took me with him ; so that not only had an
Iopportunity of seeing a great deal, but saw it with all the
I Iadvantages as if had travelled as his equal. At Cadiz saw
Ianother bull feast.
                      ask your Lordship's pardon for being

guilty of that usual piece of ill manners in speaking so much

Iof myself ; should not have committed it after such favours.
IImpute my not writing to the true reason : thought it

impertinent to write to your Lordship without a proper

Ireason ; to let you know where am, if your Lordship should
Ihave any commands here that am capable of executing.
I ISince have been in Rome, have been looking about the
palaces for a fit picture of which I might take a copy to

present your Lordship with ; though it would have been

much more genteel to have sent the picture without any

previous intimation of it. Any one you choose, the larger

Ithe better, as it will have a more grand effect when hung up,

and a kind of painting like more than little. Though

Iperhaps it will be too great a presumption to expect it,

                      E2
28 MEMOIRS OF

Imust needs own  most impatiently wait for this order from

your Lordship.   I" am, &c, &c.

                 Joshua Reynolds."

   Sir Joshua has himself ingenuously confessed, in his writings,
that at the first sight of Raffaelle's works in the Vatican,
to his great disappointment, he did not relish, or well com-
prehend their merits, but that he studied them till he did.

    Perhaps we may account for this circumstance from the
difference in the dispositions of the two painters : Raffaelle
possessed a grandeur even to severity ; and did not display in
his pictures either the allurements of colour, or any great
effect of light and shade ; parts of the art which delighted
Reynolds, whose natural disposition inclined him solely to the
cultivation of its graces, and of whose works, softness and
captivating sweetness are the chief characteristics.

  It is a curious circumstance, and scarcely to be credited in

the life of an artist so refined, who seems, even from the
earliest dawning of his genius, to have devoted himself to the
service of the graces, that he should ever have been, at any
period, a caricaturist. Y,et this was actually the case during
his residence at Rome, where he painted several pictures of
that kind ; particularly one which is a sort of parody on
Raffaelle's School of Athens, comprising about thirty figures
and representing most of the English gentlemen then in that

Icity : this picture, have been informed, is now in the pes-
/

   SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  29

session of a Mr. Joseph Henry, of StraiYan, in Ireland, whose

portrait also it contains. But I have heard Sir Joshua

himself say, that although it was universally allowed he exe-
cuted subjects of this kind with much humour and spirit, he
yet held it absolutely necessary to abandon the practice, since
it must corrupt his taste as a portrait painter, whose duty it
becomes to aim at discovering the perfections only of those

whom he is to represent.

   After remaining in Italy about three years, in which time
he visited most of the principal cities of that country, he
returned to England by the way of France, and took the road
over Mount Cenis, upon which mountain he very unexpectedly
met with his old master, Hudson, in company with Roubiliac

the famous sculptor, both going to pay a short visit to Rome.

   Of Roubiliac it is a pleasing circumstance to record, that

his own goodness of heart first brought his excellent abilities
into notice, and that his great success in life seems to have

depended, in some degree, on his honest and liberal conduct

soon after he came to England. At that time he was merely

working as a journeyman for a person of the name of Carter,
and the young artist having spent an evening at Vauxhall, on
his return picked up a pocket-book, which he discovered, on
examining it at his lodgings, to contain a considerable number
of Bank notes, together with some papers apparently of

consequence to the owner. He immediately advertised the

circumstance, and a claimant soon appeared, who was so
pleased with the integrity of the youth, and so struck with
his genius, of which he shewed several specimens, that he not
30 MEMOIRS OF

only, being a man of rank and fortune, gave him a handsome
remuneration, but also promised to patronize him through
life, and faithfully performed that promise.

    On the arrival of Mr. Reynolds at Paris he met his friend
Mr. Chambers, the architect (afterwards Sir William), accom-
panied by his wife, then also on their way to Rome ; and whilst
there, he painted the portrait of Mrs. Chambers, which has
since been copied in mezzotinto. With this eminent architect,
indeed, he long continued in habits of intimacy, respecting him
as an instance of genius rising in opposition to circumstance.

   Mr. Chambers, it is pretty generally known, was, though a
Swede by birth, a Briton by descent, having sprung from the
ancient family of Chalmers in Scotland, who were also barons
of Tartas in France : his father was a merchant, and had suf-
fered much in his fortune by supplying Charles the Twelfth

with money and goods during his campaigns, for which he
received nothing more than the base copper coin of that mad
monarch, struck for the purpose in his various emergencies,
and which becoming soon depreciated, the generous and
confiding merchant was involved in ruin.

   At the early age of two years. Sir William was brought to
England and placed at Rippon school in Yorkshire, after
leaving which he was appointed to a situation under the India

Company, which carried him to China : he then returned to
London, and soon displayed those talents for architecture
which introduced him to the notice of the Earl of Bute, who
immediately appointed him drawing master to his present
                     SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  31

Majesty, a situation partly held also by Goupy ; in conse-
que ce of this connection he soon had the management of the
Gardens at Kew.

Sir William Chambers's works in architecture are numerous
in England, Scotland, and Ireland; but the principal and

best of them is Somerset Place, commenced by him in the year

1776, (but not yet fully completed,) under his immediate and
           tiwhneshpipcehrcitnhicoainsp,aglaocnocenoetrshdrianorgueg,tho"thhAirseeoTrreiegdaiinttiiasolendsoe--nsig"CnAisv. iDl isAOsrefcrhthaii-s-
constant

writings
tecture,"

tion on Oriental Gardening," which has gone through two,

and has been elegantly translated into French, by Monsieur

de la Rochet, with Chetqua's Explanatory Discourse, in de-

fence of that work.

   After parting with his friends at Paris, Mr. Reynolds pro-
ceeded for the British metropolis, and on his arrival in Eng-

land, which took place in the month of October, 1752, he
found his health in such an indifferent state, as to judge it

prudent to pay a visit to his native air, and accordingly set

off immediately for Plymouth, during which visit to that
town, he painted the portrait of his friend Dr. Mudge, a
remarkable fine head, of which there is also a print. From
this time a warm, disinterested, and reciprocal friendship sub-
sisted between this truly respectable family of the Mudges

and Mr. Reynolds, who always held them in the highest esteem,

and the friendly connection between them was kept up to the
latest period of his life.
 32 MEMOIRS OF

     This portrait and one other of a young lady were all that he
 undertook whilst at Plymouth, being strongly urged by his
 friend Lord Edgecumbe to return, as soon as possible, to the
 metropolis, as the only place where his fame could be esta-
 blished and his fortune advanced ; in consequence of which
 advice, as soon as his health permitted, he set off for London,
\ and engaged handsome apartments in St. Martin's lane, at that
 time the favorite and fashionable residence of artists, about
 the end of the year 1752.

   At this period, as it is recorded of him, the earliest specimen

he gave of his improvement in the art, was the head of a boy
in a Turkish turban, richly painted, something in the style of
Rembrandt ; which being much talked of, induced his old master,
Hudson, to pay him a visit, when it so much attracted his
attention, that he called every day to see it in its progress, and
perceiving at last no trace of his own manner left, he exclaimed.

   By G--, Reynolds, you don't paint so well as when you left

England 1"

   This little anecdote, however, we must consider as a jest
upon Hudson by some of his contemporaries, or else it would
seem that he had improved but little in taste during his
Italian tour, in his progress to which, Mr. Reynolds had met
him, but the year before, upon Mount Cenis.

   The first pupil whom Mr. Reynolds had under his care was
Giuseppe Marchi, a young Italian whom he brought home
with him from Rome, the place of his birth. He continued
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  3S

with him the principal part of his life, and assisted him in

making his copies, in sitting for attitudes for his portraits,

and in partly painting his draperies. In the latter part of his

Itime he had a salary from Sir Joshua, think about a hun-

dred per year, togetlier with his board and lodging, but left
him many years before his death, and went to Swansea in

Wales, where he practised as a portrait painter ; some time after
he returned again to London, and to Sir Joshua, with whom he

continued till the death of the latter; after which he completed,
as well as he was able, several pictures which Sir Joshua had

left unfinished.

   The picture mentioned above of a boy in a Turkish habit,
was painted from this Giuseppe Marchi by Sir Joshua, soon
after their arrival in England, and is a great likeness ; there
is a mezzotinto print taken from it. Marchi sometimes
scraped in mezzotinto himself, and there are several plates
done by him from the paintings of Reynolds. He died in

ILondon, but at what time do not exactly know.

  It was about the year 1753 that Mr. Reynolds so much

distinguished himself by some of his most admired portraits ;
and he now found his prospects so bright and extensive, that
he removed to a large house on the north side of Great
Newport-street, where he afterwards resided for eight or nine

years.

   This period was the dawn of his splendour ; for his amiable
modesty, accompanied by his extraordinary talents, soon
gained him powerful and active connections : even his earliest

                                                            F
34 MEMOIRS OF

sitters were of the highest rank ; the second portrait which
he painted in London being that of the old Duke of Devon-
shire. Yet Mr. Reynolds, notwithstanding this auspicious
commencement of his career in London, seems to have been

annoyed by the great celebrity of a very mean competitor,
but who, at that time, was the pink of fashion. This was

John Stephen Liotard, a native of Geneva ; he was born in

1702, and was designed for a merchant, but he went to study
at Paris in 1725, and in 1738 accompanied the Marquis de
Puisieux to Rome, who was going embassador to Naples.

At Rome he was taken notice of by the Earls of Sandwich

and Besborough (then Lord Duncannon,) who engaged
Liotard to go with them on a voyage to Constantinople.

   At the Porte he became acquainted with Richard second
Lord Edgecumbe, (who was the particular and early friend of
Mr. Reynolds,) and Sir Everard Fawkener, our embassador,
who persuaded him to come to England. In his journey to
the Levant he had adopted the Eastern habit, and wore it here

with a very long beard. It contributed much to the portraits

of himself, and some thought it was to attract customers.
He painted both in miniature and enamel, though he seldom
practised them : but he is best known by his works in crayons.
His likenesses were very strong, and too like to please those
who sat to him ; thus he had great employment the first year
and very little the second. Devoid of imagination, he could
render nothing but what he saw before his eyes. Freckles,
marks of the small-pox, every thing found its place ; not
so much from fidelity, as because he could not conceive the
absence of any thing that appeared to him. Minuteness pre-
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  35

vailed in all his works, grace in none ; nor was there any ease

in his outlines, but the stiffness of a bust in all his portraits.
Thence his heads want air and the softness of flesh.

  Reynolds gives his opinion of this artist thus : " The only

merit in Liotard's pictures is neatness, which, as a general
rule, is the characteristic of a low genius, or rather no genius

at all. His pictures are just what ladies do when they paint

for th«ir amusement ; nor is there any person, how poor soever
their talents may be, but in a very few years, by dint of prac-
tice, may possess themselves of every qualification in the art
which this great man has got." Liotard was twice in England,

and staid about two years each time.

  In respect to the laborious, and what is called the finished

manner, Sir Joshua used to add, that the high finished manner

of painting would be to be chosen, if it was possible with it

to have that spirit and expression which infallibly fly off when
you labour ; but those are transient beauties which last less
than a moment, and must be painted^in as little time ; besides,
in poring long, the imagination is fatigued and loses its vigour.
You will find nature in the first manner, but it will be nature

stupid and without action. The portraits of Holbein are of

this high finished manner ; and, for colouring and similitude,
what was ever beyond them ? but then you see fixed counte-

nances, and all the features seem to remain immoveable.
Gerard Vanderwerf also --^how spiritless are his figures !

  Mr. Reynolds now exerted his talents to the utmost of their

powers, and produced a singularly fine whole length portrait

                                                        F2
36 MEMOIRS OF

of his patron Commodore Keppel, in which he appears to be
walking with a quick pace on the sea-shore, and in a storm.
This picture, by its excellence and the novelty of the attitude,

Iattracted general notice ; and its design, as have been in-

formed, and perhaps with some truth, arose from the following
interesting circumstance in the life of his noble friend.

   Mr. Keppel having been appointed to the command of the

Maidstone frigate in the year 1746, soon after his return from
the eventful voyage under Commodore Anson, he was unfor-
tunately wrecked in that ship, on the coast of France, on the

7th of July in the subsequent year ; for running close in

shore, in pursuit of a French privateer, in the vicinity of
Nantz, she struck and soon afterwards went to pieces. Cap-
tain Keppel, by his skill and active exertions, saved the lives
of his crew ; but they were immediately made prisoners : they,
as well as he, were treated with great hospitality and polite-
ness, and he himself was in a few weeks permitted to return
to England, when a court-martial, as usual upon such occa-
sions, was held upon him, and he was honourably acquitted
from all blame respecting the loss he had sustained.

   The portrait represents him as just escaped from ship-
wreck ; and has since been engraved by Fisher, that most
exact and laborious artist, of whom Sir Joshua used to say,
that he was injudiciously exact in his prints, which were
mostly in the mezzotinto style, and wasted his time in making
the precise shape of every leaf on a tree with as much care as
he would bestow on the features of a portrait. Fisher himself
was not, indeed, brought up to the art ; it is said that he was
                      SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  37

originally a hatter:  has, however, made some good copies

of several of Sir Joshua's best pictures, particularly those

of Garrick and Lady Sarah Bunbury.

    The novelty and expression introduced in his portrait of
Mr. Keppel, were powerful stimulants to the public taste;
and, as it has been well observed by one of his biographers, he

" soon saw how much animation might be obtained by

deviating from the insipid manner of his immediate predeces-
sors ; hence in many of his portraits, particularly when

combined in family groups, we find much of the variety and
spirit of a higher species of art. Instead of confining himself
to mere likeness, in which, however, he was eminently
happy, he dived, as it were, into the minds, and manners, and

habits, of those who sat to him ; and accordingly the majority
of his portraits are so appropriate and characteristic, that the

many illustrious persons whom he has delineated, will be
almost as well known to posterity, as if they had seen and

conversed with them."

    Soon after this he added to his celebrity by his picture
of Miss Greville and her brother, as Cupid and Psyche, which,
it has been well observed, he composed and executed in a
style superior to any portraits that had been produced in this
kingdom since the days of Vandyke.

   He was now employed to paint several ladies of high
quality, whose portraits the polite world flocked to see, and
he soon became one of the most distinguished painters, not
only in England, but in Europe. For it should be remarked.
88 MEMOIRS OP

that at this time there were no historical works to make
a demand upon the painter's skill : and though it may seem a

curious observation, it will nevertheless be found, on exami-

nation, to be one most true, that hitherto this empire of Great
Britain, so great, so rich, so magnificent, so benevolent, so
abundant in all the luxury that the most ample wealth could
procure, even this exalted empire had never yet been able
to keep above one single historical painter from starving,
whilst portrait painters have swarmed in a plenty at all times

thick as " autumnal leaves in Vallombrosa."

  A true taste was wanting ; vajiity, however, was not want-

ing; and the desire to perpetuate the form of self-complacency
crowded his sitting room with women who wished to be
transmitted as angels, and with men who wanted to appear as
heroes and philosophers. From Reynolds's pencil they were
sure to be gratified. The force and felicity of his portraits not
only drew around him the opulence and beauty of the nation,
but happily gained him the merited honour of perpetuating
the features of all the eminent and distinguished men of
learning then living ; with most of whom (sq attractive were
his manners as well as his talents) he contracted an intimacy
which only ended with life. In this assemblage of genius,
each was improved by each. Reynolds, like a man of a great
mind, always cultivated the acquaintance and friendship of the
first characters of his time ; and often assisted those who were
in difficulties, both with his advice and iiis purse.

    He had a mind ever open and desirous to acquire useful
 information, a sound and penetrating judgment to select and
               SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                       39

separate what he acquired, and infinite industry and applica-
tion in rendering it serviceable to its proper purpose.

It was not my good fortune to be personally acquainted

with him at this early period of his fame, when he first became

intimate with  sthaeys,(af"terSwirardJoss) hugraeaRteDynr.olJdoshnwsoasn   ; to whom, as

Mr. Boswell                                                               truly his duke

decus, and with whom he maintained an uninterrupted intimacy
Ito the last hour of his life."
                                 shall therefore avail myself of

the very just account of the event, as related by Mr. Malone

in the sketch prefixed to his works.

" Very soon after Sir Joshua's return from Italy, his

acquaintance wdth Dr. Johnson commenced ; and their inti-

macy continued uninterrupted to the time of Johnson's death.

Happening to meet with the Life of Savage, in Devonshire,

which, though  published some years   before, was new to                  him, he
began to read                         has informed us,)
               it," (as Mr. Boswell                                       " while

he was standing with his arm leaning against a chimney-piece.

It seized his attention so strongly, that, not being able to lay

down the book till he had finished it, when he attempted to

move, he found his arm totally benumbed." Being then

unacquainted with the author, he must naturally have had a

strong desire to see and converse with that extraordinary man ;

and, as the same writer relates, he, about this time, was

introduced to him. When Johnson lived in Castle-street,

Cavendish-square, he used to visit two ladies who resided at

that time in Newport-street, opposite to Reynolds's, Miss

Cotterells, daughters of Admiral Cotterell ; Reynolds used to

Ivisit there also, and thus they met. Mr. Reynolds, as have
40 MEMOIRS OF

observed above, had, from the first reading of his Life of

Savage, conceived a very high admiration of Johnson's

powers as a writer. His conversation no less delighted him,

and he cultivated his acquaintance with the laudable zeal of

one who was ambitious of general improvement. Sir Joshua,

indeed, was lucky enough, at their very first meeting, to make a

remark, which was so much above the common place style of

conversation, that Johnson at once perceived that Reynolds
had the habit of thinking for himself. The ladies were regret-

ting the death of a friend, to whom they owed great obliga-
tions ; upon which Reynolds observed, " You have, however,

the comfort of being relieved from the burden of gratitude."

They were shocked a little at this alleviating suggestion, as

   too selfish ; but Johnson defended it in his clear and forcible
   manner, and was much pleased with the mind, the fair view of
· human nature it exhibited, like some of the Reflections ot

Rochefoucault. The consequence was, that he went home

with Reynolds, and supped with him. Sir Joshua used to
relate a characteristic anecdote of Johnson. About the

time of their first acquaintance, when they were one evening
together at the Miss Cotterells, the then Duchess of Argyle
and another lady of high rank came in : Johnson, thinking

that the Miss Cotterells were too much engrossed by them,

and that he and his friend were neglected as low company, of

whom they were somewhat ashamed, grew angry ; and
resolving to shock their supposed pride, by making their

great visitors imagine they were low     indeed,   he addressed
                                          saying,
himself in a loud tone to Mr. Reynolds,            " How much
Ido you think you and could get in a week, if we were to work
Vas hard as we could
                      as if they had been common mechanics.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                 41

   This anecdote, as it- relates to Johnson, betrays in him
more of pride, envy, and vulgarity, than of the patience of
philosophy, totally unlike the disposition of his companion

to whom he addressed his speech.

  IAnother anecdote, which heard related by Sir Joshua's

sister, serves to shew how susceptible Johnson's pride was of

the least degree of mortification.

  At the time when Sir Joshua resided in Newport-street, he

one afternoon, accompanied by his sister Frances, paid a visit
to the Miss Cotterells, who lived much in the fashionable
world. Johnson was also of the party on this tea visit; and at

that time being very poor, he was, as might be expected,
rather shabbily and slovenly apparelled. The maid servant,
by accident, attended at the door to let them in, but did not
know Johnson, although he had been a frequent visitor at the

house, he having always been attended by the man servant.

Johnson was the last of the three that came in ; when the

servant maid, seeing this uncouth and dirty figure of a man,

and not conceiving he could be one of the company who came

to visit her mistresses, laid hold of his coat just as he was

going up stairs, and pulled him back again, saying,  You
Ifellow, what is your business here ? suppose you intended

to rob the house.'' This most unlucky accident threw poor

Johnson into such a fit of shame and anger, that he roared

out, like a bull, for he could not immediately articulate, and

Iwas with difficulty at last able to utter, What have done ?
IWhat have done ?" Nor could he recover himself for the

remainder of the evening from this mortifying circumstance.

G
42 MEMOIRS OF

   Of these ladies, the Miss Cotterells, so often mentioned in

Johnson's Biography, as well as by the different writers who
speak of Sir Joshua, it will not be reckoned obtrusive here to
notice that they were the daughters of a very respectable naval
officer, Rear Admiral Charles Cotterell, who, towards the latter
part of his life, was not employed in the service, having been
put on the superannuated list of flag-officers in 1747- He
died in 1754, very soon after Sir Joshua's acquaintance took

place with his family. His first appointment to the command
of a ship was in 1726, when he succeeded Sir Yclverton

Peyton in the Diamond frigate ; and five years afterwards he
was removed to the Princess Louisa, a line of battle ship. On
the rupture with Spain, in 1739? he was commissioned in the
Lion, of sixty guns, and served with Sir John Norris in the
Channel fleet during the ensuing summer ; after which he
was ordered to proceed to the West Indies, in a squadron
commanded by Sir Chaloner Ogle, for the express purpose of
reinforcing Admiral Vernon, previous to the attack upon
Carthagena. Captain Cotterell was actively engaged in that
service, and, soon after its failure, returned to England ; when,
his ship being paid off, he was appointed to the command of

the Canterbury, in 1742. In that ship he went on service to

Gibraltar, and on his return was promoted to the Royal
George, in which ship he served for some time in the Channel
fleet ; but this was his last commission, as he remained unem-

ployed after her being paid off, and, according to the etiquette
of the service, lost his flag, not being in actual service, and in
full pay, when the promotion took place in 1747-

  I have recorded this veteran's services the more particu-
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  43

larly as his daughters have been so often mentioned : and in
unison with the preceding anecdote of the Doctor, whose

external appearance had so much deceived the servant at the

Miss Cotterells, I may also note, that Johnson, it is well

known, was as remarkably uncouth in his gait and action, as

slovenly in his dress, insomuch as to attract the attention of

passengers who by chance met him in the street. Once, par-

ticularly, he was thus annoyed by an impertinent fellow, who
noticed him, and insultingly imitated him in derision so ludi-
crously, that the Doctor could not avoid seeing it, and was
obliged to resent it, which he did in this manner : " Ah !" said

IJohnson, " you are a very weak fellow, and will convince

you of it when immediately he gave him a blow, which
knocked the man out of the foot-path into the dirty street
flat on his back, and the Doctor walked calmly on.

   Another circumstance Sir Joshua used to mention relative
to Dr. Johnson, which gives an idea of the situation and mode
of living of that great philosopher in the early part of his life.

   Roubiliac, the famous sculptor, desired of Sir Joshua that

he would introduce him to Dr. Johnson, at the time when

the Doctor lived in Gough-square, Fleet-street. His object

was to prevail on Johnson to write an epitaph for a monu-
ment, on which Roubiliac was then engaged for Westminster
Abbey. Sir Joshua accordingly introduced the Sculptor to
the Doctor, they being strangers to each other, and Johnson
received him with much civility, and took them up into a
garret, which he considered as his library ; in which, besides
his books, all covered with dust, there was an old crazy deal

                                                        G2
44 MEMOIRS OF

table, and a still worse and older elbow chair, having only

three legs. In this chair Johnson seated himself, after having,

with considerable dexterity and evident practice, first drawn
it up against the wall, which served to support it on that side
on which the leg was deficient. He then took up his pen,
and demanded what they wanted him to write. On this
Roubiliac, who was a true Frenchman, (as may be seen by his
works,) began a most bombastic and ridiculous harangue, on
what he thought should be the kind of epitaph most proper
for the purpose, all which the Doctor was to write down for
him in correct language ; when Johnson, who could not
suffer any one to dictate to him, quickly interrupted him in
an angry tone of voice, saying, Come, come. Sir, let us have
no more of this bombastic, ridiculous rhodoraontade, but let

me know, in simple language, the name, character, and
quality, of the person whose epitaph you intend to have me
write."

   Such was the first interview of two men both eminent for

Igenius ; and of Roubiliac may here record another anecdote

which took place on the return of that Sculptor from Rome,

when he paid a visit to Reynolds, and expressed himself in
raptures on what he had seen on the Continent -- on the

aenxdquilsuitxeurbiaenaut tsyploefntdhoeurwoorfksBeorfnainnti.iqui"tyI,t  and the captivating
                                                                           is natural to sup-
I Ipose," said he, " that
was infinitely impatient till had

taken a survey of my own performances in Westminster Abbey,

after having seen such a variety of excellence, and by G
my own work looked to me meagre and starved, as if made of

nothing but tobacco-pipes."
I

                       SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.   45

  A strong proof this of the improvement he had gained from

his tour to the Continent, of his candor, and uncommon

humility.

Doctor Johnson had a sjreat desire to cultivate the friend-

ship of Richardson, the author of Clarissa, and with this view

paid him frequent visits. These were received very coldly by
            "
Ithe latter;"  but,"   observed the Doctor (in speaking of this to

a friend),        was  determined to persist till I had gained my
I Ipoint ; because knew very well, that when
                                              had once

overcome his reluctance and shyness of humour, our

intimacy would contribute much to the happiness of both."

The event verified the Doctor's prediction.

  It must, however, be remarked, that an intimacy with

Johnson was always attended with a certain portion of
inconvenience to persons whose time was much occupied,
as his visits to those he liked were long, frequent, and very
irregular in the hours.

   The Doctor's intercourse with Sir Joshua was at first pro-
duced in the same manner as is described in respect to Richard-
son. He frequently called in the evening, and remained to a
late hour, when Sir Joshua was desirous of going into new
company, after having been harassed by his professional occu-
pations the whole day. This sometimes overcame his patience
to such a degree, that, one evening in particular, on entering
the room where Johnson was waiting to 3ee him, he imme-
diately took up his hat and went ouc of tlie house. Rey-

nolds hoped by this means he would have been effectually
46 MEMOIRS OP

cured ; but Johnson still persisted, and at last gained his
friendship.

   Johnson introduced Sir Joshua and his sister to Richardson,
but hinted to them, at the same time, that if th^y wished to

see the latter in good humour, they must expatiate on the
excellencies of his Clarissa.

   Johnson soon became a frequent visitor at Sir Joshua's,
particularly at Miss Reynolds's tea-table, where lie had every
opportunity of female conversation whilst drinking his favorite

beverage.

Indeed his visits were not alone to Sir Joshua, but to Miss

Reynolds, for whom he had the highest respect and venera-

tion ; to such a degree, that some years afterwards, whilst

Ithe company at Mr.                           upon a micro-
                                               never saw one
scope for the mind,
                   Thrale's were speculating

                    Johnson exclaimed, "

that would bear it, except that of my dear Miss Reynolds,

and her's is very near to purity itself."

There is no doubt that Miss Reynolds gained much of his

good-will by her good-humoured attention to his extraordi-

nary predilection for tea, he himself saying, that he wished his

tea-kettle never to be cold ; but Sir Joshua having once,

whilst spending the evening at Mr. Cumberland's, reminded

himof

Ithathe
    the enormous quantity    hJeohnAvsaos nswreaplloliwedin, g",  observing
     had drank eleven cups,                                       Sir, did

not count your glasses of wine, why then should you number

up my cups of tea
                      SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                             47

Johnson's extraordinary, or rather extravagant, fondness for

this refreshment did not fail to excite notice wherever he went ;

and it is related, though not by Boswell, that whilst on his

Scottish tour, and spending some time at Dunvegan, the

castle of the chief of the Macleods, the Dowager Lady

Macleod having repeatedly helped him, until she had poured

out sixteen cups, she then asked him, if a small bason would
"Inot save him trouble                                       --
                                                                       wonder,
Madam," answered he                                            ladies   ask me
                      arnodugbhely,mo"rewahgyreaelalbltehe?
such questions ! It is to save yourselves trouble, Madam, and

not me." The lady was silent, and resumed her task. Every

reader, in this place, will recollect the so often told anecdote

of his versification at Miss Reynolds's tea table, when criticis-
ing Percy's Reliques, and imitating his ballad style--

       " Oh ! hear it then my Renny dear,   v
       " Nor hear it with a frown --
' " You cannot make the tea so fast,

      I" As can gulp it down."

Doctor Johnson's high opinion of Sir Joshua Reynolds was

formed at a very early period of their intimacy, and increased,

instead of diminishing, through life. Once at Mr. Thrale's,
when Sir Joshua left the room, Johnson observed, " There

goes a man   not to   be spoiled by prosperity ;"-- and on another
occasion he
             said, "  A story is a specimen of human manners, and

derives its sole merit from its truth : when Foote has told me
something, I dismiss it from my mind like a passing shadow :
Iwhen Reynolds tells me something,
                                            consider myself as

possessed of an idea the more."
48 MEMOIRS OF

   In 17«^3, the artists began to exert themselves to give some
kind of public eclat to their profession, and an Academy of
Arts was proposed to be instituted. For this purpose a meet-

ing was called by circular letter, in order to adopt the first
principles for its foundation ; but some jealousies and dis-

agreements prevented any thing being done : indeed, some
invidious persons were so anxious to thwart every thing
connected with the improvement of the national taste, that
they even descended to treat this as a subject fit for caricature,
and published some satirical prints, in which they attempted
to point ridicule at the most active friends to the measure.

These prints, however, if they had any effect at the time, are

now sunk in oblivion, and are no where to be found.

In 1755 Mr. Reynolds was still advancing in fame. His

price in that year was twelve guineas for a head only, and for

half and whole lengths in proportion. It was about this time

too, that a conversation took place between him and Johnson,

which may, in some measure, be considered as a kind of

apology on the part of Johnson,

Ifforced himself into an intimacy
for having, in some degree,

; when Johnson said, " a

man does not make new acquaintance as he advances through

life, he will soon find himself alone : a man. Sir, should keep

his friendship in constant repair."

   From a letter of Dr. Johnson to Bennet Langton, in the
year 1758, we find that the fame of Mr. Reynolds had so far

increased, as to justify him in raising his price pretty con-
siderably. He says -- " Mr. Reynolds has this day (January
9th) raised his price to twenty guineas a head, and Miss is
               SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                   49

Imuch employed in miniatures.  know not any body else

whose prosperity has increased since you left them."

   Notwithstanding Sir Joshua's prosperity was now so great as
to occupy the whole of his time, yet in the succeeding year he
found leisure to produce his first efforts in the literary way,
consisting of three papers for the Idler, then conducted and

principally executed by his friend Johnson. At that time,

indeed, Johnson was under many obligations, as well as those
literary ones, to Sir Joshua, whose generous kindness would
never permit his friends to ask a pecuniary favour, his purse

and heart being always open.

   Johnson, however, still preserved the strong spirit of inde-

pendent exertion ; and being at this period pushed for money
to defray the expences of his mother's funeral, and to settle

some little debts she had left, he sat down to his " Rasselas,"

which, as he afterwards informed Sir Joshua, he composed in
the evenings of a single week, having it printed as rapidly as
it was written, and even not reading it over until several years
afterwards, when finding it accidentally in a chaise, whilst
travelling in company with Mr. Boswell. Yet this work, so
hastily written, enabled the publisher to pay him the sum of
one hundred and twenty-five pounds.

I have heard Sir Joshua repeat a speech which the Doctor

made about this time, and in which he gave himself credit in
Itwo particulars:--" There are two things,'' said he, " which
Iam confident
               can do very well : one is an introduction to

any literary work, stating what it is to contain, and how it      ^

               H
50 MEMOIRS OF

should be executed in the most perfect manner ; the other is a
conclusion, shewing, from various causes, why the execution
has not been equal to what the author promised to himself and
to the public."

  IThe papers in the Idler, to which have alluded, are the

Numbers 76, 79? and 82, written between September and

November, 1759- In the first of these he ridicules, with con-

siderable humour, the cant of ignorant and presuming connois-
seurs, who, trusting to narrow rules, are often guided by false
principles ; and even though these should be correct, are still
totally unqualified to form a just estimation of the sublime
beauties in works of genius : and in this Essay he states a
position which, given with his ingenuity, has an appearance of
as much novelty as truth, that whatever part of an art can be
executed or criticised by rules, that part is no longer the
work of genius, which implies excellence out of the reach of

rules : so that, as he adds, if a man has not correct perceptions,

it will be in vain for him to endeavour to supply their place by
rules, which, though they may certainly enable him to talk
more learnedly, will never teach him to distinguish more acutely.

In laying down these positions, he does not, however, assert

that rules are absolutely injurious to a just perception of
works of taste and genius, or to their execution ; but merely
censures that scrupulous and servile attention to minute
exactness or frivolous ornament, which are sometimes incon-
sistent with higher excellence, and always lost in the blaze of

expanded genius.

    In his second Essay he displays a considerable depth of
                    SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                  M

thought,     and    great quickness    of perception, on   the just
meaning                              to imitate nature."  He shews
            of the  general rule, "

tliat a mere literal adherence to this rule would baulk every

flight of fancy in tlie painter, though these flights are what

serve to immortalize the poet; such imitation, if conducted

servilely, being a species of drudgery to which the painter of

genius can never stoop, and one in which even the under-

standing has no part, being merely a mechanical effort. He

further shews, that Painting has its best plea for claiming

kindred with its sister, Poetry, from the power which, like

her, it can exercise over the imagination ; and as he adds,

it is to this power that the painter of genius directs

his aim : in this sense he studies nature, and often

arrives at his end, even by being unnatural, in the confined

sense of the word. His concluding remarks in this Essay, on

the works   of Michael   Athnagtel"o,enctohnutsaiainsmin  themselves a volume of
criticism,  and display                                   of intellectual energy,"

by which he was always moved, when speaking of, or contem-

plating the productions of, those masters most eminent for

their intellectual power.

   In the third Essay, his delinition of beauty is as clear and
distinct as his conception of it was accurate : and from
the inference he draws -- that the works of nature, if we

compare one species with another, are all equally beautiful,
and that preference is given from custom, or from some asso-
ciation of ideas, and thus, that in creatures of the same

species, beauty is the medium or centre of all its various forms --
he again illustrates and confirms the principle of his first

Essay, proving that the painter, by attending to the invariable

                                                  H2
52 MEMOIRS OF

and general ideas of nature, produces beauty; but that, if

he regards minute particularities and accidental discrimina-

tions, so far will he deviate from the universal rule, and

pollute his canvas with deformity. Indeed, those papers
may be considered as a kind of syllabus of all his future

Idiscourses, and certainly occasioned him some thinking
in their composition.  have heard Sir Joshua say, that

Johnson required them from him on a sudden emergency, and

on that account he sat up the whole night to complete

them in time; and by it he was so much disordered, that

it produced a vertigo in his head.

   The efforts of Mr. Reynolds had not only produced an
improvement in the art, in consequence of the number of

professional men who imitated his style, but had also infused
such a taste in the public at large, that in the year I76O they
were content to pay twenty-five guineas for a head.

   This improved taste in portrait painting had also extended
itself to other departments of the art, which even but ten
years before had been at but a low ebb in public opinion ; for
though the artists had contrived to support, by annual
subscription, an academy in St. MartinVlane, governed by a
committee of the whole body, yet that whole body consisted

of but a very small number.

   The public attention, indeed, had been fortunately, in some
measure, engaged by the paintings which several of the
professors had gratuitously bestowed on the Foundling Hos-
pital ; and the body of artists were, from the result of this
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  53

experiment, stimulated to form a general exhibition of their
several works, which first took place in this year ; and the
exhibition so far succeeded, as to have the double effect of

amusing and enlightening the public, whilst the artists them-
selves were also gaiiiers by the spirit of emulation excited by
competition : for as Edwards observes, from the time of the
accession of his present Majesty to the throne, the arts have
made more rapid advances towards perfection in Great Britain,
than ever was known in any other country in so short a

space of time.

   Finding himself now sufficiently established to move in a
higher sphere, Mr. Reynolds quitted his residence in Newport-
street, and removed to Leicester-fields, where he had bought
a handsome house on the west side of the square ; to which

he added a splendid gallery for the exhibition of his works,

and a commodious and elesjant room for his sitters. In this

Ispeculation, as have heard him confess, he laid out almost

the whole of the property he had then realized. He also set
up a handsome carriage ; and his mode of living was in other

respects suitably elegant.

   Johnson, this year, in a letter to Barretti, alludes to the

general exhibition just established, saying -- " The artists have
instituted a yearly exhibition of pictures and statues, in imi-

Itation, am told, of foreign academies. This year was the

second exhibition. They please themselves much with the

multitude of spectators, and imagine that the English school
will rise much in reputation. Reynolds is without a rival, and

continues to add thousands to thousands, which he deserves,
54 MEMOIRS OF

among other excellencies, by retaining his kindness for
Barretti."

 ' This exhibition lias filled the heads of the artists, and lovers
of Art. Surely life, if it be not long, is tedious ; since we are
forced to call in the assistance of so many trifles, to rid us of
our time -- of that time which never can return."

   The cynical turn of this latter observation is certainly not
in unison with the sentiments which dictated the former part
of the passage ; but we must make allowances not only for
the want of perception of the beauties of painting, which was
the natural consequence of Johnson's near-sightedness, but
also for that species of envy which perhaps even Johnson felt
when comparing his own annual gains with those of his
fortunate friend.

   At the first exhibition opened by the artists, the Catalogue

was the ticket of admission by which whole companies could
be admitted ; but this mode was found, by experiment, to
produce little other than tumult, and it was then considered
as absolutely necessary to demand one shilling admission from
each person, Johnson, although he speaks so superciliously
of the arts, yet willingly employed his pen in composing
a Preface to the Catalogue which was then given gratis : but
as this was a new regulation, it was thought requisite by the
artists to give reasons to the public for this alteration ; and, as
Johnson has done this so well in his forcible and clear
language, explaining the nature and intention of the exhibition,
and also has given so essential a part of historical information
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                       55

Iin the region of the arts,  apprehend no apology can be

necessary for inserting it in this place.

                             Written by Dr. Johnson.

   " The public may justly require to be informed of the

nature and extent of everv desio;n for which the favour of the
public is openly solicited. The artists, who were themselves
the first promoters of an exhibition in this nation, and who
have now contributed to the following Catalogue, think it,
therefore, necessary to explain their purpose, and justify their
conduct. An exhibition of the works of art being a spectacle
new in the kingdom, has raised various opinions and con-
jectures among those who are unacquainted with the practice
of foreign nations. Those who set their performances to
general view, have too often been considered the rivals of each

other ; as men actuated, if not by avarice, at least by vanity,
and contending for superiority of fame, though not for a pecu-

niary prize. It cannot be denied or doubted, that all who

offer themselves to criticism are desirous of praise ; this desire
is not only innocent but virtuous, while it is undebased by
artifice, and unpolluted by envy ; and of envy or artifice those

men can never be accused, who, already enjoying all the
honours and profits of their profession, are content to stand
candidates for public notice, with genius yet unexperienced,
and diligence yet unrewarded ; who, without any hope of
increasing their own reputation or interest, expose their names
and their works, only that they may furnish an opportunity of
appearance to the young, the diffident, and the neglected.
56 MEMOIRS OF

The purpose of this exhibition is not to enrich the artist, but
to advance the art ; the eminent are not flattered with pre-
ference, nor the obscure insulted with contempt ; whoever
hopes to deserve public favour, is here invited to display his
merit. Of the price put upon this exhibition, some account
may be demanded. Whoever sets his works to be sliewn,
naturally desires a multitude of spectators ; but his desire
defeats its own end, when spectators assemble in such numbers
as to obstruct one another.

   " Though we are far from wishing to diminish the pleasures,

or depreciate the sentiments of any class of the community,
we knoAV, however, what every one knows, that all cannot be
judges or purchasers of works of art. Yet we have already
found, by experience, that all are desirous to see an exhibition.
When the terms of admission were low, the room was thronged

with such multitudes, as made access dangerous, and frightened

away those whose approbation was most desired.

   " Yet because it is seldom believed that money is got but

for the love of money, we shall tell the use which we intend
to make of our expected profits. Many artists of great abili-
ties are unable to sell their works for their due price : --to
remove this inconvenience, an annual sale will be appointed,
to which every man may send his works, and them, if he will,
without his name. Those works will be reviewed by the
committee that conduct the exhibition ; a price will be

secretly set on every piece, and registered by the secretary ; if

the piece exposed is sold for more, the whole price shall be the

artist's ; but if the purchasers value it at less than the
                SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                57

committee, the artist shall be paid the deficiency from the
profits of the exhibition."

   In 1762, the famous affair of the Cock-lane Ghost took

place, in which Johnson acted rather a prominent part.

Mr. Reynolds, however, had too little taste for those wander-
ings of the imagination to join in the absurdity which gave

credeiice to this juggling business; he therefore escaped that
severity of censure which very justly fell upon Johnson and

several others.

At this time he was particularly noticed by the pen of

Sterne, in the sixth volume of his Tristram Shandy, just then

published ; and there too is noticed that want of stability in

the colours of Sir Joshua, which has, in many instances, been

very severely, and sometimes even unjustly, adverted to. He
Isays,
        would not answer for my aunt Dinah, was she alive,
-- faith scarce for her picture -- were it but painted by Reynolds

I--but if go on with my drawing, after naming that son of ^
Apollo, I'll be shot."
                         And again,  in describing   the attitude
of Corporal Trim, in                 Sermon, he
                        reading the                 says, " Nat

Reynolds, great and graceful as he is, could have conceived

one superior."

   In the same year Reynolds produced the so much celebrated
picture of Garrick between Tragedy and Comedy, to which

there could not be a much higher compliment paid than in

the opening of the Epilogue to the " Brothers," by Cumber-

land.

                                             I
 58 MEMOIRS OP

                     " Who but hath seen the celebrated strife,

                            Where Reynolds calls the canvas into life,
                         And 'twixt the Tragic and the Comic muse.
                         Courted of both, and dubious which to choose,
                         Th' immortal actor stands."

    For this picture the Earl of Halifax paid three hundred
guineas ; but it has since been purchased, by Mr. Angerstein,

 at two hundred and fifty.

    Mr. Garrick's intimacy with Mr. Reynolds had been now
formed for some years, and it continued until the close of the

Iformer's life ; of course had many opportunities of observing

that great actor, and of acquiring many anecdotes about him.

   To give to all these their due chronological order, would be

Ian unnecessary precision ; shall, therefore, insert some of

them in the present place, from their being particularly
connected with the subject of this biography.

   David Garrick sat many times to Sir Joshua Reynolds for

different portraits. At one of those sittings he gave a very

lively account of his having sat once for his portrait to an
indifferent painter, whom he wantonly teazed ; for when the
artist had worked on the face till he had drawn it very cor-
rectly, as he saw it at the time, Garrick caught an opportunity,
whilst the painter was not looking at him, totally to change
his countenance and expression, when the poor painter
patiently worked oji to alter the picture and make it like what
he then saw ; and when Garrick perceived that it was thus
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                      5^

altered, he seized another opportunity, and changed his coun-
tenance to a third character, which, when the poor tantaUzed
artist perceived, hf\ in a great rage, threw down his pallet and
pencils on the floor, saying, he believed he was painting from
the devil, and would do no more to the picture.

IAs a contrast to the foregoing anecdote of Garrick,

remember that Mrs. Yates, the famous tragedian, when      she

Isat for her portrait to Sir Joshua Reynolds, said to him,"

always endeavour to keep the same expression and counte-
I Inance when sit to you, Sir Joshua ; and, therefore,
                                                         gene-

rally direct my thoughts to one and the same subject.'^

   Once, when the Bishop of St. Asaph was sitting to Sir Joshua,
the conversation turning on Garrick, the Bishop asked him,
how it was that Garrick had not been able to make any

excellent players with all his instructions? and Sir Joshua's
answer was, -- Partly because they all imitate him, and
then it became impossible : as this was like a man's resolving
to go always behind another ; and whilst this resolution
lasts, it renders it impossible he should ever be on a par with
him."

   Sir Joshua Reynolds had it long in contemplation to paint
a picture of an extensive composition, purposely to display
the various powers of David Garrick as an actor. The
principal figure in the front was to have been a full length of
Garrick, in his own proper habit, in the action of speaking a

prologue, surrounded by groups of figures representing him in
                                         I2
60 MEMOIRS OF

all the different characters, by personifying which he had
gained fame on the stage.

This scheilie Sir Joshua described to Garrick, at the time

he was painting his portrait ; and Garrick expressed great

              he heard   it, and seemed   to enjoy    the idea
                        That will be the  very thing     desire ;
             saying, "
pleasure when

Iprodigiously ;
                        I, that
the only way, by G               can be handed down to

posterity."

  It is much to be regretted, however, that this picture was

never begun, as, from such a hand as Sir Joshua's, the work
would have been invaluable, supposing it even to have been
left in an unfinished state. But we may conclude, that Sir
Joshua, on mature consideration, foresaw that the subject was

not eminently calculated to make a good composition for a

painting.

   On Sunday mornings, there was always a kind of public
levee at Mr. Garrick's house, where, at one time or other,

all the most illustrious characters of the kingdom might be

seen. On one of those public mornings, Mr. B          W,

an eminent painter, paid a visit to Mr. Garrick, and took in

his hand his little daughter, telling her, before hand, that he

would carry her to see the greatest stage player in the world.
When they were in the room, and in the midst of this splendid

company, the child ran up to her father, and speaking with a

voice sufficiently audible to be heard by every one there, said

  IFather, father, be all these folks that see liere stage-
         SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  6*1

players  Her fatlier was not a little disconcerted at the

child's abrupt speech.

   When Garrick once complained to Sir Joshua of the daily
sarcasms with which he was annoyed from Foote, the comedian.
Sir Joshua answered, that Foote, in so doing, gave the strongest
proofs possible of sensibly feeling his own inferiority ; as it was

always the lesser man who condescended to become malignant

and abusive.

   Dr. Mudge, when in Garrick's company at Mount Edge-
cumbe, heard him say, that his regard for his mother's peace
and happiness prevented him from appearing on the stage
till after her death, and that he imagined this circumstance
greatly contributed to the vast success he had met with ; for
being then turned of thirty, his judgment was more mature,
and occasioned his avoiding many errors which he might
have run into had he begun earlier in life'.

  I also remember to have heard old Dr. Chauncey say,

at Sir Joshua's table, that he saw Garrick at his first appear-
ance on the stage in Goodman's-fields, at which time he was
infinitely more excellent, more pureW natural than afterwards,
when he had acquired many stage tricks and bad habits.

  I shall here close these anecdotes with a curious thou£jh rather

too severe a criticism on the manner of Garrick's performing
the part of King Richard the Third. On the morning after
Garrick had appeared in that part, Gibbon the historian
6£ MEMOIRS OF

called on Sir Joshua, when he mentioned his having been
at the play on the preceding evening, and immediately began
to criticise Garrick^s manner of acting that character. He
said he thought that he gave it, in the first scenes, a mean,
creeping, vulgar air, totally failing in the impression of a
prince; and in the latter part so very different a cast, that it did
not seem to be the same person, and therefore not in harmony

as a whole.

   In the autumn of the year 1762, Mr. Reynolds having

impaired his health by incessant application to his profession,
again paid a visit to his native country, accompanied by his
friend Dr. Johnson, with whom he was entertained at the seats
of several noblemen and gentlemen in the west of England.

   During their stay at Plymouth, they were the guests of Dr.
John Mudge, who was then a surgeon, and afterwards an
eminent physician of that town ; a man whose virtues and

various powers of mind, if described, would occupy a much

Ilarger space than shall presume to give them in this short

Memoir.

   Mr. Reynolds's friendship for the whole family, and the
interest he took in whatever related to them, were of the
liveliest kind. This acquaintance with the Mudges, both
father and son, ought to be reckoned amongst the earliest of

his literary connections.

  IYet though refrain to give way to my own grateful and
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                                                                                                      63

I Ifriendly feelings towards this family, hope shall be excused

in recording the testimonies of two such good judges of
human nature, as Burke and Johnson, upon this very subject.

In a letter which the former wrote to Mr. Malone, in the
year 1797? and which I here quote from its intimate connection

aJwodistdhhinutgah,e"sthouwabtejedct"toonftohmtehyinwgbriitoignshrgaospwhsayn,dmhcoeornesvpeertahsaketsiognorfeahotofnweJsosmhnuoscohf n  Sir
                                                                                                                                           ;"

                                                                                                                                          Sir

Joshua's parts, than his taking advantage of both, and making

some application of them to his profession ; when Johnson

neither understood, nor desired to understand, any thing

of painting, and had no distinct idea of its nomenclature, even

in those parts which had got most into use in common life.

But though Johnson had done much to enlarge and strengthen
his habit of thinking. Sir Joshua did not owe his first

rudiments of speculation to him. He has always told me,

that he owed his first disposition to generalize, and to view

things in the abstract, to old Mr. Mudge, Prebendary of

Exeter, and father to the celebrated mechanic of that name.

I have myself," adds Mr. Burke, " seen Mr. Mudge the

clergyman at Sir Joshua's house. He was a learned and

Ivenerable old man ; and, as thought, very much conversant

in the Platonic philosophy, and very fond of that method of

philosophizing. He had been originally a dissenting minister ;

a description which at that time bred very considerable men,

both among those who adhered to it, and those who left it.

He had entirely cured himself of the unpleasant narrowness

which in the early part of his life had distinguished those

gentlemen, and was perfectly free from the ten times more
64 MEMOIRS OF

dangerous enlargement which has been, since then, their general
characteristic. Sir Joshua Reynolds had always a great love
for the whole of that family, and took a great interest in
whatever related to them."

IIn addition to this,  shall insert from the periodical

obituary of the day, a high eulogy bestowed upon the same

individual  by Johnson himself, on his demise in   the year
1769. He                                          Zachariah
            speaks of him as " the Reverend Mr.

Mudge, prebendary of Exeter, and vicar of St. Andrews in

Plymouth ; a man equally eminent for his virtues and

abilities, and at once beloved as a companion, and reverenced

as a pastor. He had that general cm^iosity to which no kind

of knowledge is indifferent or superfluous, and that general

benevolence by which no order of men is despised or hated.

   " His principles, both of thought and action, were great and
comprehensive. By a solicitous examination of objections,
and judicious comparison of opposite arguments, he attained

what inquiry never gives but to industry and perspicuity, a
lirm and unshaken settlement of conviction. But his firmness

was without asperity ; for knowing with how much difficulty
truth was sometimes found, he did not wonder that many

missed it.

   " The general course of his life was determined by his profes-

sion ; he studied the sacred volumes in the original languages;
with what diligence and success, his Notes upon the Psalms
give sufficient evidence. He once endeavoured to add the
knowledge of Arabic to that ot Hebrew ; but finding his thoughts
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.         65

too much diverted from other studies, after some time desisted
from his purpose.

  " His discharge of parochial duties was exemplary. How his

seruions were composed, may be learned from the excellent

volume which he has given to the public ; but how they were
delivered, can be known only to those who heard them ; for as
he appeared in the pulpit, words will not easily describe him.

His delivery, though unconstrained was not negligent, and

though forcible was not turbulent ; disdaining anxious nicety
of emphasis and laboured artifice of action, it captivated the
hearer by its natural dignity, it roused the sluggish and fixed

the volatile, and detained the mind upon the subject without
directing it to the speaker.

 " The grandeur and solemnity of the preacher did not intrude

upon his general behaviour ; at the table of his friends he was
a companion, communicative and attentive, of unaffected
manners, of manly cheerfulness, willing to please, and easy to
be pleased. His acquaintance was universally solicited, and

his presence obstructed no enjoyment which religion did not
forbid. Though studious he was popular ; though inflexible

he was candid ; and though metaphysical yet orthodox."

   Such was the obituary testimony of Johnson to the memory
of a man, equally and deservedly dear both to himself and to

Sir Joshua Reynolds !

   IIn addition to this,     have myself heard Sir Joshua
                             Mudge was, in his opinion, the
declare, that the elder Mr.
                               K
66 MEMOIRS OP

wisest man be had ever met with in his life ; and so great an

admirer was he of the literary works of Mr. Mudge, that he

had intended to have re-published his Sermons, which were
out of print ; and also to have written a sketch of his life and

character. -- Pity it was not done by one who could have done
it so well !

   Some of the occurrences, which took place during this tour,
have been already narrated by Mr. Boswell, who informs us,
that Sir Joshua and his friend were not only shewn every thing
relative to the Dock-yard and other parts of the naval establish-
ment at Plymouth, with a degree of sedulous and polite atten-
tion on the part of the commissioner, but that the same officer
also accommodated them with his yacht for the purpose of a

marine trip to the Eddystone light-house, which, however, they
were prevented examining with accuracy, from the tempestuous
state of the weather.

I IIt was about this time first saw Sir Joshua ; but had seen

several of his works which were in Plymouth, (for at that time
I had never been out of the county,) and those pictures filled
Ime with wonder and delight, although
Iyoung ; insomuch, that                  was then very

                         remember when Reynolds was

pointed out to me at a public meeting, where a great crowd
I Iwere assembled,
got as near to him as could from the
Ipressure of the people, to touch the skirt of his coat, which

did with great satisfaction to my mind.

   During their stay at Plymoutli, Dr. Mudge, in conversation
with Johnson, mentioned a circumstance of a most curious
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  6?

mode of trial, to which a friend of his, a man of undoubted

veracity, had been an eye witness : Dr. Johnson desired to
have it related to him by the person who saw it ; on which
the gentleman being introduced to the Doctor, he repeated

the circumstances, which were these :--

  In some part of the East Indies, a man, one of the natives,

was suspected of murder, and the mode taken to prove either
his guilt or innocence was this. The suspected criminal was
brought guarded, and his hands bound, to a public place pre-
pared for the trial, where was a large fire, over which was a
cauldron of melted lead : into this vessel of melted lead he was .
forced to dip his naked hand, which, if he was innocent of the
supposed crime, it was concluded, would receive no injury
from the burning metal ; but, if guilty, would be destroyed.

All the officers of the English man-of-war then in the harbour,
and of which the gentleman who related it was the purser,

were present at this extraordinary manner of trial, and the

gentleman averred, that he distinctly saw the prisoner dip his

hand into the melted lead, taking up some in his palm, and
leisurely spilling it on the ground at his feet, without any
apparent injury, or even pain to his hand. One of the English

officers present had the curiosity to put a small stick, which

he held in his hand, into the cauldron, and on taking it out

again, found the part which had been immersed in the metal

nearly consumed.

   Dr. Johnson heard the narrative with much attention, and

declared he would most willingly take a voyage to the East

Indies, if he could be insured to be witness to such a sight.

                                                        K2
 68 MEMOIRS OF

   If there was any juggling in this affair, it cannot now be

 detected ; but the person who saw it was unable to account for
 it, and the credulity of Dr. Johnson made him a very fit man
 to relate this story to.

    Sir Joshua having completed his pleasant trip, and suc-
 ceeded, in a great measure, in the restoration of his health, he
 returned to the metropolis and to the practice of his art ;
indeed, the true enjoyment of a profession Sir Joshua possessed,
in as great a degree, perhaps, as any man ever did ; he
was never so happy as in those hours which he passed in his
painting room. He has often confessed, that when he has com-
plied with the invitations of the nobility to spend a few days
of relaxation with them at their country residences, though
every luxury was afforded which the heart could desire, yet he
always returned home like one who had been kept so long
without his natural food.

   Sir Joshua used to say, that he will never make a painter
who looks for the Sunday with pleasure as an idle day."

   None of his hours were ever spent in idleness, or lost in
dissipation ; and on those evenings which he spent at home,
after his daily occupation was past, he employed himself in
looking over, and studying from, the prints of the old masters,
of wliich he had procured a fine collection.

   He was, however, happy in the friendly society of a few
amiable individuals, with whom his evenings were sometimes
spent ; and amongst those the Cotterells were still numbered,
at whose house Johnson and he had been frequent visitors.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  eg

   In a letter from Johnson to Barretti, written in December,

after the return of the two friends to the metropolis, the former

says, " Reynolds still continues to increase in reputation and

riches. Miss Cotterell is still with Mrs. Porter. Miss Char-

lotte is married to Dean Lewis, and has three children." And
in a subsequent letter, he adds, " Miss Cotterell still continues
to cling to Mrs. Porter. Mr. Reynolds gets 6000 a-year."

   Mr. Reynolds's practice was now, indeed, so great, that he
found it necessary to have pupils to assist in the minor parts
of his profession, of which number the first after Marchi was
Mr. Beech, a native of Dorsetshire, and soon after Mr. Ber-

ridge was placed under his tuition ; this gentleman was born

in Lincolnshire : and his fourth pupil was Mr. Hugh Barron,

whose early promise and final failure may serve as a warning
to others. This person was a native of the metropolis,

and born somewhere near Soho, in which vicinity his father

had an official situation in the Westminster Dispensary, as

apothecary to that establishment. He was placed with Mr.

Reynolds, with whom he continued several years ; and, on
leaving him, attempted his profession as a portrait painter in
the capital : but the desire of improving himself in the

art induced him to visit Italy in 1773, to which country, like
Sir Joshua, he took the maritime route, and like him called
at Lisbon on his way.

   He made some stay there, practising his art, being much
patronized by the English factory both there and at Oporto,

and then proceeded on his voyage : he seems to have been
long a sojourner at the seat of the arts, principally at Rome

and at Genoa, returning to England not until 1778. His
70 MEMOIRS OF

first residence in London was in his old master's immediate
neighbourhood, but he did not remain there long ; and is since,
dead, (in 1791,) at the age of middle life. This person was
in some degree an instance of misapplied talents ; for though,
as Mr. Edwards records, he was the best amateur performer
of his day on the violin, yet he was never much esteemed as a
painter, notwithstanding the early promise which he gave of
graphic excellence whilst a youth, at the drawing-school>
under the tuition of Fournier, some time about the year

1764.

- His younger brother, William, about the year 1775, pro-
duced a view of Wanstead House, which was engraved by
Picot, and dedicated to Sir Joshua ; further particulars of
him will be found in Edwards.

  At his hours of leisure Mr. Reynolds considered it as necessary

to his mental improvement, as well as to his professional interest,
to mix in learned and convivial society ; and about this time,

in order not only to enjoy it with freedom, but also more
particularly with the kind intention of gratifying his venerable
friend, he became the proposer, and with the assistance of
Johnson was the founder, of that club, still in existence, and
for many years denominated the " Literary Club.'' This,

however, was a title which they did not arrogate to them-
selves ; a thing, indeed, in which Sir Joshua would have been

Ithe last person to join : but as was not then in the metro-

polis myself, and feel so anxious for the literary fame of him
whose friendship did me so much honour, as to wish to guard
him against the imputation of affecting that which he really
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                    , 71

Idid possess, though some envious persons have denied it,
(I allude to his own literary merit,)   consider myself as

warranted in going to some length on the subject, from the

authority of contemporary biographers.

   Whilst writinjy the life too of the founder of the club, it
will not be considered as out of place briefly to notice the

original design which, as first declared at its institution, in

February, 1764, was to confine the club to twelve members,

consisting of Sir Joshua, then only Mr. Reynolds, Dr. John-

son, Drs. Goldsmith, Nugent, and Percy afterwards Bishop

of Dromore, Sir Robert Chambers and Sir John Hawkins,
with Messi-s. Burke, Langton, Chamier, Dyer, and the

Honourable Topham Beauclerk.

   These were thus so judiciously selected, as Mr. Malone
observes, and were men of such talents and so well knoAvn to
each other, that any two of them, if they should not happen
to be joined by any more, might be good company for each
other. Such was the beginning of a society which has now
existed for half a century, boasting of having had enrolled, on
its list of members, many of the most celebrated characters of

the last century.

   Sir John Hawkins, though he does not expressly mention

Sir Joshua as the founder, has, notwithstanding, entered more
into detail on this subject than either Mr. Boswell or Mr,
Malone ; he observes, speaking of Dr. Johnson in the pre-
ceding year, (1763,) that he had now considerably extended
the circle of his acquaintance, and had added to the number
72 MEMOIRS OF

of his friends sundry persons of distinguished eminence ;

amongst whom he enumerates Sir Joshua and some others of

the original members, and he then enters more minutely into

those principles which must have weighed much with the
founder when he first thought of the plan : for he adds, that

from Johnson^s delight in convivial meetings, his love of con-

versation, and his sensible feeling of the attractions of a tavern,

it was but natural that he should wish for frequent oppor-

tunities of indulging them in a way that would free him from

domestic restraint, from the observance of hours, and from a

conformity to family regulations.  A tavern was the place

for these enjoyments, and a weekly club was instituted for his

gratification, and the mutual entertainment and delight of its

several members. The first movers in this association were

Johnson SLud Sir Joshua Reynolds ; the place of meeting was

the Turk's Head in Gerard-street ; the day, Monday in every

week ; and the hour of assembling, seven in the evening.
Our evening toast," continues Sir John, "was esto perpetua.

A lady, distinguished by her beauty and taste for literature,

(Mrs. Montague,) invited us two successive years to a dinner

at her house ; curiosity was her motive, and possibly a desire

of interminslincf with our conversation the charm of her own.

She affected to co s der us as a set of literary men, and

perhaps gave the first occasion for distinguishing the society
by the name of the Literary Club, a distinction which it never

assumed to itself."

   Having thus slightly noticed what may be considered as

Ian event not wholly unimportant in the life of Sir Joshua,

   may further add of this year, as connected with the art,
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  73

that in the month of April was first opened the exhibition of
Painting, Sculpture, and Architecture, at the Great Room in
Spring Gardens. This took place from a union of all the
artists of the metropolis in I76O, and was followed by a royal

charter in the succeeding year.

  It may not be foreign to my purpose here, for the

information of general readers, to take some notice of the
royal charter of incorporation of this establishment, par-
ticularly as it has been entirely passed over by former

biographers.

   This charter then was given to the Society of Artists of
Great Britain," to consist of a president, vice president,
directors, and fellows, to be for ever after a body corporate,
with perpetual succession, and with power to enjoy lands in
perpetuity, either by purchase or devise, to the yearly value
of c£lOOO, notwithstanding the statute of mortmain. Their
arms, or corporation seal, consisted of azure, a brush, a
chissel, and a pair of compasses, composed fretty, or ; over
these, in chief, a regal crown proper. This coat had two
supporters : on the dexter side, Britannia ; on the sinister.
Concord. The crest was on a wreath, an oak branch, and

a palm branch in saltire, and in the centre of these, a chaplet
of laurel. This common seal too, a thing very unusual in
heraldic grants, they had liberty to break, alter, or change
the same, from time to time, as they thought fit.

  It was further stipulated, that all the officers, together
74 iVIEMOIRS OF

with the directors, should be either painters, sculptors,
architects, or engravers, by profession.

   The charter  further authorized them to hold meetings
for the better  improvement of those arts, in London,
or within ten
                miles thereof, as often as it might be
necessary.

   Mr. Lambert was the first president, and Mr. Hay man

his vice ; Messrs. Dalton and Newton were the first treasurer

and secretary ; the other members of the direction were
Sir William Chambers, Messrs. Mac Ardell, Barret, Collins,

Cotes, Grignion, Gwyn, Hone, Meyer, Moser, Payne, Penny,
Rooker, Sandby, Seaton, Tyler, Wall, Wilson, Wilton, and
Yeo.

As the events which gave rise to this establishment are

intimately connected with the present Royal Academy in
Iits progress and foundation,
                                 cannot give a better view

of them, in part, than is afforded by the slight sketch

drawn up in the year   1766, by  Mr. John Gwyn,   an ingenious
architectural writer,   in his   " London and     Westminster

Improved."

   The passage has, indeed,  been quoted before,  but will not
be improper in this place.    He observes, that
                                                  " Sir Peter

Lely and Sir Godfrey Kneller kept up the national
passion with great success ; and some public works,

which required decorations, gave opportunity to Sir James
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  75

Thornhill and otiiers, to shew, that historical painting, if

properly encouraged, was a field in which the British nation
might engage with their competitors, not without advantage :
but notwithstanding this advancement of the art of painting,
and the number of ingenious professors who continually
advanced in every branch, neither painting, nor professors of
painting, were, known, distinguished, or encouraged. The
few, indeed, who had taste and discernment, sought for these
ingenious men, and purchased their works ; but the public
 knew them not, nor did they know each other : they had no
 society or intercourse with their fellow artists, consequently
 had very little to say in each other's recommendation, in the

 different branches of painting ; and he who had the greatest
 acquaintance, whatever were his abilities, was sure to get the
 most money. However, the natural good sense and ingenuity
.t)f the British nation continued still to furnish very able

 masters ; and these, at length, collected their scattered and
 dispersed brethren, and formed a little society, who, wisely
 considering their mutual interest., by a voluntary subscription
 among themselves, established an academy in St. Martin's-

 lane.

   The establishment of the Foundling Hospital, which was a
national concern, and attracted the notice of the public in a
very particular manner, gave an opportunity, when finished,
for displaying a scene entirely new to this nation. The
Hospital was just in its infancy, and elegant decorations, and

every possible means that could allure or draw the attention
of the public towards its support and maintenance, were
76 MEMOIRS OF.

found necessary; but the expense ^f^sucli ornaments coultl
not be afforded by a charity whose utmost abilities were
demanded for the succour and support of deserted perishing

infants. In order to contribute to the support of this useful

establishment, and to shew at once that ingenuity and com-
passion for the distresses of human nature are usually found
to reside in the same person, the most considerable artists in
Great Britain nobly and generously united in bestowing a
great number of excellent performances, in painting and
sculpture, which embellished the Hospital, entertained the
public, and, at the same time convinced the world that paint-
ing was arrived to a degree of perfection in this kingdom, of
which, until this era, they had no conception. The Governors
of the Hospital, convinced of the use and benefit which accrued
to the charity from these truly valuable donations, and
desirous of improving a connection so very advantageous to
them, encouraged the several contributors, and also the whole
body of those who professed the polite arts, to have an
annual meeting at the Hospital, on the fifth of November :
these meetings drew together the most ingenious artists from
every quarter, and at one of them it was proposed to the
whole body, to have an annual exhibition of such performances
as should be judged worthy the notice of the public.

   A proposal so very advantageous to merit of every kind,

could not fail of being received with applause, and was
unanimously agreed to. In consequence of this resolution,
application was made to the Society of Arts, Manufactures,
and Commerce, who, taking it into consideration, rightly
judged, that an exhibition of this nature could not be carried
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  77

 into execution with so much propriety as under their

 patronage ; they complied, therefore, willingly, with this
 request, and, in the year I76O, the first exhibition of the
 artists of Great Britain was made, and another the year
 following ; but as every member of the society was at liberty
 to distribute what number of tickets for admittance he

 thought fit, that which was intended only as a polite enter-
 tainment and rational amusement for the public, became a

 scene of tumult and disorder ; and to such a height was the
 rage of visiting the exhibition carried, that, when the members

 themselves had satisfied their own curiosity, the room was
 crowded, during the hours allotted for the exhibition, with
menial servants and their acquaintance. This prostitution of

the polite arts, undoubtedly became extremely disagreeable to
the professors themselves, who heard, alike, with indignation,
their works censured or approved by kitchen-maids and
stable-boys ; but the cause of the final separation, (for this
abuse might have been remedied,) of the artists of Great
Britain from the Society, was this : it had been, and still is,
usual for the Society to give premiums for historical and

landscape painting; these rewards were usually adjudged
among the competitors some little time before the exhibition
began, and as those who gained the premiums were obliged to

leave their pictures a limited time with the Society, they were,
of course, sure to be in the exhibition. The great incon-
venience of this method of proceeding was soon discovered by
several of the most eminent painters, whose reputations were

already so eminently established as to prevent their becoming
candidates for a trifling premium ; these, therefore, as their
78 MEMOIRS OF

characters were so nearly concerned, very justly objected to
the continuation of this custom, for the following obvious
reason: it was generally known that the Society had determined
premiums for several pictures, and it was natural enough for
persons who knew nothing of the matter to inquire, upon
entering the room, which of the pieces, among that profusion
of art, were those that had obtained the premium ? and, being
satisfied in this particular, they very innocently concluded, for
want of better judgment, that these had obtained the prize from
all the rest, and, consequently, were the best pictures. Had it

been possible to have confined this injurious decision to the

vulgar spectators, it would have been a thing of no conse-

quence ; but, unfortunately for the arts, many in a much
higher sphere of life were liable to be led away by the same

opinion ; and therefore, as the society would not give up the
point, a separation ensued, and every succeeding exhibition
has been made at the room in Spring Gardens. The prodigious
encouragement given to it, and the applause bestowed on the
several performances, by persons of the greatest taste and
distinction, evidently shew what a prodigious progress has

been made in the arts, as well as what great expectations may
be formed of what will probably, be done by concurring incite-
ments of applause and emulation, and the effects of society
and concord. The success of the exhibition, and the harmony

which subsisted among the exhibitors, naturally led them to
the thoughts of soliciting an establishment, and forming
themselves into a body : in consequence of which solicitation,
his Majesty was most graciously pleased to grant them his

Iloyal Charter, incorporating them by the name of the Society
              SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                 79

of Artists of Great Britain ; which charter bears date the

I26th day of January, 1765, and is the one of which have

given the preceding sketch.

  In the summer of this year a violent and very dangerous
illness had attacked Mr. Reynolds, which had nearly deprived

his associates of one of the best of friends, and the worFd of

one of its brightest ornaments.

   His illness, however, was but of short duration, and his

recovery was cheered by the following affectionate letter from

Dr. Johnson, then on a visit in Northamptonshire :

** TO JOSHUA REYNOLDS, ESQ., IN LEICESTER-FIELDSj

                                        LONDON.

** DEAR SIR,

              I I" did not hear of your sickness, till

heard, likewise, of your recovery, and therefore escaped that
part of your pain which every man must feel to whom you

are known as you are known to me. Having had no particular
Iaccount of your disorder, know not in what state it has left
Ifyou.
        the amusement of my company can exhilarate the
Ilanguor of a slow recovery, will not delay a day to come to
I Iyou ; for know not how can so effectually promote my

own pleasure as by pleasing you, or my own interest as by

Ipreserving you ; in whom, if should lose you, I should lose
Ialmost the only man whom call a friend. Pray let me hear
80 MEMOIRS OF

of you from yourself, or from dear Miss Reynolds.           Make my

Icompliments to Mr. M"udgeam. , dear Sir,                  and

                                " Your most affectionate,

                                   Most humble servant,

                                              " Sam. Johnson.

      " At the Rev. Mr. Percy's, at Easton-Maudit,

Northamptonshire, (by Castle Ashby) August 19, 1764."

In 1765 Mr. Reynolds exhibited a whole length portrait of

Lady Sarah Bunbury, in which she is represented as sacrificing

to the Graces. Previous to this he had painted an excellent

whole length portrait of Lady Elizabeth Keppel, in the dress

she wore as bridemaid to the Queen ; and in the same exhi-

bition he had another portrait of  LSaledigyhW, asladyesg, r"avWe e;  of which  J

Mr. Barry, in a letter to Dr.                                         have had
Itwo exhibitions since wrote to you ; the pictures that struck

me most were Lady Sarah Bunbury sacrificing to the Graces,

and Lady Waldegrave ; they are some of Mr. Reynolds's best

works, which is the greatest character they can have."

  It was in this year that Johnson's edition of Shakspeare

made its appearance ; and even for this, the world is much

obliged to Sir Joshua Reynolds. Mr. Boswell tells us, that
in 1756 the Doctor had resumed his scheme of giving that

work with notes, and had even published proposals, in which
he promised that it should be perfected by Christmas, 1757,
but that his habitual indolence had prevented him from
pursuing the system of research necessary for such an under-
             SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.          81

taking. Sir Jolin Hawkins also notices particularly that a

Reverend Divine (Churchill) had exhibited hira to ridicule in
                                            the remembrance of that
a satirical  ptooem,theandpubrleicv,ived"  which by this and other
engagement

instances of the laxity of his mind, he seemed not inclined to

fulfil."

   This was about I76O ; but as Hawkins adds, although
Johnson was insensible to the abuse, yet his friends took the
alarm, and by aU the arts of persuasion and reasoning,
endeavoured to convince him that his credit was at stake, in

having yet made no progress in a work, for which he had
already taken subscriptions.

   The true reason to be given for the delay of this work is,
that Johnson had undertaken it at a period when he was
obliged to be a literary drudge for his livelihood, and merely
on account of the profits it would afford him ; but it never was

an object of his desire. In the mean time he became possessed

of the pension of three hundred per annum from the bounty

of his present Majesty, and therefore, that task, which before

was undertaken from necessity only, now became loathsome
to him, and he could not summon up sufficient resolution to
go on with the work, although he had engaged himself to the
public by having received subscriptions for it. He indeed
confessed that he was culpable, and made promises, from time

to time, that he would commence the necessary course of

reading ; but even now his best friends trembled for his

fulfilment of these promises, nor was it until Sir Joshua and
some others of his friends contrived to entangle jiiiin in a

                                                          M
82 MEMOIRS OF

wager for its performance at a given period, that he could be
prevailed to sit down to it in earnest. These friendly exertions,
however, had the best effect, and at length, in 1765, the work
was produced.

  I make no doubt that Sir Joshua, in order to encourage

Johnson in the business, at the same time offered to furnish
him with the few notes on the text of Shakspeare, which he
faithfully performed ; and as these notes serve to show the
clearness of perception and mode of thinking in Reynolds, it is
surely requisite to insert them in this place.

   In Macbeth, act the first, scene the sixth, in the dialogue
between the King and Banquo, is this passage --

King.  " This castle hath a pkasant seat; the air
 Ban.
       Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
       Unto our gentle senses.
       This Guest of summer.
       The temple-haunting Martlet, does approve.

       By his lov'd mansionry, that the Heav'n's breath

       Smells wooingly. Here is no jetty frieze,
       Buttrice, nor coigne of vantage, but this bird
       Hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle :

       W here they most breed and haunt, I have observed

       The air is delicate."

  On which Sir Joshua observes, " this short dialogue between

Duncan and Banquo, whilst they are approaching the gates of

Macbeth's castle, has always appeared to me a striking
instance of what in painting is termed repose. This conversa-
tion very naturally turns upon the beauty of its situation, and
the pleasantness of the air ; and Banquo, observing the martlets*
                 SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                             83

nests ill every recess of the cornice, remarks, that where those
birds most breed and haunt, the air is delicate. Tlie subject of

quiet and easy conversation gives that repose so necessary to
the mind after the tumultuous bustle of the preceding scenes,
and perfectly contrasts the scene of horror that immediately

succeeds. It seems as if Shakspeare asked himself, what is a

prince likely to say to his attendants on such an occasion ?
Whereas, the modern writers seem, on the contrary, to be
always searching for new thoughts, such as would never occur
to men in the situation which is represented. -- This also is
frequently the practice of Homer, who, from the midst of
battles and horrors, relieves and refreshes the mind of the

reader, by introducing some quiet rural image, or picture
of familiar domestic life."

On this note, the following observation has been made in a

late edition by Mr. Malone, which, although expressing a
difference of opinion, is yet highly complimentary to Sir
"It IJoshua. --
                 is not without reluctance that exprses my

dissent from the friend whose name is subscribed to the

preceding note ; whose observations on all subjects of criticism

and taste are so ingenious and just, that posterity may be at a

loss to determine, whether his consummate skill and execution

in his own art, or his judgment in that andother kindred arts,

were superior."

In Othello, act first, scene third, the Duke says,

             " Let me speak like yourself; and lay a sentence.

                Which, as a grise or step, may help these lovers
                Into your fayour."

                                               M2
84 MEMOIRS OP

   The Duke then        proceeds to repeat  a variety  of proverbs in
rhyming distichs ;      on which Johnson     says in
                                                       a note, " The

Duke seems to mean, when he says he will speak like

Brabantio, that he will speak sententiously."

   But Sir Joshua was of opinion, that Shakspeare here meant
something further ; for Brabantio was father of Desdemona,
and the Duke was endeavouring to reconcile him to her
marriage with the Moor : he therefore adds, " i. e. let me

speak as yourself would speak, were you not too much heated

with passion."

imPpelyrh, ap"s    the  Poet might have also wished to say, or to
                        me now say, what you ought to say ; let
                 Hear

me repeat those wise proverbs of which you are so fond, and

whose wisdom ought now to regulate your feelings."

In the same scene Brabantio says,

                I*' But words are words ; never yet did hear

                     That the bruis'd heart was pierced through the ear."

  On this passage Warburton had observed, that " the Duke

had by sage sentences been exhorting Brabantio to patience,
and to forget the grief of his daughter's stolen marriage:
to which Brabantio is made very pertinently to reply, to this

Ieffect, * My Lord, apprehend very well the wisdom of your

advice ; but though you would comfort me, words are but
words ; and the heart, already bruised, was never pierced,
        SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                 85

or wounded, through the ear.'  It is obvious that the text
must be restored thus :

        That the bruised heart was pierced through the ear.

That is, that the wounds of sorrow were never cured, or a man
made heart-whole, merely by the words of consolation."

   Next comes Mr. Stevens, who treats the bruised heart, first

surgically, and then applies a black letter plaister to the

wound. " Pierced may be right. The consequence of a

bruise is sometimes matter collected, and this can no way be
cured without piercing or letting it out. Thus in Hamlet :

Again,  " Tt will but skin and filra the ulcerous place,

        Whiles rank corruption, mining all within.
        Infects unseen."

        "This is th'imposthume of much wealth and peace,

        That inward breaks, and shows no cause without,

        Why the man dies."

   IWhat reference these passages can possibly have to the

point in question, will not pretend to say ; and indeed Mr.

Stevens himself seems to have doubted there being a cure for

this bruised heart ; he therefore adds-- " Our author might

have had in his memory the following quaint title of an old

book ; i. e. * A Lytell Treatyse called the Dysputacyon, or,,

the Complaynte of the Harte through perced with the lokynge
of the eye. Imprinted at London, in Flete-strete, at y^ sygne
of the Sonne, by Wynkin de Worde.'
86 MEMOIRS OP

    "Again, in a 'Newe and a Mery Interlude, concerning
Pleasure and Payne in Love, made by Jhon Heywood : fol.

Rastel. 1634.

               " Thorough myne erys dyrectly to myne harte

                       Percyth his wordys evyn lyke as many sperys."

   After all this display of ingenuity and research, Sir Joshua
Reynolds, with all the calm dignity of a philosophical annotator,

expresses himself thus :

" Shakspeare was continually changing his first expression

for another, either stronger or more uncommon ; so that very

often the reader who has not the same continuity, or succession

of ideas, is at a loss for his meaning : many of Shakspeare's

uncouth-strained epithets may be explained by going back to

the obvious and simple expression, which is most likely to
Ioccur to the mind in that state.
                                   can imagine the first mode

of expression that occurred to the poet was this :

" The troubled heart was never cured by words."

To give it poetical force he altered the phrase :

" The wounded heart was never reached through the ear."

Wounded heart he changed to broken, and that to bruised, as a
more common expression. Reached he altered to touched,
and the transition is then easy to pierced ; i. e. throughly
touched : when the sentiment is brought to this state, the

commentator, without this unravelling clue, expounds piercing
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  87

heart in its common acceptation wounding the heart, which

making in this place nonsense, is corrected to pierced the heart,
which is very stiff, and as Polonius says, is a vile phrase J* This
note seems to have been tlie foundation forMalone's subsequent,
and more copious, illustration of the passage.

   On a subsequent passage in the same play, in the first
scene of the fourth act, where Othello, in his jealousy,
exclaims, " Nature would not invest herself in such shadowing

passion without some instruction. It is no words that shake

me thus --pish--noses, ears, and lips --is't possible ! --confess 1
handkerchief ! --O devil 1" --[Falls in a trance^ Warburton says,
that *' The starts and broken reflections in this speech have

somethincf very terrible, and show the mind of the speaker to
be in inexpressible agonies. But the words we are upon,

when set right, have a sublime in them that can never be

enough admired. The ridiculous blunder of writing instruction
^ov induction, (for so it should be read,) has, indeed, sunk it
into arrant nonsense. Othello is just going to fall into a
swoon ; and, as is common for people in that circumstauce,
feels an unusual mist and darkness, accompanie dwith horror,
coming upon him. This, with vast sublimity of thought, is
<:ompared to the season of the sun's eclipse, at which time the
earth becomes shadowed by the induction or bringing over of
the moon between it and the sun. This being the allusion,

the reasoning stands thus --* My nature could never be thus

overshadowed, and falling, as it were, into dissolution, for no
cause. There must be an induction of something ; there must
be a real cause. My jealousy cannot be merely imaginary.

Ideas, words only, could not shake me thus, and raise all this
88 MEMOIRS OF

disorder. My jealousy, therefore, must be grounded on
matter of fact/--Shakspeare uses the same word in the same
sense in King Richard the Third :

                     " A dire iDduction am I witness to."

   ** Marston seems to have read it thus in some copy, and to
allude to it in these words of Fame :

                     " Plots ha' you laid ? inductions dangerous."

   Sir  J"osHhouwaeRveerynionlgdes,nioinushisDnr.oteWaurpbounrtothni'ss  passage observes,
that,
                                                                           note may be, it

is certainly too forced and far-fetched. Othello alludes only

to Cassio's dream, which had been invented and told him by

lago. When many confused and very interesting ideas pour

in upon the mind all at once, and with such rapidity that it

has not time to shape or digest them, if it does not relieve

itself by tears, (which we know it often does, whether for joy
or grief,) it produces stupefaction and fainting.

   *' Othello, in broken sentences, and single words, all of
which have a reference to the cause of his jealousy, shews,
that all the proofs are present at once to his mind, which
so overpowers it, that he falls into a trance, the natural

consequence."

  In a letter written by Mr. Burke to Barry, then at Rome,

Iin the year I766, find some observations of Sir Joshua's

recorded, which deserve insertion here.
i
                  SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                         89

   He says, " Reynolds was dining with me when the pictures

Iarrived, (meaning those by Barry, painted at Rome, and sent

to Mr. Burke,) and wiil tell you fairly what he said.

     " He declared the drawing to be perfectly correct, the

expression just and noble: Alexander's attention, and the

physician's unaffected manner, could not, he said, be better.

In regard to the colouring, he said he did not wish it other

than it was. That colouring was a knack acquired by habit

and experiment ; that nothing, however, could be more

dangerous to a young painter than to indulge himself in that

glare of colour which catches the eye, and imposes on the
Iimperfect judgment.
                          do not at all suppose that his opinion

is,  that to begin with a wish of excelling in colour, to begin
                                 I
at the wrong end of the art.                I is

       As our conversation naturally dwelt on painting, found
 that Reynolds's expectations of what would be your great
 object of attention were the works of ]\Iichael Angelo, w^hom

 he considers as the Homer of Painting: could find that his

 own study had been much engrossed by that master, whom
 he still admires the most. He mentioned, indeed, his having,
Aor some months, confined himself to the Capella Sistina, and

 begged me to desire you to let us know the effect has on

 you when you give your attention," &c.
                  is          a

                    a it                            J.

                                                           it
In this year, also, he painted very excellent three-quarter

portrait of Mrs. Collier, an eminent beauty of that time, and

from which there          mezzotinto print taken by          Watson,

                              N

                                                                      I
                                                                                               I
90 MEMOIRS OF

The face is seen in profile, and has a pensive air, as if con-
templating the death of a favorite sparrow, which appears laid
on the table before her. The lines under the print are from
Catullus:

                                      Passer mortuus est meae puellac ;
                                      Passer delitiae mese puellae ;
                                      Quem plus ilia oculis suis amabat.

   The following couplets were written by a gentleman of
Devonshire, a friend of Sir Joshua's, and who knew the lady,
on seeing the picture --

The torture of a father's breast
    Timanthes to conceal,

Anguish too great to be exprest.
   He covered with a veil.

The lightning of bright Collier's eyes
    Reynolds despaired to show,

That vivid fire his art defies.
    So bade the tear to flow.

Doctor Farmer, of Cambridge, had written a most excellent

and convincing pamphlet to prove that Shakspeare knew little

or nothing of the ancients but by translations. Being in

company with Dr. Johnson, he received from him the
following compliment upon the work : " Dr. Farmer," said
Johnson, " you have done that which never was done before ;

Ithat is,                                                                      all
                                                                               for
further
you have  c"ompthleatneklyyfoinuis,"headnsawecroendtroDvre. rFsayrmbeeyro,nd"
doubt."

your flattering opinion of my work, but still think there are
                    SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                    §1

some critics who will adhere to their old opinions ; certain

Ipersons that could name."

  " Ah !" said Johnson, " that may be true : for the limbs

will quiver and move after the soul is gone."

   Dr. Farmer has been long celebrated as a man particularly
well informed on the subject of old English literature ; and,

as a man of learning, was, therefore, always an acceptable
truest with Sir Joshua. He was a native of Leicester, and

nearly of the same age with his friend ; and having completed
his education at Cambridge, he entered into orders, serving a
curacy at a village near that university for many years, whilst
a tutor at Emanuel College : but his appointment, in 1767,
as a preacher at Whitehall, gave him frequent opportunities
of residence in London, where he became a distinguished book

collector.

   Dr. Askew, of Queen's-square, was particularly attached to
him, and being himself a man of learning, gave him a most
hospitable reception at his house, where he first met Sir Joshua,
along with several others of the distinguished characters of the

day.

With these two he mixed much in evening society ; so

much so,   indeed,  that,  when offered a bishopric by      Mr. Pitt,
so strong  was his  wish   to associate without restraint,   " and to

enjoy himself without responsibility," that, as he said to a

friend, " one that enjoyed the theatre and the Queen's Head

in the evening, would have made but an indifferent bishop."
92 MEMOIRS OF                                                    /

He was therefore a member of several clubs, particularly one
in Essex-street, founded by Johnson ; the unincreasible club
at the Queen's Head in Holborn, where he met Hayley,
Romney, Topham, Newbery, and others ; and the Eumelian
club held at the Blenheim Tavern, in Bond-street, of which
Sir Joshua himself was a member, together with Messrs,
Boswell, Windham, Knight, North, Burney, Seward, and many
other highly respectable and much esteemed public characters.

  It is not here irrelevant to notice, that it was owing to his

good sense and good taste (whilst canon residentiary of St.
PauPs) that his colleagues were induced to admit the ornaments
of sculpture into that cathedral. Had such a man been con-
cerned in the direction of that edifice, when it was proposed

to decorate it with the efforts of the graphic art, how easily
would a new and permanent source of encouragement have

been established ? one too, most certainly no less consonant
with the principles of the Protestant religion than the produc-
tions of the sculptor.

   In 1767 the royal patronage was extended to the artists,

and an attempt was made to form an academy, partly arising
from the dissensions and animosities which followed the incor-
poration in 1765 ; for those who were not admitted into the
body as incorporated, were so stimulated by jealousy as to
 resolve to submit no longer to rules and regulations, towards
 which they had no voice, and they accordingly attempted, for
a year or two, to get up an exhibition of their own, but were
not very successful in this plan.

   In the regular exhibition of this year, Mr. Reynolds did
          SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                   93

not produce a single effort of his pencil ; yet even here he
gave a proof that merit will always be exposed to the little

attacks of malice ; for Burke observes in a letter to Barry,
dated the 26th of April, 1767, " Jones, who used to be poet

laureat to the exhibition, is prepared to be a severe and almost

general satirist upon the exhibitors. His ill behaviour has

driven him from ail their houses, and he resolves to take

revenge in this manner. He has endeavoured to find out

what pictures they will exhibit, and upon such information as

he has got, has before-hand given a poetic description of those
Ipictures which he has not seen.
                                  am told he has gone so far

as to abuse Reynolds, at guess, as an exhibitor of several

pictures, though he does not put in one."

   The reason of his apparent inattention to     the exhibition
this year, is afterwards explained by Burke,
                                                 saying, " The

exhibition will be opened to-morrow. Reynolds, though he

Ihas, think, some better portraits than he ever before painted,

does not think mere heads sufficient, and having no piece of

fancy finished, sends in nothing this time.*'

   In  a   subsequent letter from the same pen,   in August, we
          As to Reynolds, he is perfectly well,  and still keeps
find,  "

that superiority over the rest, which he always had from his

genius, sense, and morals."

  I may mention in this place, that Mr. Parry was a pupil of

Mr. Reynolds some time before the year 1767, being then

also a student at the academy in St. Martin's-lane : his early

initiation into the art having commenced at Shipley's drawing-
94 MEMOIRS OF

school, and been continued in the gallery of the Duke of
Richmond, so nobly and generously established for the fur-
therance of taste, and the developement of genius.

  It is recorded of him, however, that his early excellence,

or rather the praises bestowed on it, together with the pre-
miums awarded by the Society for the encouragement of Arts,
for his drawings from antique models, and also from the life,
had the unpleasant effect of relaxing his studies and exertions,
instead of stimulating him to attempt approaching nearer to
perfection.

   After finishing his term wifh Sir Joshua, he retired to
Wales, where he was invited by the late munificent Sir
Watkyn Williams Wynne, who was his steady patron, and
assisted him in his -proposed plan of studying at Rome,
whither he went in the year 1770 ; returning five years after-
wards to England, when he attempted to settle in his profession
in the metropolis, taking a house in Duke-street, St. James's.
Having married Miss Keene, daughter of the architect of that
name, he was affected so much by some unhappy family
occurrences, as to retire from the metropolis soon after, and
to settle at his former Welsh residence, where, however, he
remained but a short time ; the loss of his wife, who died in
parturition of her only child, having induced him, once more,
to leave what may properly be called his natal country ; for,
though born in London, he was yet of Welsh parentage, his
father being the celebrated blind performer on the Welsh harp.

   His object in visiting Rome seems to have been to seek
SIR JOSKUA REYNOLDS.  95

employment in his art, in addition to the wish of stifling the
regret for the loss of an amiable wife ; he accordingly com-
menced the copying of some of the finest pieces in that capital,
but his health was soon so much impaired, that he was induced
to return to England, where he did indeed arrive, but only to

breathe his last sigh where he had first opened his eyes upon
the world.

  IIn Edwards's Anecdotes may be seen many particulars

respecting his performances ; and cannot help regretting,
along with that author, that his drawing, in chalk, of the
gallery so munificently filled with valuable subjects for the
student, and so liberally opened by a late Duke of Richmond,

is lost, as such a thing would now be his^hly interesting to all
lovers of the art.

        Mr. Reynolds now attained the summit of his reputation as

     an artist, and maintained his dignified station to the close of
     his life. Cotes and Ramsay shared, in some degree, with him
     the fashion of the day ; for each of those painters had employ-
     ment from the court of England, where Reynolds as an artist
     was never able to become a favorite. From that source ot
     envied and enviable honour, he had not the happiness of
     receiving a single commission ; for it is to be observed, that
     those exquisite portraits of the King and Queen, now in the
, council-room of the Royal Academy, were painted at the
     request of Reynolds himself, purposely for that place.

        Mr. Cotes has now been dead upwards of forty years, havinty
     lived only two years after the establishment of the Royal
96 MEMOIRS OF

Academy, of which he was a member, and indeed one of the
four who signed the petition to his Majesty to soUcit its
foundation.

    This was the artist whom Hogarth considered superior
to Reynolds as a portrait painter ; but perhaps his great
excellence ought to be confined solely to his portraits in
crayons, in which style he was certainly superior to most of
his rivals, as has been properly remarked by Mr. Edwards.

In oils, however, he must be considered totally inferior to

his illustrious competitor ; and he was evidently so in the
opinion of the public, as his price for a three-quarter never
exceeded twenty guineas.

   Mr. Allan Ramsay, even if possessed of no merit of his own,
would always have been noticed as the son of Allan, the
Scottish poet, and the Burns of the early part of the last

century.

  His father is called a self-taught poet. It is difficult,

however, to know what that means when said by way of
distinction --every real poet must be self-taught. And the
son, in the same manner, is said to be a self-taught painter,
because he had received no instructions till he gave them to
himself in Italy ; as every good painter has done before him,
either there or elsewhere. But his being the compatriot of
the Earl of Bute was a ready passport to royal notice on his
return, particularly when added to his own abilities. He was
certainly superior to the artists of his time in general ; though
his excellence did not warrant Walpole in classing him so
             SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                     97

exactly with Sir Joshua, when he said, Reynolds and
Ramsay have v/aiited subjects, not genius." But 1 have
heard Sir Joshua say, that Ramsay was the most sensible man
of all the living artists ; and therefore it proved that something

besides good sense is required to make a good painter.

   Without entering into a tedious detail of minute circum-

stances and of the petty animosities at that time existing

Iamong the artists, shall briefly observe, that during all the

contentions between the Society of Artists, Dalton's Royal
Academy in Pall Mall, and the intrigues and quarrels that
occupied so much of the public press and of the public time,
Mr. Reynolds did not interfere ; his name, indeed, was on

the roll of the Society at its first incorporation, and he was

afterwards appointed one of the directors, but he did not act,
and, as quaintly observed by a writer of that time, "did not
like them much -- in fact, he had long withdrawn himself
from tlie private meetings of the directors, declaring publicly,

that he was no triend to their proceedings.

   Much fredit is, however, due to him, for his exertions in
favor of the public exhibitions ; and Barry, indeed, does him full

justice in    one of his lectures, Avhen   speaking   of them as
                                            which we  owe almost
established  by Sir Joshua, he says, " to

all the art we can boast." In this year (1768), in order at

once to put an end to these jarring interests, a rational and

extended plan was drawn up for the present Royal Academy,
of which, it has since been well observed by Barry, " under the

reign of his present Majesty, our most gracious patron, the

arts were, in some measure, raised out of that disgraceful

             o
98 MKMOIRS OF

obscurity in wliich they had been so long buried ; and a
Royal Academy was instituted under the King's immediate
protection, for the purpose of bringing forward that great line
of historical, superior art ; from the successful prosecution
of which only, the King and public can expect to see its
reputation worthy their attention."

Notwithstanding the part which Mr. Reynolds was taking

in the necessary preparations for this establishment, yet he

found time to gratify himself Avith a trip to Paris, in the

autumn of this year, in company with Mr. William Burke,

Iwho,

says,
in a letter dated  the 10th of October, from that metropolis,
                   and make this scamper together, and are
" Mr. Reynolds

both extremely satisfied with our tour ; were turn in a fevv^ days/'

   His return took place within the expected time ; and so
forward were the proposed arrangements, that on the 28th of
November a petition was presented to his Majesty, of which
the professed objects were the establishment of a well regulated
school or academy of design, for the use of students in the arts,
and an annual exhibition open to ail artists of distinguished
merit, where they should have an opportunity of presenting
their productions to the inspection of the public, and of
thereby obtaining such share of general reputation and

encouragement, as their performances might seem to merit.

  It was intended to supply the funds for the support of

the institution, by the produce of this annual exhibition ;
and his Majesty was graciously pleased to promise what
further aid it might require, from the privy purse. This aid
sill JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  99

was necessary, for a few years, to the amount of £5000 ; but
the sums raised by the exhibitions were soon so considerable,

as not onl}^ to render the royal munificence unnecessary, but
even to accumulate a large surplus in the funds, now forming

the basis of a liberal fund for decayed artists. For the first

twenty years, the net produce, on an average, amounted to
upwards of £1500 per annum, and since that it has amounted to

an additional ci/lOOO.

   A very good view of the regulations of this establishment

may be found in the Monthly Magazine for March, 1810 ; and

I may here observe, that annual prizes were also determined

on as stimulants to rising genius. These were, of course,
to be awarded to the best productions ; but it was whimsically-
quoted at the time, from the laws of the ancient city of
Thebes, that formerly the painter who exhibited the worst

picture, was also subject to a fine 1

   Professorships were likewise established, and Dr. Johnson was
nominated Professor of Ancient Literature; an office, indeed,

merely honorary, but conferred on him, as Sir John Hawkins
hints, at the recommendation of Mr. Reynolds.

   Goldsmith also was not forgotten, he having received the
complimentary appointment of Professor of Ancient History ;
an office, like the preceding, without trouble or salary, and, as

Dr. Percy observed, merely giving him a place at the annual

dinner.

   Goldsmith himself, in a letter to bis brother, says of it--

                                                        o2
100 MEMOIRS OF

'* The King has lately been pleased to make me Professor of
Ancient History in a Royal Academy of Painting, which
he has just established ; but there is no salary annexed ; and

I took it, rather as a compliment to the Institution, than any

benefit to myself. Honours to one in my situation are
something like ruffles to a man that wants a shirt."

   But the most important event as relative to this Institution,
and as connected with the subject of the present biography, was,
that in order to give dignity to this Royal Academy of Painting,
Sculpture, and Architecture, which was composed of the ablest
and most respectable artists then resident in Great Britain,
Reynolds was elected the first president by an unanimous vote.
On that occasion he was knighted, perhaps with a view to
dignify him : and indeed, had that distinction been always so
bestowed, it would really have been an honour, and not
the subject of those sarcasms which but too often accompany
the title. Reynolds received it with satisfaction, as he well

knew that it would give additional splendour to jiis works in

vulgar eyes. It is not matter of surprize that his election

as president was unanimous : it is certain that, every circum-
stance considered, he was the most fit, if not the only person,
qualified to take the chair : his professional rank, his large
fortune, the circle of societj'^ in which he moved, all these
contributed to establish his claim ; and to these was added a
still more urgent motive, namely, that he had refused (as

I have been told) to belong to the Society on any other con-

ditions. Accordingly the Royal Acadeniy of Arts in London
was opened on the 10th of December, IjGQ, by Sir Joshua
Reynolds, Knt,, with a discourse adapted to the occasion.
»

             SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  101

   This honour of knighthood was highly gratifying to all Sir
Joshua's friends. Dr. Johnson acknowledged that for years he

had not tasted wine, until he was induced to break through

his rule of abstemiousness in order to celebrate his friend^s

elevation ; and Barry afterwards observed, in a letter to Mr.

IBurke, " have a notion, some how or other, that the arts

would be just now of some consequence, and pretty much of a
public concern, did not the state competitors, of whom
the papers are so full, divert the attention of the public into

another channel.

I" However,  can say with truth, that as nobody is more
Ian enthusiast for Art than
                             am, so there is no one who

rejoices more sincerely at the honour done Art by the title and

dignity his Majesty has graciously conferred on that person

whose plan of a public exhibition has been as serviceable

Ito the art as his performances were. The public opinion will

supply what would say."

   The task of delivering discourses in the Academy was
no part of the prescribed duty of this office, first so ably fdled
by Sir Joshua ; but was voluntarily imposed on himself, for

reasons which shall be afterwards noticed, whilst taking a slight
view of his fifteenth discourse.

   Before we proceed to investigate the purport of his
discourses in their regular order, it may be well here to
observe, that the delivery of these discourses was not
particularly happy, considering the great taste of the speaker

in other respects, and cannot be much commended ; wliich
102 MEMOIRS OF

may be accounted for from two causes ; first, that his
deafness might have prevented his being well able to modulate

his voice ; but secondly, I am rather of opinion that the real

cause was, that as no man ever felt a greater horror at
affectation than he did, so he feared to assume the orator, lest
it should have that appearance : he therefore naturally fell
into the opposite extreme, as the safest retreat from what he
thought the greatest evil.

It has been related as an anecdote, that on one of the

evenings when he delivered his discourse, and when the

audience was, as usual, numerous, and composed principally of

the learned and the great, the Earl of C  , who was
present, came up to him, saying, " Sir Joshua, you read your
Idiscourse in so low a tone, that could not distinguish

one word you said." To which the President, with a smile
replied, " That was to my advantage."

   There is some little difficulty in fixing the exact date of his
first discourse ; some accounts stating its delivery on the 10th
of December, 1768, when the Academy was first opened:
in Malone's edition of his works, it is indeed dated on the 2nd
of January, 17^9; whilst Sir Joshua himself, in a letter to
Bany, which will be hereafter inserted, speaks of its being
delivered on the first of that month.

  IWithout attempting to reconcile those jarring dates, shall

merely observe, that the objects he had in view in this first
discourse, were to imprint upon the minds of his audience
how many advantages might be expected from such an
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  103

institution ; after which he offered hints for the consideration
both of the professors and of the visitors, whose office it
is to attend the school of the living model. He next showed
the absolute necessity of an implicit obedience to all the
rules of art, on the part of the youthful students, warning them
to repress any premature or irregular disposition to aim at
masterly dexterity before they had well acquired the necessary
rudiments ; and he then showed, to render even diligence
effectual, it was absolutely necessary that it should always be

directed to proper objects.

   In alluding to the extraordinary circumstance of such an

institution not having been before established, he observed,

that It is, indeed, difficult to give any other reason why an

empire like that of Britain should so long have wanted an
ornament so suitable to its greatness, than that slow progression
of things which naturally makes elegance and refinement the
last effect of opulence and power."

   After shewing that the Academy had commenced its labours
at, perhaps, the happiest possible period, not only from the
patronage of the Monarch, and from the general desire among
the nobility to be distinguished as lovers and judges of
the arts, as well as from the greater superfluity of public
wealth in general to reward the professors, but also from the
fact, that there was, at that time, a greater number of excellent
artists than were ever known before, at one period, in the
nation ; he pointed out the principal advantages resulting from
the academy to the art itself, to consist, not only in its

furnishing able men to direct the student, but in being, also,
104 MEMOIRS OP

asairdephoes,ito"ryareforthethme agtreeraiat lsexoanmwplheisch  of the   art.      These/'
                                                                         is to  work, and
                                                                 genius

without which the stro.igest intellect may be fruitlessly or

deviously employed."

    Whilst recomm-end ng strict attention to the students, he
particularly inc ulcated, that " those models which have
passed through the approbaMon of ages, should be considered
by them as perfect and infallible guides ; as subjects for their
imitation, not their criticism;" and he then e pressed his
confidence, that this was he only efficacious way of making any
progress in the arts ; adding, that he who sets out with doubting,
will find life finished before he becomes master even of the
rudiments of his profession. He here considered it as a

maxim, that he who begins by presuming on his own sense,

has ended his studies as soon as he has commenced them ; and

from this he took occasion to observe, that every opportunity
should be seized to discountenance that false and vulgar

opinion, that rules are the fetters of genius. In contradiction

to such an opinion, he asserted, that they were fetters only to
men of no genius; as that armour which, upon the strong, is
an ornament and defence, becomes a load upon the weak and
mis-shapen, crippling that body which it was intended to

protect.

   The advantages of assiduity he proved by experience : --

   When we read the lives of the most eminent painters,
every page informs us, that no part of their time was spent
in dissipation. Even an increase of fame served only to

augment their industry. To be convinced with what
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  105

persevering assiduity they pursued their studies, we need only
reflect on their method of proceeding in their most celebrated

works. When they conceived a subject, they first made a
variety of sketches, then a finished drawing of the whole ;

after that, a more correct drawing of every separate part --
heads, hands, feet, and pieces of drapery ; they then painted
the picture ; and, after ail, retouched it from the life. The
pictures, thus wrought with such pains, now appear like the
effect of enchantment, and as if some mighty genius had

struck them off at a blow !"

   At the conclusion of this spirited discourse, he expressed

his hope that the Institution might answer the expectation of
its Royal Founder -- " that the present age may vie in arts
with that of Leo the Tenth ; and that the dignity of the dying
art (to make use of an expression of Pliny) may be revived
under the reign of George the Third."

   This spirited oration gave general satisfaction, and in a
periodical journal of that time, it was observed, that this

discourse certainly did honour to the President as a painter,

if any honour could be added to that which he had already

acquired by his pencil. It v/as also acknowledged, that it

had great merit as a literary composition ; M'hilst Sir Joshua's
idea, " that the Academy would at least contribute to advance

the knov/ledge of the arts, and bring us nearer to that ideal
excellence which it is the lot of genius always to contemplate,
but never to attain," is followed by the observation, that this

sentiment, none but a genius conscious of the idea of
106 MEMOIRS OF

unattainable perfection, and of a perpetual effort to approach
it, could have conceived.

As a further testimony of Sir Joshua's merit, and well

Ideserved elevation, Barry says, in a letter, in the early part
of this year, to Mr. Burke,  am happy to find Mr. Reynolds

is at the head  konfigthhtihs oaocdad;e) m"y        (this  was previous  to his
                                              from his     known public  spirit,
hearing of his

and warm desire of raising up art among us, (which exerted

Iitself so successfully in establishing the Exhibition,) he will,

have no doubt, contrive this institution to be productive of
all the advantages that could possibly be derived from it; and

whilst it is in such hands as his, we shall have nothing to fear

from those shallows and quicksands upon which the Italian

and French academies have lost themselves :" and on another

occasion, in the same year, he wrote from Paris to Mr. Burke,

whilst speaking of the paintings at Versailles, " What I have

seen since, gives me more and more reason to admire Mr.

Reynolds ; you know my sentiments of him already, and the

Imore know and see of the art, the less likely they are to

change."

   On the first of January, I769, a poetical tribute was paid

to the arts, and to the new Academy of London, by the pen of

the Reverend Dr. Thomas Francklin, Chaplain to the King,
and translator of Phalaris, Sophocles, and Lucian, into
English, and author also of three plays, the Earl of Warwick,
and Matilda, tragedies, and the Contract, a comedy.
             SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

          THE TRIUMPH OF THE ARTS.

 When Discord; late, her baleful influence shed
 O'er the fair realms of Science and of Art,
 Neglected Genius bent his drooping head,
 And pierced with anguish ev'ry tuneful heart;

        Apollo wept his broken lyre,
       Wept to behold the mournful choir

Of his lov'd Muses, now an exil'd train,

 And in their seats to see Alecto reign.

When lo ! Britannia, to the throne

Of goodness makes her sorrows known.
       For never there did grief complain.
       Or injur'd merit plead in vain.

The monarch heard her just request.
He saw, he fell, and he redressed ;

        Quick with a master hand he tunes the strings,
        .^nd harmony from discord springs.

Thus good, by Heav'n's command, from evil flow?,
From Chaos, thus, of old. Creation rose;
When order with confusion join'd,
And jarring elements combin'd.

       To grace with mutual strength the great design,
        And speak the Architect divine.

W^hilst Eastern tyrants, in the trophy'd car,
Wave the red banner of destructive war.

      In George's breast a nobler flame

        Is kindled, and a fairer fame
Excites to cherish native worth.
To call the latent seeds of genius forth.
To bid discordant factions cease,
And cultivate the gentle arts of peace.

       And lo ! from this auspicious day,
       The sun of science beams a purer ray.

                                p2
                           MEMOIRS OF

   Behold! a brighter train of years,
  A new Augustan age appears ;

          The time, nor distant Tar, shall come.
  When England's tasteful youth no more
   Shall wander to Italia's classic shore ;

         No more to foreign climes shall roam
  In search of models, better found at home.

        With rapture the prophetic muse ^
        Her country's opening glories views,
         Already sees, with wond'ring eyes.
        Our Titians and our Guides rise.
  Sees new Palladios grace th' historic page.
 And British Raffaelles charm a future age.

 Meantime, ye sons of art, your offerings bring,
        To grace your Patron and your King,
        Bid Sculpture grace his honour'd name
        la marble, lasting as his fame :
        Bid Painting's magic pencil trace
       The features of his darling race,

 And as it flows through all the royal line.
 Glow with superior warmth and energy divine.

      If tow'ring Architecture still

        Can boast her old creative skill,

Bid some majestic structure rise to view,
       Worthy him, and worthy j/om;

Where ar? may join with tiature and with sense.
Splendor with grace -- with taste, magnificence;
Where strength may be with elegance combin'd.
The perfect image of its master's mind.

      And oh ! if with the tuneful throng

The Muse may dare to mix her humble song,
In your glad train permit her to ap[)ear,
Though poor, yet willing, and though rude, sincere
To praise the Sov'reign whom her heart approves,

And pay this tribute to the ART she loves."
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                           109

   On the 2d of the month, the academy Avas opened, and a
general meeting of the Royal Academicians took place, when
some public business was gone through ; after which the whole

body adjourned to an elegant entertainment at the St. Alban's
Tavern, where Sir Joshua presided with his accustomed
urbanity, the meeting being honoured with the presence of
many of the most distinguished nobility, who were now proud
to come forward as patrons of the arts.

  It seems beneath the dignity even of biography, to note

these things which many will esteem trifling in themselves,
yet the time may come when even these particulars will be of
some interest ; and as this period was an era in the annals of

IBritish art, must be allowed to mark it by the gratulations

of the Poets of the day, who exprest their good wishes in the
best manner they were able, and no doubt would have done it

much better if it had been in their power. In that point of

Iview, therefore, shall not refrain from inserting a song made

for the occasion, by the good old Mr. Hull, the comedian,
and sung at this joyous meeting by Mr. Vernon, the fashionable

performer of the day.

                              SONG.

   Let Science hail this happy year,
       Let Fame its rising glories sing^

   When rts unwonted lustre wear,
      And boast a patron in their King ;

And here unrivall'd shall they reiu;n,
      For George protects the polish'd train.
110                      MEMOIRS OF

        To you, just ripen'd into birth,
            He gives the fair, the great design ;

        'Tis 7/ours, ye Sires, of genuine worth.
            To bid the future artists shine;

     That arts unrivall'd long may reign.
     Where George protects the polish'd train.

        'T'lsi/ours, O well selected band.
           To watch where infant genius blows.

        To rear the flower with fost'ring hand.
            And ev'ry latent sweet disclose;

     So arts unrivall'd long will reign,
     Where George protects the polish'd train.

        No more to distant realms repair
            For foreign aid, or borrow'd rule.

         Beneath her Monarch's gen'rous care,
            Britannia founds a nobler school,

     Where arts unrivall'd shall remain,
     For George protects the polish'd train.

        So shall her sons in Science bred.
            Diffuse her arts from shore to shore.

        And wide her growing genius spread.
            As round the v/orld her thunders roar;

     For he, who rules the subject main,
     Great George protects the polish'd train."

    This song, so congenial to the flattering hopes of the
company, whose cares were, for a time, suspended in festivity,
and who had met to be gay, was received with much applause.

   On Wednesday, the 26th of April, the exhibition of the
Royal Academy, in Pall Mall, was opened for the first time,
and drew the greatest crowds and of the highest fashion ; and
                      I

SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  Ill

it was observed in the periodical journals of the time, that the
encouragement given to this institution was even ah'eady

Ivisible in the works of genius then exhibited : and may take

the opportunity of noting in this place, that Sir Joshua's
exertions to raise the character of the Academy, were not

confined to his discourses alone ; as from its first opening,
until the year 1790, inclusive, it appears that he sent no less
than two hundred and forty-four pictures to the various

exhibitions.

   In this year Sir Joshua Reynolds wrote a most excellent

letter to Barry, then a student at Rome. It is so descriptive

of the writer's principles, and so honourable to his feelings as

an artist, that I shall insert it here at length, only premising,

that it was partly addressed to Barry in consequence of a
letter from him to Mr. Burke, in which he described himself
as engaged in some contests with the picture dealers at Rome,
who were acting very illiberally towards young English artists,
and using underhand means to prevent their being employed
by various travellers in copying or making originals, as those
dealers in rotten pictures earnestly desired to possess themselves
of all the loose cash which affluent tourists had purposed to lay
out in Vertu.

      " DEAR SIR,

  I*' am very much obliged to you for your remembrance
of me in your letter to Mr. Burke, which, though I have

read with great pleasure as a composition, I cannot help

saying with some regret, to find that so great a portion of your
112 MEMOIRS OF

attention has been engaged upon temporary matters, which
might be so much more profitably employed upon what would
stick by you through your whole life.

** Whoever is resolved to excel in painting, or, indeed, in

any other art, must bring all his mind to bear upon that one       '

object, from the moment he rises till he goes to bed ; the

effect of every object that meets the painter's eye may give

him a lesson, provided his mind is calm, unembarrassed with

other objects, and open to instruction.  This general

attention, with other studies connected with the art, which

must employ the artist in his closet, will be found sufficient to

Ifill up life, if it was much longer than it is. Were in your
Iplace, would consider myself as playing a great game, and

never suffer the little malice and envy of my rivals to draw off
my attention from the main object ; which, if you pursue with
a steady eye, it will not be in the power of all the Cicerones

in the world to hurt you. Whilst they are endeavouring to

prevent the gentlemen from employing the young artists,

instead of injuring them, they are, in my opinion, doing them

the greatest service.

  I I" Whilst was at Rome was very little employed by them,
Iand that always considered as so much time lost: copying

those ornamental pictures, which the travelling gentlemen
always bring home with them as furniture for their houses, is
far from being the most profitable manner of a student spending

Ihis time. Whoever has great views, would recommend to

him, whilst at Rome, rather to live on bread and water, than

lose those advantages which he can never hope to enjoy a
           SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.    113

second time, and which he will find only in the Vatican ;
Iwhere, will engage, no cavalier sends his students to copy
Ifor him.
           do not mean this as any reproach to the gentlemen ;

the works in that place, though they are the proper study of

an artist, make but an awkward figure painted in oil, and
reduced to the size of easel pictures. The Capella Sistina is

the production of the greatest genius that was ever employed
in the arts ; it is worth considering by what principles that

stupendous greatness of style is produced ; and endeavouring

to produce something of your own on those principles, will be

a more advantageous method of study, than copying the St.

Cecilia in the Borghese, or tlie Herodias of Guido, which may
be copied to eternity, without contributing one jot towards

making a man a more able painter.

  If" you neglect visiting the Vatican often, and particularly

the Capella Sistina, you will neglect receiving that peculiar

advantage which Rome can give above all other cities in the

world. In other places you will find casts from the antique,
and capital pictures of the great painters, but it is there only
that you can form an idea of the dignity of the art, as it is

there only that you can see the works of Michael Angelo and

Raffaelle. If you should not relish them at first, which may

probably be the case, as they have none of those qualities
which are captivating at first sight, never cease looking till
you feel something like inspiration come over you, till you
think every other painter insipid, in comparison, and to be
admired only for petty excellencies.

I" suppose you have heard of the establishment of a Royal

                                                                   Q
114 MEMOIRS OF

I IAcademy here ; the first opportunity have will send you
Ithe discourse delivered at its opening, which was the first of
IJanuary. As hope you will be hereafter one of our body,
I wish you would, as opportunity offers, make memorandums

of the regulations of the academies that you may visit in your
travels, to be engrafted on our own, if they should be found

useful.  I" am, with the greatest esteem, yours,

                                   " J. Reynolds.

I** On reading my letter over,     think it requires some

apology for the blunt appearance of a dictatorial style, in
I Iwhich have obtruded my advice.
                                   am forced to write in a

great hurry, and have little time for polishing my style."

  In the month of October, this year. Sir Joshua was called

on to attend the sessions in the Old Bailey, in company with
Dr. Johnson, Garrick, Dr. Goldsmith, and several other

distinguished characters, to give evidence to character in

favor of the well known Mr. Barretti, in consequence of his
being obliged to stand trial under a verdict of manslaughter,
found against him by a coroner's inquest, on the 10th of the

month.

   This unfortunate circumstance arose from Mr. Barretti
having been attacked on the 5th in the evening, at the end of

Panton-street, going into the Haymarket, by a prostitute,
who rudely and indecently accosted him. He pushed her

from him, but she finding by his accent that he was a foreigner.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  m

immediately called him by the most opprobrious names ; and her

loud tones having brought up a bully, he began to assault Mf.

Barretti in the most outrageous manner.

      Some more of the gang then approached, and attempted to
   hustle him, when he was obliged, in his defence^ to pull out a
   small knife, warning them not to use him ill, tnat he would
' not bear and would strike the first person that should come

   near him.
it,
   He then ran, and as .they pursued him, he kept moving his
                                                       ;
                                                   Qhand backward and forward in running from them, to defend
himself, and thus wounded two of his assailants, one of whom
                                        2
                                                                                  adied afterwards in the Middlesex hospital. The crowd was
now so great, that Mr. Barretti, no longer in dread of his life,
                                                                                                                                              ;immediately submitted himself, and was committed by Sir
John Fielding to Tothill-fields prison.

   The coroner's inquest sat two days before they brought in
their verdict, when Barretti was admitted to bail, and the trial

taking place on the 23rd, he refused to avail himself of the
usual privilege of having half his jury composed of foreigners
but the evidences for the prosecution so completely contra-
dicted themselves and each other, that little more was necessary
than for him to explain the circumstances, which he did,

justifying the act as one of self-defence, after having been
repeatedly struck and abused at the same time asserting, that

the knife was drawn only to terrify, and not to wound, though
the pressing of the populace in his retreat had, in moment
of agitation, led him further than he at first intended.
116 MEMOIRS OF

   This was (EOiifirmed by some most respectable eye-witnesses ;
and the host of brilliant evidence, in favour of his general
character, immediately drew forth a verdict of acquittal, to the
complete satisfaction of the court and of the public at large.

   The only pupil whom Sir Joshua had at this period was
Mr. Charles Gill, son of a person at Bath, whose exquisite

taste as a pastry cook has been particularly noticed by

Anstey in his celebrated poem. Mr. Gill, the younger, has,

however, not been so celebrated in his art, and is unhappily

one of those whom Mr. Edwards , notices to have been

peculiarly unfortunate, having received a very severe wound

in his thigh, which has deprived him of the use of his leg.

Sir Joshua during part of this year appears to have been

deprived of his sister's domestic attentions, by a visit to Paris.

This has been very prettily noticed by Dr. Johnson, in a
letter to a Miss Flint, a very young lady who had translated

his Strictures on Shakspeare      into   French,  "  and was   then
resident at that gay metropolis.     He    says,                you
                                                      How can

prevent me from complaining of those charms by which you

have gained so much on Miss Reynolds, that she no longer

remembers her country nor her friends ? It is but a trifle for

you to praise us ; it is a trifle to spread our literary fame,

whilst you deprive us of the pleasure of seeing and of con-
versing with Miss Reynolds. In short. Madam, you must

"become less amiable, if you wish that we should love you

more."

It was also some time about this period, and previous to my
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                     117

                                                                                                                 t

becoming a pupil of Sir Joshua, that a circumstance took

place, highly illustrative of his character, and which I shall

now detail, knowing it to be authentic.

    Sir Joshua, as his usual custom, looked over the daily
morning paper at his breakfast time ; and on one of those
perusals, whilst reading an account of the Old Bailey sessions,
to his great astonishment, saw that a prisoner had been tried

and condemned to death for a robbery committed on the

person of one of his own servants, a negro who had been with
him for some time. He immediately rung the bell for the

servants, in order to make his inquiries, and was soon convinced

of the truth of the matter related in the newspaper. This
black man had lived in his service as footman for several

years, and has been pourtrayed in several pictures, particularly
in one of the Marquis of Granby, where he holds the horse of

that General. Sir Joshua reprimanded this black servant for
his conduct, and especially for not having informed him of
this curious adventure; when the man said he had concealed

it only to avoid the blame he should have incurred had he
told it: he then related the following circumstances of the
business, saying, that Mrs. Anna Williams (the old blind
lady who lived at the house of Dr. Johnson) had, some time
previous, dined at Sir Joshua's with Miss Reynolds ; that in
the evening she went home to Bolt-court, Fleet-street, in a

hackney-coach, and that he had been sent to attend her to
her house. On his return he had met with companions who

had detained him till so late an hour, that when he came to

Sir Joshua's house, he found the doors were shut and all the

servants gone to rest, ^n this dilemma he wandered in the
118 MEMOIRS OF

street till he came to a watch-house, in which he took
shelter for the remainder of the night, among the variety of

miserable companions to be found in such places ; and amidst
this assembly of the wretched, the black man fell sound asleep,
when a poor thief, who had been taken into custody by the
constable of the night, perceiving, as the man slept, that he had
a watch and money in his pocket (which was seen on his
thigh), he watched his opportunity and stole the watch, and
with a pen-knife cut through the pocket, and so possessed
himself of the money. When the Black awaked from his nap,
he soon discovered what had been done to his cost, and

immediately gave the alarm, and a strict search was made

through the company ; when the various articles which the
Black had lost were found in the possession of the unfortunate
wretch who had stolen them. He was accordingly secured,
and next morning carried before the Justice, and committed
to take his trial at the Old Bailey, (the Black being bound over
to prosecute), and, as we have seen, was at his trial cast and
condemned to death. Sir Joshua, much affected by this recital,

immediately sent his principal servant, Ralph Kirkly, to make
all inquiries into the state of the criminal, and, if necessary, to

relieve his wants in whatever way could be done. When

Kirkly came to the prison, he was soon admitted to the cell

of the prisoner, where he beheld the most wretched spectacle
that imagination can conceive --a poor forlorn criminal, without
a friend on earth who could relieve or assist him, and reduced
almost to a skeleton by famine and by filth, waiting till the

dreadful morning should arrive when he was to be made an
end of by a violent death. Sir Joshua now ordered fresh

cloathing to be sent to him, and also that the black servant
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                           119

should carry to him every day a sufficient supply of food from
his own table ; and at that time Mr. E. Burke being very
luckily in office he applied to him, and by their joint interest '
they got his sentence changed to transportation ; when after
being furnished with all necessaries, he was sent out of the

kingdom.

When Goldsmith first published his " Deserted Village/'

he dedicated it to his friend Sir Joshua, in which he elegantly

Iobserves, " can have no expectations, in an address of this

kind, either to add to your reputation, or to establish my

Iown. You can gain nothing from my admiration, as am
Iignorant of the art in which you are said to excel ; and may

lose much by the severity of your judgment, as few have a

juster taste in poetry than you. Setting interest, therefore,
I Iaside, to which never paid much attention,
                                               must be

indulged, at present, in following my affections. The only

I Idedication ever made was to my brother, because loved

him. better than most other men. He is since dead. Permit

me to inscribe this Poem to you."

   During the latter part of the year, Sir Joshua was much
occupied in the preparation of his second discourse, which
was delivered at the rooms of the Academy, on the 11th of

December, 1769-

   The general object of this discourse was to convey a brief
code of instructions for improvement in the various arts

"which the Academy was intended to encourage ; and these

hints, as it was neatly observed at the time, were offered
  120 MEMOIRS OF

 with the ingenuous modesty of a man, who by excellence
 becomes conscious of defect, as hints founded upon his own
; previous mistakes which might at least prevent industry from
 being misapplied."

     Considering the study of Painting, in particular, as divided
 into three parts, he supposed the first, which was merely that
 of acquiring a facility of drawing any object, a tolerable
 readiness in the management of colours, and an acquaintance
 with the most simple and obvious of the rules of composition,
 to have been already passed through by the student, to whom
 he next recommended the absolute necessity of collecting
 subjects for expression, and of amassing a stock of ideas
 capable of being combined and varied agreeable to circum-

 stances.

    This he considered as forming the second period, in which
 the student was to endeavour to acquire a general knowledge
 of all that was already known and executed ; in which,
 no longer under the tuition of any particular master, he was to
 consider himself solely as the pupil of the art, and thus
 to acquire and combine all the perfections scattered through
 the works of the most celebrated of past times, and of the
 various schools.

    In this part of the progress, though the student was to be at

 liberty to regulate his taste, and to enlarge the powers of
 his imagination, still was he to consider himself as restricted
 by certain rules, and so much in subjection and discipline
 under the art in general, as not to be permitted to resign himself
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  121

to any particular authority, much less to deviate into any
track where he could perceive no antecedent footsteps.

   Having gone through the second, and arrived at the last
stage, he considered the student as then liberated from all

former authority, and to be now guided solely by judgment ;

being thus placed, if not upon an equality, yet in the same

rank with those who had preceded him ; and even as exercising
a portion of sovereignty over those very rules by wliich
he himself had been governed in the former course of his

studies.

  At this period too, he described him as justified in adopting

a new mode of judgment ; being no longer bound to compare
the productions of art with each other, but to examine the art

itself by Nature's own standard, and thus to correct its errors*

and supply its defects.

   With a memory thus stored, and a judgment thus directed,
then, and not till then, was the student to try the power
of imagination, nay, even to give it the reins; for he asserted
that the man whose mind has been thus disciplined, might be
indulged in the warmest enthusiasm, and might even venture
to play on the borders of the wildest extravagance ; as then
the habitual dignity which long converse with the greatest
minds has imparted to him, will display itself in all his
attempts, and he will stand among his instructors, not as
an imitator, but as a rival.'' He assumed that invention
was little more than a new combination of such images as

                                                         R

\
 122 MEMOIRS OP

have been already treasured up in the memory, so that he
whose mind was best stored with images, would most certainly
be the most capable of invention ; and thus that he who was
best acquainted with the compositions of others, would be the
most capable of originality.

   Of course it followed, as he premised, that such artists as
toil on in the dull drudgery of copying, though they might,
indeed, faithfully exhibit the minutest part of some favourite

composition, would, however, never arrive at any excellence.
This position, so much at variance with the rules then
generally adopted, he explained by the observation, that of
the best large compositions, a great part was always common-
place, which, though it takes much time to copy, could conduce

but little to improvement. It follows, of course, as he observes,

that imitation should always be preceded by selection ; but
still as that requires no effort of the mind, so would the
powers of invention and composition become torpid and
devoid of energy from want of exercise, instead of being kept,
as they ought to be, in constant practice.

   Indeed, he confined the use of copying solely to the learning
to colour ; though, even that branch of the art can never be
acquired by a servile copyist: and here too he pointed out
that a skilful artist would always rather consider what the
productions of the ancient masters had been, than what they
are now, when changed by dirt and varnish ; and from hence
he again pointed out the necessity to copy Nature herself, in
comparison with whose hues, the best coloured pictures
             SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                 123

are but faint and feeble, and therefore most likely to give the
youthful student ideas totally distinct from either art or

nature.

   In addition to these hints, he allowed that copying might be
so far proper, as to make slight sketches of the machinery and
general management of any admired picture, in order to

preserve these for future regulations of style, so that the
student, instead of copying the touches of the great masters,
would only copy their conceptions.

   Yet in these general observations, it was not his intention
to do away models in painting : but instead of advising

the student to paint a copy, he recommended to him to paint
a companion ; so that by comparing the two carefully
together, he might best see his own defects, and be thereby
taught to guard against them.

In this most important part of the art, he recommended

Lodovico Caracchi as the best model for style, and this

he accompanied by some most judicious remarks, but too long

for insertion here : and his concluding observations are highly

worthy the   attention of  all students,  sh"oEwxincgelletnhecme  that to
excel, they  must always   consider that                          is never

granted to man but as the reward of Labour."

   In the year 1779 died a former pupil of Sir Joshua's of the
name of Dusign. His father was a colonel in the army, and
his mother daughter of the Earl of Hyndford, a Scottish peer.
After quitting Sir Joshua, he practised, for a few years, at

                                                       R2
124 MEMOIRS OF

Bath, where his family resided ; but the desire of improving
himself in his art induced him to proceed to Rome, and there
he soon after died of a consumption. About this time, also,
a little circumstance took place which, from its connection
with the art, deserves a record here.

   Most persons remember the lines by Pope which begin

thus :

                        " Come gentle air ! th' iEolian shepherd said,
                           While Procris panted in the secret shade."

These verses, it is well known. Pope sent to Miss Martha

Blount, accompanied with a fan, on which he had painted the

story of Cephalus and Procris, from a   design  of his  own
invention, with the motto " Aura Veni"

   After the death of Miss Blount, this fan, with other effects,
was sold by public auction, and Sir Joshua Reynolds sent a
person to bid for it, as far as thirty guineas ; but the man who
was intrusted with the commission mistook the mark in the
catalogue, and thought it could mean no more than thirty
shillings, as that sum seemed a very sufficient price for a fan.
As it sold, however, for about two pounds, he lost the
purchase ; but, luckily, it was bought by a dealer in toys, and
Sir Joshua got it by giving him a reasonable profit on his
bargain. The fan was afterwards stolen from him.

   Sir Joshua's opinion of the degree of skill with which it was
painted, being asked ; he replied, that it was such as might
have been expected from one who painted for his amusement
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS,  125

alone ; like the performance of a child. This must always be

the case when the work is taken up only from idleness, and
laid aside when it ceases to amuse any longer. But those,
he added, who are determined to excel, must go to their work

whether willing or unwilling, morning, noon, and night, and
will find it to be no play, but, on the contrary, very hard
labour.

   This was said to his pupils, and in this mode only it was
that he ever gave any instruction to them, when accident
produced an opportunity to give it force.

   Sir Joshua's close attention to his profession required a
certain portion of relaxation and social intercourse with his
friends ; and about the year 1770> he, as stated by Mr.
Cumberland, was one of a very pleasant society, which,
without having the name of a club, was accustomed to dine
together, on stated days, at the British Coffee House.

   This society was composed of men of the first eminence for
their talents, and as there was no exclusion, in the system, of
any member's friend or friends, their parties were continually
enlivened by the introduction of new guests, who, of course,
furnished new sources for conversation, from which politics
and party seemed, by general consent, decidedly proscribed.

   Such a society might, no doubt, have been highly agreeable ;

but its description, thus strongly marked by Mr. Cumberland,
seems rather drawn up in contradistinction to the Literary
Club, of which he was not a member.
126 MEMOIRS OF

This society at the Britisli Coffee House must, however,

with the exception of Johnson's conversation, have made him

amends for any exclusion from the other ; for here were

Foote, Fitzherbert, Garrick,  Macpherson,                        Doctors Carlisle,
Robinson, and Beattie, Caleb   Whiteford,
                                                                and " though last,

not least," Sir Joshua Reynolds, who introduced Goldsmith

as a member,   im" mSheediSattoeolypsprtoevCioounsquteor.'t*he  representation  of

his comedy of

  It was about this time, too, that the so often told circum-

stance of the Epitaphs took place. The occurrences which led

Ito this display of witticism, have been variously detailed.

shall, therefore, insert Mr. Cumberland's account of it, as it

contains some particulars not otherwise generally known.

   He says, that it was on a proposal started by Edmund
Burke, that a party of friends who had dined together at Sir
Joshua's, and at his house, should meet at the St. James's

Coffee House, which accordingly took place, and was
occasionally repeated with much festivity and good fellowship.
Dr. Barnard, Dean of Derry, Dr. Douglas, afterwards Bishop
of Salisbury, Johnson, Garrick, Sir Joshua, Goldsmith,
Edmund and Richard Burke, Hickey, an attorney, an
Irishman, and a friend of the Burkes, commemorated by

Goldsmith, and two or three others, constituted the party.

  It was at one of these meetings that the idea was suggested

of extempore Epitaphs upon the parties present ; pens and
ink were called for, and Garrick, off hand, with a good deal of

humour, wrote the Epitaph upon poor Goldsmith, who was the
                                                                              JO

         SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                \                           1§7

first in jest, as he proved in reality, that was committed to
the grave.

   The Dean also gave him an epitaph, and Sir Joshua
illuminated the Dean's verses with a sketch of his bust in
pen and ink, which Mr. C. states to have been inimitably-
caricatured ; but this does not appear to me like an act of

ISir Joshua's, nor did ever hear it mentioned by any other

author.

   These circumstances   were  of course  "  sufficient to prompt
Goldsmith to his well   known  poem of        Retaliation," which,

however, was written with such good temper, as to shew that

lie was fully convinced of the pleasantries of his friends

having been solely produced by the harmless mirth of the

moment.

  It is probable that whoever reads this Memoir, must have

already seen that celebrated poem ; yet still his delineation
of Sir Joshua is too accurate to be here omitted.

         " Here Reynolds is laid ; and to tell you my mind,
         He has not left a better or wiser behind ;

         His pencil was striking, resistless, and grand,
         His manners were gentle, complying, and bland ;

         Still born to improve us in every part,
         His pencil our faces, his manners our heart :
         To coxcombs averse, yet most civilly staring,
         When they judged without skill, he was still hard of hearing ;
         When they talked of their Raffaelles, Corregios, and stuff,
         He shifted his trumpet, and only took snuff!"
128 MEMOIRS OF

In the poetical epistle addressed to Goldsmith, by Cum-

berland, as a supplement to his Poem, are the following
lines :

                    " Pour forth toT^eynolds without stint,
                    Rich Burgundy, of ruby tint ;

               If e'er his colours chance to fade,

                     This brilliant hue shall come in aid ;
                   With ruddy lights refresh the faces.
                    And warm the bosoms of the Graces."

These lines certainly savour much of their author.

    When first the cross readings, ship news, and mistakes of
the press, appeared in the newspapers of the day, they
attracted universal attention, and the lucky invention so
much delighted Dr. Goldsmith, that he declared, in the
heat of his admiration of them, that it would give him more
pleasure to have been the author, than of all the ^^^orks he
had ever published of his own.

    They were written by the late Caleb Whiteford, who was
 one of the members when the epitaphs were written. On
 that occasion, Whiteford wrote two on Goldsmith and
 Cumberland, with which they were both so displeased, that
 he did not attend at the next meeting, but addressed the
 following apology to Sir Joshua.

                        " Admire not, dear Knight .*
                        That I keep out of sight,

                            1
   SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                                                                            32.9

Consider what perils await him,ill
       Who with season'd jokes
        Indiscreetly provokes                                            *

Tlie Genus irritubue Vatum.I

   felt when these swainsI
Rehears'd their sweet strains,
                            in
       That mine had too much lemon juice;
And strove to conceal.
For the general weal,

      What at last was forc'd to produce.

After such panegyric
The least thins; satiric

       Must throw both the Bards the twitters;
Twas impossible they,
After drinking Tokay,

       Could relish a bumper of bitters.

Do talk, to each bard,
Beg they won't be too hard,

       But be merciful as they are stout

  rely on your skill.
Say just what you will,

      And as you brought me in, bring me oul

To the company too,

Some apology's due,
          know you can do with ease

Be your's. Sir, to place.
In the best light, my case.

       And give what colour you please,
I
                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                '

   it 1

                       it

                                it

                                                                               ;

For those brats of my brain,                                                      'em
Which have caus'd so much pam,

        Henceforth renounce and disow

And still keep in sight.
When epitaphs write,

       De mortuis nil nisi bonum"
   1

             SI
                                                                    n
                                                                                ;
130 MEMOIRS OP

With this whimsical request it is said Sir Joshua complied,

and by his friendly exertions succeeded in restoring that
harmony which had thus been interrupted by the irritability
of those who were annoyed by Caleb's briskness.

It is scarcely necessary to enter into the particulars of the

well known anecdote of Dr. Bernard, already mentioned as a

member of this society ; when having advanced in conversation

with Sir Joshua and Dr. Johnson, that he thought no man

could improve who   was past  the   age of   forty-five, the   latter
immediately turned  round to   the   Dean   and observed,
                                                              " that

he (the Dean) was an instance to the contrary ; for there
was great room for improvement in him, and he wished

that he would set about it."

   The Dean took no notice of this hint at the time, but the

next day sent a very elegant poetic epistle, addressed to
    Sir Joshua Eeynolds and Co. and as part of those

Istanzas is highly descriptive of Sir Joshua, shall not only

insert that passage, but the whole in order to make it more

intelligible and impressive.

I" lately thought no man alive.             «

   Could e'er improve past forty-five,
           And ventur'd to assert it ;

   The observation was not new.
   But seemed to me so just and true,

           That none could controvert it.

No, Sir ! says Johnson, 'tis not so,

That's } our mistake, and I can shew
       SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                  131

     An instance if you doubt it ;

You, Sir ! who are near forty-eight.
May much improve, 'tis not too late,

     I wish you'd set about it.

Encourag'd thus to mend my faults,

I turn'd his counsel in my thoughts.
     Which way I should apply it;

Learning and wit seem'd past ray reach,
For who can learn, when none will teach

      And wit -- I could not buy it.

Then come, ray friends, and try your skill.

You can inform me if you w ill,
      (My books are at a distance ;)

With you I'll live and learn, and then,

IInstead of books, shall read men,

        So lend me your assistance.

Dear Knight of Plympton, tell me how
To suffer with unruffled brow.

        And smile serene like thine ;
The jest uncouth, or truth severe.
To such I'll turn my deafest ear.

       And calmly drink my wine.

 Thou say'st not only skill is gain'd,
 But genius too may be attain'd.

         By studious imitation ;
 Thy temper mild, thy genius fine,

 I'll copy till T make them mine
        By constant application.

 Thy art of pleasing, teach me, Garrick !
 Thou who reversest odes Pindarick,*

   * Garrick had said tl.at Cumberland's  Odes might be read cither backwards or forwards, with
equal beauty and precision.
                                                 s2
152                   MEMOIRS OF

           A second time read o'er;

     Oh conld we read thee backwards too,
     Last thirty years thou shouldst review.

            And charm us thirty more.

     If I have thoughts, and can't express them,

     Gibbon shall teach me how to dress them,
            In terms select and terse;

     Jones teach me modesty and Greek,
     Smith how to think. Burke how to speak.

            And Beauclerk to converse.

                              Let Johnson teach me how to place.
                              In fairest light, each borrow'd grajce,

                                  From him I'll learn to write;

                              Copy his clear, /arailiar style,
                           And from the roughness of his file

                                  Grow like himself -- polite."

   In the midst of all this excellent society, Sir Joshua still

attended sedulously to his profession; and in this year (1770,)
his price for a head was raised to thirty-five guineas : his own
portrait was also painted about this time by Zoffanii, in a
large picture, in which were represented ail the first members
of the Royal Academy, and now in the King's collection.
This group of portraits was afterwards engraved by Earlom.

   On the 14th of December he produced his third discourse,

whose leading objects were a delineation of the great and
essential principles of the grand style, an investigation of

beauty, and a series of arguments to prove that the genuine
habits of nature are totally distinct from those of fashion.

He commenced this discourse by adverting to a ^reat
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  133

difficulty which operated against him in the arrangement of
each discourse ; that was the circumstance of his being
obliged to direct his advice to an assembly composed of so
many students of different ages, and of different degrees of

advancement. In speaking afterwards of the close attention
to be paid to nature, he still warned the student that even

nature herself is not to be too closely copied ; and he added^
that there are excellencies in the art of painting beyond

what is commonly called the imitation of nature ; so that a
mere copier of nature can never produce any thing great, can

never raise and enlarge the conceptions, nor warm the heart
of the spectator.

   He therefore recommended to the genuine painter to have
more extensive objects in view, and instead of endeavouring
to amuse mankind with the minute neatness of his imitations,
rather to endeavour to improve them by the grandeur of his
ideas ; and thus to strive for fame by captivating the imagina-
tion, instead of seeking praise by the silly attempt at
deceiving the senses. The correctness of this principle he
considered as so absolute in itself, as not to require the aid of
novelty to recommend it, and he shewed that it was from the
earliest times enforced by the poets, orators, and rhetoricians
of antiquity, as well as supported by the general opinion
of the enlightened part of mankind, giving, at the same time,
appropriate quotations from the classic authorities.

   To this he added, that " the moderns are not less convinced

than the ancients of this superior power (of the ideal beauty)
existing in the art ; nor less sensible of its effects. Every
/

 134 MEMOIRS OF

 language has adopted terms expressive of this excellence.
 The gusto grande of the Italians, the beau ideal of the French,
 and the great style, genius, and taste, among the English, are

but different appellations of the same thing. It is this intel-

 lectual dignity, they say, that ennobles the painter's art; that
 lays the line between him and the mere mechanic ; and
 produces those great effects in an instant, which eloquence
 and poetry, by slow and repeated efforts, are scarcely able to
 attain."

    He confessed, indeed, that it is not easy to define in what
 this great style consists ; nor to describe, by words, the proper
 means of acquiring it, even if the mind of the student should
 be highly capable of such an acquisition ; for if taste or
 genius were to be taught by rules, then they would no longer
 be taste or genius. Still, although there neither are, nor can
 be, any precise invariable rules for the exercise or the
 acquisition of these great qualities, yet, as he expressed
 himself, they always operate in proportion to our attention
 in observing the works of nature, to our skill in selecting, and
 to our care in digesting, methodizing, and comparing our

  observations.

     He therefore recommended a long and strict examination
 both of the beauties and defects of nature, by which means
 the student is enabled to acquire a just idea of her beautiful
 forms, and to correct nature by herself, her imperfect state
 by her more perfect.

     The eye being thus enabled to distinguish the beauties
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  135

and deficiencies, as well as the deformities, the judgment is
then enabled, as he observed, to make out an abstract idea
of the general forms of things, more perfect than any one
original, " and what may seem a paradox, the student learns
to design naturally by drawing his figures unlike to any one

object."

   This then, he described to be " Ideal Beauty," the idea of

the perfect state of nature, that great leading principle by
which works of genius are conducted ; an idea which has

acquired, and which seems to have a right to the epithet of

divine, " as it may be said to preside like a supreme judge
over all the productions of nature, appearing to be possessed
of the will and intention of the Creator, as far as they regard
the external form of living beings." He added, that when

a man once possesses this idea in its perfection, there is
no danger but that he will be sufficiently warmed by

it himself, and also be enabled to warm and ravish every one

else.

   With respect to fashion, he laid it down as a principle, that

however the mechanick and ornamental arts may be obliged,
or even permitted, to sacrifice to her, yet she must be entirely
excluded from any control over the art of painting : wherefore

the painter must never mistake this capricious changeling
for the genuine offspring of nature, but must divest himself
of all prejudices in favour of his age and country ; and must

even disregard all local and temporary ornaments, looking
only on those general habits which are every where and always
the same, addressing his works to the people of every age
136 MEMOIRS OF

and every country, and even calling upon posterity to be his
spectators.

    Here he took occasion to reprobate the ridiculous frippery

of the style of French painting in the time of Louis XIV.

but acknowledged, that to avoid the errors of that school, and
to retain the true simplicity of nature, is still a task more
difficult than may appear at first sight ; as the prejudices
in favour of the fashions and customs to which we have been
used, and which are justly called a second nature, make
it often difficult to distinguish that which is natural from
that which is the result of education. Our only guides and
instructors, then, he asserted, are to be found among the
ancients ; by a careful study of whose works, the artist
and the man of taste will be enabled to form a just conception

of the real simplicity of nature : to which he added, " they

will suggest many observations which would probably escape
you, if your study were confined to nature alone, and indeed,

I cannot help suspecting, that in this instance the ancients

had an easier task than the moderns. They had, probably,
little or nothing to unlearn, as their manners were nearly
 approaching to this desirable simplicity ; while the modern
artist, before he can see the truth of things, is obliged to
 remove a veil, with which the fashion of the times has
 thought proper to cover her."

    Had Sir Joshua, however, happily lived until the present
 times, he would perhaps have omitted the latter observation!

    After some very judicious observations on the imitators of
i
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.            137

nature in her lowest forms, and justly reprobating them in
some instances, he concluded his admirable discourse, by

warning his hearers not to consider him as countenancing
a careless or undetermined manner of painting ; adding, that

although the painter is certainly to overlook the accidental
discriminations of nature, yet he is still to exhibit distinctly

and with precision, the general forms of things ; wherefore a
firm and determined outline is one of the characteristics

of the great style in painting : to which he subjoined the
important truism, that he who possesses the knowledge of
the exact form which every part of nature ought to have, will
be fond of expressing that knowledge with correctness and

precision in all his works.

IIt was in the year 1771, that  was first placed under
the tuition of Sir Joshua Reynolds, to whom I was introduced,

and strongly recommended by my good and much respected
If Ifriend Dr. John Mudge.
                            might now^ be suffered to say a
I Ilittle of myself,
would declare that              feel it next to
Iimpossible to express the pleasure received in breathing, if it

may be so said, in an atmosphere of art ; having until this

period been entirely debarred, not only from the practice
of the art itself, but even from the sight of pictures of any
excellence, as the county of Devon at that time did not

abound with specimens, and even those few which are

scattered about that country I had no opportunity of

ever seeing ; and as from the earliest period of my being
Iable to make any observation,
                                had conceived him to be

Ithe greatest painter that ever lived, it may be conjectured

what felt when I found myself in his house as his scholar:

T
138 MEMOIRS OF

Ibut as the admiration and respect which I now honestly confess
    always felt for him, render me liable to be considered as a
partial judge of his various merits, this consideration inclines
me to give the authorities of others, in preference to my own,
whenever it will serve my purpose -- of such as knew him well,
and may be considered as less prejudiced encomiasts.

   As one prominent cause of Sir Joshua's cultivating the very
best society, and which almost may be said to have been
domesticated with him, Mr. Malone is certainly correct in
stating, that finding how little time he could spare from his
profession, for the purpose of acquiring, and adding to his
knowledge from books, he very early and wisely resolved to
partake, as much as possible, of the society of all the ingenious
and learned men of his own time, in consequence of which,
and his unassuming and gentle manner, and refined habits, his
table, for above thirty years, exhibited an assemblage of all
the talents of Great Britain and Ireland ; there being, during
that period, scarce a person in the three kingdoms distinguished
for his attainments in literature or the arts, or for his exertions
at the bar, in the senate, or the field, who was not occasionally
found there.

   In addition to this, it has been stated by the author of

   Testimonies," to his genius, that the circle of his acquaint-
ance, owing to the celebrity of his name, was very extended ;
that many illustrious foreigners were on a footing of personal
intimacy with him ; and that he was resorted to by persons of
the highest quality, who revered his genius as much as they
respected the excellence of his private character. Thence,
                    SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.           139

his house was long the resort of excellence of every kind, of

the learned, the elegant, the polite, in short of  all that were
eminent for worth, or distinguished by genius.
                                                   " From such

connections, his mind, rich in its own store, received an

accession of most extensive knowledge, and an inexhaustible
treasure for conversation. He was rich in observation, anecdote,

and intelligence."

  ITo return to Mr. Malone's account of him, from which
Itrust my readers will excuse the transcription of a note,

shall here insert his observation, that the Nodes Ccenceque

Deu?n enjoyed at his table, (as Mr. Boswell in the dedication
prefixed to his Life of Johnson, has described it,) will be long
remembered by those who had the happiness to partake of

them ; but the remembrance must always be accompanied

with regret, when it is considered, that the death of their

amiable and illustrious host has left a chasm in society, and
that no such common centre of union for the accomplished
and the learned now exists, or is likely soon to exist, in
London."

  IfThe observation abovealluded to, of Mr. Boswell's, is to

the following purport. "    there be a pleasure in celebrating

the distinguished merit of a contemporary, mixed with a certain

Idegree of vanity, not altogether inexcusable, in appearing

fully sensible of it, where can find one, in complimenting

Iwhom can with more general approbation gratify those

feelings ? Your excellence, not only in the art over which

you have long presided with unrivalled fame, but also in

philosophy and elegant literature, is well known to the present,

                           T2
 140 MEMOIRS OF

and will continue to be the admiration of future ages. Your
equal and placid temper, your variety of conversation, your

true politeness, by which you are so amiable in private society,
and that enlarged hospitality which has long made your house
a common centre of union for the great, the accomplished,

Ithe learned, and the ingenious ; all these qualities, can, in

perfect confidence of not being accused of flattery, ascribe to
you."

    This warm and friendly tribute to the excellence of Sir

I IJoshua Reynolds was written in I79I, a very short period

before his lamented death ; but trust shall not be accused
of premature anachronism by its insertion in this place, to

which it so particularly refers.

   To such testimonies as those ray own suffrage is unnecessary :

I shall therefore only observe, that, among the many advantages

which were to be gained in the house of Sir Joshua Reynolds,
one of the most considerable certainly was, the opportunity
of improvement from the familiar intercourse which he thus
perpetually kept up with the most eminent men of his time
for genius and learning.

  IA few anecdotes of some of those persons have collected,

but have related only such as are new and not to be found in
any other writer ; for of the illustrious dead even the slightest
memorials are ever received with a degree of satisfaction ; and
though but trifles in themselves, yet as they relate to
distinguished characters, we consider them as a kind of relics,
and attend to each little circumstance with the same religious
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                               141

enthusiasm as the devotee follows the footsteps of his saint.
They help to transport the mind back to the very period in
which the occurrences were passing, and for a time we seem

Ito be existing in a former age. Therefore, without further

apology, shall give those which at this time occur to my
recollection.

   Dr. Johnson being in company with Sir Joshua and his
sister, Miss Reynolds, and the conversation turning on
morality ; Sir Joshua said, he did not think there was in the

world any man completely wicked.

   Johnson answered  I do not know what you mean by
completely wicked."

  I*' mean," returned Sir Joshua, *' a man lost to all sense of

shame." Dr. Johnson replied, that to be completely wicked
a man must be also lost to all sense of conscience.'*

   Sir Joshua said, he thought it was exactly the same, he

could see no difference.

  I** What !" said Johnson, " can you see no difference ?

am ashamed to hear you or any body utter such nonsense ;
when the one relates to men only, the other to God !"

   Miss Reynolds then observed, that when shame was lost,

conscience was nearly gone.

Johnson agreed that her conclusion was very just«
142 MEMOIRS OF

Dr. Johnson was displeased if he supposed himself at any

time made the object of idle curiosity. When Miss Reynolds

once desired him to dine at Sir Joshua's, on a day fixed upon

by herself, he readily accepted the invitation ; yet having

as to the importance of her     cthoempsaamnieontsi,me,or"  of her
for inviting him, he added, at                              But
doubts

Ireasons

will not be made a show of."

   James Mac Ardell, the mezzotinto engraver, having taken a
very good print from the portrait of Rubens, came with it
one morning to Sir Joshua Reynolds, to inquire if he could
inform him particularly of the many titles to which Rubens

had a right, in order to inscribe them properly under his

print ; saying, he believed that Rubens had been knighted by
the kings of France, Spain, and England ; was secretary of
state in Flanders, and to the privy council in Spain ; and had
been employed in a ministerial capacity from the court of
Madrid to the court of London, to negotiate a treaty of

peace between the two crowns, and that he was also a

magistrate of Antwerp, &c.

   Dr. Johnson happened to be in the room with Sir Joshua at
the time, and unrlerstanding Mac Ardell's inquiry, interfered
rather abruptly, saying, Pooh ! pooh ! put his name alone
under the print, Peter Paul Rubens : that is full sufficient and

more than all the rest."

This advice of the Doctor's was accordingly followed.
At the time that Miss Linley was in the highest esteem as a

                                                               *
                     SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  143

public singer, Dr. Johnson came in tlie evening to drink tea

with Miss Reynolds, and when he entered the room, she said
Ito him, See, Dr. Johnson, what a preference give to
Iyour company, for had an offer of a place in a box at the
Oratorio, to hear Miss Linley : but I would rather sit with
                     Linley sing." "And I, Madam," replied
you than  hear Miss
Johnson,              rather sit with you than sit upon a
           " would

throne."

    The Doctor would not be surpassed even in a trifling
compliment.

   Several ladies being in company with Dr. Johnson, it was
remarked by one of them, that a learned woman was by no
means a rare character in the present age : when Johnson

Ireplied, '* have known a great many ladies who knew Latin,

but very few who know English."

  IA lady observed, that women surpassed men in epistolary

correspondence. Johnson said, *' do not know that." " At

Iilneacsotn,"vesrasiadtitohne."l--ad"y,No,tMheaydaarme ,"mroestturpnleeadsJinoghnswohne,n "thetyhianrke

they are most pleasing when they hold their tongues."

  A friend of Dr. Johnson's, in conversation with him, was

lamenting the disagreeable situation in which those persons
stood who were eminent for their witticisms, as they were

perpetually expected to be saying good things-- that it was a

heavy tax on them.
144 MEMOIRS OP

  " It is, indeed," said Johnson, " a very heavy tax on them ;

a tax which no man can pay who does not steal.*'

A prosing dull companion was making a long harangue to

Dr. Johnson upon the Punick war, in which he gave nothing

Johnson, afterwards,             speaking of
                               withdrew my
said, " Sir soon
Ieither new or entertaining.

the circumstance to a friend,

attention from him, and thought of Tom Thumb."

   A young gentleman, who was bred to the Bar, having a

great desire to be in company with Dr. Johnson, was, in
consequence, invited by Miss Reynolds, Sir Joshua's sister,
to meet him at their house. When the interview took place,
they fell into deep conversation on politics, and the different
governments in Europe, particularly that of Venice. Miss
Reynolds, who related the anecdote, said, that as it was a

subject which she neither liked nor understood, she did not

attend to the conversation, except to hear that the young
man was humbly making his inquiries to gain all possible
information from the profound knowledge of Dr. Johnson ;
when her attention was suddenly attracted by the Doctor
exclaiming in a very loud and peremptory tone of voice,

I** Yes, Sir, know very well that all Republican rascals think

as you do !"

   One morning when Garrick paid a visit to Sir Joshua, in the
course of conversation he was very freely giving his opinion
up(m an eminent authorofthattime; he particularly condemned

his dramatic works, respecting which he expressed himself in
            SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.           145

these words": " Damn lii^i dish-clout face ; his plays would never

Ido for the stage if -Hd not cook them up and make prologues

and epilogues for him,    so   that they   go down with the
public." He also added,        hates you,  Sir Joshua, because
                         " he

you do not admire   the painter whom he considers as a
second Corregio."
                   " Who is that r" replied Sir Jojshua."
" Why, his Corregio,' answered Gairick, " is Romney the

painter 1"

  I remember to have heard Garrick complain that it was a

very great fatigue to him to dine in company so frequently as
his interest seemed to require. From hence we may conclude,
that he considered himself as under the necessity of being a
very delightful companion, which he certainly was : but had he
been content to belike other persons at table, it would have then
been no fatigue to him. On the same account he avoided ever
going to a masquerade in any specific personification, as that
would have involved him in the difficulty of supporting his

character as a wit.

   Sir Joshua had given to Dr. Johnsoii a copy of that portrait
now at Knowle, the seat of the Duke of Dorset, in which the
Doctor is represented with his hands held up, and in his own
short hair ; it is nearly a profile, and there has been a print
taken from it, v/hich portrait the Doctor notices this year in

the foilowinsfC3 letter :
146 MEMOIRS OP

      " TO SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS, IN LEICESTER-FIELDS.

         " DEAR SIR,

  " When T came to Lichfield, I found that my portrait had

been much visited, and much admired. Every man has a

Ilurking wish to appear considerable in his native place ; and

was pleased with the dignity conferred by such a testimony
of your regard.

         " Be pleased, therefore, to accept the thanks of, Sir,

                          " Your most obliged and humble servant,

^' Ashbourn in Derbyshire,        '*Sam. Johnson.

      " July 17, 1771.

" Compliments to Miss Reynolds."

   Dr. Johnson knew nothing of the art of painting either
in theory or practice, which is one proof that he could

not be the author of Sir Joshua's discourses ; indeed his

imperfect sight was some excuse for his total ignorance in that
department of study. Once being at dinner at Sir Joshua's, in.
company with many painters, in the course of conversation

Kichardson's Treatise on Painting happened to be mentioned.

  I I IAh !" said Johnson, " remember wlien was at college,

Iby chance found that book on my stairs : took it up with me
Ito my chamber and read it through, and truly did not think

it possible to say so much upon the art." Sir Joshua, who
                       SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                              147

could not hear distinctly, desired of one of the company to be
informed what Johnson had said ; and it being repeated to him
so loud that Johnson heard it, the Doctor seemed hurt, and

added, " But I did not wish. Sir, that Sir Joshua should have
Ibeen told what then said."

   The latter speech of Johnson denotes a delicacy in him,
and an unwillingness to offend ; and it evinces a part of his
character which he has not had the credit of having ever

possessed.

   Sir John Hawkins also observes very well of Johnson, that
of the beauties of painting, notwithstanding the many eulogiums
on the art, which, after the commencement of his friendship
with Sir Joshua, he inserted in his writings, he had not the
least conception ; indeed he said once to Sir John, that in his

whole life he was never capable of discerning the least

resemblance of any kind, between a picture and the subject it

was designed to represent.

   Those who wish to know more of his sentiments upon the
art, may find a specimen in an anecdote related by Mrs. Piozzi
on that subject, in the 98th page of her book.

  IBut shall    give,  Joahs,nspoenrh, ap"s,   a more pleasing subject,   some
                                              that majestic teacher of   moral
other ideas of  Dr.

and religious wisdom," who, in several places, thus speaks of

portraits :

Genius is chiefly exerted in historical pictures, and the
                                          u2
148 MEMOIRS OF

art of the painter of portraits is often lost in the obscurity

of this subject. But it is in painting as in life ; what is
Igreatest is not always best.
                               should grieve to see Reynolds

transfer to heroes and to goddesses, to empty splendor and to

airy fiction, that art, which is now employed in diffusing

friendship, in renewing tenderness, in quickening the affections

of the absent, and continuing the presence of the dead/'

   And again, " Every man is always present to himself, and
fias, therefore, little need of his own resemblance ; nor can desire
it but for the sake of those whom he loves, and by whom he

hopes to be remembered. This use of the art is a natural and
reasonable consequence of affection ; and though, like other
human actions, it is often complicated with pride, yet even such

pride is more laudable than that by which palaces are covered
with pictures, that, however excellent, neither imply the
owner's virtue, nor excite it.'^

   This is certainly the best apology for portrait that has ever
been given ; and to it 1 shall here add a few observations
of my own on this department of painting.

   Under this view of art so well described by Johnson, it
is that portrait may assume a dignity : and certain it is that

all those portraits which have been executed by the higher
order of painters have it ; as we may perceive 'in them how
much the genius of the artist has been able to discern,
and faithfully to represent that which was characteristic and
valuable in the individual which was his model, and thereby
clearly demonstrated the possession of high powers.
. SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  149

   But the reason why portrait is treated with so much

contempt, is because there are more bad pictures of this class
preserved than of any other branch in the art, on account of

their local value, being tiie resemblance of some favorite
object, whereas, the bad performances in any other brancli of

art havinc; no value, are neglected and perish. It may

be observed also, that more bad portrait painters get employ-

ment than bad painters of any other class ; which adds to. the
comparative plenty of those works : and this excessive plenty

of bad portraits, from tlie above causes, has, in the end, given a
degraded rank to that department. But could we see in
portraiture all tjie qualities displayed of which it is capable, it
would be found to contain many of the highest merits of even
history itself;, and those who treat it slightly surely cannot

have examined it with a suiiicient attention nor have had a clear

idea of all its difficulties and merits. It appears to me to be

in many respects similar to that of writing a distinct character
of an individual, which, when it is done with justice and nice

Idiscrimination, ' apprehend to be a greater effort of genius

than to write the life or memoir.

   But the department of portrait alone may be divided into
different classes as practised by different professors according
to their abilities and inclinations. Three are distinct, for

instance ; and first those portraits which are true but not
ingenious, where their merit consists in a careful endeavour at
similitude to the person represented, but in a maimer dry,
laboured, and tasteless ; secondly, those which are ingenious
but not true ; in these much skill is often to be fuiind, but

then the pure imitation of nature has been sacrificed to
150     ·                                              MEMOIRS OF

ideal graces and adscititious beauties ; Leiy and Koeller are

instances ; the consequence of which                                                    ; is,that manner and
                                                                                                        is
sameness become the poor substitute for truth, variety, and

nature. Such works are too much like each other to be like

any thing else, and create no interest but that order of

portrait which does honor to the department                                                                 both true

and ingenious, as may be exemplified in the works of

Kembrandt, Velasquez, Vandyke, Reynolds, and Titian.

   After all that has been said, there can be no doubt but that

a  decided superiority must be given to historical painting,

when       of the highest order, as requires, of necessity,
      it                                               is                                                   ;
                                                                  a
          is                                                                                                        is a
                                                                                     :
               if it
                                                                       it it
                            is
much greater mass of acquired knowledge of every kind also,

because that in                          contained large portion of the excellence

of portrait,                             not the whole and when portraiture

compared with grand composition, bears but as a part, and,
of consequence, part much easier to accomplish than a
                                     a

whole.

   Yet will venture to say, that, in certain instances, have
it                                                                                                          aI
seen groupes of portraits by Titian which have contained the
      is
essence of history and history by Raffaelle which contained
     aI                                  ;
                                  ;                 :
the essence of portrait and                            it   can scarcely be denied, that

portrait, in its greatest degree of perfection, becomes speciesis

of history, as                       it  must possess its first merits, character, and

expression and that history                                   not degraded by the intro-

duction of dignified portrait. Therefore am of opinion that
                                                                                        I

        most useful and necessary part of the practice of an

historical painter, that he sometimes should recur to the close

imitation of nature by employing himself in portrait, and not
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  , 151

survey it with an improper pride. A strong proof ot an

ingenious and speculative mind is its being able to gain
instruction from every quarter, even from whence it might be

least expected.

  IWhile on the subject of portrait, may be allowed to observe,

that it is a very desirable thing that the name should be written
on the back of every portrait, signifying the person it represents.

  I remember a letter from Mr. Locke to Collings, of which

the following is an extract :

   " Pray get Sir Godfrey to write on the back of Lady
Marsham's picture, Lady Marsham ; and on the back of
mine John Locke, 1704. This he did to Mr. Molyneaux's :
it is necessary to be done, or else the pictures of private

persons are lost in two or three generations ; and so the
picture loses its value, it not being known whom it was made

to represent."

Mr. Locke died about a month after this letter was written.

   Sir Joshua himself, indeed, never did this, nor even mark
his own name, except in the instance of Mrs. Siddons's
portrait as the Tragic Muse, when he wrote his name upon
the hem of her garment.

  I remember to have heard General Paoli declare, that he

could decide on the character and disposition of a man whose
letter he had seen.
     1

152 MEMOIRS OF

   Notwithstanding this assertion may be carried something
beyond what we may be inclined to allow, yet it is not destitute
of truth to such as are nice discriminators of character.

  If such is possible to be the case from merely seeing a letter,

how much more information may we suppose to be drawn
from a fine portrait ; and in this particular excellence the
portraits of Reynolds most certainly surpass all other portraits
existing in the world. This brings to my remembrance the
anecdote told of Bernini, the famous sculptor, that Charles
the First having a desire that Bernini should make his bust,
sent over his portrait, painted by Vandyke, which exhibited
three views of his face ; and when the picture Was presented to
Bernini, who did not know whom it represented, he immediately

exclaimed, " My God ! whose portrait is this ?-- the man will

not come to a timely end."

   In the course of this year, Sir Joshua took another trip to
Paris, from which he had scarcely returned when Mr. Bennet

Langton renewed, in a very pressing manner, an invitation which
he had given to him and Goldsmith to spend some part of the
autumn with him and his lady, the Countess of Rothes, at

their seat in Lincolnshire. With this obliging request,

however, he was unable to comply, and Goldsmith, in a letter

to Mr. Langton, declining the invitation on the part of both,
says, " Reynolds is just returned from Paris, and finds

himself now in the case of a truant, that must make up for
his idle time by diligence ; Ave have therefore agreed to
postpone our journey till next summer.*'
I.
                              SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

   In fact, at this period Sir Joshua may be said to liave been

at the zenith of his eminence, as we see him now employed in
poLirtraying the most illustrious personages in every different
department, whilst his intimacy was sedulously sought after
by all degrees of persons.

   Much of the attention which even Goldsmith personally
met with was undoubtedly owing to the patronage of his
admired friend ; yet Sir Joshua used to say, that Goldsmith

looked at, or considered, public notoriety, or fame, as one
great parcel, to the whole of which he laid claim, and whoever
partook of any part of it, whether dancer, singer, slight of
hand man, or tumbler, deprived him of his right, and drew off
the attention of the world from himself and which he was

striving to gain. Notwithstanding this, he lamented that
whenever he entered into a mixed company, he struck a kind
of awe on them, which deprived him of the enjoyment and
freedom of society, and which he then made it his endeavour

to dispel by playing wanton and childish pranks in order to
bring himself to the wished-for level.

  It was very soon after my first arrival in London, where
Ievery thing appeared new and wonderful to me, that

Iexpressed to Sir Joshua my impatient curiosity to see

Dr. Goldsmith, and he promised should do so on the first

opportunity. Soon afterwards Goldsmith came to dine with

him,  aanddesiimgnmeeddaiabtreulpytnoenss,mysaeidntetorinmg e,the"  room, Sir Joshua,
with                                                                This is Dr. Gold-
Ismith ; pray why did you wish to see him?"
                                                                    was niucli

confused by the suddenness of the question, and answered, in

      X
154 MEMOIRS OF

my hurry", " Because he is a notable man." This, in one
sense of the word, was so very contrary to the character and
conduct of Goldsmith, that Sir Joshua burst into a hearty

laugh, and said, that Goldsmith should, in future, always be
called the notable man.

  IWhat meant, however, to say was, that he was a man of

note, or eminence.

   He appeared to me to be very unaffected and good-natured;
but he was totally ignorant of the art of painting, and this he
often confessed with much gaiety.

  It has been often said of Goldsmith, that he was ever desirous

of being the object of attention in all companies where he was
present ; which the following anecdote may serve to prove.

On a summer's excursion to the continent he accompanied

a lady and her two beautiful daughters into France and

Flanders, and often expressed a little displeasure at perceiving

that more attention was paid to them than to himself. On
Itheir entering a town,
                             think Antwerp, the populace

surrounded the door of the hotel at which they alighted,

and testified a desire to see those beautiful young women ; and

the ladies, willing to gratify them., came into a balcony at the

front of the house, and Goldsmith with them ; but perceiving

that it was not himself who was the object of admiration, he

presently withdrew, with evident signs of mortification,

Isaying, as he went out, " There are places where am the

object of admiration also."
SIR JOSHUA KEYNOLDS.                                     155

One day when Drs. Goldsmith and Johnson were at dinner

with Sir Joshua, a poem, by a poet already alluded to, was

presented to Sir Joshua, by his servant, from the author.

Goldsmith immediately laid hold of it, and began to read it,

and at every line cut almost through the paper with his finger
nail, crying out, " What d
                                d nonsense is this when Sir
Joshua caught it out of his hands, saying, " No, no, don't do

so ; you shall not spoil my book, neither for the Doctor

could not bear to hear of another's fame.

   Sir Joshua was always cautious to preserve an unblemished

Icharacter, and careful not to make any man his enemy.

remember when he was     told of some   very indiscreet  speech or
                         quickly said,                   he is thus
action of Goldsmith, he                  " What a fool

to commit himself, when he has so much more cause to be

Icareful of his reputation than have of mine!" well recol-

lecting that even the most trivial circumstance which tells

against an eminent person, will be remembered as well as

those in his favour ; and that the world watch those who are

distinguished for their abilities with a jealous eye.

Sir William Temple, in his Memoirs, relates a surprizing

instance of sagacity in a Macaw, one of the parrot genus of the

largest kind, which occurred under his own observation. His

relation is, indeed, a very wonderful one ; but I am the more

apt to give it credit from being myself a witness of the

following instance of apparent intellect in a bird of this species,
Iand therefore can vouch for its truth : at the same time
Ihope to be excused for giving what
                                        consider merely as a

curious circumstance, and not to incur the accusation of

                            X2
 156 MEMOIRS OF

vanity, in this instance at least, by making a weak endeavour
to extol my own poor work, for very poor it was.

  IIn the early part of the time that passed with Sir Joshua

as his scholar, I had, for the sake of practice, painted the

portrait of one of the female servants ; but my performance
had no other merit than that of beinj; a strong likeness.

   Sir Joshua had a large macaw, which he often introduced
into his pictures, as may be seen from several prints. This
bird was a great favorite, and was always kept in the dining
parlour, where he became a nuisance to this same house-maid,

whose department it was to clean the room after him ; of

course, they were not upon very good terms with each other.

The portrait, when finished, was brought into the parlour,

Ione day after dinner, to be shown to the family, that they
might judge of the progress  had made. It was placed

against a chair, while the macaw was in a distant part of the

room, so that he did not immediately perceive the picture as

he walked about on the floor ; but when he turned round and

saw the features of his enemy, he quickly spread his wings,

and in great fury ran to it, and stretched himself up to bite at

the face. Finding, however, that it did not move, he then bit

at the hand, but perceiving it remain inanimate, he proceeded to
examine the picture behind, and then, as if he had satisfied his

curiosity, left it, and walked again to a distant part of the room ;

4)ut whenever he turned about, and again saw the picture, he

would, with the same action of rage, repeatedly attack it. The

<?xperiment was afterwards repeated, on various occasions, in
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  157

the presence of Edmund Burke, Dr. Johnson, Dr. Goldsmith,          \
and most of Sir Joshua's friends, and never failed of success ;
and what made it still more remarkable was, that when

the bird was tried by any other portrait, he took no notice of
it whatever.

   On the 10th of December in this year. Sir Joshua delivered

his fourth discourse, whose object was to give a view of those

general ideas from whence arises that presiding principle which
regulates the art of Painting, under the various heads of
Invention, Expression, Colouring, and Drapery ; after which
he took a view of the two separate styles, the Grand and the
Ornamental, in Historical Composition, specifying the schools
in which examples of each were to be found ; to this he added
a sketch of what he designated as the Composite style formed

from local habits and customs, as well as on a partial obser-
vation of nature.

   To enter into any thing like a specific detail of subjects so
grand and so extensive, would be to copy the whole of this

excellent discourse, which may, in fact, be compared to a
cabinet of gems, as combining, within its circumscribed limits,

every thing rich and rare ; yet as my plan requires me to give
a view of his opinions, as well as of his actions, through a life

I Imarked with the excellencies both of the man and the painter,

   trust shall be indulged in embodying a few of his well-
digested ideas into this part of my work, directed rather to

the reader of taste than to the artist.

To form a judgment from his opening, one must see immc-
158 MEMOIRS OF

diately the claim which Painting has upon the human mind ;
as he lays it down as a principle that the value and rank of
every art is in proportion to the mental labour employed in
it, or the mental pleasure produced by it ; wherefore, as this
principle is observed or neglected, the profession of the painter
becomes either a liberal art, or merely a mechanical trade.

   This principle he even considered as discriminative in the
art itself, stating, that this exertion of mind, which is the only
circumstance that truly ennobles the art, makes the great
distinction between the Roman and Venetian schools.

   With respect to Invention in painting, he did not apply
that term merely to the invention of the subject, such being,

for the most part, supplied by the historian or the poet : but
still the choice must rest with the artist, for as no subject can
be proper that is not generally interesting, so it ought to be
either some eminent instance of heroic action, or of heroic
suffering, of spirit or of fortitude, accompanied, either in the
action or in the object, by something in which mankind are
universally concerned, and which strikes powerfully upon the
public sympathy.

   Invention, then, he defined by observing, that whenever a
story is related, every man forms a picture in his mind of the
action and expression of the persons employed ; and therefore
what we call invention in a painter, is the power of representing
this mental picture on canvas.

   Minuteness of representation in the concomitant parts of a
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  159

story, he thought unnecessary, any further than that they
should not be unnatural, but judiciously contrived, so as not
to strike the spectator more than they did himself at the first
conception of his composition : for as the general idea consti-

tutes real excellence, so all smaller things, however perfect in

their way, must be sacrificed without mercy to the greater.

To every kind of painting, he considered this rule as appli-

cable ; particularly in portraits, where the grace, and even
the likeness consist more in taking the general air, than in

observing the exact similitude of every feature.

   In this part of his discourse he gave some hints by no means

useless to every day connoisseurs, saying, that we know well
enough, when we analyze a picture, the difficulty and subtilty
with which an artist adjusts the back-ground, drapery, and
masses of light ; we know that a considerable part of the
grace and effect of his picture depends upon them ; but then
this art is so much concealed, even to a judicious eye, that no
remains of any of these subordinate parts occur to the memory
when the picture is not present.

   As the great end of the art is to strike the imagination, so
the painter is to make no ostentation of the means, by which

this is done ; the spectator is only to feel the result in his

bosom : an inferior artist, indeed, he acknowledged, is unwilling
that any part of his industry should be lost upon the spectator ;

he takes as much pains to discover, as the greatest artist does
to conceal, the marks of his subordinate assiduity. Thus in
works of the lower kind, every thing appears studied, and
 160 MEMOIllS OF

 encumbered ; it is all boastful art and open affectation. " The

 ignorant often part from such pictures with wonder in their
 mouths, and indifference in their hearts !"

    In Expression, Sir Joshua considered the painter as having

 difficulties to contend with, very different from those of the
 poet or the historian : he has but one sentence to utter, but
 one moment to exhibit or embody ; he cannot expatiate, or
 impress the mind with a progression of circumstances which
excite veneration for the hero or the saint ; he has no means
of giving an idea of the dignity of the mind, but by that
external appearance which grandeur of thought does generally,
though not always, impress on the countenance, and by that
correspondence of figure to sentiment and situation, which all
men wish, but cannot command.

   As the painter, therefore, cannot make his hero talk like a
great man, he must make him look like one ; for which reason,
he ought to be well studied in the analyses of those circum-
stances which constitute dignity of appearance in real life :
but as in Invention, so likewise in Expression, care must be
taken not to run into particularities, and those expressions
alone ought to be given to the figures, which their respective
situations generally produce.

   As a principle, alike essential to the artist and the con-
noisseur, with respect to Colouring, he observed, that to give a
general air of grandeur at first view, all trifling or artful play
of little lights, or an attention to a variety of tints, are to be
              SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                        161

avoided ; and that a quietness and simplicity must reign over
the whole of a picture, to which a breadth of uniform and
simple colour will very much contribute.

In this branch of the art, he considered Grandeur of Effect

to be produced in two different ways, which seem entirely

opposed to each other ; the one being the reducing of the

colours to little more than r.hiaro scuro, as practised in the

school of Bologna ; the other, as in the Roman and Florentine

schools, making the colours very distinct and forcible ; whilst
still, the presiding principle of both these manners is
simplicity. For though the varied tints of the last mentioned
schools have not that kind of harmony which is produced by

other means,  still they  have   that effect of grandeur  which was
              Perhaps     these  distinct colours strike  the mind
intended. "

more forcibly, from there not being any great union between

them ; as martial music, which is intended to rouse the nobler

passions, has its effect from its sudden and strongly marked

transitions from one note to another, which that style of

music requires ; whilst in that which is intended to move the

softer passions, the notes imperceptibly melt into one

another."

   In Drapery, the great painter must, as he observed, adhere

to the foregoing principles, carefully avoiding the debasement
of his conceptions with minute discriminations of stuffs, which

mark the inferior style ; for with him the cloathing is neither
woollen nor linen, nor silk, satin, or velvet : it is drapery ; it
is nothing more." He acknowledged, indeed, that the art
of disposing the foldings of the drapery, makes a very
162 MEMOIRS OF

considerable part of the painter's study ; but that to make
it merely natural, is a mechanical operation, to which neither
genius nor taste are required, whilst at the same time it
demands the nicest judgment to dispose the drapery, so as that
the folds shall have an easy communication, gracefully
following each other, with such natural negligence as to look
like the effect of chance, and at the same time shew the figure
under it to the utmost advantage.

   In adverting to the various schools, he considered the

Roman, Florentine, and Bolognese, as the three great ones
in the epic style, whilst the best of the French painters were to
be considered as a colony from the former of the three : but
the Venetian, Flemish, and Dutch schools, he ranked beneath
them, as all professing to depart from the great purposes
of painting, and catching at applause by inferior qualities.

  It will be readily understood from this, that he esteemed the

ornamental style as of inferior consideration in comparison
with the other ; for as mere elegance was their principal
object, particularly in the Venetian school, and as they
seemed more willing to dazzle than to affect, so it could be no
injury to them to suppose that their practice is useful only to
its proper end; for as what may heighten the elegant may
degrade the sublime : so the simplicity, nay severity, of the
great manner, is almost incompatible with this comparatively
sensual style.

   He then boldly laid it down as a maxim, that " such as

suppose that the great style might happily be blended with
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  163

the ornamental, that the shuple, grave, and majestic dignity
of Raffaelle could unite with the glow and bustle of a Paolo or
Tintoret, are totally mistaken. The principles by which
each is attained, are so contrary to each other, that they seem,

in my opinion, incompatible, and as impossible to exist
together, as that in the mind the most sublime ideas and the
lowest sensuality should at the same time be united."

   To mark the distinction, therefore, more strongly between

the two principal styles, he added, that however contradictory
it may be in geometry, it is yet true in matters of taste, that
many little things will never make a great one ; that the
sublime impresses the mind at once with one great idea,
as at a single blow ; whilst the elegant may be, and is,
produced by repetition, by an accumulation of many minute

circumstances.

   After giving a professional and philosophical view of the
various schools in these styles, Sir Joshua observed, that
of those who have practised the Composite style, and have
succeeded in this perilous attempt, perhaps the foremost

is Corregio ; his style being founded on modern grace
and elegance, to which is superadded something of the
simplicity of the grand style ; conspiring with which effect
are breadth of light and colour, the general ideas of the
drapery, and an uninterrupted flow of outline.

   He then allowed, that next to him, if not his equal, was
Parmegiano, whom he described as dignifying the gentleness of
modern effeminacy, by uniting it with the simplicity of the

                              y2
16*4 MEMOIRS OF

ancients, and the grandeur and severity of Michael Angelo.
He confessed, indeed, that these two extraordinary men, by
endeavouring to give the ntmost degree of grace, have

sometimes, perhaps, exceeded its boundaries, and have fallen

into the most hateful of all hateful qualities, affectation.

   Still did he adhere to the opinion that the errors of genius
are pardonable, at the same time that none, even of the more
exalted painters, are free from them; but then they have
taught us, by the rectitude of their general practice, to
correct their own affected or accidental deviation.

   Sir Joshua then closed this elaborate and memorable
discourse, a discourse so well adapted to the world at large as
well as to artists, by shewing, that works of genius and
of science, if founded upon the general truths of nature,
will live for ever ; whilst those which depend upon this
localities of time and place, or partial views of nature, and on
the fluctuations of fashion, must inevitably fade away with
those circumstances which have raised them from obscurity.
" Present time and future, must be considered as rivals, and
he who solicits the one must expect to be discountenanced by

the other. ^'

   The fame and excellence of Sir Joshua Reynolds could not
fail to draw on him the animadversions of those who aimed at
the character of critics, and who, to preserve that character,
judged it necessary to mix blame with their warmest praise,
lest they should incur the name of flattery, and in this they
were doubtless stimulated by the good old ruh-, that the first
part of a knowing critic's duty is to discover blemishes. As
                   iSIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                     l65

Ia specinaen of this, shall extract a      passage    from   a work
                                                             Letters
published in this year, (1772,) under      the title   of "

concerning the present State of England," in which the writer

has blended a strange mixture of praise and censure, and what

is most remarkable in it is, that the part of criticism which is

the most difficult to execute with ability, that is the praise, is

here given with much knowledge, discrimination, and truth,

and the censure, on the contrary, is either unintelligible or

untrue.

This passage is as follows: "Reynolds is original in his

manner, and as bold and free in his style as any painter that

Italy ever produced. Freedom is, indeed, his principal

characteristic ; to this he seems to sacrifice every other

consideration : he has, however, two manners ; in one he

checks the extreme freedom of his dashing pencil, works his

figures more into an expression, that may, in comparison with

his other pieces, be called minute ; in these the colouring is

fnatural and good ; -- so far is a very just critique \) but in his
bolder, better works, the colours are graceful rather than
( ;Jchaste ; -- this is absolute nonsense
                                           they have the ease of

drawings, and mark how little attention was given by the

artist to make them durable. In his attitudes he is generally

full of grace, ease, and variety ; he can throw his figures at will

into the boldest variations, and ventures at some postures, by
which inferior pairiters would invariably damn their works --
J J.--fanC
excellent  remark  and   true His learning in his art is great

very just  --and   this  has made him slight colours too much

on comparison with drawing ; the latter alone is certainly

Jsuperior to the former alone ; -- C exactly the reverse is the truth --
166 MEMOIRS OF

but the true beauty of fine colouring is an essential, and should

never be neglected. fSir Joshua's constant aim was colour.)
In a word this painter is more a man of genius than an

Jagreeable artist ; -- (he was both in an eminent degree ; -- there is

more fire than nature in his works ; more energy than

softness --; {no painter that ever lived had more softness ;) --
more ease than beauty ; such as will rather awaken knowledge

than kindle pleasure"-- ( this is false J.

  In the course of this year Sir Joshua painted a particularly fine

picture in point of expression, especially of Resignation, and
dedicated the print taken from it to Dr. Goldsmith, with some
lines under it quoted from his poem of the Deserted Village.
This seems to have been done by Sir Joshua as a return of
the compliment to Goldsmith, who had dedicated the poem
to him : and it drew the following poetical tribute from the
talents of Dr. Willis, which, as it relates to those circumstances
attending the picture, together with some tolerable criticism as

Iwell as praise, shall insert.

                    " Optimum ducem naturam sequimur,

                                         Quod sit meiiius ferat.

                 " Hail Painting! sweet companion of the Nine,

                    For thee shall Taste, the Rose, and Myrtle twine.
                    Amazing ai t ! whose magic touch can throw
                       O'er canvas Nature's animated glow !
                       Bid heroes' eyes glare with heroic fire,
                       And love's soft victims languish with desire.
                       Great nature's shade ! thy mimic power can raise
                    The varying passions, like the poet's lays.
I

             SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                         167

No more in search of science let us stray
Where Maro sung, and Cajsar bore the sway :
Britain can cherish arts ; her meadows yield
As pure an air as does the Appian field ;
Our monarch reigns, the noblest of his kind.
Art's great restorer, ne'er to merit blind :
For him shall Painting lasting trophies raise,
Historic pencils tell his warlike praise;
For him shall Poesy, fir'd with Pindar's flame,
To after ages consecrate his fame :
For him, with ardour, ev'ry art shall join ;
With Alfred's name, revcr'd, his blooming laurels twine

'Tis thine, Oh Reynolds ! to possess the art.

By speaking canvas, to affect the heart ;
See ! Resignation settled on that eye ;
Nature can only with thy pencil vie !
Hail Resignation ! source of true repose,
Thou best composer of all human woes :

Oh come, sweet friend ! thy balmy joys prepare:

My genius droops, relax'd by constant care.
Thy moral picture checks m}' mournful strain,

Some power unseen forbids me to complain ;
Tells me, kind Hope dawns sweet from yonder gloom.
On years to come awaits a happier doom.

Cheer'd with the thought, I bend to Heav'n's high will ;

Thy moral picture shall support me still.

Where genius shines, its pleasing power I feel.

Nor strive my admiration to conceal.

Truth guides my pen, I scorn the treach'rous wiles
Of servile flattery, affected smiles :

 Truth needs no dress to make her beauty shine,
 So poets paint her naked and divine.
And genuine Taste may pleasure still acquire,
"Whilst Thou canst paint, and Goldsmith tune the Lyre!"

The subject of the foregoing lines calls to my remembrance
168 MEMOIRS OF

a fragment of a little poem composed by Miss F. Reynolds,

                   " Youth's flovv'ry paths I now no more shall tread,

                    But those of age, with horrors overspread :
                      Where the lorn wanderers, melancholy, slow.
                    Sad spectres, monuments of woe !
                    Ruins of life ! no semblance left by time.
                    No trace remaining of their manhood's prime,
                      Oppress'd with gloom, to cares and fears a prey,
                      Lonely, forlorn, they linger through the day,
                      Pursuing nought, save only to obtain
                  A little space the dregs of life to drain ;
                   Tenacious still of what they ne'er enjoy.
                   Wishing to rest, and yet afraid to die !
                    No cheerful ray illumes the dusky vale,
                    No balmy fragrance floating in the gale.
                   But dark malignant clouds, and noxious dew.
                    Hang on the cypress sad, and mournful yew;
                    In sable weeds, which flow with solemn sweep.
                      The weeping willow seems indeed to weep.

                       From this sad prospect of my future days,
                    Bereft of all that nature form'd to please.

               Involuntary oft I turn mine eye,

                    Where youth, and hope, and sweet afl'ections lie;
                      Where liberal Nature in profusion pours
                   Rich herbage, balmy springs, and fragrant flow'rs :
                   The landscape smiles around in beauty gay.
                    And cheers the sense with ev'ry charm of May.
                    Alas ! not me to cheer -- invidious Time
                    Allows me not to taste of Nature's prime ;
                      Holds up his glass, and bids me mark how low,
                      How black the sand, that yet remains to flow.
r/wr,uzi 'Ld-and, D.X>.
1.
                   SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                     169

           Metliought a veil, of lucid rays composed,
        Disparting wide, an heav'nly form disclos'd;
        And as the ground Iier beauteous foot imprest,
        Hope's clieerful ray seem'd kindling in my breast.
      Witli wmning sweetness, yet majestic air,
       " I come," she cried, " thy gloomy soul to cheer;
       To guide thy erring will, thy passions sooth,
        And make the rugged paths of nature smooth.
       That vole below that fills thy soul with dread.
        And seems with gloom and horrors overspread.
        Owes its appearance to thy troubled mind.
        Deaf to the voice of truth, to reason blind :

        'Tis 1 alone that can the film remove
        That dims thy sight, and make yon gloomy grove
        Smile with immortal fruits, and bloom with flow'rs
        Fairer than poets feign of Paphian bow'rs.

      lam RELIGION, whose all-powerful ray

I Beams on the darken'd mind celestial day;
        Points out the path that leads to pure delight;
        And proves this truth -- Whatever is is right!"

   The eminence of Sir Joshua was now so high, that the
quantity of complimentary verses which were addressed to
him would fill a volume, and would'be tedious to repeat ; but

I Ithe following lines cannot omit, as think them an excellent

instance of the mock heroic, though intended as very serious,
and very exquisite. Surely the Genius of Affectation is never
so busy, nor triumphs half so much, as when he attends at
the elbow of his favorite poets, and makes them speak thus :

                 " Feel ve

                     What Reynolds felt when first the Vatican
                       Unbarr'd her gates, and to his raptur'd eye
                       Gave all the god-like energy that flow'd
                     From Michael's pencil."

                                                                 Z
170 MEMOIRS OF

   The aifectation in these lines appears still more gross when we
recur to the grand simplicity of the character of him to whom
they allude, or compare them with those which were last recited.

   In the discourse delivered this year, (1772,) on the 10th of
December, Sir Joshua concluded his series of remarks begun
in one of the former years.

   His grand object in this display was to incite the young
students to consider the attainment of the higher excellencies
of the art as an acquisition of the first importance, though not
to the total exclusion of a search after the subordinate
qualifications ; which, however, he considered as but of minor

consequence : at the same time warning his hearers, that
caution and circumspection was not to be lost sight of in the
eagerness of pursuit.

   On this part of his subject he particularly noted, that
judgment was necessary not only in the acquisition of these
excellencies, but also in their application : for though many
would bear to be united, and some be even improved from the
union ; yet still there were others which, though perfect in
themselves, were of a nature so discordant with their
companions, that nothing but incongruity could be produced
by their mutual introduction.

   And here his meaning was fully exemplified by his
illustrations ; for laying it down as a truth, that the expression
of passion was not in unison y^'iih perfect beauty, all the passions
producing some degree of distortion and deformity, even in the
                     SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

most beautiful countenances; so those that attempted to

preserve beauty, where strong passions ought to be considered

as operating powerfully upon the personages represented,

must inevitably sacrifice a superior excellence, as Guido has
done in many instances, particularly in his Judith, Herod ias,

Andromeda, nay, even in the mothers' countenances in the

Slaughter   of the   Innocents,   which  "haVveen, usthuast,tirleitdtlebymothree
expression           has given   to his
            than he

Graces."

   One principle which he had here in view was to guard the
artist against the effects of that false criticism which so often
marks the writings of men who are not of the profession, who
being unable to find out the real beauties of a performance,
merely find out that which they are before-hand resolved to
discover ; and therefore not only praise excellencies which
cannot with propriety exist together, but even dilate upon the
expression of mixed passions, a thing which his accurate
knowledge of the human countenance and human heart well
knew to be a thing impossible.

   He even proved his position from the theory and practice
of the ancients, who always described their Jupiter as possessed
in the aggregate of all those great qualities which were
separately enjoyed by subordinate deities ; but yet, when
they called in the aid of art to represent him, they confined
his character to that of majesty alone, without attempting to

delineate the others.

   At this part of his discourse he took the opportunity of
 172 MEMOIRS OF

 shewing bow much the great Pliny liimself resembled some
 ot" our modern connoisseurs, when, with something bke the
 cant of modern criticism, he stated that the spectator might
 discover no less than three different and distinct characters in
a statue of Paris, executed by the famous sculptor Euphranor,
and in which were to be seen the dignity of a judge of the
 goddesses, the lover of Helen, and the conqueror of Achilles ;

adding, " A statue in which you endeavour to unite stately

dignity, youthful elegance, and stern valour, must surely
possess none of those to any great degree." After this he adds,

Iwhat will be best expressed in his own words : " do not

discourage the younger students from the noble attempt of
uniting all the excellencies of art, but to make them aware,
that, besides the difficulties which attend every arduous
attempt, there is a peculiar difficulty in the choice of the

excellencies which ought to be united. I wish you to attend

to this, that you may try yourselves, whenever you are capable
of that trial, what you can, and what you cannot do ; and that
instead of dissipating your natural faculties over the immense
field of possible excellence, you may choose some particular
walk in which you may exercise all your powers ; in order
each of you to be the first in liis way."

   In exemplification of the judicious choice of excellence, he
observed, that Lodovico Caracci, in particular, was well
acquainted with the works both of Corregio and of the

Venetian painters, and also knew the principles by which they
produced those pleasing eifects which, at first glance, prepossess
us so much in their favour ; but then he stated, that he took
only as niuch from each as would embellish, but not overpower.
      SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.             173

that manly strength and energy of style which form his peculiar
character.

   In speaking of SVi//e.9 he also shewed, that although the

ornamental cannot, with propriety, be considered as a principal,

it is still expedient to be called in to soften the harshness and
mitigate the severity of the great style, which latter being that
of the greatest masters, Michael Angelo, and Raftaelie, is
principally to be found in fresco paintings, a mode of execution

which excludes attention to minute elegancies.

   The concluding part of this discourse may be considered as
the Jewel of Connoisseurs ; for in it they will find a plain,
simple, yet delicate investigation of the merits of those two
great masters, as well as of Salvator Rosa, Carlo Maratti,

Poussin, Rubens, &c., an investigation founded on the
dictates of taste, genius, and sound sense, and the more
particularly valuable from being cleared of all the tinsel of

terms, which only serve to give a glare to igaorance.

The intimate friendship between Dr. Johnson and Sir

Joshua still existed in its full force ; yet so flattering were the

compliments which Johnson properly chose to pay to Mrs.

Thrale, who sincerely esteemed him, that we find him writing

to her, in the month of February, 1773, after a slight illness,

Ifor  her approbation of his visiting  at his friend's liouse : he says,
        have an invitation to dine
"                                      at Sir Joshua Reynolds's on
I ITuesday ; may accept it ?
                                       have undertaken to beg from

you the favor of lending Miss Reynolds, Newton on the

Prophecies, &c." This, however, was, probably, mere
174 MEMOIRS OF

matter of compliment, or to consult her on its safety in respect
to his returning health ; for Sir Joshua's house and table were
always open to his friends, with invitation or without, and as
freely made use of.

   To Goldsmith, in particular, he was always attentive ; a man
of whom it has been, not unaptly, said, that his carelessness
of conduct, and frivolity of manners, obscured the goodness
of his heart. Mr. Cumberland, in his own Memoirs, has a

passage peculiarly illustrative of this, where he says, that
   Sir Joshua Reynolds was very good to him, and would have

drilled him into better trim and order for society, if he would

have been amenable ; for Reynolds was a perfect gentleman,
had good sense, great propriety, with all the social attributes,
and all the graces of hospitality, equal to any man. He well
knew how to appreciate men of talents, and how near akin

the Muse of Poetry was to that Art of which he was so
eminent a master. From Goldsmith he caught the subject of
his famous Ugolino ; what aids he got from others, if he got

any, were worthily bestowed, and happily applied."

   Mr. Cumberland, however, is, perhaps, rather inaccurate
in his assertion respecting the painting of " Ugolino," which

was finished in this year, (1773?) and begun, not long before,
as an historical subject.

The fact is, that this painting may be said to have been

produced as an historical picture by an accident : for the

head    of the Count had been    painted   pcreavllio"usa  to the year
1771 J  and finished on what we  painters                  half length
                              SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

canvas," and was, in point of expression, exactly as it now
stands, but without any intention, on the part of Sir Joshua,
of making it the subject of an historical composition, or
having the story of Count Ugolino in his thoughts. Being
exposed in the picture gallery, along with his other works, it

Iwas seen, either by Mr. Edmund Burke, or Dr. Goldsmith,

am not certain which, who immediately exclaimed, that it
struck him as being the precise person, countenance, and
expression of the Count Ugolino, as described by Dante in
his Inferno."

   This affecting description is given in the thirty-third Canto
of the first part of his Comedia, where, in his supposed
passage through hell, he introduces Ugolino gnawing the head
of his treacherous and cruel enemy, the Archbishop Ruggiero,
and then telling his own sad story on the appearance of the

poet.

   The historical facts are simply these, that in the latter end
of the thirteenth century there were great intestine divisions,
in the city and state of Pisa in Italy, for the sovereignty ;
divisions which gave rise to the well known contests of the
Ouelphs and Ghibellines. The former of these consisted of
two parties, at the head of which were Visconti and Ugolino :
whilst the Archbishop Ruggiero led the third.

    Between this latter and Ugolino a compromise took place,
by which means Visconti and his partizans were driven out ;
when Ruggiero, finding the Guelph faction considerably
weakened, immediately plotted against his quondam friend,
176 MEMOIRS OF

already elected sovereign. The mob being excited by the

crafty priest against their new prince, the unfortunate

Ugolino was overpowered, and he and his two sons, together

with two grandsons, were then conveyed to the city prison,
where they remained some months, until the Pisans being

excommunicated by the Pope, they became so enraged, that

they determined to revenge themselves on the unhappy

prisoners ; and having accordingly     strongly secured and
                                       they threw the keys of
barricadoed the doors of the dungeon,
the prison into the river Arno, so     that Ugolino and his

unhappy offspring perished.

   Thus far the historian --when the imagination of the poet
undertook to fill up the awful hiatus between the sealing of
their doom and the last moment of expiring nature : and of

Ithe poet's powers am happy to be able to give an illustration,

in the following beautiful translation by my friend Mr.
"Nathaniel Howard, of Plymouth, Devon, who is an ornament

to his country :

" La Bocca sallevo dal fiero pasto     ^

Quel peccator," &c.

" The sinner pausing from his grim repast,

AVip'd in the miscreant's hair his gory jaws,
' My desperate woe, obedient to thy will,

I now relate,' he answered, * tho' with pain

Remembrance wring my heart. For if my tale
Should to this traitor, whom I gnaw, produce

The fruit of infamy, tho' tears gush forth.

Yet will I speak. -- I know not whence thou art,

Or what commission brings thee to this gulf.
              SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                      1T7

But speech, in truth, bespeaks thee Tuscan born.

Ktiovv, Ugolino and that prelate base,
Ruggiero, meet thy presence ; mark our forms.

I need not mention that his evil mind

First wrong'd my confidence, then caused my death ;
But what lies undivulg'd shall now be heard,
The cruel manner of my lingering doom :
Then shall thou learn the colour of his guilt.
Within the iron dungeon, which still bears
The name of " Famine" since my dreadful death.
And still where others pine, there thro' the grate
Shone many a moon ; and oft my feverish dreams
Unveil'd the future to my mental view.

IThis priest, dreamt, was leader of the chase ;

Swift to the Julian mountain with his whelps

Hurried the wolf : with blood-hounds gaunt and keen

Lanfranchi and Sismondi, and the chief

Gualundi foUow'd. Soon the course was spent ;
The victim and his infant race grew faint,
When on them sprang, f thought, the savage pack,
And with their tusks transpierc'd their panting sides.
This wak'd me ere the dawn, when in their sleep

I heard ray children groan and call for bread --

Oh cruel! should no pity touch thy soul

To think how much a father's heart presag'd ;

If now thou shed'st no tears, what have thy eyes

Been us'd-to weep at?-- Now my boys awoke;
The hour arriv'd, when each expected food,

As wonted, would be brought him ;--but his heart

Mistrusted, when each thought upon his dream.

And I, O horrible! that instant heard
The dungeon-doors below more firmly lock'd --
la desperate silence on my sons I gaz'd, --

I could not weep -- My heart was turn'd to stone.

The little victims wept, and one began,

My dear Anselmo : ' Father! why that look !
* What ails my father?' --Ah ! 1 could not weep,

                                        AA
178                        MEMOIRS OF

     Nor answer all that day, nor yet the night.
     Till on the world another morn arose.

        As faintly thro' our doleful prison gleam'd

     The tremulous ray, so I could view again

     Each face, on which my features were imprest.

     Both hands I gnaw'd in agony and rage.

     Sweet innocents they thought me hunger-stung,
     And, rising on a sudden, all exclaimed,
     ' Father ! our anguish would be less severe,

     If' thouwould'st feed on us. This fleshly vest

     * Thou did'st bestow, now take it back again.' --

     1 check'd my inward nature, lest my groans

     Should aggravate their anguish. All were mute

     That bitter day, and all the morrow. Earth!
     Why did'st thou not, obdurate earth ! dispart ?
     The fourth sad morning came, when at my feet
     My Gaddo fell extended : ' Help !' he cried,
     * CavLSt thou not help me, father T--and expired.
     So wither'd as thou see'st me, one by one,

     I saw my children ere the sixth noon die :

     And, seiz'd with sudden blindness, on my knees

     I grop'd among them, calling each by name

     For three days after they were dead. --At last,
     Famine and death closed up the scene of woe.

         So having said, with dark distorted eyes.
     He on the wretched skull infix'd his teeth,
     And like a mastift' gnaw'd the solid bone."

   After this exquisite detail by the poet, the subject was

taken up by the sculptor, and Richardson in his ** Science of
a Connoisseur," relates that Michael Angelo Buonarotti
composed a bas-relief of the Count sitting with his four
children, one of which lay dead at his feet : over their heads
                     SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                          179

were a figure to represent Famine, and beneath them another
personifying the river Arno, on whose banks the tragedy was

acted.

   The whole subject is well handled by Richardson, and may

be read with pleasure, as relative to the picture, although
written long before the idea started by Burke was adopted by
Sir Joshua, who immediately had his canvas enlarged in order

that he might be enabled to add the other figures, and to
complete his painting of the impressive description of the
Italian poet.

   The picture when finished was bought by the late Duke of
Dorset for four hundred guineas ; and it has since been

noticed by Dr. Joseph Warton, who in his Essay on the

Genius and Writings of Pope, introduces the story in exem-

padlidfisc--ati"onSior fJososmhueapRatehyentoicldsp,asswahgoesse  in that  writer  ; and then
                                                                  mind is  stored  with great

and exalted ideas, has lately shown, by a picture on this

subject, how qualified he is to preside at a Royal Academy,

and that he has talents that ought not to be confined to

portrait painting."

    Some time after this, his pencil gave to the world another
historical subject of great celebrity, the Infant Jupiter, now
the property of the Duke of Rutland.

   When Goldsmith's comedy of She Stoops to Conquer,"
was to be brought out on the stage, on the 15th of March in
this year, he was at a loss what name to give it, till the very

                                                      A A2
180 MEMOIRS OF

last moment, and then, in great haste, called it " She Stoops to
Conquer, or the Mistakes of a Night.'' Sir Joshua, who

disliked this name for a play, offered a much better to him,

saying, " You ought to call it the Belle's Stratagem, and if

you do not I will damn it." However, Goldsmith chose to

name it himself, as above ; and Mrs. Cowley has since given
that name to one of her comedies.

   Goldsmith was in great anxiety about its success, he was

much distressed in his finances at the time, and all his hopes

hung on the event ; and at the dinner preceding the representa-
tion of his play, his mouth became so parched and dry, from
the agitation of his mind, that he was unable to swallow a
single mouthful. The actors themselves had great doubts of

its success ; but, contrary to their expectations, the play was
received with great applause ; Sir Joshua and a large party of

friends going for the purpose of supporting it if necessary.
The dinner party, which took place at the Shakspeare, is
humourously described by Cumberland. Dr. Johnson took
the head of the table, and there were present the Burkes,
Caleb Whiteford, Major Mills, &c., &c.

I remember Dr. Goldsmith gave me an order soon after this,
IIwith which went to see this comedy ; and the next time
Isaw him he inquired of me what my opinion was of it.
                                                       told

him that I would not presume to be a judge of its merits ; he

thensaid, "Did itmakeyou laugh?" lanswered, "Exceedingly."

'* Then," said the Doctor, " that is all I require."

One day Dr. Johnson and Dr. Goldsmith meeting at Sir
             SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  181

Joshua Reynolds's table, the conversation turned on the merits
of that well known tragedy, Otway's Venice Preserved, which
Goldsmith highly extolled, asserting, that of all tragedies it

was the one nearest in excellence to Shakspeare ; when
Johnson, in his peremptory manner, contradicted him, and
pronounced that there were not forty good lines to be found in

the whole play ; adding, *' Pooh ! what stuff are these lines : --
* What feminine tales hast thou been listening to, of unaired
shirts, catarrhs, and tooth-ach got by thin soled shoes ?' "

  " True," replied Goldsmith, "to be sure that is very like

Shakspeare."

   Sir Joshua used to say, that he thought any man of tolerable

capacity might write a tragedy, such as an audience would
receive from the stage without objection ; but that it required
a real genius for humour, together^ with considerable taste, to
write a comed}^ The remark has been made by Sorbiere, an
eminent French physician, who gives ample reasons for this

opinion.*

* " More tragedies than comedies are produced. Young men first make an

attempt at tragedy; not being able, for want of knowledge and experience, to

attempt any other kind of writing. Their hero of the tragedy is, for the most part,

a fictitious character, and Phoebus and the Muses are invoked to fit him out for

appearing. On the contrary, the characters of a comedy are such as we meet with

daily in the streets at every turn; and vve have only to transcribe their words and

actions. It is true, that those we esteem the most excellent painters are not frequently

the best copyists; and that good historians are not always skilful in drawing

characters.  But, perhaps, this is a defect in them ; and, to speak fairly, the

painter who copies nature exactly, and with art, is surely as deserving of our praise

as he who cuiinoi paint after nature^ but looks for an original in his caprice. It
182 MEMOIRS OF

  A few persons dining at Sir Joshua Reynolds's about this

Itime, of whom was one, in the course of conversation after

dinner Sir Joshua spoke of Mr. Malane's edition of
Shakspeare, which was then just about to be published. He
said it was such a work as would render it totally unnecessary
to attempt to improve it any further, as Mr. Malone had,
with indefatigable industry and the deepest research, now
explored every source of knowledge from which Shakspeare
might have had any means of getting assistance, for in truth
it had been the prime object of his pursuits, and the business
of his whole life with intense application.

  I Imust confess honestly, that felt a little degree of

irritation at hearing this vast eulogium on a work which, in
its very nature, cannot be a matter requiring the least genius;
neither can it add one atom to the matchless excellencies of
that captivating poet, and does little more than to form an
excuse for the name of the commentator being handed
down to posterity attached to that of the immortal Shak-

speare.

  I rather hastily replied, as a counteraction to the foregoing

appears that comedy is the most difficult of dramatic works : as the poet imitates
characters which are under the observation of all, and whose opinions must confirm
the likeness of the portraiture. The st^ile of comedy is less arduous than that of
tragedy : as there is less art in running very fast, and skipping up and down, than
in a regular march or a graceful dance. Yet it is not so difficult to soar in heroic
verse as to represent common Vile ; which requires a steady and vigorous pencil."

  Samuel Sorbiere, an eminent physician in Paris, in the time of Louis XIV, and

patronized by Cardinal Mazarin, was born in the year 16IO, and died in I67O.
          SIR JOSHtJA REYNOLDS.                   183

speech of Sir Joshua's, " What a very despicable creature

must that man be who thus devotes himself and makes

another man his God when Boswell, who sat at my elbow,

and was not in my thoughts at the time, cried out
Iimmediately, "Oh! Sir Joshua, then that is me!"
                                                  was

exceedingly sorry when he took it to himself, and excused the
I Ispeech
          had made in the best manner  was able.

However, if Boswell's office was not a high one, the work he

has produced by it is much more original and more valuable

beyond all comparison, as very few books in the English

language bid fairer for immortality than his life of Pr.

Johnson.

   In the early part of this year Sir Joshua took a trip with a

party of friends to Portsmouth, on the occasion of the King's
reviewing the navy there : and in the latter part of the
summer he also made a visit to Plymouth, the reason of
which was this, that having already been made a freeman of
his native town of Plympton, this mark of respect was

followed by his being chosen alderman and mayor of that
borough, generally called Plympton Maurice, or Earl's

Plympton, to distinguish it from Plympton St. Mary's,
formerly a convent of Benedictines, about half a mile distant,

the abbot of which was lord of the manor, and sat in the

house of peers after the dissolution of religious houses. The

town was incorporated by a charter granted in the reign of
Queen Elizabeth, under a mayor, recorder, eight aldermen,
or principal burgesses, who are called common councilmen, a

bailiff, and town clerk, &c.
184 MEMOIRS OF

   So strongly was Sir Joshua attached to the place of his
birth, that he declared that this circumstance gave him more
pleasure than any other honour which he had received during
his life.

   On this occasion he presented his portrait, painted by
himself, to the corporation, who placed it in the town hall.

It is a good picture with a light sky back ground, and in his

academical dress as doctor of laws.

    There is another portrait of him painted when young, and

now in the possession of T. Lane, Esq. of Cofflett, about
three miles from Plympton. In this picture he holds one

 hand over to shadow his eyes, an attitude often chosen by
 painters when they paint their own portraits.

    The Rev. Mr. Alcock, vicar of Cornwood, a parish in the
 neighbourhood, presented to Sir Joshua the following distich

 on the receipt of this valuable present to the corporation.

                       " Laudat Rotnanus Raphaelem, Graecus Apellem,

                            Plympton Reynolden jactat, utrique parem."

 But the new mayor, though perhaps pleased with the
 compliment, modestly declared that he thought it would be
 assuming too much honour to himself, to have it affixed to,

 or even put on the back of, the picture.

     The following elegant letter to Sir Joshua, as it relates to
Zond<in,, TijhU.ih/'d Jm^J"." W29; hyEardi/i^ anj. Z^ard. Ri/l MM E;i.yr.
             SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.               185

one of his most distinguished performances, together with his
answer, in which that work is described, certainly cannot be

unacceptable to the reader.

             " TO SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

" DEAR SIR JOSHUA,

" This letter will be delivered to you by Miss  , who

Iintends to sit to you with her two sisters, to compose a

picture, of which am to have the honour of being the
Ipossessor.
             wish to have their portraits together at full

length, representing some emblematical or historical subject ;

the idea of which, and the attitudes which will best suit their

forms, cannot be so well imagined as by one who has so

eminently distinguished himself by his genius and poetic

Iinvention. Give me leave to mention to you (notwithstanding
   am well assured you want no incitement to make your

works complete,) that besides the advantage you will have in

the superiority of the beauty and elegance of those subjects

which no doubt will of themselves convey a degree of

instruction, you will, I hope, find that these young ladies,

from their high opinion of your powers, will not spare their

time, in order to render this picture in every particular a
Imost superior production.
                            shall add the honor you will

acquire in conveying to posterity the resemblances of three

sisters so distinguished for different species of beauty ; and
Iwhat
       flatter myself will not be the smallest reason for

                    BB
                                        MEMOIRS OF
particular attention to this work, the great obligation you
will confer on me in making it perfect.

           I" am with great esteem,

                                    " Dear Sir Joshua,

                   " Your very sincere friend and humble servant.
" Dublin, May 27th, 1773."

   Sir Joshua Reynolds wrote in reply, a few months

afterwards,

"Sir,

I** intended long ago to have returned you thanks for the

agreeable employment in which you have engaged me, and

likewise for the very obliging manner in which this favor was

Iconferred ; but immediately after the heads were finished,

was enticed away to Portsmouth, and from thence to Oxford,

Ifrom whence am but just returned ; so that this is the first

quiet minute I have had for this month past ; though it is a

little delayed by these holidays, it will not, upon the whole,
Ifare the worse for it, as
                            am returned with a very keen

appetite to the work. This picture is the great object of my

Imind at present. You have been already informed, have

no doubt, of the subject which we have chosen ; the adorning
a Term of Hymen with festoons of flowers. This affords

sufificient employment to the figures, and gives an opportunity
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                18/

Iof introducing a variety of graceful historical attitudes.

have every inducement to exert myself on this occasion, both

from the confidence you have placed in me, and from the
Isubjects you have presented to me, which are such as am
never likely to meet with again as long as I live, and I flatter
Imyself that, however inferior the picture may be to what
wish it, or what it ought, it will be the best picture I ever
Ipainted. beg leave to congratulate you and Mrs. G
                                                    ,

and express my sincere wishes for that perfect happiness to
which you are both so well intitled.

I" am with great respect, &c.

                                         Joshua Reynolds.

I" shall send away your picture (the best of the two)
I Iimmediately ; the other know is to remain here.
                                                    have

forgot to what place it is to be sent."

   The visit to Oxford, mentioned in the foregoing letter,
gained an additional honour to be conferred upon Sir Joshua,
the variety of whose talents, added to the eminence he had

acquired, qualified himto share the honours of the first scientific
institutions, and in consequence of which he had for some

time before the present period been admitted to the Royal,

Antiquarian, and Dilletante Societies ; and when the late

Earl of Guildford, then Lord North, was installed Chancellor
of the University of Oxford, in the first week of July in

this year. Sir Joshua was, at the same time, admitted to the
honorary degree of Doctor of Civil Law.

                                                  BB2
   188 MEMOIRS OF

      On that day fifteen persons only were admitted, and it is a
   reirarkable fact, that Sir Joshua and Dr. Beattie were the
   only two who were distinguished by an encomium from Dr.
   Vansittart, the Professor of Civil Law, whose duty it is to

   present the graduates to the Chancellor. It is also well

   known to be customary, when the graduate bows and takes
   his sea% that there should, on particular occasions, be a
   clapping of hands in the theatre, sometimes loud, and
   sometimes but faint ; on this occasion, however, it is related,
   that those two were the only personages who received any
   marks of extraordinary applause.

   There is a remarkably fine allegorical picture painted by

   Sir Joshua, representing the portrait of Dr. James Beattie.

   The Doctor is in his university dress as Doctor of Laws, with

   his volume on the Immutability of Truth under his arm.

   The Angel of Truth is going before him and beating down

   the Vices, Envy, Falsehood, &c., which are represented by a

   group of figures falling at his approach, and the principal

   head in this group is made an exact likeness of Voltaire.

   When Dr. Goldsmith called on Sir Joshua and saw this

-  picture, he was  very indignant at it, and  remonstrated with
                                               of your eminence
   him, saying, "   It very ill becomes a man

   and character. Sir Joshua, to condescend to be a mean

   flatterer, or to wish to dco;rade so h'lsh a genius as Voltaire

   before so mean a writer as Dr. Beattie ; for Dr. Beattie and
   his book together, will, in the space of ten years, not be

   known ever to have been in existence, but your allegorical

   picture, and the fame of Voltaire, will live for ever to your

   disgrace as a flatterer."
                 SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                       189

This picture was painted in the year 1773, and presented

to Dr. Beattie by Sir Joshua, who entertaii-ed a great

friendship for the Doctor, whom he esteemed as an honest

humble man of considerable abilities :  indeed, it forms a  very
                                        the latter ; where  it is
prominent feature in the " Life" of

dwelt on with an allowable degree of complacency, that Sir

Joshua paid him much attention during his visits to London,

(respecting him more for his virtues than his talents,) frequently

entertaining him, both at his house in town, and at his villa

on Richmond Hill, testifying, by every means in his power,

the esteem he felt for him as a friend, and the opinion he held

respecting his writings ; while, as Sir William Forbes adds,

Dr. Beattie '* on the other hand, loved Sir Joshua, for the

amiable simplicity of his manners and character, and justly-

admired the masterly productions of his pencil, as well as

duly appreciated his merit in the composition of those truly

classical discourses which he delivered to the students in the

Royal Academy/'

IThe gentleman above alluded to will, have no doubt,

excuse me in this instance of availing myself of some

particulars in his work, highly honourable to both of his

amiable and deceased friends, and which refer pointedly to

the present part of the subject. Sir William observes, that

how properly Dr. Beattie estimated the various talents of Sir

Joshua, may be drawn from an extract of his Diary, and

which he transcribed in the Doctor's own words, because,

being a private record merely of his own thoughts, it may be

relied on as speaking the genuine language of his heart.   This
extract is dated Sunday the 15th of August, and says,     " We
190 MEMOIRS OF

proposed (Dr. and Mrs. B.) to have gone to Arno*s Grove,
but Sir Joshua Reynolds insisted on it, that we should stay
till to-morrow, and partake of a haunch of venison with him

to-day, at his house on Richmond Hill. Accordingly at
eleven, Mrs. Beattie, Miss Reynolds, Mr. Barretti, and Mr.
Palmer, set out in Sir Joshua's coach for Richmond. At

Itwelve he and went in a post chaise, and by the way paid a

visit to the Bishop of Chester, who was very earnest for us

Ito fix a day for dining with him ; but could not fix one just

now, on account of the present state of my affairs. After
dining at Richmond, we all returned to town, about eight

Io'clock. This day had a great deal of conversation with Sir

IJoshua Reynolds on critical and philosophical subjects.

find him to be a man, not only of excellent taste in painting
and poetry, but of an enlarged understanding and truly
philosophical mind. His notions of painting are not at all the
same with those that are entertained by the generality of
painters and others. Artificial and contrasted attitudes, and
groupes, he makes no account of; it is the truth and simplicity
of nature which he is ambitious to imitate ; and these, it

must be allowed, he possesses the art of blending with the
most exquisite grace, the most animated expression. He
speaks with contempt of those who suppose grace to consist in
erect position, turned out toes, or the frippery of modern dress.
Indeed, whatever account we make of the colouring of this
great artist, (which some people object to,) it is impossible to
deny him the praise of being the greatest designer of any age.

IIn his pictures there is a grace, a variety, an expression, a

simplicity, which have never seen in the works of any other
painter. His portraits are distinguished from all others, by
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  191

this, that they exhibit an exact imitation, not only of the
features, but also of the character of the person represented.

His picture of Garrick, between Tragedy and Comedy, he
tells me he finished in a week," &c. &c. This, although but

an aukward description of Sir Joshua's character, yet I insert

to show what an impression his talents had made on the
simplicity of Beattie.

   Dr. Beattie has also strongly marked his high admiration
of his friend in his Essay on Poetry and Music, where he
joins his name with that of Raffaelle. In this, having first

given praise to both for their assuming nature as their model,
to the utter exclusion of fashion, at least as far as is possible,

he adds, that " on this account their works must give
pleasure, and appear elegant as long as men are capable of
forming general ideas, and of judging from them. The last
mentioned incomparable artist (meaning Sir Joshua,) is
particularly observant of children, whose looks and attitudes
being less under the control of art, and local manners, are
more characteristical of the species than those of men and
women. This field of observation supplied him with many

fine figures, particularly that most exquisite one of Comedy,

struggling for and winning (for who can resist her ?) the

affections of Garrick --a figure which could never have
occurred to the imagination of a painter who had confined

his views to grown persons, looking and moving in all

the formality of polite life--a figure which, in all ages

and countries, would be pronounced natural and engaging."

To all these testimonies in favor of Sir Joshua, Sir William
                              MEMOIRS OF

Forbes adds, from his own pen, this elegant compliment : To
that great artist, and excellent man, whose house one of our

mutual friends has well denominated the common centre of

Iunion for the great, the accomplished, the learned, and the

ingenious, must equally pay my grateful acknowledgments
for the uninterrupted friendship with which he honoured me,

as well as for an introduction to the notice of some
Idistinguished characters, to whom
                                          should not otherwise

have had the means of being known,"

The progress of the above mentioned celebrated picture is

f"urAthuegrusdteslc6rtibhe,d   in Dr. Beattie's Diary, where he says,
                              (Monday,) breakfasted with Sir Joshua
IReynolds, who this day began the allegorical picture.
                                                        sat

to him five hours, in which time he finished my head, and

sketched out the rest of my figure. The likeness is most

striking, and the execution most masterly. The figure is as

I Ilarge as life. The plan is not yet fixed for the rest of the
picture. Though sat five hours,           was not in the least

fatigued ; for by placing a large mirror opposite to my face.

Sir Joshua Reynolds put it in my power to see every stroke of
Ihis pencil ; and
                              was greatly entertained to observe the

progress of the work, and the easy and masterly manner of the

artist, which differs as much from that of all the other painters

I have seen at work, as the execution of Giardini on the violin

differs from that of a common fiddler."

   So much was said respecting the allegorical meaning of

IDr. Beattie's picture at the time, that may be permitted to

take some further notice of it ; particularly as it gave rise to
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                       193

attacks upon Sir Joshua, not only as to his judgment in its
conception, but as to his prudence and propriety in making
personal allusions.

   Whilst it was yet in its progress, Mrs. Montague wrote to

IBeattie on the subject, saying, " am delighted with Sir

Joshua Reynolds's plan, and do not doubt but he will make
Ia very noble picture of it.
                              class Sir Joshua with the

greatest geniuses that have ever appeared in the art of

Ipainting ; and wish he was employed by the public in some

great work that would do honour to our country in future

ages. He has the spirit of a Grecian artist. The Athenians

did not employ such men in painting portraits to place over a
Ichimney, or the door of a private cabinet.
                                             long to see the

picture he is now designing ; virtue and truth are subjects
worthy of the artist and the man. He has an excellent moral

character, and is most pleasing and amiable in society ; and

with great talents has uncommon humility and gentleness."

Sir William Forbes enters, indeed, more particularly into

the subject ; and, in addition to my own testimony, that Sir

Joshua meant not personally to offend any one by the

Icomposition, (though he was not offended himself at some

likeness being discovered, as shall shew by a letter in a
Isubsequent part of this Memoir,)
                                   shall give part of his
observations on this point. He says, " In this inestimable

piece, which exhibits an exact resemblance of Dr. Beattie's

countenance, at that period, he is represented in the gown of
Doctor of Laws, with which he was so recently invested at

Oxford. Close to the portrait, the artist has introduced an

cc
                                           MEMOIRS OF

angel, holding in one hand a pair of scales, as if weighing Truth

in the balance, and with the other hand pushing down three
hideous figures, supposed to represent Sophistry, Scepticism,
and Infidelity ; in allusion to Dr. Beattie's Essay on Truth,
which had been the foundation of all his fame, and of all the
distinction which had been paid him.

   " The likeness of Dr. Beattie was most striking, and nothing

can exceed the beauty of the angel. The whole composition,
as well as execution, is in the very best manner of that
inimitable painter, and it has had the good fortune, not always
the case with Sir Joshua's pictures, masterly as they are in every
other respect, of perfectly preserving the colouring, which is as
beautiful at the distance of upwards of thirty years as it was at
first, with as much of mellowness only as one could desire.

   " Of this admirable performance. Sir Joshua was pleased to

make Dr. B. a present, of which he Avas very justly proud.
He preserved it with the utmost care, keeping it always
covered with a green silk curtain, and left it to his niece,
Mrs. Glennie.''

A mezzotinto print has been done from it, and there is also

a very handsome engraving from it, in Forbes's Life of
Beattie ; and that writer adds, " Because one of these figures

was a lean figure, (alluding to the subordinate ones introduced,)

and the other a fat one, people of lively imaginations pleased

themselves with finding in them the portraits of Voltaire and
IHume. But Sir Joshua,
                        have reason to believe, had no

such thought when he painted those figures."
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  195

   It is a curious circumstance, too, that Dr. Beattie either

mistook the allegorical design himself, or else gave it
intentionally another meaning, perhaps out of modesty, for he

says, in one of his letters, that the figures represent Prejudice,

Scepticism, and Folly, M'ho are shrinking away from the light
of the sun that beams on the breast of the angel !

   Of the small villa, already mentioned in Dr. Beattie's Diary,
which Sir Joshua built, for his recreation, on Richmond Hill,

Sir William Chambers was the architect ; but not that it was
intended to make any display of taste in the building, for
convenience alone was consulted in it. In the summer season

it was the frequent custom of Sir Joshua to dine at this place

with select parties of his friends. It happened some little

time before he was to be elected Mayor of Plympton, as
already mentioned, that one day, after dining at the house,
himself and his party took an evening w^alk in Richmond
Gardens, when, very unexpectedly, at a turning of one of the

avenues, they suddenly met the King, accompanied by a part
of the Royal Family ; and as his Majesty saw him, it was
impossible for him to withdraw without being noticed. The
King called to him, and immediately entered into conversation,
and told him that he had been informed of tlie office that he

was soon to be invested with, that of being made the Mayor
of his native town of Plympton. Sir Joshua was astonished
that so minute and inconsiderable a circumstance, which was

of importance only to himself, should have come so quickly
to the knowledge of the King ; he assured his Majesty of its
truth, saying that it was an honour which gave him more
pleasure than any other he had ever received in his life, and

                                                 c c2
196 MEMOIRS OF

then, luckily recollecting himself,  added,    *" except that
which your Majesty was graciously    pleased  to bestow upon
me alluding to his knighthood.

   About this period, and towards the latter end of 1773, a
circumstance arose which promised to be highly beneficial
to the art, but which unfortunately did not fulfil its early

promises.

   The chapel of Old Somerset-House, which had been given
by his Majesty to the Royal Academy, was mentioned one
evening at the meeting, as a place which offered a good
opportunity, of convincing the public at large of the advan-
tages that would arise from ornamenting cathedrals and
churches with the productions of the pencil ; productions
which might be useful in their effect, and at the same time
not likely to give offence in a Protestant country. The idea
was therefore started, that if the members should ornament
this chapel, the example might thus afford an opening for the
introduction of the art into other places of a similar nature,
and which, as it was then stated, would not only present a new
and noble scene of action, that might become highly orna-
mental to the kingdom, but would be, in some measure,
absolutely necessary for the future labour of the numerous
students educated under the auspices of the Royal Academy.

   All the members were struck with the propriety, and even

with the probability of success which attended the scheme ;
but Sir Joshua Reynolds, in particular, immediately took it
up on a bolder plan, and offered an amendment, saying, that
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  197

instead of the chapel, they should fly at once at higher game,
and , undertake St. Paul's Cathedral. The grandeur and
magnificent liberality of this idea immediately gained the
Suffrages and plaudits of all present, and the President was

empowered to make the proper application to the Dean and

Chapter; an application which was immediately acceded to

on their part. At that time Dr. Newton, Bishop of Bristol,

was the Dean of St. Paul's, vv^ho was a strong advocate in favour

of this scheme.

  A meeting of the Academy then took place, when six artists

were chosen for the attempt ; these were Sir Joshua Reynolds,
Mr. West the present President, Barry, Dance, Cipriani, and

Angelica Kauffman.

   The Society for the Encouragement of Arts and Manufac-
tures also took up the business, and added four artists to the

original number.

   The subject which Sir Joshua proposed to execute, was
that of the Virgin and Christ in the Manger, or Nativity ;
but the whole plan was set aside in consequence of Dr. Terrick,

then Bishop of London, having refused his consent.

   This has been noticed by Barry, in one of his letters, when
he says, " Sir Joshua Reynolds, who had undertaken the
management of this business, informed us last Monday, the

day after his return from Plympton, where he was chosen
mayor, that the Archbishop of Canterbury and Bishop of
198 MEMOIRS OF

London had never given any consent to it, and that all thoughts
about it must consequently drop."

   At that time all sculptures were also prohibited from that
cathedral, for Dr. Newton the Dean, who died soon after, left

an injunction in his will that a monument to his memory
should be erected in that church if possible, which was to
cost five hundred pounds, with the hope of introducing the
arts into that cathedral ; this was denied to the family, and
his monument, executed by Banks the Sculptor, and a very
fine one, was then placed in St. Bride's church, of which
Newton was the Rector, according to his order, in case of a
refusal of his first request.

  I believe it was in this year that he painted that portrait of

himself, a half length, now in the Royal Academy, and which
has a cap, and the gown of his honorary degree at Oxford,

In this picture is introduced the bust of Michael Angelo,

whose works he always contemplated, and spoke of, with
enthusiasm : this is nearly the same dress in which he has
represented himself in several others, one of them< cent to
Florence, and the other, a three-quarter, in the possession of
the Duke of Rutland.

   In this year also it was, that the Literary Club, which

owed its origin in a great measure to him, was enlarged by the
addition of two valuable members ; the late Earl of Charle-
mont, and David Garrick : after which some others were
admitted to this select circle of friends.
               SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                199

   So much was Sir Joshua now admired and esteemed, that
his acquaintance was considered as an honour, and his name as

a passpo'"t ; and the latter was eagerly sought after even by
those wiio wished to inti'oduce the efforts of literature to the

M'orld.

  A very handsome compliment   w"asTphaeiodrtyo  him at this period,
                                                 of Painting," who
by the Editor of Richardson's

dedicated this work to the President.

- Sir,

*' A NEW and improved edition of the works of Jonathan

Richardson cannot be  inscribed with so much     p"roTphreieotryy  to
any body, as to you.   The author has in his                       of

Painting," discoursed with great judgment on the excellencies
of this divine art, and recommended the study of it with a

warmth approaching to enthusiasm. His ideas are noble, and
Ihis observations learned.
                            am emboldened to say this, from
Ia conversation which had the honour to have with you on

this subject.

   ** Had Richardson lived to see the inimitable productions of

your pencil, he would have congratulated his country on the
prospect of a School of Painting likely to contend successfully
./ith those of Italy.

   *' At the same time, he would have confessed, that your

admirable discourses would have rendered his own writings

Iless necessary. " am, with the greatest respect," &c. &c.
 200 MEMOIRS OF

    In the early part of 1774, a resolution was entered into by

 the Society of Arts, that a series of Historical or Allegorical
 pictures should be painted by the first artists in the kingdom,
 to decorate their new room in the Adelphi. The plan
 proposed was, that there should be eight historical and two
 allegorical ; the subjects of the former to be taken from
 the British Annals.

   It was also proposed, that the profits arising from the

exhibition of those works, for a limited time, should be
appropriated to the remuneration of the artists employed.
The historical painters chosen, were Sir Joshua Reynolds,
Angelica Kauffman, Mess. West, Cipriani., Barry, Wright,
Mortimer, and Dance ; whilst the allegorical designs were to
have been executed by Penny and Romney. Sir Joshua,
however, after some deliberation, thought proper to decline
the proposal ; and the rooms have been since decorated, as ,is
well known, by Barry alone.

    This latter artist had now been returned some time from
Italy, and notwithstanding the friendship always expressed and
shewn towards him by Sir Joshua, he seems to have been
actuated in his conduct towards him, in several instances, by a
capricious envy, for which Sir Joshua never gave him any
cause, but which may, perhaps, have arisen from a petti:
jealousy at Sir Joshua's having painted a portrait of Burke
for his friend Mr. Thrale.

   This dispute, for such it was, at least on the part of Barry,

Ihas been noticed by Barry's biographer ; and though cannot
i

I

I
            SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                  201

Iagree with him in part of his observations, yet shall here

give   the   whole passage   as explanatory  of the occurrence.   In
the   life  prefixed to his    works, it is  said, that " it may
                                                                  be

necessary to premise, that about this time a kind of ill humour

had possessed Barry, in consequence of the extreme intimacy

of the Burkes with Sir Joshua Reynolds, which led him to

suppose that those friends overlooked his merits to aggrandize
Sir Joshua's. There might be (for those things are common

to frail human nature) some envy entertained by Barry towards
Sir Joshua, for his respectable connections and his splendid
mode of entertaining them, and, perhaps, some little jealousy
in the mild Sir Joshua towards him, for a reputation that was

rising to eclipse or outrun his own.

   " Whatever might be the cause, we see Barry standing upon

a point of silly etiquette with the man of all others in the

world the most honoured and loved, and in a way to endanger
the imputation of ingratitude, had it uot been for the dignified

moderation displayed by Mr. Burke on the occasion.*'

   This is an allusion to a very curious correspondence which
took place at this period between Burke and Barry, respecting
the neglect of the latter in executing a portrait of his piitron.

IThe correspondence is preserved in Barry's works ; and am

of opinion, that whoever reads it, will agree with me, that
there was no necessity for accusing Sir Joshua of feeling
jealousy at Barry's rising fame, when Barry's own conduct,
arising from the waywardness of his own feelings, will easily
account for his feeling sore respecting Sir Joshua.

                                                                      DD
202 MEMOIRS OF

Indeed his biographer's own confession of his envious

sensations, is enough to preclude the necessity of seeking for
Iany other cause ; and,
                         trust, that the numerous instances
Iwhich shall yet have occasion to produce of Sir Joshua^s

professional suavity and feelings, both in theory and in practice,

will do away any impression which the foregoing passage might

have excited to his prejudice.

   On the 22d of February in this year, Sir Joshua Reynolds

Iwrote the following letter to Dr. Beattie, which adduce as a

fair specimen of his epistolary powers :

  I" sit down to relieve my mind from great anxiety and
I Iuneasiness, and am sorry when say, that this proceeds from

not answering your letter sooner. This seems very strange,

Iyou will say, since the cause may be so easily removed ; but

the truth of the matter is, waited to be able to inform you,
Ithat your picture was finished, which, however,
                                                  cannot

now do.

    I I Imust confess to you, that when sat down, did intend
Ito tell a sort of a white lie, that it was Jinished ; but on

recollecting that was writing to the author of truth, about a

I Ipicture of truth, felt that ought to say nothing but the

truth. The truth then is, that the picture probably will be

finished before you receive this letter ; for there is not above

a day's work remaining to be done.

" Mr. Hume has heard from somebody that he is introduced
          'i SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                          203

in the picture not much to his credit ; there is only a figure

covering his face with his hands, which they may call * Hume/
or any body else ; it is true it has a tolerable broad back.

As for Voltaire, I intended he should be one of the groupe.

  " I intended to write more, but I hear the postman's bell.

Dr. Johnson, who is with me now, desires his compliments."

This unfortunate picture, which seems doomed to have

excited mistaken displeasure, w^as  ea xlheitbteitredtoinBtehaettiyee,ar"  1774;
and Mrs. Montague says of it, in
                                                                           Your

portrait is in the Exhibition ; it is verj"- like, and the piece

worthy of the pencil of Sir Joshua." Some others, however,

were not so pleased with it as the lady seemed to be ; for

 Beattie himself, in a letter written to her on the 27th of May,
^in that year, observes, " Mr. Mason seems now to be tolerably

reconciled to the subscription, but he has found a new subject

of concern, in this allegorical picture by Sir Joshua Reynolds,

Iwhich he thinks can hardly fail to hurt my character in good
earnest.  know not certainly in what light Mr. Mason
Iconsiders this picture ; but so far as have yet heard, he is

singular in his opinion.

  If" Mr. Gray had done me the honour to address an ode

to me, and speak in high terms of my attack on the sceptics,
my enemies might have blamed him for his partiality, and the
world might have thought that he had employed his muse in

Iftoo mean an office ; but would any body have blamed me ?
Sir Joshua Reynolds thinks more favorably of me than I

deserve, (which he certainly does,) and if he entertains the

                                                      D D2
204 MEMOIitsr OF

Isame favourable sentiments of my cause, which wish him
and all the world to entertain, I should be glad to know

/from Mr. Mason, what there is in all this to fix any blame

on my character? Indeed if had planned this picture, and
urged Sir Joshua to paint it, and paid him for his trouble,
and then have solicited admittance for it into the Exhibition,

then the world would have had good reason to exclaim against

me as a vain coxcomb ; but I am persuaded, that nobody will

ever suspect me of this, for nobody can do so, without first

supposing that I am a fool."

  Of this subject, however, I presume my readers will think I
Ihave given them enough ; shall, therefore, revert to another

friend of Sir Joshua's, poor Goldsmith, who left this world on

the 4th of April, 1774 ; the first too of those on whom the
Iepitaphs had been so playfully written, as
                                             have before

alluded to in another place.

   Just before his death, he had nearly completed a design for
tiie execution of an " Universal Dictionary, of the Arts and
Sciences." Of this he had published the Prospectus, or, at
least, had distributed copies of it amongst his friends and

acquaintances. It did not meet with any warm encouragement,

however, from the booksellers, although Sir Joshua Reynolds,
Johnson, Garrick, and several others of his literary connections

had promised him their assistance on various subjects : and the

Idesign was, believe, entirely given up even previous to his

demise.

In the Dedication of his Deserted Village" to Sir Joshua
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS. ^                                  205

Reynolds, already noticed, Goldsmith alludes to the death of
his eldest brother, Henry, the clergyman ; and his various
biographers record another, Maurice, who was a younger
brother, and of whom it is stated, by Bishop Percy, that

having been bred to no business, he, upon some occasion,
complained to Oliver that he found it difficult to live like a

gentleman. To this Oliver wrote him an answer, begging

that he would, without delay, quit so unprofitable a trade, and
betake himself to some handicraft employment. Maurice
wisely, as the Bishop adds, took the hint, and bound himself
apprentice to a cabinet-maker, and when out of his indentures

set up in business for himself, in which he was engaged during
the viceroyaity of the late Duke of Rutland ; and his shop

being in Dublin, he was noticed by Mr. Orde, since Lord
Bolton, the Lord Lieutenant's Secretary, who recommended
him to tile patronage of the Duke, out of regard to the
memory of his brother.

In consequence of this, he received the appointment of

inspector of licences in that metropolis, and was also employed

as mace bearer, by the Royal Irish Academy, then just

established. Both of these places were compatible with his

business : and in the former he gave proof of great integrity

by detecting a fraud committed on the revenue in his

department; and one by which he himself might have profited,

if he had not been a man of principle. He has now been dead

Inot more than fifteen years ; enter more particularly into

his history, from having   seen the  following passage  in one of
Oliver's letters to him :            talked of being    my only
                           " You
Ibrother -- don't understand you. Where is Charles ?"
206 MEMOIRS OF

   This, indeed, was a question which Maurice could not
answer then, nor for many years afterwards ; but as the

Ianecdote is curious, and have it from a friend on whose

I Iauthority can rely, shall give it a place here nearly in his

own words.

My friend informed me, that whilst travellincf in the stage

coach towards Ireland, in the autumn of 1791» he was joined

at Oswestry by a venerable looking gentleman, who, in the

course of the morning, mentioned that his name was Gold-

smith ; when one of the party observed, that if he was going

to Ireland, that name would be a passport for him. The

stranger smiled, and asked the reason why ? to which the

other replied, that the memory of Oliver was embalmed
hiims mcoeudniatrtyemlyena.nswAeretde,ar"
Iamongst                                              glistened    in the stranger's
                                                           am his
eye, who                                                            brother." The

Ilgoeonkteledmadnoubwtihnoglyh,adanfdirsstaidm, ad"e   the observation on the   name,
                                                      He has but one brother   living ;
know him well." " True," replied the stranger, " for it may
Ibe said that am risen from the dead, having been for many

Iyears supposed to be no longer in the land of the living.
am Charles, the youngest of the family. Oliver I know is
dead ; but of Henry and Maurice I know nothing."

   On being informed of various particulars of his family, the

stranger tlien told his simple tale ; which was, that having

heard of his brother Noll mixing in the first society in

London, he took it for granted that his fortune was made, and
that he could soon make a brother's also : he therefore left

home without notice ; but soon found, on his arrival in

                                                                   ^
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  207

London, that the picture he had formed of his brother's
situation was too highly coloured ; that Noll would not
introduce him to his great friends, and, in fact, that, although

out of a jail, he was also often out of a lodging.

   Disgusted with this entrance into high life, and ashamed to
return home, the young man left London without acquainting
his brother with his intentions, or even writing to his friends
in Ireland; and proceeded, a poor adventurer, to Jamaica,
where he lived, for many years, without ever renewing an
intercourse with his friends, and by whom he was, of course,
supposed to be dead ; though Oliver may, at first, have
imagined that he had returned to Ireland. Years now passed
on, and young Charles, by industry and perseverance, began
to save some property ; soon after which he married a widow
lady of some fortune, when his young family requiring the
advantages of further education, he determined to return to
England, to examine into the. state of society, and into the
propriety of bringing over his wife and family; on this project
he was then engaged, and was proceeding to Ireland to visit
his native home, and with the intention of making himself
known to such of his relatives as might still be living. His
plan, however, was, to conceal his good fortune until he should
ascertain their affection and esteem for him.

   On arriving at Dublin, the party separated ; and my friend,
a few weeks afterwards, returning from the north, called at
the Hotel where he knew Mr. Goldsmith intended to reside.

There he met him ; when the amiable old man, for such he

really was, told him that he had put his plan in execution ;

V
208 MEMOIRS OP

had given himself as much of the appearance of poverty as he
could with propriety, and thus proceeded to the shop of his
brother Maurice, where he inquired for several articles, and
then noticed the name over the door, asking if it had any
connection with the famous Dr. Goldsmith.

  I*' am his brother,  his sole surviving brother,'*   said

Maurice.

   *' What, then," replied the stranger,  is become of the

others ?"

  " Henry has long been dead ; and poor Charles has not

been heard of for many years."

   *^ But suppose Charles were alive,"' said the stranger,
would his friends acknowledge him ?"

   " Oh yes !" replied Maurice, " gladly indeed !"

*' He lives, then ; but as poor as when he left you."

Maurice instantly leaped over his counter, hugged him in
                                            Welcome --
his arms, and weeping with pleasure, cried
welcome --here you shall find a home and a brother."

  It is needless to add, that this denouement was perfectly

agreeable to the stranger, who was then preparing to return to
Jamaica to make his proposed family arrangements ; but my
friend having been engaged for the next twenty years in
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  209

traversing the four quarters of the globe, being himself a
wanderer, has never, since that period, had an opportunity of
making inquiries into the welfare of the stranger, for whom he

had, indeed, formed a great esteem, even on a few days

acquaintance.

   Sir Joshua was much affected by the death of Goldsmith, to
whom he had been a very sincere friend. He did not touch
the pencil for that day, a circumstance most extraordinary for
him, who passed no day without a line. He acted as executor,
and managed, in the best manner, the confused state of the

IDoctor's affairs. At first he intended, as have already stated,

to have made a grand funeral for him, assisted by several
subscriptions to that intent, and to have buried him in the
Abbey, his pall-bearers to have been Lord Shelburne, Lord
Louth, Sir Joshua himself, Burke, Garrick, &c. ; but, on

second thoughts, he resolved to have him buried in th^

plainest and most private manner possible, observing, that the
most pompous funerals are soon past and forgotten ; and that

it would be much more prudent to apply what money could
be procured, to the purpose of a more substantial and more
lasting memorial of his departed friend, by a monument ; and

he was, accordingly, privately interred in the Temple burying

ground.

   Sir Joshua went himself to Westminster Abbey, and fixed
upon the place where Goldsmith's monument now stands, over
a door in the Poets' Corner. He thought himself lucky in
being able to find so conspicuous a situation for it, as there

scarcely remained another so good.

                                                        EE
210  MEMOIRS OB'

   Nollekens, the sculptor, was employed to make the monu-
ment, and Dr. Johnson composed the epitaph.

   There is a very fine portrait, which is the only original one,
of Dr. Goldsmith, now at Knowle, the seat of the Duke of
Dorset, painted by Sir Joshua.

  A lady, who was a great friend of Dr. Goldsmith, earnestly

desired to have a lock of his hair to keep as a memorial of
him ; and his coffin was opened again, after it had been closed
up, to procure this lock of hair from his head ; this relick is
still in the possession of the family, and is the only one of the
kind which has been preserved of the Doctor.

   An observation of Dr. Beattie, respecting the deceasedpo"et,

Iin a letter to Mrs. Montague, must not be passed over.

am sorry for poor Goldsmith. There were some things in his

Itemper which did not like ; but I liked many things in his
Igenius ; and was sorry to find, last summer, that he looked

upon me as a person who seemed to stand between him and his

interest. However, when next we meet, all this will be

forgotten, and the jealousy of authors, which. Dr. Gregory

used to say, was next to that of physicians,  be no more."

   Soon after Goldsmith's death, some people dining with Sir
Joshua were commenting rather freely on some part of his
works, which, in their opinion, neither discovered talent nor
originality. To this, Dr. Johnson listened, in his usual

growling manner, for some time ; when, at length, his patience
being exhausted, he rose, with great dignity, looked them full
                  SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  211

Ifin the face, and exclaimed, "  nobody was suffered to abuse

poor Goldy, but those who could write as well, he would have

few censors."

   Yet, on another occasion, soon after the death of Goldsmith,
a lady of his acquaintance was condoling with Dr. Johnson on

Itheir loss, saying, Poor Goldsmith ! am exceedingly sorry

for him ; he was every man's friend !"

   " No, Madam,"  answered Johnson,  " he was no man's

friend !"

   In this seemingly harsh sentence, however, he merely
alluded to the careless and imprudent conduct of Goldsmith,

as being no friend even to himself, and when that is the case,
a man is rendered incapable of being of any essential service
to any one else.

  It has been generally circulated, and believed by many,

that Goldsmith was a mere fool in conversation ; but, in
truth, this has been greatly exaggerated by such as were

really fools. In allusion to this notion Mr. Horace Walpole,
who admired his writings, said he was " an inspired idiot,"
and Garrick described him as one,

                            " for shortness call'd Noll,

                        Who wrote like an angel, but talk'd like poor I'oli."

Sir Joshua Reynolds mentioned to Boswell that he frequently

                                                     E E2
212 MEMOIRS OF

had heard Goldsmith talk warmly of the pleasure of being
liked, and observe how hard it would be if literary excellence

should preclude a man from that satisfaction, which he

perceived it often did, from the envy which attended it ; and

therefore Sir Joshua was convinced, that he was intentionally

more absurd, in order to lessen himself in social intercourse,

trusting that his character would be sufficiently supported by
Ifhis works.
               it was his intention to appear absurd in

company, he was often very successful. This, in my own

Iopinion, was really the case ; and also think Sir Joshua was

so sensible of the advantage of it, that he, yet in a much less

degree, followed the same idea, as he never had a wish to

impress his company with any awe of the great abilities with
which he was endowed, especially when in the society of those

high in rank.

  I have heard Sir Joshua say, that he has frequently seen the

whole company struck with an awful silence at the entrance
of Goldsmith, but that Goldsmith has quickly dispelled the

charm, by his boyish and social manners, and he then has
soon become the plaything and favorite of the company.

   His epitaph in Westminster Abbey, written by Dr.
Johnson, is a true character of the eccentric poet.

IAmong the various tributes to his memory, was one by
Courtney   Melmoth,   (Mr. Pratt,  believe,) dedicated to Sir
Joshua,
          " who will  naturally receive with kindness whatever

is designed as a testimony of justice to a friend that is no
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  1^13

more." In this, the dedicator has well attempted to pourtray
the feelings of Sir Joshua's heart.

  IBefore dismiss poor Goldsmith from the stage, it may

be proper to notice another dedication to Sir Joshua, prefixed
to that edition of his works published by Evans, in which he
says --

     " Sir,

  I" am happy in having your permission to inscribe to you

this complete edition of the truly poetical works of your late
ingenious friend, Oliver Goldsmith. They will prove a lasting
monument of his genius. Every lover of science must
deeply lament that this excellent writer, after long struggling

with adversity, finished his mortal career just as his

reputation was firmly established, and he had acquired the

friendship of Sir Joshua Reynolds, Dr. Johnson, Mr. Edmund
Burke, the Dean of Derry, Mr. Beauclerk, and Mr.

Cumberland, names which adorn our age and nation. It is.

Sir, being merely an echo of the public voice, to celebrate yoiir

admirable productions,

                         * In which, to latest time, the artist lives.'

" Had Dr. Goldsmith understood the art of painting, of which

he modestly declares himself ignorant, his pen would have
done justice to the merits of your pencil. He chose a nobler
theme, by declaring his ardent affection for the virtues of your
heart. That you may long continue, Sir, the ornament of
214 MEMOIRS OP

your country and the delight of your friends, is the sincere
wish of your most obliged humble servant,

                                                                T. Evans."

   In closing the year 1774, it is necessary to take a short
view of his sixth discourse, which was delivered on the 10th
of December.

  It is to be observed in this place, that one year had elapsed

without his having given a discourse, which was the first
omission since its commencement ; but as these orations were
only given on the evenings when the gold medals were
presented to successful candidates as the prize, it had been
previously determined in the last year, that as genius was not
of quick growth it would be fully sufficient to bestow the
prizes in future only once in two years, and this rule has
since been regularly followed.

   In this discourse he took a view of the best principles in
that part of a painter's art, called " Imitation and, after
shewing where Genius commences, and where it finds a limit,

he proved that invention was acquired by being conversant

with the inventions of others. To this he subjoined some
rules for allowable imitation, marked the legal extent of

borrowing, and pointed out what might fairly be collected
from each specific school of the art.

As this discourse, however, was more of professional than
Iof general impoil,
                     shall not discuss it at any length, but
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  215

shall merely insert two or three passages which strongly
mark the originality of his own genius, and may be said
almost to disprove the truth of his position, that Invention
and Genius are the children, or at least the pupils, of

Imitation.

   " Genius is supposed to be a power of producing

excellencies which are out of the reach of the rules of art ;

a power which no precepts can teach, and which no industry

can acquire." --

   ** But the truth is, that the degree of excellence which
proclaims Genius is different, in different times and places ;
and what shows it to be so is, that mankind have often
changed their opinion upon this matter." --

   " What we now call Genius begins, not where rules,

abstractedly taken, end ; but where known vulgar and trite

rules have no longer any place." --

   " Invention is one of the greatest marks of Genius ; but if

we consult experience, we shall find that it is by being
conversant with the invention of others, that we learn to
invent ; as by reading the thoughts of others, we learn to
think."--

   " The mind is but a barren soil ; a soil which is soon

exhausted, and, will produce no crop, or only one, unless it be
continually fertilized and enriched with foreign matter. --"^
216 MEMOIRS OF

   Such were a few of the most striking general truths in this
discourse ; but the truth is, that none of his discourses
possess more beauties than this one, though, for the most part,
strictly of a professional nature. One anecdote related in it
shall close the subject.

  I" remember," said Sir Joshua, " several years ago, to

have conversed at Rome with an artist of great fame throughout
Europe ; he was not without a considerable degree of
abilities, but these abilities were by no means equal to his
own opinion of them.

   " From the reputation he had acquired, he too fondly

concluded that he stood in the same rank when compared
with his predecessors, as he held with regard to his miserable

contemporary rivals. In conversation about some particulars

of the works of Raffaelle, he seemed to have, or to affect to
have, a very obscure memory of them. He told me that
he had not set his foot in the Vatican for fifteen years
together ; that he had been in treaty to copy a capital picture
of Raff'aelle, but that the business had gone off ; however, if
the agreement had held, his copy would have greatly exceeded
the original !

  I" The merit of this artist, however great we may suppose

it, am sure would have been far greater, and his presumption

would have been far less, if he had visited the Vatican, as in

reasoti he ought to have done, at least once every month in
his life."
           SIR JOSHUA REYN^OLDS.  217

   In the year 1775, or about that time, a new arrangement
took place in Sir Joshua's favorite society, the Literary Club,

which now changed its original plan of supping once a week,

into dinner parties once a fortnight, during the parliamentary

sessions.                         \

   In tliis year also he paid a compliment to another club, of
which he had long been a member ; this was a present of a
portrait of himself for the dining-room of the Dilletanti

Society, held in Pall Mall.. It is a three quarter length, and

he appears in his own hair, and in a loose robe : it has since
been engraved in mezzotinto by James Watson.

   This Society of Dilletanti has the merit of being, in some
measure, the harbinger of all the others for the Encourage-
ment of the Arts ; for although it was at first supposed to have
been established upon political principles, yet a few years at
least before Sir Joshua's introduction to it, the members had

at last the good sense to alter its original objects (if the}^ ever
were such,) and to turn their thoughts to the formation of a
public academy. For this purpose tiiey held some commu-
nications with the Society of Artists, then recently established,

but some jealousies about the governmeist and regulation
of the proposed institution prevented any union from taking

place.

   This, however, did not discourage the Dilletanti members,
who, without any apparent ostentation, silently directed their
exertions in favour of the arts, and it must be acknowled^'^ed
were certainly of considerable service.

                                                     FP
218 MEMOIRS OF

  It was in this year, (1775,) that they were first enabled, by

the accumulation of a fund set apart for the purpose, to
support a student at the Italian Capital, whilst engaged
in his professional acquirements ; since which they have sent
out several classical travellers, and patronized some valuable
classical productions of the press on Grecian Antiquities.

In this year was painted that portrait of his friend Dr.

Johnson, which represents him as reading and near-sighted.
This was very displeasing to Johnson, who when he saw it,

"Itreproved Sir Joshua for painting him in that manner and
attitude, saying,  is not friendly to hand down to

posterity the imperfections of any man.'^ But, on the contrary,

Sir Joshua himself esteemed it as a circumstance in nature to

be remarked as characterizing the person represented, and

therefore as giving additional value to the portrait.

  IOf this circumstance Mrs. Thrale says, " observ^ed that

he would not be known by posterity, for his defects only, let

Sir Joshua do his worst :" and when she adverted to his own
picture painted with the ear trumpet, and done in this

year for Mr. Thrale, she records Johnson to have answered,

*' He may paint himself as deaf as he chooses ; but I will not

be blinking Sam.''

  It is evident, however, that Sir Joshua meant not to hurt

his feelings : indeed, his general politeness and attention at all
times, both to the comfort and to the foibles of his friends, are

particularly exemplified in this year, even by a trifling
occurrence, described by Mr. Boswell ; when being engaged
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  219

along with that gentleman and Dr. Johnson to dine with Mr.
Cambridge at his Twickenham villa, Sir Joshua being anxious

to fulfil an engagement at Richmond, early in the day, set off
by himself on horseback, leaving his coach for his friends, who
were not ready, to accompany him, in consequence of

Johnson's tardiness.

   On the arrival of the latter, and on his entering Mr.

Cambridge's library, he immediately ran to the shelves, when

Sir Joshua whispered to Bos well, " He runs to the books,

I I Ias do .to the pictures ; but have the advantage, as can see

more of the one than he does of the other."

   In the latter part of the year 1775, he sent his portrait,
painted by himself, in the dress of his University honours,
to be placed in the Gallery of illustrious Painters at Florence,
in consequence of his having been chosen a member of the
Imperial Academy of that city, and in compliance with its

regulations, by which, in return for the honour conferred,

the newly elected member is required to present his portrait,

painted by his own hand ; a circumstance which has produced
the most curious and valuable collection of portraits of

eminent painters in the world.

   'J'he following inscription in Sir Joshua's own hand is on the
back of the portrait, painted on a pannel of mahogany : --

FF2
220 MEMOIRS OF

                    JOSHUA REYNOLDS, EQUES AURATUS,
                   ACADEMIiE REGIiE LONDINI PRtESES,
            JURIS CIVILIS APUD OXONIENSES DOCTOR ;

                    REGIME SOCIETATIS, ANTIQUARIiE,
                                    LONDINI SOCIUS.

HONORARIUS FLORENTINAS APUD ACADEMIJi: IMPERIALIS
      SOCIUS, NEC NON OPPIDI NATALIS, DICTI PLIMPTON
                                   COMITAT. DEVON.
         PRiEFECTUS JUSTITIARIUS MORUMQUE CENSOR."

This has since been engraved by C. Townly.

   In the year 1775, Mr. Nath. Hone made an exhibition
of several of his works, at a great room nearly opposite to
Old Slaughter's Coffee-house, St. Martin's-lane. The collection

contained between sixty and seventy paintings : among them

were two which claimed particular notice. It seemed that the

first idea of this exhibition owed its origin to pique, and
something of envy in the artist towards Sir Joshua Reynolds,

and this opinion is suggested by the following anecdotes.

  In the exhibition of the Royal Academy, J770> there was a
picture painted by Mr. Hone, entitled " Two Gentlemen in

Masquerade  they were represented as Capuchin Friars,

regaling themselves with punch. When this picture was sent for

admission, one of the personages was represented as squeezing a

lemon, while the other was stirring the liquor with the

crucifix, at the end of his rosary : but the Council considered

the latter circumstance as too indecorous to allow the picture's

being exhibited in that state ; and the artist was requested
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  221

to alter the crucifix. This request was comphed with, but Mr.

Hone was much offended, when in truth, he ought rather
to have been pleased," with their liaving pointed out an
impropriety, which might not have struck him upon the first
idea of liis picture. However, the desired alteration was made,
and a ladle introduced, which he painted with a substance

easily washed away; and the picture was again displayed at his
own exhibition in its primitive state.

   The other picture, which was the leading feature of his
exhibition, represented an o|d man, half-length, the size of life,
painted after the model from which Sir Joshua Reynolds had
painted his Count Ugolino. This picture, which J\lr. Hone
called the Conjuror, was intended as a satire upon Sir
Joshua's method of composing his pictures. Yet Mr. Hone's
ridicule was not very apparent, for his figure represented little

more than an old man, with a wand in his hand, performing
incantations, by which a number of prints and sketches were
made to float in the air, all of wb.ich were representations of
those originals from which Sir Joshua had taken the actions
of the figures and groupes which he had introduced into

some of his principal portraits.

   As this picture, which did not display much vigour of mind,

was evidently meant as an attack upon the President, the
Council of the Royal Academy thought it prudent to
exclude it from their exhibitiou, which again greatly displeased

Mr. Hone; and he, like many others, disappointed in his

private schemes, appealed to the public by an exhibition
of his own.
222 MEMOIRS OF

   Instead of trusting to my own temper in animadverting any

Ifurther on such an attack on this great painter, shall give a

passage, and perhaps with more force, from the pen of a writer
who, whatever his merits or demerits may be, cannot be
accused of partiality for the subject of our biography. He

says, speaking of Hone, ''This gentleman should be almost

exclusively arranged as a portrait painter, as he painted but
two historical compositions. The first was a satire on monkish
licentiousness ; and the other was the exhibition of 2i pictorial
conjurer, displaying his cleverness in the arts of deceiving the
sight. This last performance was intended as an exposition
of the manoeuvring, in respect to attitudes, which was so
attributable to Sir Joshua Reynolds. This vindictive effort
was sent by its parent to the annual exhibition ; but was
rejected by the Academicians with becoming scorn, as the
issue of a little mind, and powers of fancy most scandalously

directed -- a keenness of rebuke which has well employed
the pen of the author.

   In the course of this year, Sir Joshua had finished his well-

known picture of " Venus chiding Cupid." It was done for

Sir Brooke Boothby, who in 1794 sold it to Sir Tliomas
Bernard.

   Boswell, about this time, records an observation of Dr.
Johnson's, which was highly descriptive of Sir Joshua's placidity
and evenness of disposition ; not an overstrained stoicism, but
that happy equability which proceeds both from mind and
disposition. Whilst conversing on melancholy, Johnson said,
                                         SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  223

that " some men, and very thinking men too, have not these
vexing thoughts. Sir Joshua Reynolds is the same all the

year round."

   A character of the Honourable Mrs. P., written by Sir

Joshua, was published in the newspapers of the day, and the
printer had taken the liberty of altering a word in it, to make
it, as he thought, much better, but which Sir Joshua thought
made it much otherwise. In speaking of this afterwards to
the late Caleb Whiteford, Sir Joshua complained of the
absurd alteration, and said it had quite destroyed the simplicity
of the whole, when Whiteford made the comparison of a pot
of broth over the fire, into which a lump of soot falls from the

chimney, and the whole mess is spoiled.

  What the word was which the printer expunged I do not

know ; but the character here inserted is iii its original form.

- Character of the Honourable Mrs. P.                          Sir Joshua Rn/no/ds,
                                                             b\)
                                         December 2lsf, 1775.                 a

                                                                                      it ;

                                                                                                       a
   " The death of this Honourable Lady was occasioned by

stroke of the palsy, which happened soon after her lying-in
of daughter of this she appeared to be recovering but
receiving second stroke, and soon after that third, put
an end to the life of one of the most valuable of women.
a
             a

                                      ;

      Her amiable disposition, her softness and gentleness of
manners, endeared her to every one that had the liappiness of

knowing her her whole pleasure and ambition were centered
:
224 MEMOIRS OF

in a consciousness of properly discharging all the duties of a
wife, a mother, and a sister ; and she neither sought for, nor
expected, fame out of her own house. As she made no osten-
tation of her virtues, she excited no envy ; but if there had
existed so depraved a being as to wish to wound so fair a
character, the most artful malignity must have searched in
vain for a weak part. Her virtues were uniform, quiet, and
habitual ; they were not occasionally put on ; she wore them
continually ; they seemed to grow to her and be a part of
herself ; and it seemed to be impossible for her to lay them
aside or be other than what she was. Her person was eminently
beautiful ; but the expression of her countenance was far
above all beauty that proceeds from regularity of features
only. The gentleness and benevolence of her disposition
were so naturally impressed on every look and motion, that
without any aftected effort or assumed courtesy, she was sure
 to make every one her friend that had ever spoke to her, or

even seen her.

    " In so exalted a character it is scarce worth mentioning her
 skill and exact judgment in the polite arts: she seemed to
 possess, by a kind of intuition, that propriety of taste and

 right thinking, which others but imperfectly acquire by long
 labour and application."

   At the time when I was a student at the Royal Academy, I

 was accidentally repeating to Sir Joshua the instructions on

colouring I had heard there given by an eminent painter who

 then attended as visitor. Sir Joshua replied, that this painter
 was undoubtedly a very sensible man, but by no means a good
I
                               SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                 225

colourist ; adding, that there was not a man then on earth

who hud the least notion of colouring ; " we, all of us," said
he. " have it equally to seek for and find out, as at present it

is totally lost to the art."

                                                                                           ·

   Strong objections were often certainly made to Sir Joshua's
process or mode of colouring ; but perhaps the best answer
to all these is in the following anecdote.

One of these critics, who passed for a great patron of the art,

w"afslycinogmpcloalionuinrsg"  strongly to a judicious  friend  of  Sir Joshua's
                               and expressing great     regret      the circum-
                                                                at

stances as it prevented him from having his picture painted

by the president. To all this his friend calmly replied, that

he should reflect that any painter who merely wished to make
his colours stand, had only to purchase them at the first
colour shop he might come to ; but that it must be remem-

bered that " every picture of Sir Joshua's was an experiment
of art made by an ingenious man, -- and that the art advanced

by such experiments, even ii)here they failed.

   In fine, what Gainsborough said of the President is strictly
true: that in his opinion Sir Josiuia's pictures in their most

decayed state were better than those of any other artist when
in their best.

  I once humbly endeavoured to persuade Sir Joshua to

abandon those fleeting colours lake and carmine, which it
was his practice to use in painting his flesh, and to adopt
vermilion in their stead as infinitely more durable although not

                                                      .G G
526 MEMOIRS OF

ISO exactl}' true to
Ilooked on his hand
              nature   as  the former.     remember he
             and said
                       "   can see no vermilion in flesh/'

I replied, " but did not Sir Godfrey Kneller always use

vermilion in his flesh colour," when vSir Joshua answered rather
sharply, " What signifies what a man used who could not

colour. But you may use it if you will !"

  It is to be observed, however, that Sir Joshua made use of

vermilion himself in all his latter works, finding by experience

the ill effects of lake and carmine in his early productions.

If any other apology were necessary for Sir Joshua's mode

of practice, it may be found in his own words, in one of the

Ifragments, as presei ved by Mr. Malone ; there he says, "

was always willing to believe that my uncertainty of proceeding

in my works, that is, my never being sure of my hand, and

my frequent alterations, arose from a refined taste, which

Icould not acquiesce in any thing short of a high degree of
excellence.  had not an opportunity of being early initiated

in the principles of Colouring : no man indeed could teach me.

If I have never been settled with respect to colouring, let it

at the same time be remembered, that my unsteadiness in this

respect proceeded from an inordinate desire to possess every

kind of excellence that I saw in the works of others, without

considering that there are in colouring, as in style, excellencies

which are incompatible with each other : however, this pursuit,

or indeed any other similar pursuit, prevents the artist from

being tired of his art. We all know how often those masters,

who sought after colouring, changed their manner ; whilst

others, merely from not seeing various modes, acquiesced all
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                227

 their lives in that with which they set out. On the contrary,

 I tried every effect of colour, and by leaving out every colour
Iin its turn, showed every colour that could do without. As
I Ialternately left out every colour, tried every new colour ;

and, after, as is well known, failed. The former practice, I

 am aware, may be compared by those whose first object is
 ridicule, to that of the poet mentioned in the Spectator,who in a
. poem of twenty-four books, contrived in each book to leave out

a letter. But I was influenced by no such idle or foolish

affectation. My fickleness in the mode of colouring arose

Ifrom an eager desire to attain the highest excellence. This is

 the only merit can assume to myself from my conduct in

 that respect."

   But it was not to experiments on his own colouring alone

that Sir Joshua trusted for gaining experience ; for he actually
tried experiments with several capital ancient paintings of the
Venetian School, in order, if possible, to ascertain their grounds,

to trace their process in laying on, and to analyze the chemical
mixture of their various tints. This circumstance has been

noticed by Mr. Malone, and is very just ---an experiment too,

conducted at an immense expense, for each painting thus
investigated was, of course, totally destroyed.

Sir Joshua's early and continued success is, however, very

well delineated by himself in one of those fragments already
Imentioned, where he says, " considered myself as playing a
great game, and, instead of beginning to save money, I laid
it out faster than I got
                          in purchasing the best examples of
                          it,

                                      ;

                                         2

                                                 1
art that could be procured for even borrowed money for

                          GG
·228  MEMOIRS OF

this purpose. The possessing portraits by Titian, Vandyke,

Rembrandt, &c., I considered as the best kind of wealth,

By studying carefully the works of great masters, this
advantage is obtained ; we find that certain niceties of
expression are capable of being executed, which otherwise we
might suppose beyond the reach of art. This gives us a
confidence in ourselves, and we are thus incited to endeavour

at not only the same happiness of execution, but also at other

congenial excellencies. Study, indeed, consists in learning to
see nature, and may be called the art of using other men's
minds. By this kind of contemplation and exercise we are
taught to think in their way, and sometimes to attain their

excellence. Thus, for instance, if I had never seen any of
Ithe works of Corregio, should never perhaps have remarked
Iin nature the expression which find in one of his pieces ; or

I Iif had remarked it, might have thought it too difficult,

or perhaps impossible, to be executed."

  It must have been reasons such as these which could ever

induce him to make a copy from any master, and only when

he desired to possess himself of some peculiar excellence
which another possessed before him, and when he did
condescend to copy, its degree of correctness may be judged

Iof by an instance which heard himself relate. The Cheva-

lier Vanloo, the eminent portrait painter, being in England,
one day when he paid a visit to Sir Joshua, boasted of his
great knowledge in the works of the dift'erent famous painters,
saying he could not be deceived or imposed upon by a copy
for an original. Sir Joshua then shewed him a head of an
old wcman which he had copied from one by Rembrandt, and
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.    229

witliout letting bim into the secret asked his opinion upon it.
The French painter, after a very careful inspection into it,
said he could pronounce that it was undoubtedly an original

picture by Rembrandt !

   Of Sir Joshua's paintings, any accident that befel them
seems of sufficient importance to record. In a small room

next to his own painting room, there were a great number of

those portraits which had been rejected and were left upon his

hands ; round the sides of this room were shelves, on which

were placed large heads, casts from the antique, and at a

great height, for the room was lofty ; and over these hung

some old portraits by Lely and otliers. In this room as I

was one day busily employed in painting a drapery to one of

his portraits, I suddenly heard a noise as if something had
Ifallen, when looking up to the place, saw that one of those

pictures by Lely had dropt from its nail, and falling on the

shelf, and thence forward, threw down two or three very
Ilarge plaister heads.
                        had but a moment to get up in the

corner of this little room, when the whole fell down on the

floor, just where I had been at work, with a violence that
Iwould have certainly proved fatal to me, had not got in

time out of the way, as a moment would have been too late.

The easel was knocked down, together with the picture on

which I was at work, and driven with violence through five

or six of those unfortunate rejected portraits, as they

happened to be placed one before the other, whilst the floor

was covered with the fragments of the broken plaister heads
which were dashed to pieces by the fall. The great noise
230 MEMOIRS OF

which this made alarmed even Sir Joshua, although deaf, and
brought liim into the room in a hurry to know what was the
matter, when he stared with surprize to behold the wreck,
but soon calmly smiled at a misfortune, which, indeed, did not
require reparation.

  IAs have hinted at the subject of his drapery's having

been frequently executed by the hands of his scholars, it is
but just to remark in this place, that the Avhole together of
the picture, was at last his own, as the imitation of particular
stuffs is not the work of genius but is to be acquired easily
by practice, and this was what his pupils could do by care
and time more than he himself chose to bestow, but his own
slight and masterly work was still the best.

   No painter like Sir Joshua knew how to make his drapery

answer the purpose of enriching his figures, as may be seen in
his excellent portrait of General Tarlton ; for though the
figure is merely in a close jacket, yet, by making it unite, in
a certain degree, with the flags in the back ground, it assumes
a richness unexampled : others may have done the same by
accident, in him it was principle.

  IFurther, in respect to this part of the subject, remember
Ionce when was disposing the folds of drapery with great

care on the lay figure, in order to paint from it into one of his
pictures, he remarked that it would not make good drapery

if set so artificially, and that whenever it did not fall into

such folds as were agreeable, I should try to get it better, by
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS,                                231

Itaking the chance of another toss of the drapery stuff, and by

that means should get nature, which is always superior to
art.

   Besides the assistance which Sir Joshua had from his pupils,
he also employed Peter Toms to paint drapery for him, who
was considered as the most perfect auxiliary in that depart-
ment of painting that existed in his time. He was a Royal
Academician, and son of Mr. Toms the engraver, and had

practiced some time in Ireland as a portrait painter.

Sir Joshua was fond of introducing animals or birds

occasionally into his compositions, and these lie painted with

great spirit and life. At one time he kept a very fine eagle

which was chained to its perch, in the back area of the house :

Iwhen this bird died took the body and suspended it by

strings so as to give it an action as if it was alive, with its

wings spread, intending to paint a picture from it for myself.

But when Sir Joshua saw me about it he seemed pleased, and
Itold me to do it as well as T was able ; and when
                                                    had

finished the work to the best of my power, he took the picture

and the bird into his own painting room, and in about a

quarter of an hour gave it such touches of animation as made

Iit truly fine, though executed with a bad light, for remember

it was late in the day when he did it, having been the night

before at a masquei-ade, which had occasioned his remaining
very long in bed that day.

  In this year it was that Mr. Doughty was placed under the

tuition of Sir Joshua. William Doughty was a native of
232 MEMOIRS OF

Yorkshire, and recommended to the notice of Sir Joshua by
the Rev. Mr. Mason. He remained about three years in the
house of Sir Joshua as his pupil, and at that time, by the
desire of Mr. Mason, and for him, painted tlie portrait of Gray
the poet by description, (as Gray was dead,) and the help ©f
an outline of his profile, which had been taken by lamp
light when he was living, and therefore must have been very

exact ; and this now remains as the only portrait of Gray. It

has been engraved for the frontispiece of his works, and

sculptured on his monument. Mr. Mason was the particular
friend of Gray, and the editor of his works after his death,
and alsp the patron of Doughty.

   On Doughty leaving Sir Joshua he went to Ireland but did
not succeed, although highly recommended by his master as
well as his patron, and also possessing greater ability than his
more fortunate rivals. He then returned to London exceed-
ingly dispirited, from whence he took shipping for Bengal in
1780 ; but before he left England had married one Margaret
Joy, a servant girl in Sir Joshua's house; she also accompanied
him when he left England. Having been captured by the
combined squadrons of France and Spain, and carried to
Lisbon, he there closed his mortal career. In 1778 he had
exhibited a three quarter length of his patron which possessed
 considerable merit ; and he scraped some excellentmezzotinto
portraits, among which, those of the Rev. Mr. Mason and
Dr. Johnson were the most perfect. His widow continued
her voyage to India, but died just on her arrival at Bengal.

    The following little circumstance, as it serves to shew the
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                  233

kind disposition of Sir Josliua, I may be allowed to mention,

although it relates so much to my own concerns.

   The latter end of the year 1775 was now arrived, when it

Ionly wanted a few months of five years that had been with
Ihim, and when also approached the twenty-ninth year of my
Iage ; and thought it high time for me to do something for

myself at so late a period in the life of a pupil, having been

Iprevented by many causes from beginning my studies as a
painter in earlier youth.  therefore thought it proper to

give Sir Joshua notice of my intentions some months before

my departure ; this, however, was a task very disagreeable to

Ime, and deferred it from day to day, but at last determined,

Iand going to him one morning in the month of December,
when he was alone in his painting room,               began by saying
Ithat at the end of May next it would be five years since first

came to his house. Sir Joshua, with a gentleness in his

manner, said, that he thought that was full sufficient, and
Ithat was now well able to do for myself. I then replied,
I Ithat was very sensible of the obligation
                                                      owed him, and
Ithat would stay any time longer he should think proper if
I could be of any service to him. Sir Joshua said by no
I Imeans, as had already done him much service ; answered
I I Ithat feared had not been of so much assistance to him as

wished, but that it was solely from want of power, and not

Iinclination. Sir Joshua was so obliging as to say, that had

been very useful to him, more so than any scholar that had
Iever been with him ;
Ieach other as long as                  *'
and                         he added,           hope  we shall assist
we                         live," and  "               would remain
                                            that if

with him until the month of May he should be very much

                           HH
234 MEMOIRS OF

I Iobliged to me, as could be very useful to him ;" answered,
Ithat intended it, and during that time wished to work as

much as it was in my power for his service, and thus the
conversation ended.

IOn the 12th of May, 1776, took my leave of Sir Joshua

Reynolds, to take my chance in the world, and we parted

I·with great cordiality ; he said was perfectly in the right in

my intentions, and that he had been fully satisfied with my
Iconduct whilst
Iidea should       had been with   him  ;soalsloon,g,tha"t  he had no
               have staid with    him                       but now,"
added Sir Joshua, " to succeed in the art, you are to

remember that something more is to be done than that which

did formerly ; Kneller, Lely, and Hudson, will not do now."

I was rather surprized to hear him join the former two names

with that of Hudson, who was so evidently their inferior as

to be out of all comparison.

  It was impossible to quit such a residence as Sir Joshua's

Iwithout reluctance, a house in which had spent so many

happy hours, and although perfectly satisfied in my own mind

Ithat what did in this respect was right, and that it was high

time for me to be acting for myself on the stage of life, yet
to leave that place, which was the constant resort of all the

eminent in every valuable quality, without an inward regret,

was not in my power. It is a melancholy reflection even at

this moment, when one considers the ravages a few short years

have made in that unparalleled society which shone at his table,
now all gone !
           SIR JOSHUA KEYNOLDS.    235

  IAs this event was a considerable era in my life when was
Ino longer to be an inmate as one of the family of Sir Joshua

Reynolds, may be suffered to make a pause, and indulge
my thoughts in the pleasing recollection of many little
circumstances and matters of observation which occurred

during the space of five years; therefore, as a kind of summing

Iup, and closing of this period, shall record in this place

several matters, perhaps pleasing only to myself, from the
lively remembrance they raise in my mind of those happy
years of my life.

  IOf the political sentiments of Sir Joshua at that time

may merely state, that during the contest between England
and America, so strongly was it the opinion of many persons
that we should conquer them in the end, that Sir Joshua,

who thought the contrary, actually received five guineas each
from several gentlemen under a promise to pay them in return

one thousand pounds if ever he painted the portrait of

General Washington in England, and which he was not to
refuse to do in case the General should be brought to him to

that intent.

I IOne day at dinner with Sir Joshua and his sister. Miss
Reynolds,  remarked to her that    had never seen any

picture by Jervas, which was rather extraordinary, as he was
I Ia fashionable painter in his day ; she said, " Nor neither,
Iwonder how that should be.  do not, know that I ever saw

one then addressing Sir Joshua, she said, Brother, how-

happens it that we never meet with any pictures by Jervas

                             H H2
236 MEMOIRS OF                                " because they

the painter?" when he answered very briskly,
are all up in the garret."

   In so saying, he alluded to the destiny of bad portraits,

which, in the succeeding generation, are thus treated with
neglect and contempt.

  I have heard Sir Joshua say that at the time when he began

his career in life as a painter, the admiration of the works of
Sir Godfrey Kneller was so prevalent in England, that had
any person ventured to name those of Vandyke in compe-
tition with them, the painters then living would have laughed
him to scorn as having advanced the greatest absurdity.
This instance serves to prove the power of prejudice and
fashion, which we often see so abundantly contribute to prop
up and exalt the lauded idol of the day.

   Another anecdote (perhaps curious to painters,) Sir Joshua
used to relate, which he heard from Mr. Jonathan Richardson

the portrait painter.

   When Richardson was a very young man, in the course of

his practice he painted the portrait of a very old lady, who,
in conversation at the time of her sitting to him, happened
to mention, that when she was a girl about sixteen years of
age, she sat to Vandyke for her portrait. This immediately
raised the curiosity of Richardson, who asked a hundred

questions, many of them unimportant : however the circum-
starice which seemed to him as a painter, to be of the most
                  SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                     237

consequence in the information he gained was this : she said,
she well remembered, that, at the time when she sat to

Vandyke, for her portrait, and saw his pictures in his gallery,
they appeared to have a white and raw look, in comparison
with tlie mellow and rich hue which we now see in them,

and which time alone must have given to them, adding much
to their excellence.

At the time that Gibbon's Roman History was published, it

was the fashion   to   admire             it exceedingly.     Edmund     Burke
conversing with                            upon that work,
                  Sir  Joshua                                  said, "  he had

just then been reading it, that he disliked the style of writing,

that it was very affected, mere frippery and tinsel."

Upon another occasion, Mr. Edmund Burke when in

conversation with Sir Joshua, remarked to him the peculiar

taodvmanatkaegeussewhoifchthceemrta; in"  situations gave to  those who    chose
                                          for instance, you,                from
                                                              Sir Joshua,

your character and the opportunities you have by your

profession of being so much in private with persons of the

highest rank and power, at moments, also, when they are at

leisure and in good humour, might obtain favours from them

which would give you a patronage almost equal to that of a

prime minister."

    " There is   some truth                in what   you say," answered Sir
Joshua, " but                             presume   to ask favours from those
                how could I
to whom I became known only by my obligations to them ?"

The earnest desire which Sir Joshua had to render his pictures
238 MEMOIRS OF

perfect to the utmost of his ability, and in each succeeding

instance to surpass the former, occasioned his frequently making

them inferior to what they had been in the course of the

process, and when it was observed to him, " That probably he

never had sent out to the world any one of his paintings in as

perfect a state as it had been he answered, that he believed

the remark was very just ; but that, notwithstanding, he

               it on the whole, and    improved
Ifcertainly gained ground by           not bold

himself by the experiment :
               adding, "      you are

enough to run the risk of losing, you can never hope to gain."

   With the same ardent wish of advancing himself in his art,

I have heard him say, that whenever a new sitter came to him

for a portrait, he always began it with a full determination to
make it the best picture he had ever painted ; neither would

he allow it to be an excuse for his failure, to say, " The subject

was a bad one for a picture ;" there was always nature, he

would observe, which, if well treated, was fully sufficient for

the purpose.

  In the short fragment inserted in his Memoir by Mr. Malone,
he expresses himself thus, much to the same purport : " My

Isuccess and continual improvement in my art, (if may be

allowed that expression) may be ascribed, in a good measure,

I Ito a principle which will boldly recommend to imitation ;

mean a principle of honesty ; which, in this, as in all other

instances, is, according to the vulgar proverb, certainly the
Ibest policy.
               always endeavoured to do my best. Great or

vulgar, good subjects or bad, all had nature; by the exact

representation of which, or even by the endeavour to give
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  239

such a representatioiij the painter cannot but improve in his
art."

   It was one of Sir Joshua's favorite maxims, that all the

gestures of children are graceful, and that the reign of distortion
and unnatural attitude, commences with the introduction of
the dancing master. He delighted much in marking the
dawning traits of the youthful mind, and the actions and
bodily movements even of infants ; and it was by these
means that he acquired the ability which enabled him to
pourtray children with such exquisite happiness, truth, and

variety. A circumstance, as related by himself, occurs

to my remembrance, which may serve to prove the truth
of the above observation, as well as to shew how watchful

his mind was to catch instruction wherever it was to be

gained.

   Sir Joshua being in company with a party of ladies and

gentlemen, who were viewing a nobleman's house, they passed
through a gallery of portraits, when a little girl, who belonged
to one of the party, attracted the particular attention of Sir
Joshua by her vivacity and the sensible drollery of her
observations ; for whenever the company made a stand, to
look at each portrait in particular, the child, unconscious of
being observed by any one, imitated, by her actions, the air

of the head, and sometimes awkward effect of the ill disposed

position of the limbs in each picture ; and this she did with so
much innocence and true feeling, that it was the most just and

incontrovertible criticism that could be made on the picture.
 240 MEMOIRS OF

    We may perceive, by this instance, that those parts of the
 art which are its essentials, and the most difficult to accomplish
 with tolerable success, namely, grace, ease of attitude, and
 expression, are qualities which lie open to the knowledge and
judgment of the most simple and untaught persons, in a much
 greater degree than to the half learned connoisseur.

   The many trifles which I have here related, T fear make me

 liable to the censure of my judicious reader, and most of those
trifles probably had much better have been omitted ; but as
it is all truth, and several of the circumstances are worth

Ipreserving, was unwilling to make myself the judge, by a

selection, and therefore, have risked the danger of giving too

Imany, least should have fallen into the worse fault of giving
I Itoo few : and have also an apology for what have done,
Iand which here give in the very words of that great prelate.

Seeker, in his tenth sermon, where he has the following

passage, " Rabbi David Kimchi, a noted Jewish commentator,

who lived about five hundred years ago, explains that passage in

the first psalm, ' His leaf also shall not wither,' from Rabbins yet

older than himself, thus : that even the idle talk (so he expresses
it,) of a good man ought to be regarded; the most superfluous
things, he saith, are always of some value."

  I shall, therefore, boldly proceed on such authority, even if

my good reader be fatigued by my relating those minute and
petty matters, but which have dwelt in my memory from the
time 1 left the house of Sir Joshua, and which, probably,

Iappear more important to my mind, as have before observed.
                SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                241

than they can to another, from their connection with that period
of my youth.

It was an opinion of his, that as it is impossible for us to

do hurt to the dead, therefore we may hold up their

imperfections to view, as an example for others to avoid the
Iflike, and by this means do good to the living.
                                                    we owe

regard (says Johnson) to the memory of the dead, there is

yet more respect to be paid to knowledge, to virtue, and to

truth.

On speaking to him concerning a friend of his, who was

dying of a lingering disease, for which he was sensible there

was no possible cure, it was remarked of this person, that

his situation seemed to excite in him the utmost degree of

impatience and  terror, and  that he appeared like  a criminal
under sentence  of death.     Sir Joshua observed,
                                                    " That we

are all under sentence of death ; but that his warrant was

signed."

   It was an observation of his, that it had a bad tendency to

look at works worse than our own, as it might make us too
easily content with our own productions, or else deaden our
ardor for the art itself. Tiie exact reverse to this is the

consequence from viewing fine pictures.

  It was his opinion, that it never did a painter much credit

to have no other pictures than his own in a collection, as it
became tiresome to the spectator from the want of variety,

                                                   1I
                                           MEMOIRS OF

and also, that the painter's peculiar defects became more
conspicuous by seeing them so often repeated.

Sir Joshua used to say, that he could instruct any boy that

chance should throw in his way, to be able in half a year to

paint a likeness in a portrait ; but to give a just expression

and true character to the picture was rare to be seen, and

proved the great master: and of Velasquez the celebrated

Spanish   painter, of whose   great powers he thought so favor-
ably, he  said, " What we    are all attempting to do with great

labour, he does at once/'

  A friend of his was relating to him the ill success of an

indifferent painter in the country, who, by his caricature like-

nesses, enraged his sitters, and more especially the ladies, as

much as if he had really made them in their own persons, as

they were in their portraits, and this he observed seemed to
be carrying their anger too far.

   " Why you know," said Sir Joshua, " he has given it under

his hand that they are so."

   A very bad picture, which by the possessor was thought to
be of great value, was oiTered to him for his purchase, and the
price demanded for it most absurdly was two hundred guineas,
when he answered, with some degree of impatience, " Why
not two thousand I"

In conversation once with Sir Joshua, he said in the way
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  243

of advice, that " He who would arrive at eminence in his

profession should confine his whole attention to that alone, and
not do as many very sensible men have done, who spend their

time in acquiring a smattering aud general kind of knowledge
of every science, by which their powers become so much divided,

that they are not masters of any one." 1 said ha;»tily, " That is
exactly my own father." He replied, And it was mine also."

   A young painter who was showing his performance to him

in order to have his opinion and instruction upon it, when

the faults were pointed out to him, excused himself by saying
he had committed the error by following the dictates of his

employer whom he wished to please. Sir Joshua would not allow

"Itsuch a reason to be any palliation of his faults, adding,

is you who are to understand your own business, and not your

employer." Yet he would never willingly offer advice, unless
he perceived the mind of the person, who asked it, was earnestly
engaged on their subject ; otherwise, he said it was lost labour,

and that instruction went in at one ear and out at the other.

   The following observations by Sir Joshua Reynolds, were
the result of many conversations, or froiii fragments written by

himself.

   " The great principle of being happy in this world is not to

recrard or be affected with small things."

   ** No man relishes an evening walk like him whose mind

has been employed the whole preceding day,"
                                            I I2
244 MEMOIRS OF

   " Polite behaviour and a refined address, like good pictures,

make the least show to ordinary eyes."

   " Humility is not to despise any thing, especially mankind."

   " Magnanimity is not to be disturbed at any thing."

   " A man is a pedant who, having been brought up among

books, is able to talk of nothing else. The same of a soldier,
lawyer, painter, &c."

   " Natural, is that which is according to the common course

of things. An ugly face is not according to the common
course of things, consequently an ugly face is an unnatural

face."

      The character of a nation is perhaps more strongly marked
by their taste in painting, than in any other pursuit, although
more considerable ; as you may easier find which way the
wind sits by throwing up a straw in the air than any heavier

substance."

   " Rules are very necessary to, but will never make, a painter!
They should be used as servants, and subject to us, not we to

them."

   " In painting prefer truth before freedom of hand."

   " Grandeur is composed of straight lines.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                               245

** Genteelness and elegance of serpentine lines."

" A firm and determined manner is grand, but not elegant."

   " Genteelness is not being crowded, especially if there is a

fullness at the same time."

     Air is a single moment of any action."

   " Simplicity is an exact medium between too little and too

much."

   ** Grace is the medium of motion, beauty is the medium of
form, and genteelness the medium of the fashion."

       Ornament is the medium between wanting what is neces-
sary, and being over-furnished."

  " Ornament ought to arise only from the right ordering of

things. Orno is Latin for * to furnish.' "

   ** Manner in painting is like peculiarity of behaviour ;

though it may please a few, the bulk of mankind will con-
demn it."

   ** The only wages a real genius thinks of in his labour, is
the praise of impartial judges."

  " A good portrait painter may not be capable of painting

history."
246 MEMOIRS OF

      But an historical painter for certain has the ability to
paint portrait/'

  I shall now resume my narrative.

   In Sir Joshua's seventh discourse, delivered on the tenth of

December, as usual, in this year, his object was to prove the
existence of a real standard of taste ; this he considered as
absolute as one for corporeal beauty, and as an immutable

truth in itself, although, at the same time, it did not preclude
the existence of certain variable and secondary truths, differing

according to circumstances, in their influence as well as in
their stability, and therefore particularly requiring the artist's
close attention.

At the commencement of this oration, he again recommended

industry most strenuously to the students ; but with this

happy distinction, that it was not the industry of the hands,

but  of   the mind." He then     "mnaortkeaddtivhienepgreicftis, eso  definition   of
the  art  itself, which, though                                        neither is  it

a mechanical trade," considering its foundation as resting on

solid science, but still insisting that practice, although

essential to perfection, would never arrive at its aim unless

directed by a judicious principle.

   As great learning is not absolutely necessary for a painter,
he recommended his youthful hearers not to be terrified at
the want of it, but still to keep in mind that a certain degree
of cultivation, such as was in their power, was nevertheless
essential ; and he therefore pointed out the propriety of being
                        SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.          247

tolerably conversant with the poets, even in English, so as to

imbibe a poetical spirit, of adopting a habit of acquiring
and digesting ideas, and of obtaining some knowledge of that

part of philosophy which gives an insight into human nature,

as connected with       the   manners,   characters,    passions, and
affections ; in short,  that  a painter               know something
                                         " ought to

concerning the mind, as well as a great deal concerning the
body of man"--a truth which
                                 he more fully        exemplified  in
another part of the discourse,                        in fact, as
                                saying, that, "                    he

who does not know himself, does not know others, so it

may be said, with equal truth, that he who does not know

others, knows himself but very imperfectly."

   For this great end, he recommended reading as the recreation
of leisure hours ; and that the student (agreeable to his own

custom) should supply what partial and desultory reading
cannot afford by the conversation of learned and ingenious
men, which he considered as the best of all substitutes for

those who have not the means or opportunities of deep

study.

   Of these studies, and of this conversation, added Sir Joshua,
the desire and legitimate offspring is a power of distinguishing
right from wrong ; which power, when applied to works of
art, he considered to be that which the world calls " taste."
He then proceeded to examine, whether taste is so far beyond

human reach as to be unattainable with care, or so very vague
and capricious that no care ought to be employed about it.

                                                                                                                                                                                          i

   To follow him through this investigation would be far
248 MEMOIRS OF

beyond my proposed limits ; though it may be noticed, that

he laid it down as an axiom, that although Genius and Taste,

in  their  common acceptation,      appear to    be very nearly related,
           difference lies only in   this, that  genius has superadded
as  " the

to it a habit or power of execution : or we may say, that taste,

when this power is added, changes its name and is called

genius, --still is the popular opinion most absurd, that they

may both claim an entire exemption from the restraint of

rules ; that their powers are intuitive ; and that, under the

name of genius great works are produced, and under the name

of taste an exact judgment is given, without our knowing

why, and without our being under the least obligation to

reason, precept, or experience."

   After speaking of taste in general, he applied it to the art in
its various particulars, observing, that it is reason and good
sense which rank and estimate every art, and every part of
that art, according to its importance, from the painter of

animated, down to inanimate, nature ; but he protested against
any man who shall prefer the inferior style, saying, that it is
his taste ; for here taste has nothing, or, at least, ought to

have nothing, to do with the question -- " he wants not taste,

but sense and soundness of judgment."

In avoiding one extreme of opinion, however, Sir Joshua

did not commit the frequent error of adopting its opposite ;

but still acknowledged that a part of taste does not absolutely

belong to the external form of things, but is addressed to the

mind, and actually                                        or, as he
                                                          mean the
Iexpressed himself, "
           depends on its original                frame,
           the organization of the               soul ;
                 SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  249

imagination and the passions" --but then he contended, that

the principles of these are as invariable as the former, and are

to be known and reasoned upon in the same manner, by an

appeal to common sense deciding upon the common feelings
of mankind.

In his enthusiasm for the art itself, Sir Joshua never lost

sight of its highest advantages in its bearing upon the minds
of mankind wherever it was cultivated ; and in this very

discourse he noticed, that it has been often observed, that the

good and virtuous man alone can acquire this true or just

relish even of works of art ; an opinion which he considered

as well founded, when we reflect that the same habit of mind

which is acquired by our search after truth in the more serious
duties of life, is only transferred to the pursuit of lighter

amusements ; that the same disposition, the same desire to

find something steady, substantial, and durable, on which the

mind can lean, as it were, and rest with safety, actuates us in

both cases ; and, as he adds, that the subject only is changed,

but that we pursue the same method     in our se rcli after the
idea of beauty and perfection in each
                                       ; " of virtue, by looking

forwards beyond ourselves to society, and to the whole ; of

arts, by extending our views in the same manner to all ages

and all times."

   The truths with which he closed this brilliant discourse are

too important to mankind in general not to be repeated ! ere;
for Sir Joshua always had the power, as well as the desire, of

rendering art useful to morals. " The true spirit of philo-

                                                       KK
250 MEMOIRS OF

sophy," said he, " by giving knowledge, gives a manly

confidence, and snbstitutes rational firmness in the place of

vain presumption. A man of real taste is always a man of

judgment in other respects ; and those inventions which

Ieither disdain, or shrink from, reason, are generally, fear,

more like the dreams of a distempered brain, than the exalted
enthusiasm of a sound and true genius. In the midst of the
highest flights of fancy or imagination, reason ought to

Ipreside from first to last, though admit her more powerful

operation is upon reflection !"

  IOf the year 1777 have little to record concerning Sir
IJoshua from my own knowledge, as, at that time, was not in

London, A poetical epistle, about this period, had been

printed, addressed to him, in which, whilst praising a portrait
of Lord Amherst, the poet says something about the fleetiness
of his colours, when he good-humouredly observed, in answer,
that it must be acknowledged, then, that he came off with
flying colours.

   This poem, in addition to its mixture of praise, and of a
certain portion of implied censure, also offered Sir Joshua
some advice, recommending to him the further painting of
Burke and Garrick ; a hint which was totally unnecessary
both to the wishes and the genius of the artist and the friend.

   In 1778 Sir Joshua published his Seven Discourses, with a
Dedication to his Majesty, of which it was aptly said at
the time, that it was a model to dedicators, and a hint both to
7^ tr^JuU^ y\yr-rj^ ^)^^-^ y<3.^*-i^

(.^^^..^''^^Cft^^L^ /^J^'^^y^^Y'^'t^^y^^ ^^'^^^^'^^^'^'''^^^''^y^^  /
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                        251

writers and painters, that a portrait may be well drawn,
without being varnished, and highly coloured without being

daubed.

   The most prominent feature in it runs thus: -- " The regular

progress of cultivated life is from necessaries to accommo-
dations, from accommodations to ornaments.

   " By your illustrious predecessors were established Marts for

Manufactures, and Colleges for Science ; but for the Arts of
Elegance, those Arts by which Manufactures are improved
and Science refined, to found an Academy was reserved for

your Majesty.

   " Had such patronage been without effect, there had been

reason to believe that nature had, by some insurmountable
impediment, obstructed our proficiency ; but the annual
exhibitions, which your Majesty has been pleased to
encourage, show that only encouragement had been wanting.

   " To give advice to those who are contending for royal

liberality, has been, for some years, the duty of my station in
the Academy ; and these discourses hope for your Majesty's
acceptance, as well intended endeavours to excite the emu-
lation which your notice has kindled, and to direct those
studies which your bounty has rewarded.

" Sint Moecenates non deerunt Maroties."--

I think it has already been observed, that at all the times

                                             KK2
                                       MEMOIRS OF

when Sir Joshua delivered his discourses to the Royal
Academy, the audience was very numerous, being composed
of ihe learned and the great, as well as those engaged in
the study of the arts.

   A gold medal was presented once in every two years by

the Ro; al Academy, as a prize for the best historical picture,
to be painted by a student of the Academy.

   A young painter who had made several different designs for

the composition of the story he was about to execute in order
to his becoming a candidate, brought liis sketches to Sir
Joshua, to consult with him and have his opinion as to which
was the best in point of sentiment, or most clear in explaining
the history.

   Sir Joshua's answer was to this effect:. " You may choose
whichever you please; it will turn out precisely the same;
you are to recollect that your picture is to be judged of

by painters only. It will be the manual execution of the

work, and that alone which will engross the attention of
Artists, and the degree of merit displayed in that part of
the art is what will determine them in their election of the
candidate for the prize.

  " It is no matter how long or how short the time may have

been in which you have done tlie w^ork : or with how much
difSculty, or with how much ease you have accomplished it.
The result alone is to be considered.
                     SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                    253

This is quite consistentwithsomeobservationsinthe fragments
preserved by Mr. Malone, where he says, " My principal
Ilabour was employed on the whole together ; and
                                                             was

never weary of changing, and ubying different modes and
Idifferent effects.
                     had always some scheme in my mind, and

a perpetual desire to advance. By constantly endeavouring to

Ido my best, acquired a power of doing that with spontaneous

facility, which at first was the effort of ray whole mind ; and

my reward was threefold ; the satisfaction resulting from

acting on this first principle, improvement in my art, and the

pleasure derived from a constant pursuit after excellence."

   In this year he painted one of his best portraits of Dr.
Johnson, who observes of it in a letter to Mrs. Thrale,

  I have twice sat to Sir Joshua, and he seems to like his own
performance. He has projected another in which I am to be

busy ; but we can think on it at leisure" --and in a subsequent
epistle, he adds, " Sir Joshua has finished my picture, and it

I Iseems to please every body, but shall wait till see how it

pleases you."

  In this strict intimacy so long kept up with Dr. Johnson,

Sir Joshua seems to have considered himself as enjoying both
pleasure and advantage ; and upon one occasion, whilst
conversing with a friend upon the strictness with which
Johnson inculcated to all his acquaintance the importance
of perpetual vigilance against the slightest degree of falsehood,
he observed that the effect had been, that all who were of his

school were distinguished for a love of truth and accuracy.
254 MEMOIRS OF

which they might not have possessed in the same degree, if

they had not been acquainted with Johnson.

Sir Joshua's regard for the memory of his departed friend

Goldsmith is properly recorded by Bosweli in a conversation

                       this period, at a     dinner
                                             he said,
                      of the " Traveller"
which

Ihouse.
     took place at                                     p"artywaast    his
      When talking                                                  glad

to hear  Charles Fox say,    it was one of the finest  p"oWemhsy  in the
English  language." Mr.                                            were
                             Langton then asked.

you glad ? you surely had no doubt of this before             to which
Johnson added, " No ! the merit of the Traveller is so well

established, that Mr. Fox's praise cannot augment it, nor his

censure diminish it ;" when, with great modesty,       Sir Joshua
replied, " but his friends may suspect they had
                                                       too great a

partiality for him."

Speaking of this conversation afterwards, Johnson seemed

to display some little jealousy at Sir Joshua's friendship with

the  heads of    a party to  which his  own  politics  were   inimical,
for               Yes, Sir,                  on the    head,   without
     he said, "              I knocked  Fox

ceremony. Reynolds is too much under Fox and Burke at

present. He is under the Fox Star, and the Irish Constellation.
He is always under some planet ;"--but the truth is, that Sir

Joshua never attempted to borrow light from any political or

scienlific luminary, however brilliant ; for, to carry on the

metaphor, 'twas his own powerful attraction that brought him

and them into the same sphere.

However, he had soon after an opportunity of returning
               SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                     255

the retort, when Johnson, talking of a phrase of Garrick's,
who called Lord Camden a " little lawyer," at the time that

he was boasting of his acquaintance, said, " Well, Sir, Garrick
talked very properly. Lord Camden was a little lawyer to be

associating so familiarly with a player on which, as IVIr.
Boswellsays, Sir Joshua observed, and with great truth, " that
Johnson considered Garrick to be, as it were, his property,

and that he would allow no man either to bianie or to
praise Garrick in his presence, without contradicting him."

   Another conversation about this time, recorded l)y Mr.
Boswell, is so descriptive of Sir Joshua's mild, yet

Ipersevering manner, in argumentative, yet friendly discourse,

that should not feel myself at liberty to omit it.

Whilst dining at General Paoli's, the subject of wine

drinking was introduced, which Sir Joshua defended, and

Boswell at that time drinking Avater in imitation of Johnson,
the latter exclaimed, " Boswell is a bolder combatant than

Sir Joshua : he argues for wine without the help of wine; but
Sir Joshua with it." Sir Joshua replied, " But to please

one's company is a strong motive     when Jwhnson", then

Isupposingthe    whole company to       be   a little   elevated,
               won't argue any more         you, Sir :  you are
exclaimed,"                          with

too far gone ;" to which he mildly answered, " I should have
Ithought so indeed. Sir, had made such a speech as you

have now done." On this Johnson drew himself up, blushing,

Ias Boswell describes it, and said, " Nay, don't be angry,

did not mean to offend you."
256 MEMOIRS OF

  Sir Joshua then observed, " At first the taste of wine was

I Idisagreeable to me ; but brought myself to drink it, that

might be like other people. TJie pleasure of drinking wine is so

connected with pleasing your company, that altogether there

is something of social goodness in it/' As this touched upon

Johnson's own peculiarity he felt it, and, though inaccu-
rately, complained that it was only saying the same thing
over again.

On another occasion Sir Joshua' shewed his habit and

facility of judging of character, for whilst conversing about

Johnson in his absence. Bos we 11 said, that his power of

reasoning was very strong, and that he had a peculiar art of

drawing    characters,    which   was as rare as good portrait
painting.               replied  Sir Joshua, he is undoubtedly
             " Yes,

admirable in this ; but in order to mark the characters which

he draws, he overcharges them, and gives people more than

they really have, whether of good or bad."

   Another proof of Sir Joshua's nice discrimination of

characters is seen in the distinction he makes between true

politeness and the affectation of it, and clearly given by him
in the instance of two noblemen, to whom he paid a morning
visit on a Sunday. The first that he paid his respects to
received him with extraordinary affected condescension, and
seemed very desirous to please, talked to him the whole time
on nothing but his art, in order to give him a fair opportunity
of appearing to the most advantage, and observed to him, that
he had requested the pleasure of this visi^^ on a Sunday that
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  257

he might not occasion his losing tliat time which, on other days,
could be so much better employed.

   After quitting this nobleman, he paid his next visit to
another, (I think it was Lord Chesterfield,) who, unlike the

first, received him with the same freedom as if he had been

his equal, never once spoke upon the subject of art, nor
observed that Sunday was the day of rest for the laborious ;
but discoursed on the news and the occurrences of the day,
and on such other topics as a gentleman of education is
supposed to be acquainted with, and no word escaped him
that denoted his recollection of any difterence in their

stations.

   This anecdote was related to me by Sir Joshua himself
many years after the occurrence, as an instance that had
struck him very forcibly as a fine contrast.

   The perspicuity and clearness of Sir Joshua's judgment was
evident in all his conversation, and another little instance is

thus given in his own words from a fragment written in his
own hand,

      Josiah Tucker, Dean of Gloucester, at a meeting of the
Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and
Commerce, said, that he thought a pin-maker was a more
useful and valuable member of society than Ralfaelle.

      This is an observation of a very narrow mind ; a mind
that is confined to the mere object of commerce, that sees

                                                  L I.
258 MEMOIRS OF

with a microscopic eye but a part of the great machine of the
economy of life, and thinks that small part which he sees to
be the whole. Commerce is the means, not the end, of
happiness or pleasure : the end is a rational enjoyment of
life, by means of arts and sciences ; it is, therefore, the highest
degree of folly to set the means in a higher rank of esteem

than the accomplished end. It is as much as to say that the

brick-maker is a more useful member of society than the
architect who employs him. The usefulness of the brick-
maker is acknowledged, but the rank of him and the architect
are very different. No man deserves better of mankind than
he who has the art of opening sources of intellectual
pleasure and instruction by means of the senses."

   It is not to be understood from this anecdote that Sir

Joshua was apt to over-rate the degree of his profession in
respect to its rank in society. The following circumstance
v/ill show how just a view he had of its comparative import-

ance.

    Sir Joshua Reynolds had as great a portion of enthusiasm
for his art, as any man can have for the study which he may
have adopted ; and, indeed, without this stimulus nothing
great or difficult can be accomplished : yet he was totally free
from that weakness so commonly found among professional
men, of over-rating either the rank, value, or importance of his
profession. He felt it as a duty to excel in the department
which he had undertaken : he relied upon it entirely, as his
great source of support and honour, his bulwark and preserver;
but he did not expect or require, as a thing of course, that
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  259

others should see it in the saiiiQ view : it was of high
consequence to him ; but not equally so to them. The plank
which saves a man from drowning becomes to him of more
value than a first rate man of war, yet he does not expect
that others should look on it as of the same degree of

importance. Hence Sir Joshua always considered this
professional kind of mania as a species of pedantry, and thought
a certain eminent professor of the science of music very
absurd who, when he related a circumstance of three great
musicians having been introduced at the court of a prince, said

   these three great personages were presented," a term only
applicable to persons of high rank in society.

  It has often been remarked that the king never commissioned

Sir Joshua for a single picture ; indeed he never sat to him
but once, when his portrait was painted by him for the Royal

Academy.

   Soon after that picture was finished. Sir Joshua went down
on a visit to Dr. Warton at Winchester College, where he was
particularly noticed by their Majesties, who were then making
a tour through the summer encampments, having taken
Winchester in their route.

   In Dr. Warton's biography, some of the particulars of this

visit are entered into ; his house being stated at that period
to have been filled with men, some of whom were of high
and acknowledged talents ; amongst others, in addition to
Sir Joshua, were the late Lord Palmerston, Messrs. Stanley

                                                      L L2
260 MEMOIRS OF

and Warton, and Mr. Garrick ; a whimsical accident is stated
to have occurred to the latter at one of the reviews, and
which Sir Joshua afterwards recounted with great humour.

  At one of those field days in the vicinity, Garrick found it

necessary to dismount, when his horse escaped from his hold
and ran oif ; throwing himself immediately into his professional

attitude he cried out, as if on Bosworth field, " A horse ! a

horse ! my kingdom for a horse !"

This exclamation, and the accompanying attitude, excited

great amazement amongst the surrounding spectators, who
knew him not ; but it could not escape his Majesty's quick
apprehension, for it being within his hearing, he immediately

said, " Those must be the tones of Garrick ! see if he is not on

the ground.'' The theatrical and dismounted monarch was

immediately brought to his Majesty, who not only condoled

with him      maodsdtedg, oo"d    himiouredly on   his misfortune, but
flatteringly                    that his delivery  of Shakspeare could

never pass undiscovered."

  IOf any further incidents relative to art, connected with the

biography of Sir Joshua during this year, need only mention,
that Mr. Score, a native of Devonshire, was his pupil about
this time, and that on the 10th of December, as usual, the

President delivered his eighth discourse.

  In this he laid it down as a truth, that all the principles

both of painting and poetry have their foundation in the
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  261

human mind ; that novelty and contrast, however necessary,

must still become defects, if carried to excess ; and that even

simplicity itself might be overstrained.

   These points he generally illustrated, as emanating from the
mind itself, by stating, that as variety reanimates the attention,
which is apt to languish under a continual sameness, so
novelty makes a more forcible impression on the mind, than
can be produced by the representation of what we have often
seen before, whilst contrast stimulates the power of comparison

by opposition. All this he considered so obvious as not to

require proof ; but at the same time he very judiciously added,
that the mind, though an active principle, has likewise a
disposition to indolence ; and though it loves exercise, loves
it only to a certain degree, beyond which it is very unwilling
to be led, or driven. From this, then, he inferred, that the

pursuit of novelty and variety may be carried to excess ; for
whenever variety entirely destroys the pleasure arising from

uniformity and repetition, and whenever novelty counteracts
and shuts out the pleasure arising from old habits and
customs, they must then oppose, in too great a degree, the
indolence of our disposition, so tliat the mind can only bear
with pleasure, a small portion of novelty at a time.

   This position he exemplified further, by observing, that
when the objects are scattered and divided into many equal
parts in any composition, the eye is thereby perplexed and
fatigued, from not knowing where to rest, where to find the
principal action, or where is the principal figure ; for when all
are making equal pretensions to notice, all are in equal
262 MEMOIRS OF

danger of neglect. " The expression which is used very often

on these occasions is, the piece wants repose ; a word which
perfectly expresses a relief of the mind from that state of
hurry and anxiety which it suffers, when looking at a work of
this character."

   Sir Joshua then proceeded to exemplify his subject by a
critical review of both painters and poets, and took occasion
to introduce that excellent note on Macbeth, already noticed.

   In the year 1799 Sir Joshua devoted his abilities to partly
ornamenting of the new apartments in Somerset-house, by
executing a picture for the handsome ceiling of the library.
In the centre is Theory sitting on a cloud. In her hand she
holds a scroll with an inscription, " Theory is the knowledge
of what is truly nature," a definition quite in unison with the

general principle so ably maintained by the painter throughout
his various discourses.

  It is an obvious remark, that the point of view in which

paintings on ceilings can be seen, is by no means favorable
to their general effect ; this difficulty has, however, been
surmounted, in some degree, by the discriminating skill of
Sir Joshua, and his judicious choice of his subject, to which
he has imparted the most graceful lightness, representing her
rather as hovering over the head of the spectator, than as fixed
on any permanent seat.

   In addition to this elegant specimen of his art, are the two
Royal portraits, in the council room, of their present Majesties;
                SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                        263

the King being represented on his coronation chair, as at the
performance of that ceremony, and his consort also, adorned

with all tile paraphernalia of regal costume and state.

This year terminated the mortal career of Garrick, whose fame

will, however, last long. He had continued to act on the stage

until a late period of his life ; and it being remarked to Sir

Joshua as rather extraordinary, that this Roscius of the British

drama should still undergo so much fatigue after his fortune

was made,  and  huhmis anfamneateusreta, blis"heTdh,atheitobwsearsvedn,ecwesistharygrefaotr
knowledge
           of

Garrick to do so, in order to preserve his popularity, and to

keep up his importance with the great, who soon neglect and

forget those who cease to be the town talk, however eminent

they may have been,^' so much does fashion govern the world.

   On Mr. Garrick's demise, a monody was written by Mr.

Sheridan to his memory : in Avhich he very elegantly shews,

that the fame of the orator and the actor must be nearly as

evanescent as those exertions on which it was founded, if not

aided by the poet or the painter, whose works also have a better

chance of immortality. In this production he paid Sir Joshua
the compliment of placing his efforts in apposition with those
of Raffaelle himself.

           " Whate'er of wonder Reynolds now may raise,

           Raffaelle still boasts contemporary praise;
           Each dazzling light, and gaudier bloom subdu'd,
           With undiminished awe his works are view'd :

           E'en Beauty's portrait wears a softer prime,
           Touch'd by the tender hand of mellowing time."
264 MEMOIRS OF

   III this year Sir Joshua raised his price to fifty guineas for a

head size, which he continued during the remainder of his
life: his rapidly accumulating fortune was not, however, for
his own sole enjoyment ; he still felt the luxury of doing good,
and had many objects of bounty pointed out to him by his
friend Johnson, who, in one of his letters in this year to Mrs.

Piozzi, inquires, Will master give me any thing for my poor

Ineighbours ? have had from Si)^ Joshua and Mr. Strahan."

   The year 1780 is particularly noticeable, as that in which
the Academy first began to exhibit at Somerset-house ; their
apartments in that building having recently been finished for
their reception.

   On this occasion the critics of the day seemed to consider
themselves as arrived at a new era in the arts, or, at least, in

the annals of the Academy itself, thus by the Sovereign's
munificence established in a superb edifice, supposed to be

Iwell calculated for all the purposes of the Societ}^ : and find

the two following criticisms which were written upon that

occasion.

   One of them is  in an address to his  Majesty, prefixed   to a
                                          where it is said,  that
" Candid Review    of the Exhibition,"
" The excellence to which the arts have arisen calls particularly

on the attention of the world. The progress of the Academy

has been so rapid, that, though this is only the 12th year of
its existence, it has already made Britain the seat of Arts, and

in painting, sculpture, and engraving, it rivals, if it does not
excel, all the other schools in Europe. In all ages the
il
I

                                                                                                                                i
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  265

progress of the arts to excellence has been slow and gradual ;
but it is the singular merit of the Royal Academy of Britain,
that it has broke through the fetters with which similar

institutions have heretofore been confined, and by one rapid

stride has attained the pre-eminence of all competitors."

   In' opposition to this, a writer in the London Courant
observes, that " an establishment bearing the sanction of
royal patronage, and committed to the direction of a genius
like that of Sir Joshua Reynolds, whose works, the acknow-
ledged patterns of grace and expression, conduce not more to
excite emulation, than his lectures serve to instruct the students

in the solid principles of design and composition, might have
been presumed to have exerted such effects of British genius

in the sublimer branches of the arts, as might almost have
rivalled the exquisite sculpture of Ancient Greece and Rome,
or the finished paintings of the Roman, Florentine, and
Flemish schools ; but in Sculpture, as well as in History,

Painting, and Landscape, we cannot but perceive a mortifying
disparity in the best of these pieces, in the late exhibition,
when placed in competition with the works before mentioned."

   This wise critic, it seems, expected that painters would
start up as mushrooms do, and thrive under as small a portion
of attention, but he ought to have^ known that Art is not to

be raised by the numbers, however great, who only gaze on
them, and do no more.

   Sir Joshua's offerings to the Exhibition this year consisted
of his historical portrait of Miss Beauclerc in the character

                                                             MM
266 MEMOIRS OF

of Spencer's Una, and of his emblematical figure of Justice,
then drawn as a model for the window which Mr. Jarvis was
painting at Oxford ; to these were subjoined his portraits of
the Historical Gibbon, of Lady Beaumont, of Lord Cholraon-
deley, and of the present Duke of Gloucester. The receipts
of this year's exhibition exceeded the sum of 3000/.

   Sir Joshua in addition to these pictures thus exhibited, also
painted for the Royal Academy that portrait of Sir William
Chambers which they now possess.

   In this year, too, he delivered two discourses, the first of
which took place on the l6th of October, on the opening of

the Academy at their present apartments.

   In this his object was a general one, to impress upon the

minds of his audience, a full conviction of the advantages
resulting to society from the cultivation of intellectual

pleasures ; and here he most forcibly inculcated that " the

estimation in which we stand with respect to our neighbours,
M'ill be in proportion to the degree in which we excel or are
inferior to them in the acquisition of intellectual excellence,
of which trade, and its consequential riches, must be acknow-
ledged to give the means ; but a people whose whole attention
is absorbed in those pursuits, and who forget the end, can
aspire but little above the rank of a barbarous nation. Every
establishment that tends to the cultivation of the pleasures of
the mind, as distinct from those of sense, may be considered
as an inferior school of morality, where the mind is polished
and prepared for higher attainments.'^ He concluded with an
                SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                             267

elegant eulogium on Refinement of Taste, most truly saying,
that if it does not lead directly to purity of manners, it obviates

at least their  g"reaantedstcodnedpuractviantgiotnh,ebtyhoduisgehnttsanthgrloinugghthesumcciensd-
from appetite,

sive stages of excellence, till that contemplation of universal

rectitude and harmony which began by Taste, may, as it is

exalted and refined, conclude in virtue !"

   Though the hospitable urbanity of Sir Joshua Reynolds
was always directed to the promotion of social and friendly
intercourse among his intimates, yet it sometimes happened,

as in all mixed societies, that jars would arise. One incident

which took place at his house in this year, deserves notice, as

it also relates to two men of great importance in the literary

world.

All the friends both of Johnson and Warton lamented the

unhappy disagreement between them, which almost at once

put a period to a warm and long continued friendship of many

years. The whole particulars were only known to the parties

themselves ; but one of the company who overheard part of

Itshaeyinwg,or"dySirc,onflicatm,  begins his account by stating  Johnson as
                                  not used to be contradicted       to which
Dr. Warton replied, " Sir, if you were, our admiration could

not be increased, but our love might." On the interference

of the gentleman who overheard this, the dispute ceased, but

Ia coolness always existed afterwards, which, find it stated,

was increased by many trifling circumstances that, without
the intervention of this contest, might have passed unnoticed
by either party.

                                  M M2
268 MEMOIRS OF

   The very various classes of different companies that were to
be met with at Sir Joshua's table calls to my remembrance
the saying of one illustrious person upon that subject.

A large company being invited to dine at Sir Joshua's, Mr.

Dunning, afterwards Lord Ashburton, was one, and chanced

to be the first  person   of the  company who came.     On entering
the room, he              Well,   Sir Joshua, and who  have you got
                 said, "
Ito dine with you to-day ? for the last time dined with you in
                                                                                I
your house, the assembly was of such a sort, that by G

believe all the rest of the world were at peace, for that after-

noon at least."

   This observation was by no means ill applied ; for as Sir
Joshua's companions were chiefly composed of men of genius,

they wereoften disputatious, and apt tobe vehementinargument.

In this year, and for several successive ones. Sir Joshua was

busily employed on his designs for the celebrated painted

window, in New College Chapel, at Oxford, consisting of

seven compartments in the lower range, each twelve feet high,
and three wide, and containing the allegorical figures of the

four cardinal, and three christian, virtues ; viz. Temperance,

Fortitude, Justice, Prudence, Faith, Hope, and Charity. In

all of these, the figures are accompanied by their several

attributes ; and they are all single, except the centre one,

where Charity is represented by a groupe, which, as described

by   a local critic, deserves especial   notice, for  "thfeonedxlpinregssoiofn   of
the   various persons introduced,       whilst the
                                                                                the

infant, the importunity of the boy, and the placid affection of
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  269

the girl, together with the divided attention of the mother,
are all distinguishably and judiciously marked with a know-
ledge of character for which the great artist who gave this

design is so justly celebrated."

    Above this, on a grand scale of ten feet by eighteen, is the
Nativity, a composition including thirteen figures, and in this,
it has been well observed, that Sir Joshua had great advantages

over Corregio, who, in his famous Notte, introduces no light

in the painting but that which proceeds from the infant

Saviour. The idea is not the invention even of Corregio, but

certainly grand, and has been most judiciously adopted, for a
transparency, by Sir\Joshua, who cannot be said to have copied
it, as his execution, both in manner and circumstance, gives it

the effect of novelty ; for from the transparent medium on
which it is painted, it is light that actually does proceed
through that part from whence the fancy of the painter
supposes it to emanate.

   This latter design was sold to the late Duke of Rutland
for 1200 guineas, those of the Cardinal Virtues are now in the
possession of the Marchioness of Thomond.

   The final execution was entrusted to Mr. Jervis, whose
portrait, as well as that of Sir Joshua himself, is introduced in

the larger compartment ; they are represented as shepherds.

   Mr. Jervis originally practised in Dublin, as a painter on

glass; but his friends pointing out to him the superior
advantages which might arise from a residence in London, he
270 MEMOIRS OF

proceeded to that capital, and was employed both by Sir Joshua
and Mr. West in the transmission of their works from canvas
to be preserved on glass, at Oxford, Windsor, and Greenwich.

   With respect to the great work, which is noticed with great
and due praise both by Dr. Warton, and by Mr. Thomas

IWarton, may also be permitted to add some of Sir Joshua's

own observations, as contained in a letter preserved by

Mr. Malone in his work.

It seems that it had been at first intended to distribute the

various figures in difterent parts of the chapel ; but this

Sir Joshua very judiciously opposed, and prevailed on the

parties concerned to have the west window prepared for the

reception of the whole by an alteration of the stone work. In

a letter,  written about   two   years previous   to this, he had
observed,                 this  scheme to take   place, my idea is
           " Supposing

to paint, in the great space in the centre, Christ in the

Manger, on the principle that Corregio has done it, in the

famous picture called the Notte ; making all the light proceed

from Christ. These tricks of the art, as they may be called,

seem to be more properly adapted to glass painting, than any

other kind. This middle space will be filled with the Virgin,

Christ, Joseph, and angels ; the two smaller spaces on each

Iside shall fill with the shepherds coming to worship ; and the

seven divisions below with the figures of Faith, Hope, Charity,

and the Four Cardinal Virtues ; which will make a proper rustic

base, or foundation for the support of the Christian Religion.
Upon the whole, it appears to me, that chance has presented

to us materials so well adapted to our purpose, that if we
                              SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

had the whole window of our own invention and contrivance,
we should not probably have succeeded better."

   The execution of this window soon after drew forth the
following address, which is too poetic to be passed over :

                     " Ah ! stay thy treach'rous hand, forbear to trace
                    Those faultless forms of elegance and grace !
                    Ah! cease to spread thy bright transparent mass

                      AVith Titian's pencil, o'er the speaking glass !
                    Nor steal, by strokes of art, with truth combin'd,
                    The fond illusions of my wayward mind !
                    For long enamoiir'd of a barb'rous agp,

                A faithless truant to the classic page,

                    Long have I luv'd to Ciitch ihe simple chime
                  Of minstrel harps, and s[iell the fabling rhyme;
                    To view the festive rites, the knightly play,
                   That deck'd heroic Albion's elder day ;
                  To mark the mould'ring halls pf barons bold,
                      And the rough castle, cast in giant mould ;
                  With Gothic manners, Gothic arts explore.
                    And muse on the magnificence of yore.

                   " But chief, enraptur'd, have I lov'd to roam,
                  A ling'ring votary, the vaulted dome.

                   Where the tall shafts, that mount in massy pride,
                   Their mingling branches shoot from side to side ;
                     Where elfin sculptors, with fantastic clew.
                     O'er the long roof their wild embroid'ry drew;
                   Where Superstition, with capricious hand.
                   In many a maze the wretched window plann'd,
                 With hues romantic ting'd the gorgeous pane.
                   To fill with holy light the wondrous fane ;
                   To aid the builder's model, richly rude.
                   By no Vilruvian symmetry subdued ;
                        MEMOIRS OF

To suit the genius of the mj'stic pile:
Whilst as around the far retiring aisle.
And fretted slirines with hoary trophies hung,
Her dark illumination wide she flung,
With new solemnity, the nooks profound.
The caves of death, and the dim arches frown'd.

From bliss long felt unwillingly we part;
Ah ! spare the weakness of a lover's heart!
Chace not the phantoms of my fairy dream.
Phantoms that shrink at Reason's painful gleam
That softer touch, insidious artist stay.
Nor to new joys my struggling breast betray !

   " Such was a pensive bard's mistaken strain.--

But oh ! of ravish'd pleasures why complain )

No more the matchless skill I call unkind

That strives to disenchant my cheated mind.

For when again I view thy chaste design.

The just proportion, and the genuine line;
Those native portraitures of Attic art.
That from the lucid surface seem to start;

 Those tints that steal no glories from the day.
 Nor ask the srn to lend his streaming ray ;
The doubtful radiance of contending dyes.
 That faintly mingle yet distinctly rise;
 Twixt light and shade the transitory strife ;
 The feature blooming with immortal life:
 The stole in casual foldings taught to flow.
 Not with ambitious ornaments to glow ;
 The tread majestic, and the beaming eye
 That lifted speaks its commerce with the sky :
 Sudden, the sombrous imag'ry is fled,
  Which late my visionary rapture fed :
 Thy powerful hand has broke the Gothic chain^
  And brought my bosom back to truth again :
 To truth, whose bold and unresisted aim

  Checks frail caprice, and fashion's fickle claim ;
             SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

To Truth, whose charms deception's magic quell,
And bind coy Fancy in a stronger spell.

   " Ye brawny prophets, that in robes so rich,
At distance due, possess the crisped niche ;
Ye rows of patriarchs, that sublimely rear'd.

Diffuse a proud primevcd length of beard ;
Ye saints, who clad in crimson's bright array,
More pride than humble poverty display ;
Ye virgins meek, that wear the palmy crown

Of patient faith, and yet so fiercely frown ;
Ye angels, that from golden clouds recline,
But boast no semblance to a race divine;
Ye tragic tales of legendary lore,
That draw devotion's ready tear no more ;
Ye martyrdoms of unenlightened days.
Ye miracles, that now no wonder raise;

Shapes that with one broad glare the gazer strike!
Kings, bishops, nuns, apostles, all alike!
Ye colours, that th' unwary sight amaze.
And only dazzle in the noontide blaze !
No more the sacred window's round disgrace,
But yield to Grecian groupes the shining space,
Lo ! from the canvas Beauty shifts her throne,
Lo ! Picture's powers a new formation own !

Behold, she prints upon the chrystal plain.

With her own energy, th' expressive stain!
The mighty master spreads his mimic toil
More wide, nor only blends the breathing oil;
But calls the lineaments of life complete

From genial alchemy's creative heat;
Obedient forms to the bright fusion gives.
While in the warm enamel nature lives.

Artist, 'tis thine, from the broad window's height,
To add new lustre to religious light :
Not of its pomp to strip this ancient shrine.
But bid that pomp with purer radiance shine ·

                                       NN
274 MEMOIRS OF

                     With arts unknown before, to reconcile
                     The willing Graces to the Gothic pile."

   In this, the concluding passage is justly applicable to Mr.
Jervis, who so dexterously executed the mechanical part of
Sir Joshua's exquisite designs ; and thus gave to the great
master's work a degree of immortality, which may perhaps

outlive the canvas.

   The second discourse delivered this year, on the 11th of
December, was the tenth in succession ; and in this Sir
Joshua, stepping out of what may strictly be termed his own
line of art, investigated the objects, form, and character of
Sculpture, which he considered as possessing but one style ;
he also noticed the ineffectual attempts of sculptors, of the
present day, to improve the art, arising partly from the
costume of modern times not being so well suited to execution
as that of the classic ages.

   He commenced by explaining his reasons for not having
sooner noticed this particular branch of art, on the principle
that Painting is much more extensive and complicated than
Sculpture, and affords, therefore, a more ample field for
criticism ; and consequently as the greater includes the less, the
leading principles of sculpture are comprized in those of
painting. The former he considered as an art of much more
simplicity and uniformity than the latter, as it cannot with
propriety, or the best eftect, be applied to many subjects ; the
objects of its pursuit being comprized in two words. Form and
Character, which qualities can be presented in one manner, or
in one style^ only.
                    SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

He then noticed that the sculptors of the last age, not

having attended sufficiently to the discrimination of the several

styles of painting, have been led into many errors ; so that

when they endeavoured to copy the picturesque effects,

contrasts, or petty excellencies of whatever kind, which not

improperly find a place in the inferior branches of painting,

they doubtless imagined themselves improving and extending

the boundaries of their art by this imitation ; but, on the

contrary, Sir Joshua was of opinion, that they were in reality

violating its essential character, by giving a different direction

to its operations,  and proposing to themselves either   what is
unattainable, or    at best a meaner object of pursuit.
                                                          " The
grave and austere character of Sculpture," says he, " requires

the utmost degree of formality in composition ; picturesque

contrasts have here no place ; every thing is carefully weighed

and measured, one side making almost an exact equipoise to

the other: a child is not a proper balance to a full grown

figure, nor is a figure sitting or stooping a companion to an

upright figure."

   He further laid it down as a principle, that the excellence
of every art must consist in the complete accomplishment of
its purpose, but that all false imitations of nature, arising from
a mean ambition of producing a picturesque efiect or illusion
of any kind, thereby degrading that grandeur of ideas which
the art ought to excite, must be strictly guarded against.
This he exemplified in a familiar manner, by observing, that
if the business of Sculpture were only to administer pleasure
to ignorance, or a mere entertainment to the senses, then the
Venus de Medicis might certainly receive much improvement

                                                     N N2
                        MEMOIRS OF

by colour;  but the character of sculpture makes it her

duty to afford delight of a different, and, perhaps, of a higher
kind -- the delight resulting from the contemplation of perfect

beauty ; and this, which is in truth an intellectual pleasure,

is in many respects incompatible with what is merely

addressed to the senses, such as that with which ignorance

and levity contemplate elegance of form."

  In the progress of this discourse, Sir Joshua stated some

other truths which are of that general tenor and import to
deserve a place here. " AVhat Grace is," said he, " how it is

to be acquired or conceived, are in speculation difficult

questions; but causa latet, res est notissima : without any

perplexing inquiry, the effect is hourly perceived. I shall

only observe, that its natural foundation is correctness of
design ; and though grace may be sometimes united with
incorrectness, it cdixmoi proceed ivom \t.''

"ItAnother observation may be no less interesting and important
to the general reader.  may be remarked that Grace,

Character, and Expression, though words of different sense

and meaning, and so understood when applied to the works of

painters, are indiscriminately used when we speak of Sculpture.

This indecision we may expect to proceed from the undeter-

mined effects of the arj: itself; those qualities are exhibited in

Sculpture, rather by form and attitude, than by the features,

and can therefore be expressed but in a very general manner."

   The happy manner which Sir Joshua possessed of drawing
tnoral reflections from the excellencies of art, and of thereby
                      SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.              277

extending the usefulness of his instruction, was exemplified
in his conclusion, when he observed, that there is no circum-

stance which more distinguishes a well regulated and sound

taste, than a settled uniformity of design, where all the parts

aarepieccoem. pac"t,     and fitted to   each other,    every thing being of
                                        extends itself   to all habits of life,
                      This principle

as well as to all works of art." Upon these general grounds,

then, he drew his inference, that the uniformity and simplicity

of the materials on which the sculptor labours, prescribe

bounds to his art, and teach him to confine himself to a

proportionate simplicity of design.

    Sir Joshua's exertions for the Exhibition in 1781, were

 principally confined to three paintings, of Avhich Dr. Beattie
 thus observes in a letter written from London in the May of
 that year, " The exhibition of pictures at the Royal Academy

Iis the best of the kind have seen. The best pieces, in my

 opinion, are Thais (with a torch in her Jiand) ; the Death of
 Dido ; and a Boy supposed to be listening to a wonderful

story ; these are by Sir Joshua Reynolds." I do not, indeed,

 insert this criticism as a support to Sir Joshua's fame, but
rather for the purpose of noticing a fact, not generally known,
that Sir Joshua's literary aid was not neglected by his literary

friends ; a fact completejy at variance with those critics who
have thought proper to deny him the merit of writing his own

discourses.

   Beattie was at this very period preparing his Essay on
Beauty" for the press, and in this he seems evidently to have
278 MEMOIRS OF

consulted  Sir Joshua;  for  in a letter to  the Duchess of Gordon-
he says,                one   must keep      to one's word ; and as
           " However
Iyour Grace desired to see this Essay, and promised to send
I Iit (as soon as could get it transcribed,) send it accordingly.
I Ishould not give you the trouble to return it, if had not

promised a reading of it to Sir Joshua Reynolds."

   Sir Joshua, indeed, seems to have been applied to by his
friends on all occasions ; and by none oftener than by Dr.
Johnson, particularly for charitable purposes.

   Of this there      is an instance, in a note of Johnson's
                      life, too honourable to him to be here
preserved in his
omitted.

                  to sir joshua reynolds.

Dear Sir,
IIt** was not before yesterday that received your splendid
Ibenefaction. To a hand so liberal in distributing,
                                                     hope

Inobody will envy the power of acquiring.
                      *' am. Dear Sir,

                  *'  Your   obliged  and    most  humble servant,

June 23, 1781.                                     " Sam. Johnson."

  A few days afterwards, Johnson received from Miss Frances

Reynolds (a lady for whom he was always known to have had
a very high regard, and who died at the advanced age of
         SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                   279

eighty, on the 1st of November, 1807,) a copy of a work
written by her, privately printed, but never published, called
an " Essay on Taste." In return for this he sent her the

following letter.

         " to mrs. frances reynolds.

        Dearest Madam,

   *' There is in these few pages, or remarks, such depth of

Ipenetration, such nicety of observation, as Locke or Pascal

might be proud of. This desire you to believe is my real

opinion.

   ** However, it cannot be published in its present state.
Many of your notions seem not to be very clear in your own
mind ; many are not sufficiently developed and expanded for
the common reader : it wants every where to be made

smoother and plainer.

** You may, by revisal and correction, make it a very elegant

         curious work.

                   " am,
Iandavery

                            my  dearest  dear,

         *' Your affectionate and obedient servant,
                                            " Samuel Johnson.''

Bolt Court, June 28, 1781.

  ITo return to the subject of the Exhibition of this year,

may remark, that this picture of Thais gave rise, but very

unjustly, to some attempts at scandalous anecdote. In a
280 MEMOIRS OF

periodical work of the time, it was noticed that this picture
was highly admired ; that the painter had caught the very
spirit of the heroine, and that she seemed rushing from the
canvas to destroy Persepolis.

The Critic then observed, that there was an anecdote

hanging on this picture, which was circulated by the enemies

of Sir Joshua when he exhibited it ;· but this the writer very

properly refused to give credit to,  as a thing   derogatory to
Sir Joshua's general conduct and                  The whisper
                                     feelings. "

insisted that the face of this picture was painted for the

famous Emily Bertie, that she paid him seventy-five guineas

down, and was to pay him the like sum when the picture was

finished, which she was unable to do ; the picture remained

with Sir Joshua some time, when he, finding it not called for,

took it into his head to metamorphose Emily Bertie into

Thais, and exhibit her to the world in her proper character,

rushing with a torch to set the  Temple of Chastity on fire/'
                                 of the matter is. Sir Joshua
He then adds, that " the truth

has now got the picture of the lovely Emily in his collection,

and Thais has no kind of connexion with it, except that of

two faces in a small degree resembling each other." To M hich

I can add, from my own knowledge, that the whole story is

an entire fabrication of folly; for Sir Joshua never painted any
person of the name of Emily Bertie. The portrait in the

character of Thais was painted in the year 1776, the head

only, on a whole length canvas, from a beautiful young girl
who was known by the name of Emily Coventry ; she

afterwards accompanied a gentleman to the East Indies, and
sill JOSHUA REYNOLDS.          281

there died young. The picture was not finished till the year

1781, and then sold" to Mr. G  for one hundred guineas ;

it is now in the possession of the Earl of Dysart, and is

particularly excellent.

   The other picture of Dido was much admired, and drew
immense crowds to the Exhibition, exciting the applause
not only of Englishmen, but of the most judicious foreigners,
by the beauty of the countenance and the extreme richness of
the colouring.

   In the month of July, 1781, Sir Joshua set off, in company
with his friend Mr. Metcalf, for the Continent, with the

intention of examining the various celebrated productions of
the Dutch and Flemish schools.

   The two friends left London on the 24th, and proceeded in

a post chaise for Margate, where they took shipping for Ostend,
and from the latter place they took the route of Ghent,
Brussels, and thence to Mechlin, at which latter place. Sir
Joshua paid particular attention to the altar-piece in the
cathedral, the work of Rubens, and of which he related

an anecdote illustrative of that artist's manner of proceeding
in his large works. This anecdote has been given more
at length in the notes written by himself on the various
productions of the pencil seen in this tour, published in his
works, and which, indeed, were taken with the intention

of drawing up a sketch of the tour for the press, but this he

never proceeded further in than the writing a few introductory

                                                       oo
282 MEMOIRS OF

paragraphs addressed to his companion to whom he meant to
dedicate it.

  It seems that a citizen of Mechlin having bespoke this

picture for the cathedral, was anxious to avoid the danger of
its removal, and therefore requested Rubens to paint it in the
church, to which he assented, as his own country seat at
Stein was in the vicinity of that city. He therefore completed
his sketch in colours, and intrusted one of his scholars, of the

name of Van Egmont, with the task of dead colouring the
canvas for the great picture at Mechlin, from this sketch.

The person who bespoke it, on receiving notice of this

circumstance, immediately stopped Van Egmont's labours,
exclaiming that he had engaged for a picture from the hand of

the master and not of the scholar. However, as Sir Joshua

adds, Rubens satisfied him that this was always his method of

proceeding ; and that this piece would be as completely his

work as if he  had  done the whole from tlie beginning.
" The citizen  was  satisfied, and Rubens proceeded with

the picture, which appears to me to have ko indications of

Ineglect in any part; on the contrary, think it has been one

of his best pictures, though, those who know this circumstance

pretend to see Van Egmont's inferior genius transpire through

Rubens's touches."

   From Mechlin, the travellers proceeded to Antwerp, and

having seen almost every thing curious in Flanders, set off for
Holland, where they visited Dort, the Hague, thence to
                               SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

Leyden, and Amsterdam, from whence they made a short
excursion into Germany, crossing the Rhine near Dusseldorf,
at which latter place Sir Joshua records a curious pictorial

anecdote.

    Being much pleased with the easy access to the famous
Dusseldorf Gallery, and with the liberty of staying in it as
long as he chose, and also with the extreme facilities afforded
to students, many of whom he found copying in the gallery,
and others in a large room, above stairs, expressly allotted for
that purpose, Sir Joshua mentioned his great satisfaction

at this liberal arrangement to the keeper, Mr. Kraye ; but
this gentleman informed him that although it was the Elector's

wish to afford the most perfect accommodation to visitors, yet
in regard to the students, he took some credit to himself;
for when he first asked the Elector's permission for their
copying the pictures, that prince refused the boon, asserting,
that the copies would be offered for sale as originals, which
multiplication would deteriorate the value of his collection.

To this unfounded objection, Mr. Kraye answered, that
painters capable of taking such copies as might pass for
originals, were not likely to do so, as their time was fully
occupied on originals of their own, and that the copies of the

young students could not hurt his originals, as they could
only impose upon the ignorant whose opinions were below

his Highness's attention. To this he added the very forcible
argument, that if the Elector wished to produce artists in Iiis
own country, the refusal of such advantages to the student

would be most unwise, and exactly on a parity v/ith a person
who should pretend to be a patron of literature, and yet in his

                                                      oo2
284 MEMOIRS OF

attempts to produce scholars should refuse them the use of a
library. To reasoning so plain and simple, the Elector must

have been stupid indeed if he had refused assent, and Mr,

Kraye had carte blanche accorded to him in favour of the
youthful pupils.

   From Dusseldorf, the two friends proceeded for Aix-la-
Chapelle, and Liege ; thence by the way of Brussels to

Ostend, where they re-embarked, and landing at Margate,
arrived, on Sunday the l6th of September, at the metropolis.

   Whilst at Antwerp, Sir Joshua had taken particular notice
of a young man of the name of De Gree, who had exhibited
some considerable talents as a painter. His father was a
taylor, and he himself had been intended for some clerical
office, but as it is said by a late writer, having formed a
different opinion of his religion than was intended, from
the books put into his hand by an Abbe who was his patron,
it was discovered that he would not do for a priest, and the
Abbe therefore articled him to Gerrards of Antwerp. Sir
Joshua received him, on his arrival in England, with much
kindness, and even recommended to him most strongly to
pursue his profession in the metropolis ; but De Gree was
unwilling to consent to this, as he had been previously engaged
by Mr. Latouche ^to proceed to Ireland. Even here Sir
Joshua's friendly attentions did not cease, for he actually made
the poor artist a present of fifty guineas to fit him for his
Hibernian excursion, the whole of which, however, the
careful son sent over to Antwerp for the use of his aged

parents.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  285

   About this time Mr. Opie came ftrst to settle in London,
accompanied by his friend Dr. Wo'cot, when tlie novelty and
originality of his manner in his pictures, added to his great

abilities, drew an universal attention from the connoisseurs,

and he was immediately surrounded and employed by all the

principal nobility of England. I remember that Sir Joshua

himself compared him to Carravagio.

     However, it is curious to observe the changes M'hich
frequently happen in the course of a very short period, and if
we oftener made this the subject of our reflection, it would

have a great tendency to check our vanity in prosperity, and
give us consolation even , in situations apparently the most
forlorn : for in a very little space of time that capricious public

who had so violently admired and employed Opie, when first

he appeared, and was a novelty among them, and was, in

reality only the embryo of a painter, yet, when he had proved
himself to be a real artist, they left him with disgust because
he was a novelty no longer. They now looked out for his

defects alone, and he became in his turn totally neglected and
forgotten, and instead of being the sole object of public
attention, and having the street, where he lived, so crowded
with coaches of the nobility as to become a real nuisance to the

neighbourhood, and when, as he jestingly observed to me, that he
thought he must place cannon at his door to keep the multitude
off from it, he now found himself as entirely deserted as if his
bouse had been infected with the plague. -- Such is the world 1

   He afterwards by painting some fine historical pictures for

the Shakspeare gallery, Sec, became again the object of
    286 MEMOIRS OF

    moderate attention and employment, gained by his own shew
    of merit ; but not like the first onset, for the world are never
    infatuated twice by the same object.

     It was an observation made to me by old Mr. Wilton, the

    statuary, that he thought Sir Joshua Reynolds was the only
    eminent painter that had been able to call back the public
    to himself after they had grown tired of him, and which he
    had done more than once. This Vandyke could not accomplish ;
    but when he was deserted in England, as one who had been
    too long the object of attention, went over to Paris in hope to
    gain employment there; but even there he was no novelty : and
   it not answering his expectations, he returned to England,
   where he soon after died, which leaves it uncertain what would
    have been the consequence had he survived.

      Yet certain it is, that Sir Joshua was not much employed

    in portraits after llomney grew into fashion, although the
    difference between those painters was so immense.

      We have to regret that Mr. Opie died at an early period of his
    life, and before he had time fully to make the trial of winning
    a second time the capricious world to appreciate justly those
    abilities which will ever rank him among the first of English

    painters.

     I Iknew him very well ; and shall take the liberty to
I' insert in this place the following character, which wrote

    immediately on his death, and which is my true opinion of
    him.
                  SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.         Sii/

         " JOHN OPIE, Esq., K. A.
" Professor of Painting to the Royal Academy.

                  Died April 9th, I8O7.

   " A man whose intellectual powers, and indefatigable

industry in their cultivation, rendered him at once an honour
to the county from which he originated, and an example of

imitation to mankind.

   *' Born in a rank of life in which the road to emine ce is

rendered infinitely difficult, unassisted by partial patronage,
scorning, with virtuous pride, all slavery of depende ce, he
trusted alone for his reward to the force of his natural

powers, and to well directed and unremitting study ; and he
demonstrated, by his works, how highly he was endowed by
nature with strength of judgment and originality of conception.

His thoughts were always new and striking, as they were the
genuine offspring of his own mind ; and it is difficult to say if

his conversation gave more amusement or instruction.

   *' The toil or difficulties of his profession were by him
considered as matter of honourable and delightful contest ;
and it might be said of him that he did not so much paint to
live, as live to paint.

  " As a son he was an example of duty to an aged parent. He

was studious yet not severe ; he was eminent yet not vain :
his disposition so tranquil and forgiving, that it was the
reverse of every tincture of sour or vindictive ; and what to
some might have appeared as roughness of manner, was only
288 MEMOIRS OF

the effect of an honest indignation towards that which he
conceived to be error.

" How greatly have we cause to lament that so much talent,

united to so much industry, perseverance, and knowledge,

should have been prematurely snatched from the world, which

it would have delighted with its powers, and benefited by its
                                                         J. N.
example !"

   Of the opinion of connoisseurs concerning Sir Joshua we

may form some idea from the numerous compliments whicli
were paid him at this crisis.

Mr. Nichols in his Life of Hogarth, whilst speaking of that

artist's attempt to paint a Sigismunda, which should surpass

that of Corregio  now   at the Duke of Newcastle's,  at  Clumber
Park, says that,         express a sorrow like that      Tancred's
                  " to                               of

(Siffredi's) daughter, few modern artists are fully qualified, if

we except indeed Sir Joshua Reynolds, with whose pencil

Beauty in all her forms, and the Passions in all their varieties,

are equally familiar."

   The London Courant in the same year also speaks of " Sir

Joshua Reynolds, whose works, the acknowledged patterns of

grate and expression, conduce not more to excite emulation,
than his lectures serve to instruct the students in the solid

Iprinciples of design and composition." To which may

justly add some observations from a Preface to Imitations of
Drawings, by Mr. Rogers, in which it is expressed " how
happy it is for the Academy to have for its first President a
               SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.         289

genius who feels, and is sensible of the necessity of enlarging the
ideas of youth, by placing before them the works of the great
masters ; who teaches them to disregard the tinsel of the last

age, but eagerly to search after the rich ore of that of Leo X.,

and who directs them in the proper method of bringing the

golden fleece out of Italy into his Majesty*s dominions."

   With such a fame, particularly among the eminent for
talents, it is not surprizing that all his friends were much

alarmed at a slight paralytic affliction, which after an almost

uninterrupted course of good health for many years, attacked
him at this period. This was but slight, however, as its
eftects were completely removed in the space of a few weeks,
to the great happiness of all who knew him, but perhaps of
none more than Dr. Johnson, who wrote him the following
letter on the occasion.

     ** Dear Sir.

  I" heard yesterday of your late disorder, and should think ill
of myself if I had heard of it without alarm. I heard likewise
Iof your recovery, which sincerely ^ish to be complete and

permanent. Your country has been in danger of losing one

Iof its brightest ornaments, and of losing one of my oldest
Iand kindest friends : but hope you will still live long, for

the honour of the nation ; and that more enjoyment of your

elegance, your intelligence, and your benevolence, is still

reserved for,  " Dear Sir,

               Your most affectionate, &c.
                                    " Sam. Johnson."
Brighthelm stone, Nov. lith, 1782.
290 MEMOIRS OF

  1 1 was not, however, to his partial friends alone that Sir Joshua
was dear ; for in this very year we find him praised by an
universal satirist ; one who, with original humour, had magni-
fied the most unimportant actions of royalty into foibles, and
foibles into follies ; it is unnecessary to add the name of Peter
Pindar, who was indeed an excellent critic on art, and amused
himself occasionally in landscape painting, and therefore the
better qualified to judge of the excellencies of Sir Joshua.

   In his Lyric Odes of this year, he has several allusions to

the President of the Academy.

                      " Close hy them hung Sir Joshua's matchless pieces --
                     Works ! that a Titian's hand could form alone --

                       Works ! that a Rubens had been proud to own."

   And again in his Farewell Odes, nearly of the same date,
he advises a painter to

                   " Be pleased like Reynolds to direct the blind.
                        Who aids the feeble faltering feet of youth ;

                     Unfolds the ample volume of his mind,
                        With genius stor'd and Nature's simple truth."

   Exclaiming also in another part --

                        Lo! Reynolds shines with undimiriish'd ray!
                        Keeps, like the bird of Jove, his distant vcay :
                        Yet, simple Portrait strikes too oft our eyes,
                        Whilst History, anxious for his pencil, sighs."

   Sach praises, from such an author, may well be considered
as sincere and genuine.
                                SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

    Sir Joshua was sufficiently recovered from liis late illness to.
 give his usual discourse on the 10th of December, the objects
 of which, at this period, were the investigation of Genius, and
 the proof that it refers to the taking of general ideas only,
 and consists principally in the comprehension of a grand whole.

    The generally received opinion of the worth of Genius, he
exemplified by the position that it was the height of every
artist's ambition, who, so long as he could procure the addition
of the supposed possession of this quality to his name, will
always patiently bear any imputation of incorrectness, of
carelessness, and in short, of any other defect.

   The extravagant length to which this desire may be some-
times carried, he instanced by saying that some go such lengths
as to trace its indication in absolute faults, not only excusing
such faults on account of genius, but actually presuming
genius from their existence.

   As this discourse was more specifically addressed to artists

Ithan to the world in general, shall not examine it further

than to introduce his definition of genius as applied to a

Ipainter ; and he says, this Genius consists, conceive, in the

power of expressing that which employs your pencil, whatever

it may be, as a whole ; so that the general effect and power of

the whole may take possession of the mind, and for a while
suspend the consideration of the subordinate and particular

beauties or defects." -- In addition to which, he concluded his
discourse, by stating, that '* the great business of study is, to

                                                      pp2
292 MEMOIRS OF

form a mind, adapted and adequate to all times and ali occa-
sions ; to which all nature is then laid open, and which may
be said to possess the key of her inexhaustible riches."

   In t*lie beginning of this year the Academy suffered a very
considerable loss in the death of its able and active keeper ;
and one to whom the Institution, in a great degree, owed its
establishment. The demise of Mr, Moser, the first person

who held the office in the Royal Academy, was honoured by
Sir Joshua, in a public testimonial to his memory, which was
inserted in the newspapers of the day : the character is justly
given by his sincere friend ; and as it relates to the arts, as
well as to the subject of our Memoir, cannot, with propriety,

be omitted.

  It is now given, (says Mr. Malone,) from a copy in Sir

Joshua's hand-writing

" Yesterday  died,  at his  apartments   " Jan. 94, 1783.

                                        in Somerset-place,

George Michael Moser, Keeper of the Royal Academy ; aged

seventy-eight years. He was a native of Switzerland, but

came to England very young, to follow the profession of a

chaser in gold, in which art he has been always considered as

holding the first rank. But his skill was not confined to this

alone ; he possessed an universal knowledge in all branches of

-V painting and sculpture, which perfectly qualified him for

the place that he held in the Academy, the business of which

principally consists in superintending and instructing the

students, who draw or model from the antique figures.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  293

" His private character deserves a more ample testimony

than this transient memorial. Few have passed a more

inoffensive, or, perhaps, a more happy life ; if happiness, or
enjoyment of life, consists in having the mind always

occupied, always ititent upon some useful art, by which

fame and distinction may be acquired. Mr. Moser's whole

attention was absorbed, either in practice, or something that
related to the advancement of art. He may truly be said, in
every sense, to have been the father of the present race of

artists ; for long before the Hoyal Academy was established,

he presided over the little societies which met first in

Salisbury-court, and afterwards in St. Martin's-lane, where

they drew from living models. Perhaps nothing that can be
said will more strongly imply his amiable disposition, than

that all the different societies with which he has been

connected, have always turned their eyes upon him for their

treasurer and chief manager ; when, perhaps, they would not

have contentedly submitted to any other authority. His

early society was composed of men whose names are well
known in the world ; such as Hogarth. Rysbrach, Roubiliac,
Wills, Ellis, Vanderbank, &c.

   *' Though he had outlived all the companions of his youth,
he might, to the last, have boasted of a succession equally
numerous ; for all that knew him were his friends.

   ** When he was appointed Keeper of the Royal Academy,
his conduct was exemplary, and worthy to be imitated by
whoever shall succeed him in that office. As he loved the

employment of teaching, he could not fail of discharging that
294 MEMOIRS OF

duty with diligence. By the propriety of his conduct he
united the love and respect of the students ; he kept order in

the Academy, and made himself respected, without the
austerity or importance of office ; all noise and tumult
immediately ceased on his appearance ; at the same time
there was nothing forbidding in his manner, which might
restrain the pupils from freely applying to him for advice or
assistance.

   " All this excellence had a firm foundation : he was a man

of sincere and ardent piety, and has left an illustrious example
of the exactness with which the subordinate duties may be
expected to be discharged by him whose first care is to please
God.

   " He has left one daughter behind him, who has distin-

guished herself by the admirable manner in which she paints
and composes pieces of'flowers, of which many samples have
been seen in the exhibitions. She has had the honour of
being much employed in this way by their Majesties, and
for her extraordinary merit has been received into the Royal
Academy."

   Mr. Lowe,* the painter, as stated by Mr. Boswell, in hi^

   * Mr. Lowe was a natural son of the late Lord Sutherland, from whom he had
an annuity. He was much esteemed by Dr. Johnson, who bequeathed him a
legacy, and stood to one of his children as godfather. He was sent to Rome by
the patronage of the Royal Academy, in consequence of his having gained the gold

medal in 1771 ; and died, at an obscure lodging in Westminster, September, 1793.
                 SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  295

Life of Johnson, was very much distressed that a large picture

which he liad painted was refused to be received into the

Exliibition of the Royal Academy ; and as he was intimate
with, and much befriended by, Dr. Johnson, he immediately
applied to him to use his interest with Sir Joshua in order to

procure its admittance, on which Johnson sent the following

Iletter to Sir Joshua Reynolds, which letter have seen, and

another to Mr. Barry, who at that time was one of the

council.

                      to sir joshua reynolds.

     " Sir,

      Mr. Lowe considers himself as cut off from all credit and
all hope, by the rejection of his picture from the Exhibition.
Upon this work he has exhausted all his powers, and suspended
all his expectations : and certainly, to be refused an oppor-
tunity of taking the opinion of the public, is, in itself, a very

great hardship. It is to be condemned without a trial.

  If** you could procure the revocation of this incapacitating

edict, you would deliver an unhappy man from great
affliction. The council has sometimes reversed its own

Ideterminations ; and hope that, by your interposition, this

luckless picture may be got admitted.

                                 I" am, &c.,

April 12, 1783.  " Sam. Johnson.'*
296 MEMOIRS OF

               " TO JAMES BARRY, ESQ.

^*SlR,

*' Mr. Lowe's exclusion from the Exhibition gives him

more trouble than you and the other gentlemen of the council

could imagine or intend. He considers disgrace and ruin as

the inevitable consequence of your determination. He says,

that some pictures have been received after rejection ; and if
Ithere be any such precedent, earnestly intreat that you will
Iuse your interest in his favour. Of his work
                                               can say
Inothing : pretend not to judge of painting ; and this picture
I Inever saw : but
                    conceive it extremely hard to shut out
Iany man from the possibility of success ; and therefore

repeat my request, that you will propose the re-consideration

of Mr. Lowe's case ; and if there be any among the council

with whom my name can have any weight, be pleased to

communicate    to them  the desire  of. Sir,
               1783.
  " April 12,             " Your    most hu"mbSlaemS. eJrovhannst,on."

         Such intercession was too powerful to be resisted ; and

    Mr. Lowe's performance was admitted at Somerset House,

    and exhibited there in an empty room. The subject was the

     Deluge, at that point of time when the water was rising to

    the top of the last uncovered mountain. Near to the spot
· was seen the last of the antediluvian race, exclusive of those

     who were saved in the ark of Noah. This was one of those
    giants, then the inhabitants of the earth, who had still
    strength to swim, and with one of his hands held aloft his
                 SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                      297

infant child. Upon the small remaining dry spot appeared a

famished  lion   ready to   spring at the child and   devour it.
           told  Boswell   that Dr. Johnson said to
Mr. Lowe                                             him, " Sir,
your picture is noble and probable." " A compliment

indeed," said Mr. Lowe, from a man who cannot lie, and

cannot be mistaken."

In this speech of Mr. Lowe's we may perceive how easily

and readily vanity or conceit can give flattery to itself.

That Johnson would not lie we will admit ; but, in his own

letter to Barry he allows an ample field for mistake, as he

confesses he knows nothing of the art, and that he had never
Iseen the picture.
                      saw the picture myself when it was

exhibited in an anti room in the Academy, and then thought

it had been much better for Mr. Lowe if he had complied

with the first decree of the council ; for if the conception of

the picture had been good, as Dr. Johnson insinuates, yet the

execution of it was execrable beyond belief. Johnson was
also mistaken in saying it was like condemning without a
trial. On the contrary, Mr. Lowe had been tried, and by the

fairest jury, that of his peers, those of the same profession;

and the world confirmed their decision to be just, as the

picture, when shewn in public, was universally condemned.

   This Mr. Mauritius Lowe was the pupil of Mr. Cipriani,
but improved little under his tuition. He was also admitted
a student of the Royal Academy among the first of those
who entered that institution. In this situation he made very

slender advances in the art, being too indolent and inattentive
to his studies to attain any excellence. But it is remarkable,

                                                                     QQ
298 MEMOIRS OF

that he was the person who obtained the gold medal first
offered by the Royal Academy to the student who should
produce the best historical picture. The subject given was
Time discovering Truth.

  If it be asked, how Mr. Lowe, though deficient as an artist,

could obtain the medal ? it may with truth be said, that he
owed his success to the partiality of the Italian gentlemen,
members of the Academy, who voted for him at the solicitation
of Mr. Baretti, for whom Mr. Lowe had been a very favourable
evidence on his trial in the year 1769: for it is very certain
that Lowe's was not the best of the pictures offered for the
premium.

   Of this year's Exhibition Dr. Johnson gives some particulars
in a letter to Mrs. Thrale, thus :

    IOn Saturday dined, as is usual, at the opening of the

Exhibition. Our company was splendid, whether more

Inumerous than at any former time know not. Our tables
seem always full. On Monday, if I am told truth, were

received at the door, one hundred and ninety pounds, for
the admission of three thousand eight hundred spectators.
Supposing the show open ten hours, and the spectators
staying,, one with another, each an hour, the rooms never
had fewer than three hundred and eighty jostling against each

Iother. Poor Lowe met with some discouragement ; but

interposed for him, and prevailed."

   Johnson's manners were indeed so very uncouth, that he was
           SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                               299

I Inot fit to dine in public ; remember the first time ever had

the pleasure to duie in company with him, wiiich was
Iat Sir Joshua's table,
                         was previously advised not to seem

to observe him in eating, as his manner was very slovenly

at his meals, and iie was very angry if he thought it was

remarked.

Mr. Boswell in this year records an opinion of Sir Joshua's

on the subject of conversation, which may be noticed in this

place. When it had been proposed to add some members to

the Literary Club, (during Goldsmith's life) that writer had
said in favour of it, that it would give the Club an agreeable

variety, that there could then be nothing new among the

members, and that they had travelled over each other's minds;
to which Johnson answered, " Sir, you have not travelled over
Imy mind promise you
                         !" When Sir Joshua, was afterwards
told of this, he agreed  with Goldsmith, saying that " when

people have lived a great deal together, they know what each

of them will say on the subject. A new understanding,

therefore, is desirable ; because, though it may only furnish

the same sense upon a question which would have been

furnished by those with whom we are accustonied to live, yet

this sense will have a different colouring ; and colouring is

of much effect in every thing else as v/ell as in painting."

   The mention of Goldsmith calls to my recollection a
circumstance related to me by Miss Reynolds.

About the year ll'Ji), Dr. Goldsmith lo.st his mother, who

                                                              Q Q 2.
300 MEMOIRS OF

died ill Ireland. On this occasion he immediately dressed
himself in a suit of cloaths of grey cloth trimmed with black,
such as commonly is worn for second mourning. When he
appeared the first time after this at Sir Joshua Reynolds's
house, Miss F. Reynolds the sister of Sir Joshua, asked him
whom he had lost, as she saw he wore mourning ? when he

Ianswered, a distant relation only ; being shy, as conjecture,

to own that he wore such slight mourning for so near a
relative. This appears in him an unaccountable blunder in
wearing such a dress : as all those who did not know his
mother, or of her death, would not expect or require him to
wear mourning at all, and to all those who knew of his
mother's death it would appear to be not the proper dress of
mourning for so near a relative ; so that he satisfied nobody and
displeased some ; for Miss Reynolds, who afterwards heard
of her death, thought it unfeeling in him to call his mother a
distant relation.

   Mr. Barry seems at this period to have given vent to some
of his spleen against Sir Joshua Reynolds, by a publication
v/hich is thus noticed by Dr. Johnson in a letter to Mrs.
Thrale, on the 1st of May. -- " Mr. Barry's exhibition was

opened the same day, and a book is published to recommend

it, which, if you read it, you will find it decorated with some

satirical pictures of Sir Joshua Reynolds and others. I have

not escaped. You must, however, think with some estimation
of Barry for the comprehension of his design."

    This attack of Barry's certainly arose from that morbid
                SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.           301

disposition in his own mind which made him often quarrel
with his best friends, and which was perhaps heightened, at
the present moment, by an idea that Sir Joshua's influence in
the Academy had not been in liis favour.

   That influence was certainly great, but at the same time

always justly exerted ; and on the following day after Johnson's
note to Mrs. Thrale, we find him soliciting the President's
interest in favour of his friend Mr. Cruikshanks as candidate

for the anatomical professorship.

                " to sir joshua reynolds.

" Dear Sir,

The gentleman who v.aits on you with this is Mr.

Cruikshanks, who wishes to succeed his friend Dr. Hunter,

as Professor of Anatomy in the Royal Academy. His

qualifications are very generally known, and it adds dignity to

the institution that such men are candidates.
                I" am Sir,
                " Your most humble servant,
                                      " Sam. Johnson."
Mai/ 2d, 1783.

   Johnson, though confessedly ignorant of painting, seems
however to have still been much interested in the success of

the Academy, whose exhibitions were now arriving at a great

pitch of perfection. In a note, written on the 8th of May, he
says, " The exhibition prospers so much, that Sir Joshua says
302 MEMOIRS OF

it will maintain the Academy : he estimates the probable
amount at i^SOOO/'

   While Mr. Barry was engaged in his great work at the Adelphi
Rooms, Mr. Penny resigned his situation of professor of painting
in the Royal Academy, of which he had been possessed from iho
foundation of the institution, when Mr. Barry ofiered to fill
the vacant chair and was elected to it in 1782. But he was
not over diligent in preparing for the duties of his office ; on
which account Sir Joshua Reynolds made some remarks upon
his conduct, to which Barry retorted witii great insolence and
brutality. He gave his first lecture March 2, 1784.

   In this situation his turbulent disposition began to express
itself. His lectures very soon became mere vehicles of

invective and satire against the principal Academicians, and
most pointedly against Sir Joshua, who was reduced by it to
so awkward a situation in his chair as an auditor, that he was
obliged at last either to appear to be asleep or to absent
himself from the place. After the death of Sir Joshua he
bestowed high praise on him and great abuse on those who

were still alive, till at length a regular charge was preferred
against him, and it was found to be absolutely necessary to
dismiss him from the office of lecturer, and also from the
Royal Academy in 1799-

   In the month of June this year, Johnson sat for his picture

to Miss Reynolds ; much as he admired that lady, however,
he did not compliment her upon that production, but when
finished, told her it was "Johnson's grimly ghost and as
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  303

the picture was afterwards to be engraved, he recommended,
as a motto, the appropriate stanza from the old ballad of
*' William and Margaret."

   Dr. Johnson was indeed so accustomed to say always the
exact truth, that he never condescended to give an equivocal
answer to any question, of which the following is an

instance.

  A lady of his acquaintance once asked him how it happened

that he was never invited to dine at the tables of the great ?

   He replied, Because, Madam, great lords and ladies do
not like to have their mouths stopped !"

   In the autumn of this year, great and important political

changes were taking place in the Netherlands by the
Emperor's order, particularly the suppression of the greatest
part of the religious and monastic institutions, which was
expected to cause the sale of a great number of Rubens's best
paintings. Many persons went over to examine them, and
amongst the rest Sir Joshua ; and he took both Brussels and

IAntwerp in his route : but do not possess any specific

knowledge of this trip, except that he made some further
excellent observations, which are among the best of his
criticisms, and highly illustrative of the merits of Rubens,

that prince of Flemish painters.

Mr. Malone has preserved some of his observations at this
304 MEMOIRS OF

period, and he says, that vSir Joshua on his return from his
first tour in 1781, thouglit that his own works seemed to want
force, but that on viewing the paintings of Rubens a second
time, they even appeared much less brilliant than on a former
inspection. This circumstance he was at first unable to
account for, until he recollected, that v/hen he first saw them
he had his note book in his hand, for the purpose of writing
down some remarks, which he considered as the reason of their
now making a less vivid impression in this respect than they
had before done ; for by the eye passing immediately from
the white paper to the picture, the colours derived uncommon
richness and warmth ; tliough for want of this foil they
afterwards appeared comparatively cold.

   But, as he has also remarked, on his return the first time,
that his own pictures wanted force, and it was observed that
he painted with more depth and brilliancy of colour
afterwards, is it not more probable that the difference of the
impression he felt from the sight of Rubens's pictures was
owing to his having accustomed his eye in the mean time to a
greater force and richness in his own works ? or, at any
rate, this must have assisted to increase the impression he
felt.

   Sir Joshua this year executed several admired portraits ;
but in the midst of his professional engagements he still found
leisure to attend to literary pursuits, and to subjoin some
very elaborate notes, consisting principally of practical
observations and explanations of the rules laid down, to that
               SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                      305

translation of Du Fresnoy's Art of Painting by Mr. Mason,

which was published at this period. These notes are in

the third volume of his works, as published by Mr. Malone.

  It appears, indeed, if the world owe any thing to Mr.

Mason for this production, that they are also partly indebted
for it to Sir Joshua, as it had long lain in manuscript

unfinished, in Mr. Mason's library, and was only at length
brought forward in consequence of his having requested a
sight of it, and then freely made an offer of illustrating it

in the manner he has done, which renders the work inva-

luable.

   One professional anecdote which Sir Joshua mentions in
these notes, of his own practice, deserves notice here.

SthpeeaVkeinngetoiafnPaSuclhoVoerl,onheeses,ayTsi,n"toWrehte, nand  the  other painters
Iof                                                                 was  at Venice, the
Imethod took to avail myself of their principles was this :
IWhen observed an extraordinary effect of light and shade in
Iany picture,
               took a leaf out of my pocket book, and

darkened every part of it in the same gradation of light and

shade as the picture, leaving the white paper untouched, to

represent the light, and this without any attention to the

subject, or to the drawing of the figures, A few trials of this

kind will be sufficient to give the method of their conduct in

Ithe management of their lights. After a few experiments

found the paper blotted nearly alike ; their general practice
appeared to be, to allow not above a quarter of the picture

               RR
306 MEMOIRS OF

for the light, including in this portion both the principal and
secondary lights ; another quarter to be kept as dark as
possible ; and the remaining half kept in mezzotint, or half
shadow. Rubens appears to have admitted rather more light
than a quarter, and Rembrandt much less, scarce an eiglith ;
by this conduct Rembrandt's light is extremely brilliant, but

it costs too much ; the rest of the picture is sacrificed to this
one object. That light will certainly appear the brightest
which is surrounded with the greatest quantity of shade,
supposing equal skill in the artist.

*' By this means you may likewise remark the various forms

and shapes of those lights, as well as the objects on which

they are flung ; whether a figure, or the sky, a white napkin,

animals, or utensils, often introduced for this purpose only.

It may be observed, likewise, what portion is strongly

relieved, and how much is united with its ground ; for it is

necessary that some part (though a small one is sufficient,)
should be sharp and cutting against its ground, whether it be

light on a dark, or dark on a light ground, in order to give

firmness and distinctness to the work ;a on the other hand,

it       relieved on every side, itwill appear as            inlaid on its

     is                                       a
                                                 a
ground.
                                                   if,

                                                         if
         Such blotted paper, held at distance from the eye,
         a

will strike the spectator as something excellent for the dispo-

sition of light and shadow, though he does not distinguish

whether  it       a    history, portrait, landscape, dead game, or

              is      ;

any thing else for the same principles extend to every branch

of the art.'*
                               SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

    This recurrence to the Venetian painters brings to my
mind a little circumstance which happened at the very time
 he here speaks of when in his youth studying at Venice.
 Being one night at the opera, the manager of the liouse
ordered the band to play an English ballad tune as a
compliment to the English gentlemen then residing in that
city. This happened to be the popular air which was played
or sung in almost every street in London just at their time of
leaving it ; by suggesting to them that metropolis, with all
its connexions and endearing circumstances, it immediately
brought tears into our young painter's eyes, as well as into
those of his countrymen who were present.

    Thus nature will prevail, and Paul Veronese, Tintoret,
and even Titian, were all given up at the moment, from the
delightful prospect of again returning to his native land after
an absence of near three years.

   To return to the period of our narrative, it was said in a
contemporary character of him at this period, that he had so
little of the jealousy of his profession, that when a celebrated
English artist, on his arrival from Italy, asked him where he
should set up a house. Sir Joshua told him that the next

house to his own was vacant, and that he had found his own
situation a very good one.

  It is also recorded as an instance of his prizing extraor-

dinary merit, that when Gainsborough asked him but sixty
guineas for his celebrated girl and pigs, yet being conscious

                                                II R 2
308 MEMOIRS OF

in his own mind that it was worth more, he liberally paid him
down one hundred guineas for the picture.

  I also find it mentioned on record, that a painter of

considerable merit having unfortunately made an injudicious
matrimonial choice, was, along with that and its conse-
quences, as well as an increasing family, in a few years
reduced so very low, that he could not venture out without
danger of being arrested, a circumstance which, in a great
measure, put it out of his power to dispose of his pictures to
advantage.

   Sir Joshua having accidentally heard of his situation,
immediately hurried to his residence, to inquire into the
truth of it, when the unfortunate man told him all the
melancholy particulars of his lot, adding, that forty pounds
would enable him to compound with his creditors.

After some further conversation, Sir Joshua took his leave,

telling the distressed man he would do something for him,

and when he was bidding him adieu at the door, he took him

b"y    the hand,   and   after squeezing it in   a  friendly way,
     hurried off  with  that kind of triumph    in  his heart, the

exalted of human kind only experience," whilst the astonished

artist found that he had left in his hand a bank note for one

"hundred pounds.

   Of such traits of benevolence certainly many other instances

Imight be recorded, but shall only mention two.
                   SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  309

   When Zoffanii the painter came to England hs was hut
little known in this country, and without a patron ; but the

very first picture which he exhibited in London was
purciiased by Sir Joshua at the price which Zoffanii demanded
for it.

The picture represents a scene in the farce of the Alchymist,

in which there is a most excellent portrait of Garrick in the

character of Able Drugger, accompanied by those of Palmer

and Burton. This picture Sir Joshua sold soon after to the
Earl of Carlisle for twenty guineas above the price which lie

had given for it,  and   sent the  advanced price immediately to
Zoffanii, saying,        thought   he had sold the picture at first
                   " he

below its real value."

   The clergyman who succeeded Sir Joshua's father as master
of the Grammar School at Plympton, at his decease left
a widow, who after the death of her husband opened a
boarding school for the education of young ladies. The

governess who taught in this school had but few friends
in situations to enable them to do her much service, and her

sole dependence was on her small stipend from the school:

hence she was unable to make a sufficiently reputable
appearance in apparel at their accustomed little balls. The
daughter of the school-mistress, her only child, and at that
time a very young girl, felt for the poor governess, and
the pitiable insufficiency in the article of finery, but being
unable to help her from her own resources devised within
herself a means by which it might be done otherwise.
310 MEMOIRS OP

Having heard of the great fame of Sir Joshua Reynolds, his
character for generosity, and charity, and recollecting that he
had formerly belonged to the Plympton school, she without
mentioning a syllable to any of her companions addressed
a letter to Sir Joshua, whom she had never even seen, in which
she represented to him the forlorn state of the poor governess's
wardrobe, and begged the gift of a silk gown for her. Very
shortly after they received a box containing silks of different
patterns, sufficient for two dresses, to the infinite astonishment
of the simple governess, who was totally unable to account for
this piece of good fortune, as the compassionate girl was afraid
to let her know the means she had taken in order to procure

the welcome present.

  I mentioned the circumstance afterwards to Sir Joshua who

assured me of its truth.

   In the year 1784, Sir Joshua had a pre-eminence of pictures,

at the Exhibition, the principal of which were the portrait
of Mrs. Siddons, as the Tragic Muse, now the property of
William Smith, Esq. M. P., from which a well known print
has been taken ; this picture Sir Joshua valued at 1000 guineas ;
the Fortune-teller, sold to the Duke of Dorset, and a portrait
of Miss Kemble. The last of these drew forth great applavise
from the numerous literary friends of that lady. And the
following poetic tribute to his skill, may not be undeserving of
insertion.

                   "While hands obscene, at vicious grandeur's call.
                     With miraic harlots clothe th' indignant wall.
               SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                    311

  Destructive snares for youthful passion spread,
  The slacken'd boson), and the faithless bed,
 Thy pencil, Reynolds ! innocently ga}',
  To virtue leads by pleasure's flowery way;

 In blushing honour decks the tim'rons bride.
 Or maid whose thoughts confederate Angels guide;
 For thy rare skill, to surface unconfin'd,

 Through every genuine feature pours the mind.
 Should the wild rage of other Phrynes compare
 With Corinth's past the British drama's fair,

 (Though art may Palmer's vauish'd form deplore,
 And Satchell's eyes unpictur'd beam no more)

 If firm duration crowns thy just design.

 Nor all its soft similitudes decline.
 In Kemble's look chastis'd will yet be seen
 What one bright daughter of the stage has been --
 Reserv'd though mingling with the loud, the vain,
 And unseduc'd where Syren pleasures reign.
Where dames undone and social ruin smile,
 While echo'd scandal shakes aguilly pile.
Pleas'd we behold, by thy congenial hand.
In native charms embodied virtue stand ;
 For vice can ne'er its odious traces hide,
The glanc e of lewdness, or the swell of pride.
Mark'd to be shunn'd, and stigmatis'd by fate,
Since in each varied guise, of scorn or hate.
O'er ail the face its dire effusions shoot,
As branches still are modell'd by the root.
But, for our love when grace and merit vie,
Ai tract the decent, check the lawless eye,
Th' instrui live canvas moral worth excites,
And Reynolds paints the lessons Johnson writes.
Should time, whose force our hopes in vain withstand,
Blast the nymph's face, and shake the painter's hand,
Yet may these tints divide the fame they give,
And art and beauty bid each other live ! '
312 MEMOIRS OF /

   Another painting of Sir Joshua's was exhibited this year by
the Society for promoting Painting and Design at Liverpool ;
which was a landscape containing a view on the Thames from
his own villa on Richmond-hill. This has been engraved by
Birch in his " Delices de la Grand Bretagne," and was one
of the very few landscapes ever done by the subject of our
biography.

  IIn regular landscape-painting his works are very scarce;

there is, as have been informed, one in the possession of
Sir Brook Boothby, Bart., another in the collection of Lord
Pelham at Stanmer, and two he bequeathed to Sir George

Baker, Bart. M. D. who attended the family ; these are

of course with the exceptions of those chaste and exquisite
ones which so often form a back ground to his portraits.

   Soon after this. Sir Joshua interested himself most strenu-
ously for his friend Dr. Johnson, in order to procure an
additional grant from the crown as an increase to his pension,
in order to enable him to try the air of the South of France,
and Italy, for his declining health. Sir John Hawkins in his
life of Johnson gives all the credit of this negotiation, at least
of its commencement, to Sir Joshua, whilst Mr. Boswell claims
the merit of having written the first letter on the subject
to Lord Thurlow, then Lord Chancellor.

   The various details of the event have been so often related

Iby Johnson's biographers, that need not enter furtlier on it

than to say, that it met with Sir Joshua's cordial concurrence
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  313

and assistance from the first, and was attended to by him with

much assiduity during the progress, from his earnest wish for
the welfare of his venerable friend.

   On the death of Ramsay, the King's painter, in August of
this year. Sir Joshua was sworn principal painter to his
Majesty, to which a small salary is also annexed ; but this, of
course, was not the object of Sir Joshua's ambition.

   In this year Charles Catton, a Royal Academician, was, by
rotation, become master of the Painter Stainers Company of
the city of London, and he was particularly ambitious of
introducing his friend, and a man so celebrated as Sir Joshua

Reynolds, to share in their corporate honours ; accordingly the
brothers voluntarily voted him the freedom of their company,

which was presented to him when he dined at their hall on St.
Luke's day, the patron saint of painters. This favor, so
properly and well bestowed, he received with due respect.
This civic compliment was accompanied by a copy of verses in

honour of their new brother citizen ; in which the Muses were

invoked to celebrate his praise and an event so important. -- A

compliment, on the whole, which pleased Sir Joshua not a little.

  The lines, may be found in the Gentleman's Magazine for that
year, page 854 ; they are not indifferently written ; a portion
of taste is even displayed in some of the passages, but it is
very possible that their dinner was still better than their

poetry, and their respect more gratifying than either.

Sir Joshua now met with an irreparable loss in the demise

                                                         ss
314 MEMOIRS OF

of his friend, Dr. Samuel Johnson, who died on the 13th of
December, 1784.

   The particulars of this event have been so often recorded,

that it would be superfluous to detail them here ; I may-

observe, however, that Mr. Boswell has justly stated, that the
Doctor made three requests of Sir Joshua a short time previous
to his death : one was to forgive him thirty pounds which he
had borrowed of him ; another was, that Sir Joshua should

carefully read the Scriptures ; and the last, that he should
abstain from using his pencil on the sabbath day ; to all of
which Sir Joshua gave a willing assent.

   Johnson had appointed him one of the executors of his will,
along with Sir William Scott and Sir John Hawkins ; a trust
which he faithfully fulfilled ; he also left him his great French
Dictionary, by Moreri, and his own copy of his folio English
Dictionary, of the last revision, as a friendly testimony of
remembrance ; also a book from his library to Mrs. Frances
Reynolds, sister to Sir Joshua.

   What the feelino-s of Sir Joshua must have been on this
occasion may be easily conceived, and it has been well described
by Mr. Boswell in his dedication of his " Life of Johnson,"
some time afterwards. This dedication is at the same time so
honorable to, and descriptive of, Sir Joshua, in many respects,

that I trust I shall be excused for the insertion of part of it

in this place.

   Mr. Boswell says, Every liberal motive that can actuate
        SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                315

an author in the dedication of his labours, concurs in directing

me to you, as the person to whom the following work should
Ifbe inscribed.
                 there be a pleasure in celebrating the

distinguished merit of a contemporary, mixed with a certain

degree of vanity not altogether inexcusable, in adpearing fully

I Isensible of it, where can find one in complimenting whom

can with more general approbation gratify those feelings ?

Your excellence, not only in the art over which you have long

presided with unrivalled fame, but also in philosophy and

elegant literature, is well known to the present, and will
continue to be the admiration of future ages. Your equal

and placid temper, your variety of conversation, your true

politeness, by which you are so amiable in private society, and

that enlarged hospitality which has long made your house a
common centre of union for the great, the accomplished,

Ithe learned, and the ingenious ; all these qualities can, in

perfect confidence of not being accused of flattery, ascribe to
Ifyou.
        a man may indulge in an honest pride, in having it

known to the world, that he has been thought worthy of

particular attention by a person of the first eminence in the

age in which he lives, whose company has been universally
Icourted, am justified in availing myself of the usual privilege
Iof a dedication, when mention that there has been a long
Ifand uninterrupted friendship between us.
                                            gratitude should
Ibe acknowledged for favors received, have this opportunity,

my dear Sir, most sincerely to thank you for the many happy

Ihours which owe to your kindness --for the cordiality with

which you have, at all times, been pleased to welcome -- for

the number of valuable acquaintances to whom you have

Iintroduced me -- for the noctes cosnceque Deum which have

                 ss2
316 MEMOIRS OF

Ifenjoyed under your roof.       a work should be inscribed to

one who is master of the subject of it, and whose approbation,

therefore, must insure it credit and success, the Life of Dr.

Johnson is, with the greatest propriety, dedicated to Sir

loshua Reynolds, who was the intimate and beloved friend of

that great man ; the friend whom he declared to be the most

iiivulnerable man he knew, with whom, if he should quarrel,
he should find the most difficulty how to abuse. You, my

dear Sir, studied him, and knew him well. You venerated

and admired him."

   To this testimony of Boswell, it will certainly not be mis-
placed to add some few other observations of Johnson himself

respecting his friend.

In one place, Boswell records that he much admired the

manner in which Sir Joshua treated of his art, in his discourses

the Royal                   Of   one remarkable passage,  he said,
  think                          have said this myself     and on
I Ito      Academy,        well
           might as
"

another occasion, whilst Mr. Bennet Langton was sitting with

him, he  read one of them with great attention, and exclaimed,
         well. Master Reynolds ; very well indeed. But it
" Very

will not be understood.'^

IJohnson once observed, " know no man who has passed

through life with more observation than Reynolds          and

Boswell himself has very justly said, that his philosophical

penetration, and justness of thinking were not less known to

those who lived with him, than his genius in his art is admired

by the world."
sill JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                   317

   Johnson had so high an opinion of Sir Joshua's       benevolence
of disposition, that he said to him once with a smile.
                                                        " Reynolds,
you hate no person living. But I like a good hater."

  It seems by this speech that Johnson conceived that a good

hater, as he termed it, was one who would feel the strongest

degree of attachment to those who were so fortunate as to
gain their love, and also that it might proceed probably from
a mind that made strong distinctions in character : but it is

certainly a dangerous doctrine.

  I remember, however, that I once heard Sir Joshua say,

that he thought it a very bad state of mind to hate any man,
but that he feared that he did hate Barry, and if so, he had
much excuse, if excuse be possible. The hatred of such a

Iman is no trifling disgrace ; still am convinced that this

sentiment never influenced his conduct towards him.

I may now remark that they lie side-by-side in the grave.

   Three days before Johnson's decease. Sir Joshua delivered

his twelfth discourse at the Academy, which was principally
of professional import. He laid it down as a truism that
particular methods of study are of little consequence, and that
little of the art can be taught.

   The love of method, he considered as often arising from a
disposition to mental idleness, whilst at the same time he
acknowledged that " Pittori improvisator^ as he terms them,

are apt to be careless and incorrect, and are very seldom either
518 MEMOIRS OF

original or striking ; defects proceeding from their not paying
the proper attention to the works of Nature and the great
masters.

   From some observations in the early part of this discourse,
it seems as if its subject had been, in some measure, pressed

upon Sir  Joshua,  or   r"atMheerthopedrhoafpsStuhdinyt,e"dhetoexhprimess;lyfosraiind
taking a  view of  the

that all the necessary information had already been given in

his former discourses, and that any other would merely consist

of plausible but ostentatious amplification, and would therefore

be totally useless. On this      point he made an        observation
highly worthy of general notice  in this educating age.
                                                         " Treatises

on Education, and Method of Study have always appeared to

me to have one general fault. They proceed upon a false
supposition of life ; as if we possessed, not only a power over

events and circumstances, but had a greater power over

Iourselves than believe any of us will be found to possess !"

  Again he observed, " In the practice of art, as well as in

morals, it is necessary to keep a watchful and jealous eye over
ourselves : idleness, assuming the specious disguise of industry,
will lull to sleep all suspicion of our want of an active exertion
of strength."

   Much interest was excited among the Dilletanti in the
course of this year, by a discovery Sir Joshua made of an
original painting of Milton, which he purchased for one
hundred guineas, from a picture dealer who had obtained it

from a common furniture broker, who could not remember the
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  319

time nor manner in which he came by it. In this portrait the

dress is black with a band ; the date 1653, and the painter's
initials (S. C.) are marked upon it. On the back of it was
a written memorandum, stating that this portrait had belonged
to Deborah Milton, who was her father's amanuensis, and

that at her death it was sold to Sir William Davenant's

family. It also stated that the portrait was painted by Samuel

Cooper, who was painter to Oliver Cromwell, at the time
when Milton was Latin Secretary to the Protector, and that
the Poet and Painter were nearly of the same age, Milton

being born in I6O8, and dying in 1674 ; and Cooper being
born in 1609, and dying in 1672 ; they being companions and

friends till death parted them. It was also stated, that several

encouragers and lovers of the Fine Arts at that time wanted
this picture, particularly Lord Dorset, John Somers, Esq.,
Sir Robert Howard, Dryden, Atterbury, Dr. Aldrich, and Sir

John Denham.

   Mr. Warton, who notices this portrait particularly in his
edition of Milton says, that Lord Dorset was probably the

lucky man, as this seems to be the very picture which Vertue
wished Prior to seek for in Lord Dorset's collection ; but in

another he adds, that it must be owned that this miniature

strongly resembles Vandyke's picture of Selden in the Bodleian
Library at Oxford, it being highly probable that Cooper
should have executed a miniature of Selden as a companion
to the heads of other heroes of the commonwealth. This

inference, however, is equally applicable to the supposition of
its being Milton's ; and Sir Joshua Reynolds himself said of
it, The picture is admirably painted, and with such a
320 MEMOIRS OF

Icharacter of nature, that am perfectly sure it was a striking
Ilikeness.
            have now got a distant idea of the countenance of
Milton, which cannot be got from any other than that I have
seen. It is perfectly preserved, which shows that it has been

shut up in some drawer ; if it had been exposed to the light,

the colours would, long before this, have vanished."

  A doubt having been started some years afterwards respecting

the originality and authenticity of this miniature, a letter was
inserted in the Gentleman's Magazine for 1791, in answer to
one in a preceding number, containing some strictures, and

expressing various doubts on the subject.

   To these strictures and doubts, the letter was a very con-
clusive and argumentative reply ; and as it is now well known

Ito have been the production of Sir Joshua's pen, and is not

inserted in his works, shall here give it a place.

" Mr. Urban,                                     June 15.
" A correspondent in your last Magazine, p. 399, has made

some strictures respecting the originality of the portrait of

IMilton, in the possession of Sir Joshua Reynolds, on which

beg leave to make some observations. That your readers

Imay have a distinct view of the question, shall transcribe

the writing which is on he back of the picture.

   " ' This picture belonged to Deborah Milton, who was her

father's amanuensis ; at her death it was sold to Sir William

Davenant's family : it was painted by Mr. Samuel Cooper,
who was painter to Oliver Cromwell at the time Milton was
                                                                                                                                                            ·

I
<i>' dJ) 'iJJ nil i-^ w !1JLjM.'o jl , jiuy -> .
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  321

Latin Secretary to the Protector. The Painter and Poet
were near of the same age, (Milton was born in 1608, and
died in 1674 ; Cooper was born in 1609, and died in 1672) ;
and were companions and friends till death parted them.

Several encouragers and lovers of the fine arts at that time
M'anted this picture, particularly Lord Dorset, John

Somers, Esq., Sir Robert Howard, Dryden, Atterbury,
Dr. Aldrich, and Sir John Denham.^

      Your critic first observes, that Deborah Milton, dying in

1727, all those encouragers and lovers of the fine arts here
mentioned, were dead long before that time. Secondly, he
remarks, that the picture could not belong to the Dorset

family in 1720, which belonged to Deborah Milton in 1727-
He asks, likewise, what can be meant by the miniature having
been sold to the family of Sir William Davenant, as the

Imemorandum bears so late a date as 1727 ? These objections,
  will suppose for the credit of the writer, would not have
been made if he had seen the print, under which he would

have found the following remark :

   *' The manuscript on the back of the picture appears to
have been written some time before the year 1693, when Mr.

Somers was knighted, and afterwards created Baron Evesham,
which brings it within nineteen years after Milton's death.

The writer was mistaken in supposing Deborah Milton was
dead at that time ; she lived till 1727) but in indigence and

obscurity, married to a weaver in Spitalfields.

*' There is no reason to think (notwithstanding Mr. Warton's

                                              TT
322 MEMOIRS OF

supposition, that Lord Dorset was probably the lucky

man who purchased the picture,) that it ever was in

Lord Dorset's possession. Vertue, indeed, had desired Prior

to search in his Lordship's collection for this miniature,

probably from the suggestion of Richardson, whose son

Jonathan informed Sir Joshua Reynolds, that he had heard

his father say, that there was somewhere a miniature of
Milton, by Cooper, which, he was told, was a remarkable

fine picture, but that he himself had never seen it. Perhaps

Lord Dorset was thought likely to have been the possessor of

this picture, because he formed a large collection of portraits,

of the most eminent men of his time, which are still to be
Iseen at Knowle.
                  cannot avoid adding, that the present

Duke, with equal respect to genius and talents, and with still

more skill in the art, continues this plan ; and to this

collection of his ancestor has added the portraits of Dr.

Johnson, Dr. Goldsmith, Mr. Garrick, and many others. --

The third objection is easily answered : there is no date at all

to the memorandum ; and, so far from its bearing so late a

date as 1727, it is very apparent it was written before the

year 1693, and that the writer of it was probably Sir William

Davenant's son, who was at this time thirty-seven years old ;

and the picture may be supposed to be at that time wanted

by Lord Dorset, John Somers, Esq. &c. The critic says,

I* never had an opportunity of seeing the original miniature

in question, and, unfortunately, the print by Aliss Watson has

never fallen in my way ; but I should wish to know whether

the drop serene be visible in it, as in Faithonie's drawing, and

in the bust. The date on the miniature is 1652, by whicli

time Milton had become utterly blind.'
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  323

· In regard to the drop serene, we can assure your
correspondent that it is not visible in the miniature, and that

he is mistaken in saying that it is visible in the crayon picture
by Faithorne ; and that it is visible in the bust, as he alHrms,
is truly ridiculous. Milton himself says, that, though he had
lost his sight, it was not perceptible to others ; and that his
eyes preserved their original lustre.

   " The date on the picture is 1653, and not 1652. This

inaccuracy is of no great consequence : but how did he know
that there was any date at all, as he says he never saw th.i

picture ?

      That Deborah Milton recognized her father's picture,
does not prove that she might not have been still more struck
with the likeness of the miniature. One is at a loss to know
upon what ground it is assumed (by a person who never saw
the picture or the print,) that, if Faithorne's be like, the
miniature is not like ; and still less can it be conceived why
he thinks that ' the likeness in Sir Joshua's picture cannot be
a striking likeness of Milton, whatever it may be of Selden.*
How came Selden into his head ? Here some suspicion arises

that he has seen the picture and the print, a circumstance
which he chooses to conceal, as the comment by Sir Joshua
on the print would have prevented the parade of his criti-
cism.

   " The opinion of Sir Joshua Reynolds, in matters relating to

his own profession, certainly ought to have some weight.
He is not likely to be wanting in that skill to which every

                                          T T^
324 MEMOIRS OP

Other artist pretends, namely, to form some judgment of the

Itlikeness . of a picture without knowing the original.

appears that Sir Joshua told Warton, that he was perfectly-
sure that ' the picture in his possession was a striking
likeness, and that an idea of Milton's countenance cannot be
got from any of the other pictures/ Without being an artist,
it is easily perceived that the picture of Faithorne does not
possess that individuality of countenance which is in the
miniature.

        There is something very perverse in believing that an
 ordinary, common-place portrait, painted by an engraver for
 the purpose of making a print from it, should be preferred,
 or be supposed to be more like, than the best picture of the
 first miniature painter, perhaps, that ever lived. Cooper
 possessed all the correctness, precision, and all the attention
 to peculiarity of expression, which we admire in Vandyke ;
 whereas Faithorne imitated, as well as he could, the lax and
 vicious manner then introduced by Sir Peter Lely, who,
 though upon the whole an ingenious artist, stands in the first
 rank of what the painters call mannerists. We may add, in
 regard to Faithorne, that, however he might be distinguished
 among his contemporaries, and since by the curious in old
 prints^ his merit as an engraver (and much less as a painter,)
 were he now living, would not raise him above the rank of

 the common herd of artists. It does not appear that Deborah

 Milton, when Faithorne's picture was shewn to her, said any
 thing to confirm us in the opinion of its being so extremely
  like : she exclaimed, ' O, Lord ! that is the picture of my
 father.' She probably had seen the picture before, and it is
I

            SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                        325

even probable that she was present when it was painted ; and,
when she saw it again, she immediately recognized it, as she
would have done her father's watch, buckles, or any other

appendage to his person.

*' There is no doubt but that Milton sat to Faithorne for

that crayon picture ; the distinguishing features are the same

as in the miniature ; the same large eyelid, the same shaped

nose and mouth, and the same long line which reaches from
the nostril to below the corners of the mouth, and the same

head of hair; but if the effect and expression of the whole

together should l)e, as in fact it is, different in the two
Ipictures, it cannot,
                       should think, be difficult for us to

determine on which side our faith' ought to incline, even

though neither possessed any strong marks of identity.

" All the objections that have been made by your corre-
Ispondent,
            hope, have been answered, and some, perhaps,

which the reader will think were scarcely worthy of an answer.

There is no occasion to take notice of objections which are

made in order to be confuted, namely, the pains the critic

takes to obviate a supposition which nobody ever supposed,

that the writer of the memorandum on the back might, by
mistake, write her death instead of his death. This is to raise

conjectures in order to triumph in their confutation !

      Mr. Tyrwhitt, to whom the miniature was shewn at the
Archbishop of York's table, and whose skill in matters of

this kind is universally acknowledged, scouted the question
which was there put to him, * Whether he thought the
326 MEMOIRS OF

manuscript was a late fabrication ?' ' The orthography, as
well as the colour of the ink, shews it to have been written
about a hundred years since.' He then remarked the mistake
of the writer in supposing that Deborah Milton was dead at
the time he wrote; and, though your correspondent thinks
that this mistake is a sufficient reason for calling the whole a
palpable fiction, we may reasonably oppose Mr. Tyrwhitt's
opinion to that of your anonymous correspondent, of whom

we may say, if he had possessed a greater share of critical

sagacity, he would have remarked, that even the mistake of
supposing Deborah Milton to be dead when he wrote, shews

it to be not what he calls it, a fiction. A man who deals in
fiction takes care, at least, not to be easily detected. No man
in these later days but knows that Deborah Milton lived till

1727j as that circumstance was made notorious to the v/orld

from Richardson's Life of Milton, and from the benefit play

Iwhich was given to Deborah's daughter in the year 1752.

believe Richardson (who, as Dr. Johnson says, was one of
Milton's fondest admirers,) was the first who made any
inquiry after Milton's family, and found his daughter Deborah
to be still living.

     I cannot conclude without making one observation.

Before a writer indulges himself in the self-congratulation of
victory, or laughing at the slip which he fancies others have
made, he should be sure of the steadiness of his own footing.

    *' Your correspondent reprehends Tom Warton for his

inaccuracy in historical points ; he blames the aggravated
immorality of the seller of the picture * in imposing on so
            SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                  32?

fair and worthy a man as Sir Joshua Reynolds ;' treating him

as a bon homme, and the whole ' as a palpable fiction, drawn

up by some person ignorant of history, who furnished out a

tale with very scanty materials.' Whether this was the case,
Ithe reader will,
                   imagine, not^ find it -very difficult ta
                                                  R. J.
determine.

   " P. S. The progress of the picture seems to be this : --
Milton dying insolvent, and Deborah Milton of course in

great indigence, it is very improbable that she would keep to

herself a picture of such value ; it was therefore sold, as we

suppose, to the author of the memorandum ; and the account

there given is probably such as he received from the seller of

the picture, who, in order to raise its value, boasts how many
Ifgreat men had desired to have it.
                                     to this it is urged, that

it is too much to expect all those suppositions will be granted,

we can only say, let the supposition be made of its being a

forgery, and then see what insurmountable improbabilities

w^ill immediately present themselves. After all, the whole

indulgence required is for the mistake respecting Deborah

Milton's death ; and we may add, that the great object of

inquiry, that it is an original picture of Milton by Cooper,

is no way affected either by this or any other mistake that

may be imputed to the writer of the memorandum."

   In this year the portrait of Sir Joshua, which was painted
for, arid afterwards in the possession of, Mr. Alderman
Boy dell, was executed by Mr. C. G. Stuart, an American,

and for a time was placed in the Shakspeare Gallery : this is
328 MEMOIRS OP
one of many which have been done, but it has not been
engraved.

   The year 1785 was marked by several compliments to Sir
Joshua's taste and genius.

   Miss Hannah More, in her Poem on Sensibility, says,

*' To snatch bright beauty from devoni ing fate.
And bid it boast with him a deathless date ;

To shew how genius fires, how taste restrains,
While what both are, his pencil best explains.
Have we not Reynolds ?"

   To the merit  of one of Sir  Joshua's  finest pictures  produced
                  exhibited,              unloosing the
this year, and                  " Love                      Zone of

Beauty," the following poetic tribute was also paid.

" Fann'd by the summer's gentlest wind.

Within the shade a nymph rechn'd.

As on her neck they artless stray'd,

The zephyrs with her tresses play'd ;

A careless vest around her thrown

Was girded with an azure zone ;
Her figure shone replete with grace --
She seem'd --^the goddess of the place.
The soothing murmur of the rill,
The plumed warbler's tenderest trill,

The perfum'd air, the flow'ry ground,

Spread a delicious languor round ;
Her swelling breast new tremors move.
And all her melting soul was love.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                 329

When Cupid saw lier soft a]; i.ns,

And flew, insidious, to her aims;

The little god she warmly prest,
And ruin, in his form, carest;

For by indulgence hardy grown,

He silly loos'd her guardian zone.
But Virtue saw the sleight, and sigh'd --
' Beware, beware, fond nymph !' she cry'd;

* Behold where yonder thorny flow'r,       flush'd.
' Smiling in summer's radiant hour,
' With outstretch'd wing a painted fly,

' In thoughtless pleasure flutters nigh,
' Nor, heedless, sees, beneath the brake,

* The jaws of a devouring snake.'
The nymph look'd up -- with conscience

And as she tied her zone, she blush'd.

It chanc'd that Genius, passing by,

Remark'd the scene with eager eye ;

Then, with the tint from Virtue stole.
With Reynolds pencil sketch'd the whole."

   In the autumn of this year, the great and long expected

sale of pictures, collected from the dissolved monasteries and
religious houses in Flanders and Germany, commenced on
the twelfth of September, and continued during the ensuing
month.

  A trip to Flanders, therefore, became quite fashionable

amongst the lovers of the fine arts, who were all anxious
to possess some of the exquisite specimens of the great
Flemish masters. For this purpose Sir Joshua also made
a tour to that country, and laid out upwards of one thousand

                                                       17 u
330 MEMOIRS OF

pounds in purchases, many of which were of great value, and

Iwhich shall have occasion to notice further in a subsequent

part of the Memoir.

   In the Exhibition of 1786, Sir Joshua did not produce any
historical piece, nor even any composition of fancy, his time

aiid thoughts being occupied on a great work, having had the
honour of a commission from the Empress of Russia to paint
an historical picture, in which he was at liberty as to subject,
size, and price.

   He debated long with himself on what subject to fix,

Iwhich might be complimentary to the Empress ; and at first

heard him say he would paint the procession of our great
Queen Elizabeth, when she visited her camp at Tilbury, in
Ihe time of the threatened Spanish invasion ; but at last he
made choice of the infant Hercules overcoming the serpents
when in his cradle, as the most fit, in allusion to the great
difficulties which the Empress of Russia had to encounter
in the civilization of her empire, arising from the rude state

in which she found it. This picture he finished. It was a

large and grand composition ; and in respect to beauty,
colour, and effect, was equal to any picture known in the
world. The middle groupe, which received the principal
light, was exquisite in the highest degree.

   The following lines on this picture are an extract from a
Pindarick Ode, by John Taylor, Esq., a man whose benevo-
lence of heart, in addition to his genius, renders hira valuable
to those who have the advantage of knowing him.
              SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                    331

 Reynolds, thy pencil fix'd my wand'ring view,
    Suprenie in genius -- woit'.iy all thy fame;

Thy ni;igic touch to taste and nature true.
    Secures for immortality a name.

Aye -- here's the vig'rous son of am'rous Jove,
   Fruit of sly transports with Amphvtrion's wife.

Whose cradled strength with twining monsters strove,
   And crush'd out, giant-like, the venom'd life.

Ah! Reynolds, why should portrait thee confine,
   Whose stroke can epic force at once impart.

Whose canvas with Homeric fire can shine
   And blaze with all the true sublime of art.

I have understood that Sir Josliua told a friend that the

attitude and expression of the prophet Tiresias, introduced in

the groupe, were taken from those in which he had occasionally-
Itseen his deceased friend Johnson.
                                        may be so, for his eye

and mind were always intent to seize and fix the passing truth ;

and perhaps the truest criticism that ever Dr. Beattie

hazarded on Sir Joshua's works was with regard to this very

picture, when he said, in a letter to Sir William Forbes,

*' Your account of Sir Joshua's new picture is very enter-

taining. It is an unpromising subject ; but Sir Joshua's

imagination v/ill supply every thing."

   When it was finished, and had been exhibited at Somerset

House, it was sent to Russia to the Empress.

Whether this compliment was ever explained to her, or
                                            u u2
332 MEMOIRS OF

whether she was left to suppose it alluded to the fate of her
Ihusbaiul,
            do not know ; however, soon after the picture

arrived at St. Petersburg, Count Woronzow, the Russian

Embassador at the court of England, waited on Sir Joshua

Reynolds to inform him that the picture he painted last year

for the Empress of Russia had been received at St. Petersburgh,

with two sets of his Discourses, one in English, and the other

in French, which, at the desire of her Imperial Majesty, had

been sent with the picture.

   At the same time, Count Woronzow delivered to Sir
Joshua a gold box, enriched with the Empress's portrait, and

very large diamonds, &c., containing a most gracious writing
by her Imperial Majesty's own hand. The Embassador left
also with Sir Joshua a copy of the following letter, which his

Excellency had received from the Empress with the said

valuable present :

Monsieur Le Comte Woronzow,
I" I have read, and,
                             may say, with the greatest avidity,

those Discourses pronounced at the Royal Academy of

London, by Sir Joshua Reynolds, which that illustrious artist

sent me with his large picture ; in both productions one may

easily trace a most elevated genius.

  I" recommend to you to give my thanks to Sir Joshua,
Iand to remit him the box send, as a testimony of the great
Isatisfaction the perusal of his Discourses has given me, and

which look upon as, perhaps, the best work that ever was

wrote on the subject.
I

   SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                    333

   " My portrait, which is on the cover of the box, is of a

composition made at my Hermitage, where they are now at
work about impressions on the stones found there.

  I" expect you will inform me of the price of the large

Ipicture,- on the subject of which have already spoke to you

in another letter.

  IAdieu -- wish you well.       (Signed)  " Catharine.^'

St. Pefersburgh, March 5, 1790.

   The portrait mentioned in the imperial letter, wa^ a basso
relievo of her Majesty : and Sir Joshua's executors afterwards
received fifteen hundred guineas for the painting, which is now
at St. Petersburo;h. An en^ravino; in mezzotinto was taken
from it before it left England ; and another print from it
was done in Russia, by an English artist, patronized by that

court.

I have already noticed the verifying of the authenticity of
IMilton's picture by Sir Joshua, to which
                                           may add a

discovery nearly similar, which has been stated by an

anonymous writer, who says, that in this year he was so

fortunate as also to meet with a valuable head of Oliver

Cromwell, which had long remained concealed from the

prying eye of antiquarian research in the false bottom of a

gold snuff-box ; and which was ascertained to be the original

head painted by Cooper, for the use of Simons the sculptor,

who was then engaged in modelling a resemblance of the
334 MEMOIRS OF

Protector. It was particularly valuable in being the only

picture which Cooper finished of the Protector Oliver ; for
though the artist had prevailed upon Cromwell to sit a second
time, yet, some difference or dispute having taken place, this
latter was never completed, but is in that state now, in the
possession of Sir Thomas Frankland, a descendant from that
extraordinary man.

  It was said that the picture had been shewn to his Majesty ;

and upon that occasion it was smartly observed, " How much
would Charles the First have valued that man who had

brought him the head of Cromwell ?"

   In his thirteenth discourse, delivered this year. Sir Joshua's

object was to shew, in illustration and explanation of his
theory of genius, that art is not merely imitation, but must
be considered as under the direction of the irnagination ; after
which he pointed out how far, and in what manner, painting,
poetry, acting, even architecture and gardening, depart, or
differ, from nature.

Here he laid down what he esteemed as the highest style

of criticism, and, at the same time, the soundest, in referring

solely to the eternal and immutable nature of things ; and

this was, that any specific art, together with its principles,

should be considered in their correspondence with the prin-

ciples of  other arts, or at least of such as address themselves
primarily                                          " When those
           and principally   to the imagination.   " are brought
connected   and kindred     principles," said he,

together to be compared, another comparison will grow out of
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  335

this ; that is^ the comparison of them all with those of human
nature, from whence arts derive the materials upon Avhich
they are to produce their effects. Wlieii this comparison of
art with art, and of all arts with the nature of man, is once

made with success, our guiding lines are as well ascertained
and established as they can be in matters of this description.'*

    Some other truths, inculcated in this discourse, are of such

high importance in general life that I trust I shall be excused

for giving a sketch of them ; whilst, at the same time, they
will display that deep thought which places Sir Joshua on a
level, as a moralist, with the greatest philosophers ; truths,
too, not conceived in the silence of the closet, but extracted

from human nature itself, in its various modifications, as they

passed under his eye, or presented themselves in his daily
intercourse with the ornaments of society.

   He particularly noticed, that there is, in the commerce of
life, as in art, a sagacity which is far from being contrary to
right reason, and is superior to any occasional exercise of
that faculty, which supersedes it, and does not wait for the
slow progress of deduction, but goes at once, by what appears

a kind of intuition, to the conclusion. A man, said he,

endowed with this faculty, feels and acknowledges tlie truth,
though it is not always in his power, perhaps, to give a reason

for it; because he cannot recollect, and bring before him, ail
the materials that gave birth to his opinion ; for very many,

and very intricate considerations may unite to form the
principle, even of small and minute parts, involved in, or
dependent on, a great system of things : though these, in
336 MEMOIRS OF

process of time, are forgotten, the right impression still
remains on the mind.

   This impression, then, collected, we do not always know
how, or when, he considered as the result of the accumulated

experience of our life ; and, therefore, this mass of collective

observation, however acquired, ought to prevail over that
reason which, however powerfully exerted on any particular
occasion, will probably comprehend but a partial view of the
subject. He, therefore, laid it down as a principle, that our

conduct in life, as well as in the arts, is, or ought to be,

generally governed by this habitual reason. It is our

happiness, he added, that we are enabled to draw on such

funds ; if we were obliged to enter into a theoretical

deliberation on every occasion, before we act, life would be

at a stand, and art would be impracticable.

Speaking of " Imitation," he said that it is the lowest style

only of arts, whether of painting, poetry, or music, that may

be said, in the vulgar seme, to be naturally pleasing.  The

higher efforts of those arts, we know by experience, do not

affect minds wholly uncultivated. This refined taste is the

consequence of education and habit ; we are born only with a

capacity of entertaining this refinement, as we are born with a

disposition to receive and obey all the rules and regulations
of society ; and so far it may be said to be natural to us, and

no further."

   His reasonings on the propriety of acting, and on the

pleasures derived from jt, are highly worthy the attention
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  337

both of performers and audience ; but they are too long even

Ito give a slight sketch of them in this place: shall therefore

merely add his own conclusion to this discourse ; when he

says, that " it is allowed on all hands, that facts and events,
however they may bind the Historian, have no dominion over

the Poet or the Painter. With us. History is made to bend
and conform to this great idea of art. And why? Because these

arts, in their highest province, are not addressed to the gross
senses ; but to the desires of the mind, to that spark of
divinity which we have within, impatient of being circum-

scribed and pent up by the world about us. Just so much as

our art has of this, just so much of dignity, I had almost said

of divinity, it exhibits ; and those of our artists who possessed

this mark of distinction in the highest degree, acquired from
thence the glorious appellation of Divine /"

   When Alderman Boy dell projected the scheme of his

magnificent edition of the plays of Shakspeare, accompanied

with large prints from pictures to be executed by EnoHsh
painters, it was deemed to be absolutely necessary that
something of Sir Joshua's painting should be procured to
grace the collection ; but, unexpectedly Sir Joshua appeared to

be rather shy in the business, as if he thought it degrading

himself to paint for a print-seller, and he would not at first

consent to be employed in the work. George Stevens, the
Editor of Shakspeare, now undertook to persuade him to
comply, and taking a bank bill of five hundred pounds in his
liau;], he had an interview with Sir Joshua, when usin<>-

all his eloquence in argument, he in the mean time slipt
                                                  XX
338 MEMOIRS OF

the bank bill into  his hand ;  he then soon Ibund that his
mode of reasoning   was not to  be resisted, and a picture was
promised.

   Sir Joshua now commenced his studies, and no less tlian

three paintings were exhibited at the Shakspeare Gallery, or
at least taken from that poet, the only ones, as has been very
correctly said, which Sir Joshua ever executed for his
illustration, with the exception of a head of King Lear, (done
indeed in 1783) and now in the possession of the Marchioness
of Thomond, and a portrait of the Honourable Mrs.

Tollemache in the character of Miranda, in the " Tempest,"

in which Prospero and Caliban are introduced.

   One of these paintings for the Gallery was Puck, or Robin
Goodfellow, as it has been called, which in point of expression
and animation is unparalleled and one of the happiest
efforts of Sir Joshua's pencil, though it has been said, by some
cold critics, not to be perfectly characteristic of the

merry wanderer of Shakspeare. It is now the property of

Samuel Rogers, Esq. Macbeth, with the Witches and the

Cauldron, was another, and for this Mr. Boydell paid him one

Ithousand guineas ; but who is now the possessor of it know

not.

   The third was Cardinal Beaufort, for which 500 guineas

were paid ; now the property of the Earl of Egremont. Of

this latter picture an artist of great genius always declared

that it united the local colouring of Titian with the Chiaro
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  339

scuro of Rembrandt: this is a just criticism; and another
critic has observed " this picture of the dying Beaufort is
truly an impressive performance ; the general hue of the
picture is consonant to Shakspeare's awful scene --sober --
grand -- solemn.-- The excruciating agony of guilt and fear
that writhes each limb, and fastens his convulsive fingers on
the bed clothes, makes each spectator shudder --and the face
of the dying Cardinal has that agonized and horrid grin

described by the poet.

                     "See how the pangs of death do make him grin."

    This last is common newspaper criticism of which much
was poured forth at the time; for this picture when exhibited
excited great attention, and gave rise to much critical contro-
versy : and with respect to the demon at the pillow of the
dying Cardinal, there have been many objections made ; nay
Sir Joshua was most earnestly importuned to erase it, but
knew better than to comply. These objections require to be
combatted in vindication of the illustrious author of the work,
as he did not seem inclined to do it for himself, although he
could have so amply refuted them.

  It must be allowed that the first business of an historical

painter is to make his picture tell its story distinctly, clearly,
and quickly ; or else he can claim but little merit to himself
above that which belongs to the mechanical part, the mere
operation of his hand.

   The peculiar and characteristic essence of this subject, the

                                                X X2
340 MEMOIRS OF

death of tlie wicked Cardinal Beaufort, is that the dying
man's agonies do not proceed from bodily pain, so much as
from the horrors of a guilty conscience. This is a distinction
in expression, of so nice a kind in respect to its being
pourtrayed, that perhaps Raffaelle himself would have found it
difficult to execute it: yet this important article of information
must of necessity be decidedly and distinctly pronounced, or
the subject is not explained. Even Shakspeare himself in his
text has thought it requisite to employ his imagery in order to
make his intentions more surely to be understood, by making
the King say,

                  " Oh ihon eternal mover of the Heavens,

                       Look with a gentle Eye upon this wretch!
                       Oh beat away the busy meddling fiend
                       That lays stro7ig siege unto this wretch's soul,
                    And from his bosom purge this black despair."

   How much more necessary then is it to the painter, whose
powers in this respect are so much more limited by not being
able to explain those circumstances which are past ?

   However, we have a right to conclude that Sir Joshua was
doubtful of the power in himself, and perhaps of the power in
the art also, to compass the difficulty of explicitly and
distinctly giving the just and clear expression of guilt, in
contradistinction to bodily pain : which Avas absolutely neces-
sary to explain the story ; an explanation which, if not quickly
given, is not well given, for the essence of painting is to
produce and effect an instantaneous impression on the
spectator: the introduction of the demon therefore does this,
I

SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  341

and leads the mind to furtlier inquiry, and to investigate tlie
more hidden excellencies of the work, and prevents the
possibility even for a moment, of mistaking it for the
representation of a man dying in a mere painful bodily

disease.

   The late Mr. Opie in his lectures has touched upon this

same subject, and it is with much gratification that I give the

opinion of this most able critic, as it is so consistent with my

own.

    *' The varied beauties of this work, he says, might well employ

Ia great part of a lecture, but, at present, shall pass them over,

 and attend only to what relates immediately to the question
before us, the effect of the visionary devil, couched close, and
listening eagerly behind the pillow of the dying wretch;
which not only invigorates and clothes the subject in its
appropriate interest and terror, but immediately clears up all
ambiguity, by informing us that those are not bodily
sufferings which we behold so forcibly delineated ; that they are
not merely the pangs of death which make him grin ; but that
his agony proceeds from those daggers of the mind, the
overwhelming horrors of a guilty and awakened conscience.
This was the point, on which rested the whole moral effect of
the piece ; it was absolutely necessary to be understood, and

could by no other means have been so strongly and perspicu-
ously expressed. An expedient, therefore, at once necessary, so

consistent with the spirit of the subject, and so completely

successful, far from being regarded as an unwarrantable license,

is justifiable by all rules of sound criticism, and ought to be
342 MEMOIRS OF

regarded as one of the most signal examples of invention
in the artist."

   Whoever paints to the mind will eventually succeed ; and
no one must be discouraged in the pursuit, because he meets

with contradictory opinions as to the first and most alluring
objects in his picture ; as most persons, especially the

uneducated, see differently : and to obey the capricious and
unsettled humours of each, would be to sacrifice every thing
that is just and noble in the art. An artist should calmly
hear the opinions of all ; but reserve it for the adoption of his

future thought, how far he will or will not alter his design ; --

and he can scarcely hesitate too much, as the first thoughts

are, generally speaking, more vigorous than those conceived
and born after the imagination and this judgment has been
forced into action, and generated in obedience to the wishes
of a cold observer.

    IIt was proposed that Sir Joshua should also have executed
the closet scene in Hamlet ; but            believe it was never

even begun.

    I know it was not his desire to paint any circumstance

in  history of    awacso,m"plTichaatet dit  nature, his   expression to me
on  that subject                            cost him too
                                                          dear.'' His great

pleasure was in those works of fancy in which might be shown

beauty, expression, or character, in a single figure, or at most
not more tjmn two, and in those when of his own choice,

he was unrivalled by either ancient or modern artists.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  343

   How far it had ever been Sir Joshua's intention to paint ont

Ia scene of the play of Hamlet, I do not know, but remember

just about that time, lie repeated to me an observation
of a great man on that very play.

   The illustrious Charles Fox, conversing once with Sir

Joshua Reynolds on the merits and demerits of Shakspeare,

said it was his opinion that Shakspeare's credit would have

stood higher if he had never written, the play of Hamlet.

   This anecdote was told me by Sir Joshua himself.

  I must confess that my own opinion differs very much from

this high authority. It seems to me that if there is one

play of Shakspeare's which denotes genius above the others, it
is that of Hamlet.

   Such an infinite and subtile discrimination of character,

such feeling is displayed in it ; it is rendered so exquisitely
interesting., yet without the help of a regular plot, almost
without a plan ; so like in its simplicity to the progress
of nature itself, that it appears to be an entire effusion of pure

genius alone.

   Besides those historical scenes from Shakspeare which Sir

Joshua executed for that truest and greatest encourager of
English Art, that England ever saw, the late Alderman
Boydell, that gentleman, who reverenced merit of every kind
wherever he found it, also employed Sir Joshua's pencil, as

the greatest painter, to pourtray for him the greatest hero
344 MEMOIRS OF

of his day, the late Lord Heathfield, of Gibraltar ; and this

exquisite portrait, when finished, was exhibited in his gallery
Iin Pall Mall.
                cannot refrain recording a little anecdote as

related by the general, at the time the painter was employed

on the picture, whom he frequently diverted by some curious

narrative, or amused by relating some droll anecdotes ; one

in particular, of a very rich Jew who resided in Prussia at the

time of Frederick the Great, and was in high favour with his

Majesty, and a very useful person to him. Certain apprehen-

sions arising, however, in the Jew's mind, that a very wealthy

subject was not in the most safe situation, while under an

arbitrary Sovereign, he resolved within himself to get out

of the Prussian dominions, together with his property, as soon
as he could accomplish it. But this he saw was not possible to-
be done till he had procured the King's consent. He

therefore in the humblest and most cunning manner wrote to

Frederick to obtain his permission, alleging that both his

health and affairs required his departure. But the more crafty

King, who probably saw through his design, returned this

short but affectionate answer,

                   " My Dear Mordecai,
                            " Nothing but death shall part us.

                                                    *' Frederick."

   The good offices of Sir Joshua through life M'ere not confined

to his intimate friends, but were often extended, particularly
to professional men ; one of whom in a great measure owed

his success in the art to his advice, and to his recommendation

of him, in this year, to the late Dnkc of Rutland, then setting
out on his appointment to the Vice-Royalty of Ireland.
           GKNKRAS.. SIR rGvEoO«RGGEE AUGUSTUS i:uioTi\K,n

7^/('V// //// f>'/f^/^/^'f
           SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  345

  The person I allude to was a Mr. Pack, a native of Norwich,

and Avho, from a fondness for the art, had copied many of Sir

Joshua's paintings with great accuracy, having been strongly

recommended to him by a friend. Some time after this, Mr.
Pack, who was a mercantile man, suffered considerably by his
American connections, and found it expedient to seek for

support from that which he had practised before only as an
amusement; and he was so successful in his Irish trip as to be

tempted to risk his fate in London, where he afterwards
practised with some little degree of fame.

   This liberality of conduct, indeed. Sir Joshua practised
frequently ; and always candidly bestowed praise on his
contemporaries, where due.

   Of Gainsborough, he said, that he could copy Vandyke so

exquisitely, that at a certain distance he could not distinguish
the copy from the original, or the difference between them.

His manner he considered as peculiarly his own, and

as one producing great effect and force ; and one day whilst

examining a picture of his with considerable attention, he at
"Ilength exclaimed,
                     cannot make out how he produces his

effect !"

    Sir Joshua, at the solicitation of Gainsborough, sat one

morning to him for his portrait, but being taken ill soon after
this first sitting, he was obliged to go to Bath for the recovery
of his health, and, at his return, sent to Gainsborough to inform
him, that he was ready to attend at any time he would appoint,
 346 MEMOIRS OF

in order to have the picture finished ; but Gainsborough never
resumed the work, and therefore it was never completed : why
he declined it is not known ; probably because Sir Joshua had
 made no offer to return the compliment by engaging to paint
the portrait of Gainsborough. But Sir Joshua never had such

Ian intention, which heard him declare.

   No further intercourse took place between these two artists
until Gainsborough was on his death-bed, when his better
feelings overcame his capriciousness, and he sent for Sir
Joshua to thank him for the liberal manner in which he had

always spoken of him in public and in private conversation.

    Sir Joshua, indeed, had proved his opinion of his talents, by
paying one hundred guineas for his well known picture of the
** Girl attending Pigs."

   Nothing can be more strongly expressive of Gainsborough's
acknowledged goodness of heart, and of his ardent love
for the profession, than the exclamation uttered whilst
expiring -- We are ail going to Heaven, and Vandyke is of
the party i"

   He was interred, on the 9th of August, in Kew Church-yard,
with his name alone cut on his tomb-stone ; Sir Joshucl being
one of the pall-bearers, together with Sir William Chambers,
Mr. West the present President, Mr. Meyers, and Messrs.
T. Cotes, Sandby, and Bartoiozzi. The ceremony was also
attended by several other gentlemen eminent for abilities,
particularly Mr, Sheridan, &c.
                        SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  347

   On pronouncing his eulogiuni, which took place this year
at the usual delivery of the Discourse, Sir Joshua's praises

were just, instructive, and eloquent.

   The purport of the whole discourse, indeed, turned upon
Gainsborough's character, together with his excellencies and
defects ; and, amongst other reasons for adopting this subject,
he observed, that when we draw our examples from remote

and revered antiquity, Vvith some advantage undoubtedly in
the selection, we expose ourselves to some inconveniencies,

being, perhaps, led away too much by great names, and too
much subdued by overbearing authority. He considered it,
therefore, to be sometimes of service, that our examples should
be near us ; and be such as raise a reverence sufficient to induce

us carefully to observe them, yet not so great as to prevent
us from engaging with them in something like a generous
contention.

With great justness Sir Joshua declared his opinion, that if

ever this nation should produce genius sufficient to acquire for

us the honorable distinction of an English School, then the

name of Gainsborough will be transmitted to posterity, in the

history of the art, among the very first of that rising name :

and after shewing that he had owed much of his excellence to

his love for the  art,  htheeexfporleloswseindghimwsoerdlfs:o--f h"imOfpeGrsaoinnsablloyr,ouwgithh
great candour      in

we certainly know that his passion was not the acquirement

of riches, but excellence in his art ; and to enjoy that
Ihonourable fame which is sure to attend it. -- That he felt this
ruling passion strong in death,  am myself a witnes.s. A few

                        YY2
348 MEMOIRS OF

days before he died, he wrote me a letter to express his

Iacknowledgments for the good opinion entertained of his
Iabilities, and the manner in which (he had been informed)

always spoke of him ; and desired he might see me once more

before he died. I am aware how flattering it is to myself to be

thus connected with the dying testimony which this excellent

painter bore to his art. But I cannot prevail on myself to
Isuppress, that was not connected with him, by any habits

of familiarity: if any little jealousies had subsisted between us,
they were forgotten in those moments of sincerity ; and he

turned towards me as one who was engrossed by the same
pursuits, and who deserved his good opinion by being sensible
of his excellence. Without entering into a detail of what
passed at this last interview, the impression of it upon my
mind was, that his regret at losing life, was principally the
regret of leaving his art ; and more especially as he now began,
he said, to see what his deficiencies were ; which, he said, he
flattered himself, in his last works, were, in some measure,

supplied."

   The remainder of this discourse, the fourteenth, was dedicated
to a comparison of Gainsborough with some other landscape
painters, and it contains many most judicious observations,
alike useful to the critic and the artist.

   Of the many portraits of Sir Joshua himself, by his own
hand, the last which he painted was executed this year ; it is

a three quarter length, with spectacles, representing him

familiarly, as in common domestic life. Of this picture there
are several duplicates : one in the possession of the Duke of
               SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  349

Leeds ; but his niece, the Marchioness of Thomond, possesses
the original.

"  The well known satirical  and descriptive production, called
   Modern Characters from     Shakspeare," was published this

year. The passages, from the Winter's Tale and Timon, applied

to Sir Joshua, are so well selected, that 1 cannot refuse them

a place here.

   The first was -- " That rare master, who, had he himself

eternity, and could put breath into his work, would beguile
nature of her custom." -- The second -- "Admirable! how

this grace spefaks his own standing ! what a mental power
this eye shoots forth ! how big imagination moves in this

lip!"

  I come now to a most unfortunate era in the life of this

great artist, when he encountered a heavy dispensation, the
heaviest that could befal a professional man, the partial loss
of his sight.

   Mr. Malone, whose intimacy with Sir Joshua, at the time,

enabled him to be perfectly correct in his statement, says, that

he for the first time perceived this failure in the month of July,

whilst giving nearly the last finishing to a portrait of the present
Marchioness of Hertford. This, of course, was the last female

portrait which he ever painted ; for, finding it difficult to

proceed, he immediately desisted, and in a few months afterwards
he totally lost the use of his left eye, notwithstanding all the care
of the most skilful practitioners in that branch of surgery.
350 MEMOIRS OF

Amongst the last of his portraits of men, were those of Messrs.
Windham and Cholniondeley, of Lord Macartney, never
finished, and of Mr. Fox.

I mention these circumstances particularly in this place,

because, that he now found it absolutely necessary to abstain
from the use of his pencil, lest his remaining eye should also

be affected ; a determination which cost him great pain, and
required great resolution to adhere to, as it deprived him of

his best and dearest source of enjoyment, though he still
ventured to read a little, or to listen to others ; nor did he

find himself deprived of the society of his friends, his misfortune

not having affected his equal mind so much as to render him

peevish or discontented. Indeed, like a philosopher, he

endeavoured to console himself by the pleasures left him, more

than to lament the loss of those of which he was deprived ;

and of these pleasures, he found many in the friendly intercourse

the Literary C/w^. which, however, was, in some measure,

interrupted by the politics of that period, if we are to judge

"Ifrom a letter of Sir William Jones to Sir Joseph Banks,
written in the latter end of this very year:  wish politics

at the devil, but hope, that when the King recovered. Science

revived. It gives me great pain to know, that party, as it is
called, (I call it faction, because I hold party to be grounded

on principles, and faction on self-interest,) has found its way

into a Literary* Club, who meet reciprocally to impart, and
Ireceive new ideas.
                     have deep-rooted political principles,
Iwhich the law taught me ; but
                                should never think of

introducing them among men of science, and    on my return
                     I
                                     if,

                                      it
to Europe, ten or twelve years hence, should not find more

science than politics in the club, my seat in will be at
                   SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS,  351

the service of any politician who may wish to be one of the
party."

   Sir William Jones, however, did not live to return ; nor did
Sir Joshua, indeed, mingle in those debates to which he
alludes, but preserved the same friendly tenor of conduct and
suavity of manners to his associates there, that he exercised
towards all men in private life ; for politics never amused him

or ever employed his thoughts a moment.

That kindness of manner and readiness to oblige were

particularly exemplified by a little incident which happened

t"hiMs ayleicaer,  thus noticed  by Mr. Dayes, the artist, who says,
                   has charged
                                 him with avarice ; probably from his

not having been prodigal like too many of his profession.

His offer to me proves the contrary. At the time that I made

the drawings of the King at St. Paul's, after his illness,

Reynolds complimented me handsomely on seeing them, and

afterwards observed, that the labour bestowed must have been

Isuch, that could not be remunerated from selling them ;
Ibut if would publish them myself, he would lend me the

money necessary, and engage to get me a handsome subscription

among the nobility."

   An unhappy difference now took place between the President
and the Royal Academy, which made considerable noise, and
has often been related by various writers, according (in some

Imeasure,) to the feelings which they had in the business.

shall endeavour, however, to state the whole affair as impar-
tially as possible ; but according to my own conception of the
352 MEMOIRS OF

business, which is very well told by an obscure author in a
pamphlet published at the time, who says, that in the year
1790, Sir Joshua Reynolds (probably at the request of the

Earl of Aylesford,) possessed a very anxious desire to procure
the vacant professorship of Perspective in the Academy for
Mr. Bonomi, an Italian architect ; and as Mr. Bonomi had
not yet been elected an Associate, and of course was not an
Academician, it became a necessary step to raise him to those
situations, in order to qualify him for being a Professor. The
election proceeded, and Mr. Gilpin was a competitor for the
associateship with the Italian architect. The numbers on the

ballot proved equal ; and the President gave the casting vote

for his friend Mr. Bonomi, who was thereby advanced so far
towards the professorship. On the vacancy bf an academic
seat by the death of Mr. Meyers, Sir Joshua Reynolds
exerted all his influence to obtain it for Mr. Bonomi ; but a

Ispirit of resistance appeared, (owing, believe, to some mis-

conception, or to some informality on the part of Sir Joshua,
in producing some drawings of Bonomi's) and Mr. Fuseli was
elected an Academician by a majority of two to one. The
President then quitted the chair with great dissatisfaction ;
and on the following day (the 12th of February,) Sir Joshua
Reynolds, who for twenty-one years had filled the chair of the
Royal Academy, with honour to himself and his country,
sent his resignation to Mr. Richards, the Secretary of the

Academy.

 A council was soon after held, and the subject of their delibera-
tion was, the resignation of the President. A letter from Sir
Joshua to Mr. Richards was then read, declaring his resolution
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                353

to resign the presidency of the Royal Academy. A letter from
Sir William Chambers to Sir Joshua was also read ; this was
addressed to Sir Joshua, in consequence of Sir William's
interview with the King, in an early stage of this business ;
and, ai^iong other flattering
                               marks of the Sovereign's favour,
the letter expressed, " That   his Majesty would be happy in

Sir Joshua's continuing in the President's chair."

   Sir Joshua's letter to Sir William  Chambers, in reply, stated
in effect, " That he inferred his      conduct must have been

hitherto satisfactory to his Majesty, from the very gratifying

way in which his Royal pleasure had been declared ; and, if

any inducement could make him depart from his original
resolution, the will of his Sovereign would prevail ; but that,

flattered by his Majesty's approval to the last, there could be

nothing that was not perfectly honourable in his resignation ;

and that, in addition to this determination, as he could not

consistently hold the subordinate distinction of Royal Acade-

mician, alter he had so long possessed the chair, he begged
also to relinquish that honour."

  All idea of now soothing Sir Joshua, by any proceeding of

the Academy, since the Sovereign's wishes had been of no avail,

was rejected as superfluous and inconsistent.

   Immediately on Sir Joshua's resignation, the following lines

were addressed to him by a Nobleman of genius, which I

insert because they contain characteristic truths, and elegance
of poetry. Some other verses were addressed to hira by
different persons but none of equal merit.

                                                   zz
354 MEMOIRS OF

                    TO SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS, &C. &C.

                     Too wise for contest, and too meek for strife,
                 Like Lear, oppress'd by those you rais'd to life,
                 Thy sceptre broken, thy dominion o'er.
                    The curtain falls, and thou'rt a king no more.
                    Still near the wreck of thy demolished state.
                  Truth, and the weeping Muse with me shall wait ;
                    Science shall teach Britannia's self to moan,
                  And make, O injured Friend ! thy wrongs her own.

                   " Shall we forget when, with incessant toil.
                  To thee 'twas given to turn this stubborn soil;
                  To thee with flowers to deck our dreary waste.
                  And kill the poisonous weeds of vicious taste;
                  To pierce the gloom where England's genius slept,
                  Long of soft love and tenderness bereft ;

                    From his young limbs to tear the bands away,
                  And bid the infant giant run and play?

                         Dark was the hour, the age an age of stone.
                   When Hudson claimed an empire of his own;
                     And from the time when, darting rival light,
                     Vandyke and Rubens cheered our northern night,
                     Those twin stars set, the Graces all had fled,
                   Yet paused to hover o'er a Lely's head ;
                   And sometimes bent, when won with earnest prayer,
                 To make the gentle Kneller all their care ;
                   But ne'er with smiles to gaudy Verrio turned ;
                   No happy incense on his altars burned.
                   O witness, Windsor, thy too passive walls,
                   Thy tortured ceilings, thy insulted halls!
                    Lo ! England's glory, Edward's conquering son,
                   Cover'd with spoils from Poictiers bravely wonj
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                       355

Yet no white plumes, no arms of sable hue,

Mark the young hero to our ravished view ;
In buskin trim, and laurelled helmet bright,

A well-dressed Roman meets our puzzled sight ;

And Gallia's captive king, how strange his doom,
A Roman too perceives himself become !

   " See too the miracles of God profaned,         hear.
By the mad daubings of this impious hand.

For while the dumb exult in notes of praise,
While the lame walk, the blind in transport gaze,
While vanquished demons Heaven's high mandates
And the pale dead spring from the silent bier ;
With laced cravat, long wig, and careless mien.
The painter's present at the wondrous scene !

   " Vanloo and Dahl, these may more justly claim
A step still higher on the throne of fame ;

Yet to the west their course they seem to run,

The last red streaks of a declining sun.

" And must we Jervas name ? so hard and cold,

In ermine, robes, and peruke only bold ;

Or when inspired, his rapturous pencil own

The roUed-up stocking, and the damask gown.

Behold a tasteless age in wonder stand.

And hail him the Apelles of the land !
And Denner too ; --but yet so void of ease.

His figures tell you they're forbid to please ;

Nor in proportion, nor expression nice.

The strong resemblance is itself a vice :

As wax-work figures always shock the sight,        ·\

Too near to human flesh and shape, affright,       ^

And when they best are form'd afford the least delight. ^

   " Turn we from such to thee, whose nobler art

Rivets the eye, and penetrates the heart

                                  z z2
                         MEMOIRS OF

To thee whom nature, in thy earliest youth,
Fed with the honey of eternal truth :
Then, by her fondling art, in happy hour,
Enticed to learning's more sequest'red bovver.
There all thy life of honours first was planned.
While nature preached, and science held thy hand.
When, but for these, condemned perchance to trace
The tiresome vacuum of each senseless face.
Thou in thy living tints had ne'er combined
All grace of form, and energy of mind.
How^, but for these, should we have trembling fled
The guilty tossings of a Beaufort's bed ;
Or let the fountain of our sorrows flow
At sight of famished Ugolino's woe ?
Bent on revenge, should we have pensive stood
O'er the pale cherubs of the fatal wood.
Caught the last perfume of their rosy breath.
And viewed them smiling at the stroke of death ?
Should we have questioned, stung witli rage and pain.
The spectre line witii the distracted Thane ?
Or with Alcmena's natural terror wild,
From the envenomed serpent torn her child ?

   " And must no more thy pure and classic page

Unfold its treasures to the rising age ?
Jsor from thy own Athenian temple pour
 On listening youth of art the copious store;
Hold up to labour inde[ endent ease.
And teach ambition all the ways to please;

With ready hand neglected Genius save,

Sickening, o'erlook'd in Misery"'s hidden cave;
And, nobly just, decide the active mind
Neither to soil, nor climate is confined

   " Desert not then thy sons, those sons who soon
Will moutn with me, and all their error own.
                 SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                    357

    Thou must excuse that raging fire, the same
    Which lights their daily course to endless fame;

    Alas! impels them thoughtless far to stray

    From filial love, and Reason's sober way.

    Accept again thy power, resume the chair,
    " Nor leave
    ;                              till you place an Equal there."

                              it,
    Even Peter Pindar, in his eccentric way, laments also what
is
he considered as improper treatment of this great painter, and
in his verse attempts to immortalize that head which had so
often, assisted by its hand, immortalized the heads of so many
others and this the witty poet compares to that of
Orpheus, which, on his being torn in pieces, was carried down
the stream and drifted to the island of Lesbos. The passage

   in one of his Lyric Odes.

            *' Now I've been thinking, our Reynolds' headif
     Should, on his palette, down the Thames drive souse,
    if                                             ;
            And mindful of the walls he once array'd
        a                                   J                   j
                  aBring to, bit, at Somerset new house
           What scramblings there would be, what worlds of pains      ;
                      a
            Among the artists to possess his brains.
                                         !And like Neanthus for great Orpheus' lyre.

                        ISome for his palette would be raising frays,

    In hopes, no doubt, the wood would each inspire
           To paint like him for-- fame in better days

    As soldier, who'd no legs to use.
    Should fight for his dead comrade's boots and shoes.

           Reynolds, when reflect what sons of fame
    Have shar'd thy friendship, with sighs regret
    That all have died a little in thy debt,

           And left trump unknown to swell thy name
    But courage friend when Time's relentless tooth
    Hath nibbled mountains to the ground smack smooth
358                                MEMOIRS OF

     And pick'd, as one would pick a savoury bone,

     Each monument of iron, and brass, and stone ;--
     Thy name shall live, and like heav'n's sacred fire

     Succeeding artists kindle, and inspire."

    Every Academician now regretted the unforeseen conse-
quence of the unfortunate disagreement ; however, the whole
body showed so liberal a desire to retain Sir Joshua in the
chair, that, after agitating those unpleasant differences between
the president and the academy with as much delicacy as
possible, it was determined that a delegation of the following
gentlemen, to wit, Messrs. West, Farington, Cosway, Catton,
Sandby, Bacon, Copley, Barry, and Rigaud, should wait
upon Sir Joshua, and lay before him the resolution which the
Academy had come to in order to produce a conciliatory
effect. The resolution was in substance as follows :

   " That it appeared, when the drawings of Mr, Bonomi

were introduced at the election, Sir Joshua, by whose
directions they were brought in, had certainly acted in
conformity to the intentions of the council, as appeared by an
order entered on their books ; but that, such order not going
through the regular forms necessary to constitute a law, the
full body of Academicians remained ignorant of the
proceeding, and therefore fell into an error in ordering the
drawings to be removed. But, as they unanimously professed
that no personal disrespect was intended towards Sir Joshua,
they trusted he would be prevailed upon to comply with the
wishes of the King, and continue in the Presidency of the
Royal Academy."
Slit JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  359

    The above delegates accordingly waited upon Sir Joshua,
to intreat him to withdraw his letter of resisfnation, and
resume his situation as President of an institution to which

his talents had been so long an essential support. They had
an interview with him at his house in Leicester Square, and
were received with great politeness ; and every mark of respect
was expressed by those who had hitherto been deemed least
cordial to the interests of the President. Upon a full expla-
nation of the intentions and views of the Academy being
made, and their wishes expressed that Sir Joshua would
continue to adorn the presidency, he, after a handsome
declaration of his gratitude for this honorable proceeding
towards him, consented to resume the chair, and the whole of

the delegates were invited to dine with him, in order to
convince them that he returned to his office with sentiments
of the most cordial amity.

   On the suggestion of Lord Lansdowne, it was thought that Sir
Joshua could not resume the chair till he had the proper
authority of the King. For this, in due form. Lord

Lansdowne applied ; and when granted, this great artist
attended at Somerset House, to be restored to all his honours

in full assembly of the members.

   Shortly after this, Sir Joshua delivered his fifteenth and
^ast discourse, in which he took leave of the Academy, on
the 10th of December, 1790 : a discourse which gave a foreign

artist, of considerable celebrity, occasion to say, that if he

had only heard this final oration in praise of Michael

AngelOj and seen that great national ornament, Somerset.
360 MEMOIRS OF

House, he should have been certain that the English nation
were far advanced in the highest departments of art.

   On this interesting occasion, Sir Joshua observed, that the
intimate connexion which he had maintained with tlie Royal
Academy ever since its establishment, and the social duties
in which he and its members had been mutually engaged for
so many years, rendered any profession of attachment on his
part altogether superfluous ; as, independent of other causes,
such attachment would naturally have been produced in such
a connexion, by the influence of habit alone. He modestly
liinted at the little differences which had arisen : but
expressed his wish that such things should be lost amongst
the members in mutual esteem for talents and acquirements,
and that every controversy would be sunk in general zeal for
the perfection of that art common to them all.

   In parting with the Academy, he declared that he would

remember with pride, aft'ection, and gratitude, the support
with which he had almost uniformly been honoured, from the
commencement of the Establishment ; and that he should
leave it with unaftected cordial wishes for its future concord,
and with a well-founded hope, that in that concord, the aus-
picious, and not obscure, origin of the Academy, might wo^ be
forgotten in the splendor of succeeding prospects.

   He then, with his usual modesty, assigned his reasons for
thus voluntarily giving those periodical discourses.

  If" prizes were to be given, it appeared not only proper
r

SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  361

but almost indispensably necessary, that something should be
said by the President on the delivery of those prizes, and the
President, for his own credit, would wish to say something
more than mere words of compliment ; which, by being
frequently repeated, would soon become flat and uninteresting,
and by being uttered to many, would at last become a

Idistinction to none. I thought, therefore, if were to preface

this compliment with some instructive observations on the art,

Iwhen we crowned merit in the artists whom we rewarded,

might do something to animate and guide them in their future

attempts."

   Though Sir Joshua had not actually made his final
resignation at this period, yet it is evident that he contem-
plated it, as he observed that his age and infirmities made it
probable that this would really be his last address ; and he
added, with a degree of philosophy worthy of imitation, that
excluded as he was from indulging his imagination with a
distant and forward perspective of life, so he trusted that he
would be excused for turning his eyes back on the way that

he had passed.

   To follow him through this review of his professional life

Iand discourses would far exceed my proposed limits ; but

may be permitted to say, that if he did not absolutely feel the
ruling passion strong in death, yet he appeared to express its
strongest sentiments in what may thus be called his profes-
sional demise, which he concluded with these remarkable
words, after having expatiated on the exalted genius of
his favourite master --

                                                         3A
362 MEMOIRS OF

I" feel a self-congratulation in knowing myself capable of
                                           I reflect, not
such sensations as he intended to excite.

without vanity, that these discourses bear testimony of my

Iadmiration of that truly divine man ; and should desire that
Ithe last words which should pronounce in this Academy,

and from this place, might be the name of--Michael Angela

   On the evening of the delivery of this discourse one
remarkable circumstance occurred, which, at the moment, not

a little alarmed the company there assembled, and which was

this. At the time when Sir Joshua was delivering his oration

to a very numerous and even crowded audience, composed of
persons of the highest rank in the state, as well as all those
who were the most eminent in art, and just at the moment when

a respectful and solemn silence prevailed, on a sudden, a loud

crash was heard, and a sensation felt, as if the floor of this

great room, which is at the top of the house, was giving way
and falling. The company immediately took the alarm, and
rushed towards the door, or to the sides of the room, tumbling
one over the other, in the utmost confusion and consternation,

expecting, every moment, that the floor would fall away, and
precipitate them down to the lower part of the building.

   Sir Joshua was silent, but did not move from his seat :
when, after some little time, the company perceiving that
the danger had ceased, most of them resumed their places, and
Sir Joshua calmly continued his discourse, as coolly as if

nothing extraordinary had occurred.

On an examination of the floor afterwards, it was found
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.              363

that one of the beams for its support had actually given way
from the great weight of the assembly of persons who pressed

upon it, and probably from a flaw also in the wood.

  I remember the remark Sir Joshua made on this accident

was, that if the floor had really fallen, most of the persons

assembled must have been crushed to death in consequence ;

and if so, the arts, in this country, would have been thrown

two hundred years back.

   But, providentially, no ill effect was produced by the

circumstance.

It was the opinion of Sir Joshua Reynolds, that Michael

Angelo was superior to the ancients, as he once declared to

Ime ; and on my not according with him in that opinion,

remember he said, " You have the strongest party in the

argument, because you have the world on your side.^' But at

Ithis time am more inclined to think with him, at least thus

far, that in the works of Michael Angelo there always

appears to be an exquisite sentiment produced ; but from the

antique, nothing of that which he inspires. The antique

gives us, undoubtedly, a more perfect example of just
Iproportions, and of characters.
                                  apprehend the same

qualities run through all their works of every species : their

dramas seem to be the works of men of most powerful heads,

and therefore the most proper models for the schools, as, in

them, nothing that is wrong can be found; and we may

therefore assist our judgment, by the help of their examples,

as infallible guides, which examples can be reduced to rules.

3A2
364 MEMOIRS OF

But the feelings of the heart admit of but little assistance or
improvement irom fixed rules. Thus, he who may have
settled his notions of perfection from the models of the ancient
dramas, and supposes nothing can surpass them in any quality
whatever, must be struck with astonishment and admiration^
when, for the first time, he contemplates the pages of
Shakspeare, where such various sensations, subtle and refined;
are described. Yet Shakspeare cannot, like the ancients, be
admitted as a model for the schools, inasmuch as he is
irregular and licentious, and his excellencies, like all those of
genius, cannot be taught.

  It must have been in this view that Sir Joshua saw a

superiority in Michael Angelo over the antique ; as surely he
could not think him equal to them in just proportion, or in
the decision and propriety of character.

    Some attempts may be discovered in his practice to imitate
Michael Angelo ; and more to imitate Corregio : but it is
evident, that his whole life was devoted to his finding out the
Venetian mode of colouring ; in the pursuit of which he
risked both his fame and his fortune.

    This being nearly the close of Sir Joshua's professional

Ilife, may remark, that, for some years, his price had been

fifty guineas for a head portrait, the other sizes being in
proportion. On this subject, a friend observed to him, that

it certainly seemed to be a great demand ; but that when it

was taken into consideration how many pictures were left
upon his hands, and never paid for, it would not amount to
                   SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.              365

more, perhaps, than ten guineas for each, individually, which

was too   small a  p"rictee.n   To this Sir Joshua   smilingly replied,
that he   thought                                    a very reasonable
                               guineas for each was

profit."

  I recollect a circumstance of a certain lady who came to

Sir Joshua to have her portrait painted by him, a short time
before he raised his price to its final extent ; but on her
asking his demand, and being informed that it was forty
guineas for the half length, she started, saying that she did not

apprehend his terms to be so high, adding, that she must take
some time to consider upon it. Shortly after, this lady paid
Sir Joshua another visit, and informed him, that she had now

made up her mind, and was come to a resolution to comply
with his proposed terms ; when he acquainted her with his

price being raised ; and, of course, that what would have been
forty, was now sixty guineas. Thus, doubly mortified, the

lady saw there was no alternative ; and she frankly owned,
that she would have her portrait drawn by him at any price ;
and accordingly sat for it.

   Though now contemplating a secession from public life,
Sir Joshua did not feel any decrease in his love for the
art, or in his good wishes for the profession, sentiments
strikingly evinced by his general conduct at all times, and
particularly so in the year 1791 ·

   He had, during the course of his professional labours,
procured a very large and valuable collection of paintings,
the works of the old masters ; and his assemblage of prints was
366 MEMOIRS OF

highly valuable and interesting. So great, indeed, was his

desire to render his collection a good one, that, as Mr. Dayes

very accurately states, he offered to cover twice with guineas,

as the price of purchase, the picture of the " Witch coming
from Hell with a lapfuU of Charms," by Teniers ; but this
was refused. Yet it is pleasing to record, that he afterwards

possessed this very picture ; and, as he modestly declared, by
only painting a portrait, a fancy subject, and giving another of
his own works, already executed. The sum which he offered
would have amounted to near one thousand s^uineas 1

   In this collection he had what he thought to be an oil
painting of his favorite, Michael Angelo -- a Madona and
Child. But this involves a question which no one can deter-
mine ; for if it was by Michael Angelo it would be invaluable

 indeed, not so much from its intrinsic merit, as from the
extreme rarity of oil paintings from the pencil of that artist,
 and of which there are, indeed, very few in existence ; for

 oil-painting, he used to say, " was only fit for women and

 children !"*

    Still, however. Sir Joshua's professed admiration of him
 was so great, that Angelo's head was engraved on his seal ;
 and he also introduced his bust in that portrait which he
 painted of himself for the Royal Academy, and has marked
 the name of Michael Angelo on the paper held in the hand
 of his portrait, now in the Gallery at Florence.

                           * He had also a Study by the same master.
                     SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  367

So anxious was Sir Joshua Reynolds for the diffusion of a

good taste in the art, and that future students might lind a

practical commentary on those precepts which he had now

ceased to deliver, that he, in the most liberal manner, offered

to the Academy this collection of paintings at a very low

price, on the condition that they would purchase the Lyceum

in the Strand for the purpose of constructing an exhibition

room. This generous offer, however, for several reasons, was
declined ; yet this must still be a subject of regret when we

consider the various testimonies which Sir Joshua has left, to

the merit of the great masters, and the necessity of often

referring to them ; and whilst so many well selected works were

in this collection. In one place he exclaims, " On whom,

then, can the student rely, or who shall shew him the path'

that leads to excellence ? The answer is obvious : those

great masters who have travelled the same road with success,

are the most likely to conduct others. The works of those

who have stood the test of ages, have a claim to that respect
and veneration to which no mortal can pretend. The duration

and stability of their fame are sufficient to evince that it has

not been suspended upon the slender thread of fashion and

caprice, but bound to the human heart by every tie of

sthyamtpa"thOeutirc   approbation."   He follows this up by adding,
                     minds should be  habituated to the contemplation

of excellence, and, far from being contented to make such

habits the discipline of our youth only, we should, to the last

moment of our lives, continue a settled intercourse with all

the true examples of grandeur. Their inventions are not

only the food of our infancy, but the substance which supplies

the fullest maturity of our vigour,"
S68 MEMOIRS OF

   His often repeated advice then was, -- " Study, therefore,

the great works of the great . masters for ever. Study, as
nearly as you can, in the order, in the manner, on the
principles, on which they studied. Study nature attentively,
but always with those masters in your company ; consider
them as models which you are to imitate, and at the same
time as rivals which you are to combat."

   Failing in his attempt to establish a gallery for his pictures,
Sir Joshua in this year, (1791,) determined to make a tempo-
rary exhibition of them ; and this took place in the month
of April, at an apartment in the Haymarket, which had
formerly been that of Ford the auctioneer. To this, the price
of admission was one shilling ; and as the profits arising from

the exhibition were generously given by him to his old

servant, Ralph Kirkley, so in the catalogue it was designated
as, Ralph's Exhibition."

   Hitherto, Sir Joshua's personal health had not forsook him,
and indeed, Mr. Malone states that in September of this

year, he was in such health and spirits, that on returning to

London from Gregories in Buckinghamshire, the seat of their
mutual friend Edmund Burke, he and Sir Joshua left his

carriage at the Inn at Hayes, and walked five miles on

the road    in  a warm     day, without his complaining of any
            He   had at  that time, though above sixty-eight years
fatigue. "

of age, the appearance of a man not much beyond fifty, and

seemed as likely to live for ten or fifteen years, as any of his

younger friends.'^
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                    369

   In October, hovveverj his spirits became much depressed,

as he then entertained strong apprehensions respecting a
tumour which had been for some time collecting over his left

eye. This was now accompanied by a considerable degree of
inflammation, which rendered him fearful that his right eye

might also be affected, and the surgeons adopted every means
in their power to discuss it. but without effect ; for it was
afterwards discovered to consist merely of extravasated blood,

and had no connection with the optic nerve.

He was so impressed, however, with a knowledge of his own

state of health, that he now determined to retire from the

situation of President; and  accordingly he  addressed  a letter to
                              his intention  to resign  the office
the Academy, " intimating

on account of bodily infirmities, which disabled him from

executing the duties of it to his own satisfaction."

   This was dated on the 10th of November ; and on the 15th,
a meeting of all the Academicians being called for the election
of associates to that body, Mr. West, the present President, laid
the letter before them, which was received with the most
respectful concern by his long tried companions, to whom his
talents and virtues were so well known.

  It was now proposed to embody a resolution whose purport

should be that a deputation should wait on Sir Joshua to
express their regret at this determination, and their wish that
he might still retain the office, but appoint a deputy to
execute its more laborious duties. This office was bestowed
on, and accepted by, Mr. West, as a temporary arrangement ;

                                                       3B
370 MEMOIRS OF

but Sir Josliua was never able afterwards to resume any of his
functions; for as Mr. Malone ' observes, "he laboured under .
a much more dangerous disease, (than that connected M'ith the
state of his eyes,) which deprived him of his wonted spirits
and his appetite, though he was wholly unable to explain to
his physicians the nature or seat of his disorder."

   During the course of Sir Joshua's active life, he had passed

his days in a state of professional honour and social enjoyment,
that has scarcely been equalled, and never surpassed by any of

his predecessors in art. He had been blessed also with an
excellent constitution by nature. Of these advantages he was

Ivery sensible, and well remember a remark he once made to
Ime, saying, " have been fortunate in an uninterrupted share

of good health and success for thirty years of my life:
therefore, whatever ills may attend on the remainder of my

Idays, shall have no right to complain."

   But infirmities more than age seemed to rufh upon him in
the decline of life, and were naturally embittered by the
sudden contrast. He had from the beginning of his malady a
fixed apprehension that it would end fatally to him, yet death
was slow in its approach, which he surveyed with the fortitude

of a philosopher, and the piety of a christian.

   When a  friend attempted to give him comfort   in the hope  of
returning                                        know that     all
           health. He calmly answered, " I
Ithings on earth must have an end, and now am come to mine."

It was not more than a fortnight before his death, it was
                             SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

discovered that his disorder was occasioned by a diseased liver,
which had confined him three painful months to his bed.

   Thus, not having completed his sixty-ninth year, he was
taken from the world which admired him, and the country
whicli he adorned, on Thursday evening, February the 23rd,
1792. His friends had for some considerable time conceived
that he was low spirited, without material cause ; but on his
being opened by Mr. Hunter, a preternatural enlargement
of the liver, to more than double the usual size, sufficiently
accounted for his depression and his death.

  IThus have humbly attempted to trace the rise, and progress

to the final dissolution, of Sir Joshua Reynolds, the nation's
ornament, and the favourite of an approving world, taken
from it when in the height of his professional honours, and in
the full possession of an established fame --an artist and a man
of whom scarce any praise can be too high.

  ITo sum up his character in brief shall here insert the

eulogium of Burke, written on the impulse of the moment,
and which is alike creditable to the memory of departed
genius, and to the ready talent of the surviving friend.

   " Last nighf, in the sixty-ninth year of his age, died, at his
house in Leicester-fields, Sir Joshua Reynolds. His illness

was long, but borne with a mild and cheerful fortitude, without
the least mixture of any thing irritable or querulous ; agreeably
to the placid and even tenour of his whole life. He had, from
the beginning of his malady, a distinct view of his dissolution ;

                                                       3B 2
372 MEMOIRS OF

and he contemplated it with that entire composure, which
nothing but the innocence, integrity, and usefuhiess of his life,
and an unaffected submission to the will of Providence, could
bestow. In this situation he had every consolation from

family tenderness, which his own kindness had, indeed, well
deserved.

   " Sir Joshua Reynolds was, on very many accounts, one of

the most memorable men of his tim^. He was the first
Englishman who added the praise of the elegant arts to the
other glories of his country. In taste, in grace, in facility,
in happy invention, and in the richness and harmony of
colouring, he was equal to the greatest masters of the renowned
ages. In portrait he went beyond them ; for he communi-
cated to that description of the art, in which English artists
are the most engaged, a variety, a fancy, and a dignity, derived
from the higher branches, which even those who professed
 them in a superior manner, did not always preserve, when
they delineated individual nature. His portraits remind the
-spectator of the invention, of history, and the amenity of
 landscape. In painting portraits, he appeared not to be
 raised upon that platform, but to descend upon it from a
 higher sphere. His paintings illustrate his lessons, and his
 lessons seem to be derived from his paintings.

        He possessed the theory as perfectly as the practice of his
 art. To be such a painter, he was a profound and penetrating
 philosopher.

    '* In full affluence of foreign and domestic fame, admired by
                           I
                                                                         I

SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.          373

the expert in art, and by the learned in science, courted by
the great, caressed by Sovereign powers, and celebrated by
distinguished poets, his native humility, modesty, and candour,
never forsook him even on surprize or provocation ; nor was
the least degree of arrogance or assumption visible to the
most scrutinizing eye in any part of his conduct or discourse. '

   " His talents of every kind, powerful from nature, and not

meanly cultivated by letters, his social virtues in all the
relations and all the habitudes of life, rendered him the centre
of a very great and unparalleled variety of agreeable societies,
which will be dissipated by his death. He had too much merit
not to excite some jealousy, too much innocence to provoke
any enmity. The loss of no man of his time can be felt Av^ith

more sincere, general, and unmixed sorrov\\

" HAIL ! AND FAREWELL ! "  ,

   All the periodical journals of the time teemed with eulogies

on the character of this eminent man ; but they are too
numerous to insert here, although several of them v/ere
extremely well written : but of this of Burke's, it was said by
a contemporary journalist, that it was the eulogium of ApcUes
pronounced by Pericles, and that to attempt to add to it,

would be to risk the same censure that would be passed upon
an inferior artist who should presume to retouch one of Sir
Joshua's own pictures.

   What now remains to be detailed, is the account of his

Ifuneral ; and shall, in this, avail myself partly of copying
374 MEMOIRS OP

some particulars of that solemn ceremony as they were drawn
up for the public prints, by the pens, it is said, of Messrs. Burke
and Malone in conjunction -- a very just statement given with
simplicity and feeling, and worthy of its subject.

  It may be necessary to premise, that Mr. Burke applied by

letter to the Council of the Royal Academy, soon after Sir
Joshua's decease, requesting that the apartment allotted to
the exhibition, might then be prepared in the usual forms of
solemnity, in order that the body might lie there in state
previous to interment, so that the last sad tribute to his
memory might take place from that spot so often embellished
by the effusions of his magic pencil.

   The Academy felt the requisition too forcibly, not to consent
immediately, with one solitary exception ; however, this
opposition was sufficiently powerful to hold its ground against
all the united voices, until silenced by an express order from
the Royal Patron that every possible honour should be paid
to the memory of their venerable President.

   Therefore, acting under this express order of his Majesty, a
condescension highly honourable to the memory of Sir Joshua
Reynolds, and exceedingly gratifying to the wishes of that
Society of eminent Artists --every thing being finally arranged,
the corpse, in a coffin covered with black velvet, was removed
from Leicester-fields to Somerset-house on the night of Friday,
the 2nd of March, where it lay in state that night, and until
the beginning of the funeral procession, in the Model-room of
the Academy which was hung with black cloth and lighted by
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS-  375

chandeliers, whilst an escutcheon of arms was emblazoned

at the head of the room ; the hour of noon on the following day
being appointed for the performance of the obsequies.

   On Saturday, the 3rd of March, 1792, the expectation of
this solemnity had filled all the streets, through which the
procession was to pass, with people innumerable of all ranks,
as well as the windows of every house; but the passage of all
carriages, except those which were to form the procession,
was strictly prevented by peace officers stationed for that
purpose, and all the shops in the line of procession were

closely s.hut up.

   Independent of those who, according to the arrangement,
were to form the funeral cavalcade, the greatest part of the
most distinfruished individuals in the kingdom had assembled

at Somerset-house, anxious to pay the last melancholy duties
to him whom they had been accustomed to love for his
virtues, and to respect for his talents ; and many more v/ere
prevented by illness and unexpected and unavoidable necessity,
from paying this mark of respect, to their great regret.

   The persons, who attended the funeral, assembled in the
Council-chamber and Library of the Royal Academy, and the

Academicians in the great Exhibition-i^oom ; and as many others
as could be admitted with propriety into the procession, were
permitted to join it ; and though the company were very select,
yet so extended was the line of carriages, that the procession

required nearly two hours to move from Somerset-house to
376 MEMOIRS OF

St. Paul's : and the last carriage had only set off from the

former place just as the City Marshals, who led the procession,
had arrived at the doors of the Cathedral.

The order of the procession was arranged as follows:

Twelve peace officers to clear the way.

  Two City Marshals on horseback.

Lord Mayor's Carriage.

Two Sheriffs of London.

The Undertaker and ten Conductors on horseback.

            A Lid with plumes of feathers.

The Hearse with six horses.

Ten Pall-bearers, viz.

Duke of Dorset, Lord High Steward of His Majesty's

Household,

Duke of Leeds, Duke of Portland,

Marquis Townshend, Marquis of Abercorn,

Earl of Carlisle, Earl of Inchiquin,

Earl of Upper Ossory, Lord Viscount Palmerston,

Lord Eliot.

Robert Lovel Gwatkin, Esq. Chief Mourner.

Two Attendants of the family, one of them Mr. Marchi.

Right Honourable Edmund Burke.    1

Edmond Malone, Esq.

Philip Metcalfe, Esq.

The Council of the Royal Academy.

The Keeper. The Treasurer.

The Secretary. The Librarian.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                                                                    377

Professors.

Mr. T. Sandby, Mr. Barry,

Bennet Langton, Esq.                         James Boswell, Esq.
                   (m ancient literatuip.)
             Academicians,                     (Secretary for foreign correspondence.)

                                            two and two.

                  Associates, two and two.

Artists, not Members of the Royal Academy.

Students.

   After these there followed, the Archbishop of York,
Marquis of Buckingham, Earls of Fife and Carysfort, Bishop
of London, Lords St. Asaph, Fortescue, Somers, and Lucan,
the Dean of Norwich, Right Honourable William Windham,
Sirs Abraham Hume, George Beaumont, Thomas Dundas,

Charles Bunbury, and William Forbes, Barts. Drs. George

Fordyce, Ash, Brocklesby, and Blagden ; also the following
Members of Parliament, Sir William Scott, George Rose,
John RoUe, William Weddell, Reginald Pole Carew, Matthew
Montague, Richard P. Knight, Dudley North, and John

Cleveland, Esquires ; to whom we may add other gentlemen,
viz. Richard Clark, Charles Townley, Abel Moysey, Welbore

Ellis Agar, William Seward, Edward Jerningham, Richard

Burke," Thomas Coutts, J. J. Angerstein, Edward Gwatkin,

Charles Burney, John Hunter, William Cruikshank, and

John Devaynes, Esqrs. together with Colonel Gwynn,
Captain Pole, Mr. Kemble, Dr. Lawrence, Mr. Alderman

Boydell, Messrs. Poggi, Breda, &c. &;c. &c.

   This company was conveyed in forty-two mourning coaches,
whilst forty-nine coaches belonging to the nobility and gentry,
followed the procession.

                                                     3c
                   MEMOIRS OF

   Tlie statement  of which I have    spoken,   goes on to   detail
that at half past                     interred  the body of
                   three o'clock was                         " Sir

Joshua Reynolds, Knt. Doctor of Laws in the Universities of

Oxford and Dublin, Principal Painter to his Majesty,

President of the Royal Academy of Painting, Sculpture, and

Architecture, of London, Fellow of the Royal Society,

Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries, and Member of the

Imperial Academy at Florence."

   The spot selected for the grave was in the crypt underneath
the body of the Cathedral, next to that of Dr. Newton, late
Bishop of Bristol, " and close by the tomb of the famous Sir

Christopher Wren, the architect of that edifice."

   On this solemn occasion it was still some consolation to

reflect, that the company who attended it consisted of a great
number of the most distinguished persons, who were emulous
in their desire of paying the last honours to the remains of
him whose life had been employed in the exertions of the

highest talents, and in the exercise of those virtues that make a

man respectable and beloved.

   Never was a public solemnity conducted with more decorum
and dignity. The procession set out at half an hour after
twelve o'clock. The hearse arrived at the great western gate
of St. Paul's about a quarter after two, and was there met by
the Dignitaries of the church, and by the gentlemen of the

choir, who chaunted the proper Psalms, while the procession
moved to the entrance of the choir, where was performed, in a
superior manner, the full choir evening service, together with
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  379

the famous anthem of Dr. Boyce ; the body remaining during
the whole time in the centre of the choir. The chief mourner

and gentlemen of the Academy, having long cloaks of black,
as of the family, were placed by the body ; the chief mourner

in a chair at the head ; the two attendants at the feet ; the

Pall-bearers and Executors in the seats on the decanel side ;

the other noblemen and gentlemen on the cantorial side. The
Bishop of London was in his proper place, as were the Lord
Mayor and Sheriffs.

       After the service, the body was conveyed into the crypt,
and placed immediately beneath the perforated brass plate^
under the centre of the dome. Dr. Jefferies, Canon Residentiary,
with the other Canons, and the whole choir, came under the
dome ; the grave digger attending in the middle with a shovel
of mould, which at the proper time was thrown through the
aperture of the plate, on the coffin. The funeral service was
chaunted, and accompanied on the organ in a grand and
affecting manner. When the funeral service was ended, the
Chief Mourner and Executors went into the crypt, and
attended the corpse to the grave, which was dug under the

pavement.

   *' The Lord Mayor and Sheriffs honoured the procession
by coming to Somerset Place, where an officer's guard of thirty
men was placed at the great court-gate. After the procession
had passed through Temple Bar, the gates were shut by order
of the Lord Mayor, to prevent any interruption from carriages
passing to or from the City."

3c 2
 ^30 , MEMOIRS OF

    After the ceremony, the Procession returned in nearly the

Isame order to the Royal Academy ; and may here mention,

that it had contained as many members, of the " Literary
Ckib," as were not prevented by personal duties from

attending it. It has also been noticed, as worthy of record,

that in the procession were three Knights of the Garter, two
of St. Patrick, and one of the Thistle, three Dukes, and
four noblemen who had held the high office of Viceroy of
Ireland.

   A cold collation having been prepared for the members of
the Royal Academy, on their return to Somerset Place, Mr.

Burke entered the room to return the thanks of the family for
the attention shewn to the remains of their lamented President ;
but his feelings were too acute to permit him to utter the

sentiments he wished to express.

   *' Thus," says a recent panegyrist, " thus were deposited the
remains of Sir Joshua Reynolds, doubly hallowed by a nation's
respect, and by the tears of private friendship --and thus ends
all that is earthly and perishable of him whose fame as
an artist, as a patronizer of the arts, and above all, as a good
man, will long survive him !"

   As a token of respect and a pledge of remembrance, a print
engraved by Bartolozzi, was presented to each of the gentlemen
who had joined the procession.

  It represented a female clasping an urn, a funeral emblem

of a weeping muse, (from the pencil of Burney) and on the
                                SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

 monument are a pallet, pencils, and a resting stick. The
 Genius of Painting is also introduced, holding an inverted and
 extinguished torch, and pointing to the monument, on which
 is written,

                            " Succeclet fama, vivusque per ora feretur."

    Beneath is a complimentary address : and a fac simile of
 the whole will be found at the close of these Memoirs. The
funeral expenses were in part defrayed out of the funds of the
Royal Academy.

    The last will and testament of Sir Joshua Reynolds had
been written not very long previous to his decease, being
dated on the 5th of November, 1791 ·

   He had written it with his own hand, and its beginning was
extremely expressive of his own feelings and sentiments on the

subject, for he says,

  I" As it is probable that may shortly be deprived of sight,
Iand may not have an opportunity of making a formal will,

desire that the following memorandums may be considered as
my last will and testament.

    I commend my soul to God, in humble hopes of his

mercy, and my body to the earth."

  All his property, real and personal, with the exceptions here

recorded, he then bequeaths to his niece Miss Palmer, now
382 MEMOIRS OF

Marchioness of Thomond, including his Richmond Villa, the
house in Leicester-fields, together with all property in the
public funds, pictures, books, furniture, plate, &c.

   He then proceeds to specify his various legacies: viz., to
Mrs. Gwatkins, c£ 10,000 in the three per cents. ; to his sister,
Miss Francis Reynolds, £2,500 in the funds for life, with the
reversion to Miss Palmer; to Mr. Burke, .£2,000, with the
cancelling of a bond of the same amount for money borrowed ;
to the Earl of Upper Ossory, the first choice, and to
Lord Palmerstone the second choice of any picture of his
 own painting; to Sir Abraham Hume, Bart, the choice of
 his Claude Lorraines ; to Sir George Beaumont, Bart, the

 *' Return of the Ark/' by Sebastian Bourdon ; the sum of

 ^200 each to his executors, and the same to Mr. Boswell, to
 be expended, if they thought proper, in the purchase of a,
 picture, to be bought for each at the sale of his paintings, and
 to be kept for his sake ; his miniature of Milton, to Mr.
 Mason ; one of Oliver Cromwell, by the same artist, (Cooper)
 to Richard Burke, jun. ; his watch and seals to his nephew,
  William Johnson, then at Calcutta ; his picture of the angel
  Contemplation, which formed the upper part of the Nativity,
  to the Duke of Portland ; to Mrs. Bunbury, the portrait of
  her son ; to Mrs. Gwyn, her own portrait, with a turban ;
  ^1,000 to his old and faithful servant, Ralph Kirkley, who
  had lived with him upwards of thirty years.

      This is the principal purport of his will, which was proved
  in Doctor's-Commons on the 28th of February ; and the whole
  amount of cash and funded property was, at least, .£60,000,
sill JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                          383

whilst the houses, pictures, &c., were valued at .£20,000 more :
a sum that fully proves the high estimation in which he had
professionally been held, particularly when we consider the
liberal and hospitable manner in which the greatest part of

his life had been spent.

   Completely to fill up the vacancy which the loss of such a
man produced m society, was impossible ; Dr. Douglas, Bishop

of Salisbury, was selected to occupy his seat in the Literary
Club ; Mr. Laurence as principal painter in ordinary to his
Majesty ; and Mr. West, the present President of the Royal
Academy, was unanimously elected to fill the chair at Somerset-
place, on the 24th of March ; on which occasion he united
a handsome tribute of praise towards his deceased friend
and predecessor, with his expression of thanks for the honor

conferred on him.

   On the death of Sir Joshua, even those whose little jealousies
had contributed to give him some uneasiness whilst living, all
stood forward to make amends by the warmest commendations ;
amongst the rest was Mr. Barry, who now gave a full scope to
his more generous feelings, and about a year afterwards, on
the 18th of February, 1793, paid some very well deserved
compliments to his friend in his sixth Lecture read at the

Academy.*

This just tribute to the memory of Sir Joshua, was noticed

* See Barry's works, vol i. pages 552 to 557.
384 MEMOIRS OF

by the Marquis and Marchioness of Thomond, who, in

Iorder to mark their approval, presented him with their
estimable relative's painting-room chair.   have preserved his

answer, from its connection with the present itself, and its

containing an appropriate compliment to the former lamented

possessor. " Mr. Barry presents his most respectful compli-
ments to Lord and Lady T. with every acknowledgment and

thanks for their inestimable favour conferred on him this

morning in the gift of Sir Joshua's chair.

   " Alas ! this chair, that had such a glorious career of
fortune, instrumental as it has been in giving the most

advantageous stability to the otherwise fleeting, perishable
graces of a Lady Sarah Bunbury, or a Waldegrave, or in
perpetuating the negligent honest exterior of the authors of
the Rambler, the Traveller, and almost every one to whom

the public admiration gave a currency for abilities, beauty,

rank, or fashion.

   " The very chair that is immortalized in Mrs. Siddons's
Tragic Muse, where it will have as much celebrity as the

chair of Pindar, which for so many ages was shewn in the
porch at Olympia ! This chair of Sir Joshua Reynolds may
rest well satisfied with the reputation it has gained, and
although its present possessor may not be enabled to grace it
with any new ornament, yet it can surely count upon finding
a most affectionate, reverential conservator, whilst God shall

permit it to remain under his care." January 30th, 1794.

Some time after the funeral, a copy of verses were addressed
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                              385

to the Royal Academicians, written by the beautiful Mrs.
Robinson, which possess considerable merit, but are, however,

Itoo long for insertion ; therefore, shall make an extract of

those lines only which apply to the particular merits of Sir

Joshua Reynolds.

" Ye solemn mourners, who, with footsteps slow.

Prolonged the sable line of public woe>
Who fondly crowding round his plumed bier^
Gave to his worth, th' involuntary tear;
Ye children of his school, who oft have hung
On the grac'd precepts of his tuneful tongue;
Who many an hour in mute attention caught
The vivid lustre of his polished thought !

Ye who have felt, for ye have taste to feel.
The magic influence o'er your senses steals
When eloquently chaste, from wisdom's page

He drew each model for a rising age !

Say, is no kind, no grateful tribute due,

To HIM who twin'd immortal wreaths for you?

Who from the dawn of youth to manhood's prime
Snatch'd hidden branches from the wings of time;
Who gave new lustre to your wond'ring sight,
Drawn froin the chaos of oblivious night;

Where chain'd by Ignorance, in Envy's cave,

The art he courted found a chilling grave;

Where native genius faded, unadmired.
While emulation's glorious flame expir'd.

Till Reynolds, braving Envy's recreant spell,

Dragg'd the huge monster from her thorny cell.
Who, shrinking from his mild benignant eye,

Subdued, to Stygian darkness fled  to die.

Beneath yon lofty dome that props the skies
Low ' on the lap of earth' your patron lies ;

                                   3D
                      MEMOIRS OF

Cold is the hand that gave the touch divine,
Which bade the mimic orbs of reason shine :
Closed is thai eye which beamV! vvitli Hving Uglit,,
That gave the mental soul, to mortal sight !
For, by the matchless wonders of his art

The outward mien bespoke the hidden heart !
Taste, feeling, character, his pencil knew.

And TRUTH acknowledged e'en what Fancy drew.

So, just to nature ev'ry part combin'd,
^ach feature mark'd the tenor of the mind !
'Twas his, with varying excellence to show

Stern manhood's dignity and beauty's glow !
To paint the perfect form, the witching face.
With Guido's softness^ and with Titian's grace!
The dimpled cherub at the mother's breast,
The smile serene, that spoke the parent blest !
The PoEx's vivid thought, that shone divine
Through the rich image of each finish 'd line!
The tale that bids the tear of pity flow;
The frenzied gaze of petrifying woe;
The dying father, fix'd in horror vi ild,
O'er the shrunk imatre of his famish'd child.

Ah ! STAY MY MUSE -- Horlracc the madd'ning scene.
Nor paint the starting eye, the frantic mien ;
Turn from the picture of distracting woes,
Turn from each charm that beauty's smile bestows,
Go form a wreath Time's temple to adorn,
Bedeck'd with many a rose -- with many a thorti !
Go, bind the hero's brow with deathless bays;
Or, to calm friendship cliaunt the note of praise;
Or, vvith a feather stol'n from Fancy's wing,
Sweep with light hand the gay fantastic stnng;
But leave, oh, leave thy fond lamenting song.
The feeble echo of a wond'ring throng --
 Can'st thou with brighter tints adorn the rose.
Where nature's vivid blush divinely glows?
              SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                  38r

Say cons't thou add one ray to heaven's own light.
Or give to Alpine snow a purer white
Cans't thou increase the diamond's burning glow,
Or to the floyver a richer scent bestow ?

Say cans't thou snatch, by sympathy sublime.
One kindred bosom irom the grasp of Time?
Ah ! no ! then bend with cypress boughs thy lyre,
Mute be its chords, and quench'd its sacred fire.
For dimly gleams the poet's votive lays

TMidst the vast splendor of a nation's praise."

   To sum up the whole of Sir Joshua's character as a profes-
sional man, it may be observed that when we contemplate

him as a painter, we are to recollect, that after the death of
Kneller, the arts in England fell to the lowest state of
barbarism, and each professor either followed that painter's

steps, or else wandered in utter darkness, till Reynolds, like

the sun, dispelled the mist, and threw an unprecedented
splendor on the department of portraiture. Hence the
English school is, in a great degree, the growth of his admirable

example.

   To the grandeur, the truth, and simplicity of Titian, and
to the daring strength of Rembrandt, he has united the
chasteness and delicacy of Vandyke. Delighted with the

picturesque beauties of Rubens, he was the first that attempted

a bright and gay back ground to portraits ; and defying the
dull and ignorant rules of his master, at a very early period of
life, emancipated his art from the shackles with which it had
been encumbered in the school of Hudson. There is,

however, every reason to believe, that he very rarely copied

                                                    3D2
388 MEMOIRS OF

an entire picture of any master,* though he certainly did
imitate the excellent parts of many ; and his versatility in
this respect was equalled only by the susceptibility of his
feelings, the quickness of his comprehension, and the ardor
which prompted his eftbrts. His pictures in general possess
a degree of merit superior to mere portraits, they assume the
rank of history. His portraits of men are distinguished by a
certain air of dignity, and those of women and children by a
grace, a beauty, and simplicity, which have seldom been
equalled, and never surpassed. No painter ever gave so
completely, as himself, that momentary fascinating expression,
that irresistible charm, which accompanies and denotes " the
Cynthia of the minute." In his attempts to give character
where it did not exist, he has sometimes lost likeness ; but
the deficiencies of the portrait were often compensated by the
beauty of the picture.

   The attitudes of his figures are generally full of grace, ease,
and propriety ; he could throw them into the boldest
variations, and he often ventures on postures, which inferior
painters could not execute ; or which, if attempted, would

   * Of the very few copies he made at Rome the only finished one is St.
Michael, the Archangel, chaining the dragon, after Guido. This copy he placed in
the ceiling of his Picture Gallery, where it remained till his death. It was then

taken down by his niece, and heiress, when she left that house.
   He made a small copy of the School of Athens, from RafTaelle; also about

eight or ten heads selected from Ralfaelle in ihe Vatican, and a head or two from
Titian.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  389

 inevitably destroy their credit. His chief aim, however, was

  colour and effect ; and these lie always varied as the subject
 required. Whatever deficiencies there niay be in the design
 of this great master, no one at any period better understood
 the principles of colouring ; nor can it be doubted that he
 carried this branch of his art to a very high degree of
 perfection. His lights display the knowledge he possessed,
 and with shade he conceals his defects. Whether we consider
 the power, the brilliancy, or the form of his lights, the
 transparency of his shadows, with the just quantities of each,
 and the harmony, richness, and full effect of the whole, it is

 evident that he has not only far transcended every modern

 master, but that his excellencies in these captivating parts of
 painting, vie with the works of the great models he has
emulated. The opinion he has given of Raffaelle may, with
equal justice, be applied to himself ; " that his materials were
generally borrowed, but the noble structure was his own."
No one ever appropriated the ideas of others to his own
purpose with more skill than Sir Joshua. He possessed the
alchemy of painting, by converting whatever he touched into
gold. Like the bee that extracts sweets from the most
noxious flowers, so his active observation could see every
thing pregnant with a means of improvement, from the
wooden print on a common ballad, to the highest graces of

Parmegiano. Perhaps there is no painter that ever went
before him, from whom he has not derived some advantage,

and appropriated certain excellencies with judicious selection

and consummate taste. Yet after all that can be alledged
against him as a borrower of forms from other masters, it

must be allowed that he engrafted on them beauties peculiarly
                                                                                                                                                                                    I

                                       MEMOIRS OF

his own. The severest critics, indeed, must admit that hia
manner is truly original, bold, and free. Freedom is certainly-
one of his principal characteristics ; and to this he seems
often to have sacrificed every other consideration. He has,
however, two manners ; his early pictures are without those
violent freedoms of execution and dashes of the pencil, being
more minute and more fearful, but the colouring is clear,

natural, and good. In his latter and bolder works, the

colour, though excellent, is sometimes more artificial than
chaste.

   As an Historical painter, he cannot be placed in the same
rank which he holds in the line of portraiture. The
compositions of his portraits are unquestionably excellent,
whilst his historical pictures are, in this respect, often very
defective. They frequently consist of borrowed parts, which
are not always suited to each other. Though many times
inaccurate, and deficient in the style of drawing, they must,
however, be allowed to possess great breadth, taste, and
feeling, and many of them fine expression. His light poetical
pieces much excelled those of a narrative or historical

character.

    There is a circumstance contained in one of his fragments
of an intended discourse, preserved by Mr. Malone, in which

Ihe says, " It has frequently happened, as was informed by

the keeper of the Vatican, that many of those whom he had
conducted through the various apartments of that edifice,
when about to be dismissed, have asked for the works of
Raffaeile, and would not believe that they had already passed
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  391

through the rooms where they are preserved ; so little
impression had those performances made on them. One of
the first painters now in France once told me, that this
circumstance happened to himself ; though he now looks on
Raffaelle with the veneration which he deserves from alt
painters and lovers of the art.

  II" remember very well my own disappointment, when

first visited the Vatican ; but on confessing my feelings to a

Ibrother student, of whose ingenuousness had a high opinion,

he acknowledged that the works of Raffaelle had the same
effect on him ; or, rather, that they did not produce the effect
which he expected. This was a great relief to my mind ; and on

Iinquiring further, of other students, found that those persons

only who, from natural imbecility, appeared to be incapable
of ever relishing those divine performances, made pretensions

to instantaneous raptures on first beholding them. In justice

to myself, however, I must add, that though disappointed

and mortified at not finding myself enraptured with the works

of this great man, I did not for a moment conceive or suppose

that the name of Raffaelle, and those admirable paintings in

particular, owed their reputation to the ignorance and
prejudice of mankind ; on the contrary, my not relishing

I Ithem, as was conscious ought to have done, was one of the

most humiliating circumstances that ever happened to m.e ;

I found myself in the midst of works executed upon principles

with which I was unacquainted : I felt my ignorance, and

Istood abashed. All the indigested notions of painting which
   had brought with me from England, where the art was in
the lowest state it had ever been in, (it could not, indeed, be
392 MEMOIRS OF ,

lower.) were to be totally done away, and eradicated from my
mind. It was necessary, as it is expressed on a very solemn
occasion, that I should become as a little child. Notwith-
Istanding my disappointment,
                              proceeded to copy some of
I Ithose excellent works.
             viewed them again and again ;

even affected to feel their merit ; and to admire them more

Ithan really did. In a short time a new taste and new
Iperception began to dawn upon me ; and was convinced that

I had originally formed a false opinion of the perfection of

art, and that this great painter was well entitled to the high

rank which he holds in the estimation of the world. The

Itruth is, that if these works had really been what expected,

they would have contained beauties superficial and alluring,

but by no means such as would have entitled them to the

great reputation which they have so long and so justly

obtained.'*

    Considering the study and practice Reynolds must have
gone through before he visited Italy, he certainly was, in
comparison with others, a man of a cultivated taste ; and,
though what has been said may be very true, that many
persons, after having been conducted through the rooms of
the Vatican, have turned to the keeper, and asked him for
the paintings of Raffaelle, yet it is not easy to conceive how

he, who probably had seen the cartoons, and other pictures,

besides prints from this great painter, should have formed

such an inadequate and erroneous idea of what he was to see
at Rome. Splendor of colour, depth of chiaro-scuro, he must
have been taught not to expect ; strength and dignity of
character, unexampled variety, and vivacity of expression,
I  SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  393

(qualities more striking to the eye of taste, and scarcely less
so to the. vulgar,) they certainly possess. To what, then, can

be attributed their want of impression, particularly on such

as him? It does not appear that the same complaint has

been made of the works of Michael Angelo.

   That, which in his discourses he denominates the orna-

mental style, and which he treats in his writings with so much
severity, seems to have been the very style which it was his
constant endeavour to attain, and which it may be said he did

attain in an unexampled degree ; while the excellencies of the

grand style, its severe and majestic simplicity, he seems not
to have been inclined to attempt, although so great an
admirer of it, that even its defects are deemed beauties in his

eyes ; whilst its dryness and hardness of manner, and an
inharmonious effect, frequently proceeding from a want of
skill in the painter, he contemplates altogether with enthu-
siastic admiration. His theory and his practice are evidently
at variance ; he speaks of the cold painters of portraits, and

ranks them on a level with the epigrammatist and sonnettcer,
yet devoted his life to portraits. How to account for this
dereliction of his theory may be difficult ; the reason given
by himself was, that he adapted his style to the taste of the
age in which he lived ; and again, that a man does not always
do what he would, but what he can.

   My own opinion is, that his mind by nature was constituted
more for the cultivation of that which belorios to the beautiful

and the graceful, than of those qualities which compose the
terrible or the sublime, and that the style of Michael Angelo

                                                       3E
394 MEMOIRS OF

which he seems to have lamented that he did not adopt in his
youth, was not that style to which he could, with most
advantage to himself, have devoted his studies ; yet it must
ever remain a doubt, whether he could or could not have

succeeded in the highest style, if the opportunity had been
offered to him. All that we can say of him is, that he had

done full enough to prove that he was a very great genius, as
he is an example of the most perfect growth that English
culture can produce ; and from the means which he had he
has accomplished that end, and availed himself of that
patronage which is in the hands of an infinity of persons to

bestow.

   But that great style, which he so properly had made his
idol, and appeared to adore, a style which never can exist in
its fullness but in countries where the religion, or the govern-
ment, or both together, are its patrons -- it is an article
totally useless and unfit in respect to the habits of private
life, and in this country held as very disagreeable ; and had
Raffaelle or Michael Angelo been born in England, they
would, perhaps, have been far greater than Sir Joshua
Reynolds, and most undoubtedly would have acquired great
fame ; but they would have been known only as illustrious
portrait painters even to themselves.

   The grand style is an instrument fit only to be in the hands
of government, civil or religious, and only proper for solemn

occasions. It is not to be the subject of vulgar criticism ; it is

to command, to guide, and to direct the heart, and such are the
uses the church of Rome have made of it.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  395

   The lectures which he delivered at the Royal Academy on
the 10th of December, at first every year, and latterly every
two years, are the works which chiefly bestow on him the
character of an estimable writer. In these he treats his
favorite art with the depth of a philosopher, the accomplish-
ments of a scholar, and the accuracy of a critic. These were

designed to animate and direct the students in the pursuit
of excellence, and indeed are replete with the soundest
instructions, expressed in language at once natural, perspi-

cuous, and correct.

       The profound knowledge of the art displayed in these
    discourses is enriched by the classical and appropriate
   illustrations of a polished mind ; they are treasures of
    information to the student and to the proficient ; and the

   elegance and chastity of the style have very rarely, if ever,
   been equalled by the most eminent of our writers. His

   observations on the old masters are equally just and
   ingenious ; several branches of the theory of art are treated
   with uncommon judgment and ability, and the composition
V throughout is strongly marked by the simplicity of his own
   individual character and manner, and totally unlike that of
   any of his literary friends, to whom some idle critics have
   attributed the merit of tliose discourses. They have been
   translated mto French, and the late Mr. Baretti published an
   edition of them in the Italian lan2;uase.

     It has been conjectured that Sir Joshua was not the author

   of the discourses which he delivered at the Royal ik;ademy.

                                                               3E2
'JQfi MEMOIRS OF

I can only say that at the periods wlien it was expected he
Ishould have composed them,
                             have heard him walking at

intervals in his room as if in meditation, till one or two

Io'clock in the morning, and have, on the following morning,

at an early hour, seen the papers on the subject of his art
Iwhich had been written on the preceding night.
                                                 have had

the rude manuscript from himself in his own hand writing, in

order to make a fair copy from it for him, to read it in public ; I

have seen the manuscript also after it had been revised by Dr.

Johnson, who has sometimes altered it to a wrong meaning,

from his total ignorance of the subject and of art ; but never

to my knowledge saw the marks of Burke's pen on any of the

manuscripts.

  I remember one day in particular, after Sir Joshua had

been studying the preceding night, Burke paid him a morning

Ivisit, and at that time was at work in the adjoining room,

and could easily overhear their conversation, which, as Sir

Joshua was deaf, was very distinct ; and he read aloud to
Bnrke the following paragraph of his discourse for December

the 10th, 1794.

   " Like a sovereign judge and arbiter of art," (alluding to
tiie painter,) he is possessed of that presiding power which

separates and attracts every excellence from every school ;
selects both from what is great and what is little, brings home
knowledge from the east and from the west ; making the

universe tributary towards furnishing his mind and enriching
his works with originality and variety of invention."
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  397

   Burke commended it in the highest terms saying, " This

is, indeed, excellent, nobody can mend it, no man could say

it better."

  IYet, must confess, it is wonderful, that a man, whose

time was so entirely absorbed in the practical acquirements
of his art, and who could not be ranked as a man eminent
for literature, should compose such prose as good judges
have pronounced to be amongst the highest examples in our

language.

   The Bishop of Rochester, who has examined the writings of
Mr. Burke since his death, and has lately edited a part of
them, informed a friend that he could discover no reason to
think that Mr. Burke had the least hand in the discourses of

Reynolds : nor can I pay any attention to what Mr. Courtenay

says in his " Moral and Literary Character of Dr. Johnson,"
where he seems to think that Reynolds copied from the

latter, or imitated him.

                   " To Fame's proud cliff, he bade our Raffaelle rise.

                      Hence Reynolds' pen with Reynolds' pencil vies."

   Mr. M'Cormick also asserts, that Burke wrote his letter in

I1790, when he retired from the chair ; but trust that there

is sufficient evidence already adduced, to prove that those
opinions are totally erroneous.

KSTTRACT OF A LETTER FROM E. BURKE, TO MR. MALONE,

I" have read over some part of the discourses with an
398 MEMOIRS OF

unusual sort of pleasure ; partly because, being faded a little
in my memory, they have a sort of appearance of novelty ;

Ipartly by reviving recollections mixed with melancholy and

satisfaction. The Flemish Journal had never seen before.

You trace in that, every where, the spirit of the discourses,

supported by new examples. He is always the same man ;
the same philosophical, the same artist-like critic, the same
sagacious observer, with the same minuteness, without the
smallest degree of trifling."

I IBefore quit the subject of these discourses of Sir Joshua,

cannot refrain from giving the opinionof the ChevalierMengs on

them, whether because he had not the capacity to compre-
Ihend them,

this Mengs
or from  the effect  of envy  cannot determine, but
                     book of  the English Reynolds
says, "  That the

would lead youth into error, because it abandons them to

superficial principles, the only ones known to that author."

   This criticism from Mengs raised the choler of our English
Poet, Cumberland, and he thus retorts the charge to the great
annoyance of the Chevalier Don Joseph Nicholas D'Azara,
Spanish minister at Rome, and the Editor of Mengs's

manuscripts', also his adorer.

  If" the genius of Mengs," says Cumberland, " had been

capable of producing a composition equal to that of the tragic

Iand pathetic Ugolino, am persuaded such a sentence as

the above would never have passed his lips; but flattery made
him vain, and sickness rendered him peevish : he found
himself in Madrid, in a country without rivals, and because
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  399

the Arts had travelled out of his sight, he was disposed to
think they existed no Avhere but on his own palette. The time
perhaps is at hand when our virtuosi will extend their route
to Spain, and of these some one probably will be found, who,
regarding with just indignation the dogmatical decrees of
Mengs, will take in hand the examination of his paintings, which

I have enumerated; and we may then be told, with the autho-

rity of science, that his nativity though so splendidly encased,

and covered with such care that the very winds of Heaven are

not permitted to visit the face too roughly, would have owed
more to the chrystal than it does, in some parts at least, had it
been less transparent than it is ; that it discovers an abortive
and puisne Bambino, which seems copied from a bottle ; that
Mengs was an artist who had seen much, and invented little ;
that he dispenses neither life nor death to his figures ; excites
no terror, rouses no passions, and risks no flights ; that

by studying to avoid particular defects, he incurs general ones,
and paints with taraeness and servility ; that the contrasted
scale and idea of a painter of miniatures, as which he was
brought up, is to be traced in all, or most of his compositions,
in which a finished delicacy of the pencil exhibits the hand
of the artist, but gives no emanations of the soiil of the master;

if it is beauty it does not warm ; if it is sorrow it excites

no pity: that, when the angel announces the salutation
to Mary, it is a messenger that has neither used dispatch

in the errand, nor grace in the delivery ; that although
Rubens was by one of his oracular sayings condemned to the
ignominious dullness of a Dutch translator, Mengs was as
capable of painting Rubens's adoration, as he was of creating
the star in the East that ushered the Magi : but these are
400 MEMOIRS OF

Iquestions above my capacity ;      resign Mengs to abler

critics, and Reynolds to better defenders ; well contented

that posterity should admire them both, and well assured that

the fame of our countryman is established beyond the reach of

envy and detraction."

I have given this long quotation from Cumberland, because

in my apprehension it contains a true and candid estimate of

the talents of Mengs, of him who treats the works of Rubens

and of   Reynolds   with contempt.   Cumberland thus adds,
        Mengs is   the author whom  courtly prejudice has put
" Yet

above comparison in Spain, whom not to admire is treason

against the state, and whose worship is become canonical, a

part almost of the orthodox idolatry of their religion."

   With respect to his character as a man, to say that Sir
Joshua was without faults, would be to bestow on him that

praise, to which no human being can have a claim ; but when
"we consider the conspicuous situation in which he stood, it is

surprizing to find that so few can be discovered in him: and
certainly he possessed an equanimity of disposition very rarely
to be met with in persons whose pursuit is universal reputa-
tion, and who are attended and surrounded in their perilous

journey by jealous competition. " His native humility,

modesty, and candour never forsook him, even from surprize
or provocation, nor was the least degree of arrogance or
assumption visible to the most scrutinizing eye in any part of
his conduct." He was not annoyed by that fluctuation of idea
and inconstancy of temper which prevent many with equal
desire for fame from resolving upon any particular plan, and
sill JCJSHUA REYNOLDS.                            401

dispose them to change it, even after they have made their
election. He had none of those eccentric bursts of action,

those fiery impetuosities which are supposed by the vulgar to

characterize genius, and which frequently are found to accom-
pany a secondary rank of talent, but are never conjoined with

the first. His incessant industry was never Avearied into

despondency by miscarriage, nor elated into negligence by

success. All nature and all art combined to form his academy.
His mind was constantly awake, ever on the wing, compre-

hensive, vigorous, discriminating, and retentive. His powers
of attention were never torpid. He had a strong turn and
relish for humour in all its various forms, and very quickly
saw the weak sides of things. Of the numerous characters

which presented themselves to him in the mixed companies in

Iwhich he lived, he was a nice and sagacious observer, as

have had frequent occasions to remark.

The Graces," says a certain author, " after wandering to
Ifind .a home, settled in the bosom of Addison."
                                                  think such

a compliment would be equally, if not more applicable to Sir

Joshua; for all he said or did was wholly unmixed with any

of those inelegant coarsenesses which frequently stain the

beauty of high exertions. There was a polish even in his^

exterior, illustrative of the gentleman and the scholar. His

general manner, deportment, and behaviour, were amiable

and prepossessing ; his disposition was naturally courtly. He

always evinced a desire to pay a due respect to persons in

superior stations, and certainly contrived to move in a higher
sphere of society than any other English artist had dene
before him. Thus he procured for Professors of the Arts a

3F
402 MEMOIRS OF

consequence, dignity, and reception., which they had never

before possessed in this country. In conversation he preserved
an equable flow of spirits, which rendered him at all times a

most desirable companion, ever ready to be amused, and to

contribute to the amusement of others. lie practised the

minute elegancies, and, though latterly a deaf companion, was
never troublesome.*

   Although easy and complying in his intercourse with the
world, yet in his profession, having, by unremitting study,
matured his judgment, he never sacrificed his opinion to the
casual caprices of his employers, and without seeming to
oppose theirs, still followed his own. He had temper to bear
with the defects of others, as well as capacity to understand
their goqd qualities, and he possessed that rare wisdom which
consists in a thorough knowledge, not only of the real value
of things, but of the genius of the age he lived in, and of the
characters and prejudices of those about him.

   Far from over-rating his own talents, he did not seem to
hold them in that degree of estimation which they deservedly
obtained from the public. In short, it may be safely said,
that his faults were few, and that those were much subdued by
his wisdom, for no man had ever more reverence for virtue,
or a higher respect for unsullied fame.

   * His deafness, I have been informed, first came upon him fiom a cold which

he caught by his intense application in the winter season, in the unaired rooms of
Raffaelle in the Vatican.
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  403

   As to his person ; in his stature Sir Joshua Reynolds was
rather under the middle size, of a florid complexion, roundish
blunt features, and a lively aspect ; not corpulent, though
somewhat inclined to it, but extremely active ; with manners

uncommonly polished and agreeable.

  In conversation, his manner was perfectly natural, simple,

and unassuming. He most heartily enjoyed his profession, in

Iwhich he was both fortunate and illustrious, and agree with

Mr. Malone who says he appeared to him to be the happiest
man he had ever known. He was thoroughly sensible of his

rare lot in life and truly thankful for it ; his virtues were

blessed with their full reward.

  It is a common, but a just observation, that virtue cannot

exist where irregularity is present ; and the converse is true
as applied to Sir Joshua's mode of life, which was so regular
as to produce correctness without degenerating into insipidity,
or tediousness to his friends by unnecessary and troublesome

precision.

   Rising at eight o'clock in general, he was enabled to retire
from the breakfast table to his painting room about ten, where,
for an hour at least, he occupied himself in arranging the
subordinate accessories in such of his works as he was then

engaged in, or perhaps in preserving some new ideas by a sketch-

   The hours dedicated to his sitters were generally from eleven
to four, but not with rigid attention, as he often gave a
relaxation to his mind by receiving the visits of particular

                                                      3F2
404 MEMOIRS OF

friends. Yet upon the whole, his application was great, nay,
in some measure, excessive ; for it is very true, as he himself
observed to Malone, that such was his love of his art, and

such his ardour to excel, that he had often and during the
gre-ater part of his life, laboured as hard with his pencil, as
any mechanic working at his trade for bread.

   Considering the hospitable elegance of his own table, and
the number of his friends, it is not to be wondered at that his
invitations to other tables were pretty numerous. Of these,
however, he seldom accepted more than two in the week,
during the winter ; and though his regulated plan was to have
his friends once at home during the same period, yet it
frequently happened that his table was filled much oftener by
the most estimable and remarkable men in public life. In
such companies, intellectual pleasures must be considered as
the most important: yet neither he nor his friends disdained
the good things which affluence could provide, and of course
every elegance and every luxury Mere always to be found
there in moderation.

   Mr. Malone draws the comparison between the character of
Laelius as given by Mr. Melmoth, and Sir Joshua Reynolds,

which seems in many respects to be singularly similar, but

Itoo long for insertion ; here shall only give the concluding

part, which says --

  "In public estimation, in uniform success in life, in

moderation, in prosperity, in the applause and admiration of
contemporaries, in simplicity of manners and playfulness of
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  405

humour, in good sense and elegant attainments, in modesty
and equability of temper, in undeviating integrity, in respect
for received and long-established opinions, in serenity, cheer-
fulness, and urbanity, the resemblance must be allowed to be

uncommonly striking and exact."

   As before observed. Sir Joshua had many pupils who resided

for years under his roof. It is a surprizing fact, however, that

scarcely any of their names have been heard of as painters.
Most of them have pined in poverty and died in want,
miserable to themselves, and a disgrace to the art. To

account for this seeming paradox many reasons may be
assigned. First, the vast difficulties of the art of painting-
render its higher branches unattainable to nine-tenths of those
persons who profess, or pretend to study it : Secondly, Sir
Joshua, never having received a well-founded education in the
academies of art, was forced to make his own way by the

strength of his genius and unwearied industry : hence those
excellencies which he possessed could not be iniparted or
taught to another, and what could be taught he did not

sufficiently possess. It is art which the scholar is to learn,

and not genius. Sir Joshua seems to have disdained the rules

of art, and may be said to have snatched a grace beyond them.

But the young painter who daubs because he fancies Sir
Joshua daubed, is like the fool who purchased the lamp of
Epictetus. The best reason that can be assigned for his having
,a more enlarged notion of grace and greatness than his con-

 temporaries is, that he had more information and understanding

than they. A vulgar man may acquire what is termed

 cleverness, but cannot arrive at greatness ; which can only be


406 MEMOIRS OF

attained by him, who unites general information with taste
and feeling.

   Along with other various tributes to the memory of departed
excellence, we must not omit the following extract from Mr,
Sotheby's poetical epistle to Sir George Beaumont, in which
the subject of our biography is so elegantly characterized, and
which has been published since his death.

                     * Hail ! guide and glory of the British School,
                       Whose magic line gave life lo every rule.
                       Reynolds! thy portraits, true to nature, glow'd
                     Yet o'er the whole ideal graces flow'd ;
                     While forth to sight the living likeness came,
                       Souls touch'd by genius, felt thy higher aim :
                       Here, where the public gaze a Siddons views,
                     See fear and pity crown the Tragic muse.
                     There, girt with flames, where Calpe gleams afar.
                     In dauntless Heathfield hail the god of war.
                     Painter of grace ? Love gave to thee ahane,
                       Corregio's melting line, with Titian's tone,
                       Bade Beauty wear all forms that breathe delight,
                        And a new charm in each attract the sight :
                        Here a wild Thai's wave the blazing brand.
                       There yield her zone to Cupid's treach'rous hand.
                     An empress melt the pearl in Egypt's bowl.
                     Or a sly gypsey read the tell tale soul.
                     Painter of passion ! horror in thy view
                        Pour'd the wild scenes that daring Shakspeare drew
                     When the fiend scowl'd on Beaufort's bed of death,
                        And each weird hag 'mid lightnings hail'd Macbeth.

                        Thee Dante led to Famine's murky cave ;

                   " Round yon mute father hear his children rave ;
            SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.                              407

" Beliold them stretch'd beneath his stony eye,
" Drop one by one, and gaze on him, and die;

*' So strain each starting ball in sightless stare,
*' And each grim leature fix in stern despair."

No earth-born giant struggling into size,

Stretch'd in thy cmvas, sprawls before our eyes.
The mind applies its standard to tlie scene,
Notes with mute awe, the more than mortal mien.

Where boundless genius brooding o'er the whole,
Stamps e'en on babes sublimity of soul.
Whether, where terror crowns Jove's infant brow,

Before the God-head aw'd Olympus bow,

Or in yon babe, th' Herculean strength upholds       folds ;
Th' enormous snakes, and slacks their len:^th'ning
Or while, from Heav'n, celestial Grace descends.
Meek on his knees the infant Samuel bends.
Lifts his clasp'd hands, and as he glows in prayer.

Fixes in awful trance his eye on air.

Yet not fair forms, by Reynolds' hand design 'd,
No, nor his magic pen, that paints the mind;

That pen, which erst on charm'd Ilyssus' shore
Th' exulting Graces to their Plato bore.
When Fancy wove, for Truth, her fairest flow'rs;

And Wisdom commun'd with the Muse's bow'rs;

Not these suffice  '

   Little remains now to add, only, that in the year 1795 that
line collection of pictures of the ancient masters, which Sir

Joshua had so judiciously amassed, actually fetched the sum
of 10,31 Q'^. 9,s. 6d. ; whilst, in the succeeding year, various
historical and fancy pictures of his own painting, accompanied

by some unclaimed portraits, were sold for 4,505/. 18^. ; these
408 MEMOIRS OF

sums were   independent of his most valuable          coi'.ecti'on of
prints and  drawings, which since that have
hammer.                                               come to the

   That such a man as Sir Joshua Reynolds should not yet
have had a monument erected to his memory, may seem a

Ikind of public disgrace ; am pleased, however, to mention,

that in the early part of 1807 his friends and admirers came to
a determination to perform that duty, for which a distinguished
place has been appropriated by the Dean and Chapter of St.
Paul's, in their Cathedral.

   The model has already been exhibited at Somerset-house,
and the monument is in progress of execution by Mr.

Flaxman.

It may seem superfluous to present readers to mention that

in the present yeav (1813)   a Commemoration of       his talents    has
been celebrated by the      " British Institution,""  in which
                                                                   they

have been most liberally aided by the patriotic kindness of a

considerable part of the jiossessors of specimens of Sir Joshua

·Reynolds's pencil ; a most brilliant collection of his works

being thus exhibited at the rooms of the institution, late the

Shakspeare Gallery : but, if this work "descend to posterity,

Ithough not so lasting as his fame, it may be proper that

should here close these Memoirs with also noticing, that in

the room in which the company dined, at its opening--a

dinner highly honoured by the presence of the Prince Regent,
numerous nobility, and eminent artists -- a small whole length
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.  409

model of this great painter was placed at the head of the room,
and accompanied by the following inscription from the pen
of R. P. Knight, Esq. :

                                   Joshua Reynolds
                    Pictorum sui seculi facile principi,

              Et splendore et commissuris Colorum,

                   Alternis vicibus Luminis et Umbrai

                             Sese mutuo excitantium,

                      Vix uUi Veterum secundo ;

          Qui, cum summa artis, gloria modeste iiteretur,

               Et moru'm suavitate et vitse elegantia

                             Perinde commendaretur ;
               Artem etiara ipsam, per orbem terrarum,

                     Languentur et prope inter mortuam
                   Exemplis egregie venustis suscitavit,
              Prccceptis exquisite conscriptis illiistravit,

                  Atque emendationem et expolitiorem,
                          Posteris exercendam tradidit ;

                         Laudem ejus fautores et amici

                 fPlane effigiem posuerunt.
                                     MDCCCXIII.

                                To Sir Joshua Reynolds
                        Confessedly the first artist of his time ;
                       Scarcely inferior to any of the Ancients,
                  In the splendour and combination of colours,
V In the alternate succession of light and shade,

                             Mutually displaying each other :
          Who, whilst he enjoyed with modesty the first honours of

                                            his Art,

                                                                  3G
410 MEMOIRS OP SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

                             Was equally commended

For the suavity of his manners and the elegance of his mind
           Who restored, by his highly beautiful models,

       The Art itself, languishing and almost extinguished
                       In every part of the world ;

     Who illustrated it by the admirable precepts contained
                                In his writings.

         And transmitted it in a correct and refined state
                     To be cultivated by posterity ;

                The friends and admirers of his Talents
                          Have raised this monument.

                                                      1813.
MEMOIR OF WILLIAM GANDY.

    As there is no record of this William Gandy preserved in

any manner but what he has formed for himself by his pictures,

Iwhich being without his name marked on them are known but

to few, and thus will soon be wholly unknown, cannot resist
the impulse of preserving the small record which tradition
gives of him as a just tribute to his memory before it is too
late, and thus be lost for ever. This must be an excuse for the

adding of a subject which at first sight may seem unconnected
with our present plan ; but will have this good effect, at least,
that by pointing him out as one admired both by Sir Joshua
Reynolds, and Sir Godfrey Kneller (in whose time he
lived) it may be the means of preserving many of his works
which otherwise might have been destroyed by those ignorant
of their merit.

William Gandy was an itinerant painter in the county of

Devon, where he lived and died ; but it is uncertain whether

he was a native of that county. He was the son of James

Gandy, of whom Pilkington in his Dictionary of the Painters

gives the following account :                         ^
                                                 3G2
412 MEMOIR OF

                    " James Gandy, painted portrait.

                                   Died 1689, aged 70.

   " This painter, although he was a very able artist, is but little
known ; he was born in the year I6l9j and instructed by
Vandyke, and his works are a sufficient proof of the signal
improvement he received from the precepts and example of

 that great master.

    " The cause of his being so totally unknown was, his being

 brought into Ireland by the old Duke of Ormond, and
 retained in his service ; and as Ireland was at that time in a
 very unsettled condition, the merit and memory of this master
 would have been entirely unnoticed, if some of his performances,
 which still subsist, had not preserved him from oblivion.
 There are at this time in Ireland many portraits painted by
 him of noblemen and persons of fortune, which are very little
 inferior to Vandyke either for expression, colouring, or dignity ;
 and several of his copies after Vandyke, which were in the
  Ormond collection at Kilkenny, were sold for original paintings
  of Vandyke."

     Thus much is related of the father by Pilkington, who seems
  to have known nothing of William the son ; a circumstance
  not much to be wondered at, as William's little fame has
  seldom passed the limits of the county in which he resided ;
  and where he spent his life in a state of indigence most truly
  pitiable, if a great part of it did not deserve to be considered
   as much his own fault, as his misfortune.
WILLIAM GANDY.  413

   He was a man of a most untractable disposition, very
resentful, of unbounded pride, and in the latter part of his life

Iboth idle and luxurious ; of which remember to have heard

many instances from my father who knew him, and whose
portrait he painted when a child.

   He was at all times totally careless of his reputation as a
painter ; and more particularly so if any thing happened in
the course of his business to displease him. He was once
employed to paint the portrait of a Mr. Jolm Vallack, an
Apothecary of Plymouth, who had amassed a large fortune in
that town ; and as Gandy always attended at the houses of his
employers to execute his work (having no room of his own fit
to receive a sitter) he expected, of course, to be invited to
dinner (which was not the least of his gratifications), concluding
he should be well entertained by his patron ; but unfortunately
for Gandy, it was Mr. Val lack's custom to have a certain
fixed dinner for each day of the week, and by ill luck it

happened to be a Saturday M'hen the portrait was begun, and
the dinner on that day was nothing more than pork and peas,
to the utter mortification and disappointment of the Artist,

who at his return to his lodgings vented his rage in curses on

his employer's meanness, and not having good nature enougii
to be thoroughly reconciled to him afterwards, totally
neglected the picture. This anecdote is certified by the

Iperformance itself which have seen, and a very indifferent

performance it is.

  IAnother instance which shall give, discovers a singular

display of pride and poverty.
414 MEMOIR OF

   He was invited, together with a friend of his, to visit Sir
William Carew at Anthony House, which is on the other side
of the River Tamer, and at such a distance from Plymouth,
where they lived, that it was nearly impossible for them to
return to their home on the same day, and of consequence
they were to sleep at Sir William's : but it so happened that
the house at that time was so crowded with visitors, that there

was a necessity for Gandy and his friend to content themselves
with one bed between them. This seemed greatly to mortify

Gaudy's pride at the moment ; and they were no sooner
retired to their chamber than he began to give free vent to his

ill humour, in curses on the indignity thus offered them, by

treating two gentlemen (to use his own term) in such a manner,
and not allotting to each of them a separate chamber. Notwith-
standing all the reasons which were offered to him, from the
necessity of the case, as the house was at that time so filled
with guests, nothing that could be urged was sufficient to
appease the rage of Gandy ; and of this the secret and real
cause was now about to transpire, for on his taking off his
clothes to go to bed, it evidently appeared that, instead of
proper linen, he had two shirts on (if such might be called
shirts) both of which were in such a ruinous and tattered
condition, such a mere bundle of rags, that out of the two

it would have been impossible to realize half a one fit for

wear.

  His portraits (for I believe he never painted any thing else)

are slight and sketchy, and show more of genius than labour ;
they indeed demonstrate facility, feeling, and nice observation, as
far as concerns the head ; but he was so idle and so unambitious
WILLIAM GANDY.  415

that the remainder of the picture, except sometimes the
hand, is commonly copied from some print after Sir Godfrey
Kneller.

   It is evident that there must have been some period of his

life when he pursued his profession with assiduity and energy,
which alone could have gained him the facility of practice that
he possessed ; but in the latter part of his life he could never
be induced to paint at all, unless driven to it by mere want ;
and he had no sooner acquired a little money than it was as
quickly gone in luxurious feeding, which seemed to be his

great passion.

   There is little reason to doubt that he might have been the
greatest painter of his time, had he not been his own greatest

enemy.

  IThere is no portrait of himself existing that ever heard of,
Iand when, how, or where he died or was buried, never knew,

but most probably at Exeter, as that city was chiefly the
place of his residence.

   He came to Plymouth about the year 1714, and was then a

man advanced in years. My grandfather was a great friend to

him ; but Gandy quitted Plymouth much in his debt,
departing secretly and leaving only a few old books and prints
behind him.

  I have seen in Devonshire several very fine heads of his

painting, particularly one of the Rev. John Gilbert, Canon of
416 MEMOIR OF

the cathedral of Exeter, and vicar of St. Andrews', Plymouth,
and father of the archbishop of York, of that name : it is less
than life, and has been engraved by Vertue for the volume of
Sermons, published by Mr. Gilbert. There is also a fine portrait
of the Reverend Nathaniel Harding, at that time a famous
dissenting preacher of Plymouth ; this picture was painted by
the desire of my father's mother, and given by her to the
daughter of Mr. Harding, after his death.

   There is likewise a portrait of one Tobias Langton of Exeter,
remarkably fine. Sir Godfrey Kneller, who was once at
Exeter, by chance saw this picture, and with astonishment
inquired who was the artist capable of having painted it, and
when told it was by a painter of that city who was in great
poverty, he exclaimed, " Good God ! why does he bury his
talents in the country when he ought immediately to come to
London, where his merit would soon be known and properly

rewarded ?"

   One, of my father when a child of four years of age, is
equally excellent. -- One of my father's mother is likewise
extremely fine, although Gandy, from his ill nature, was
quarrelling with her the whole time he was painting it. The
drapery of this picture is painted in a slovenly manner from
a print after Kneller, but there is a hand in it very finely

executed.

   There are also a great many of his pictures scattered about
Devonshire and Cornwall ; some very fine and many more
good-for-nothing, though the worst of them still look like the
careless productions of a good painter ; but the draperies were
WILLIAM GANDY.  417

always so entirely neglected by him, that this very much
conduces to destroy the general effect of the picture. He
seemed never to have thought of fame, but only how to get
rid of his work, that he might the sooner receive the money,

which was not above two guineas a head.

    He wished to have it supposed that he was the natural son
of the great Duke of Ormond, who was afterwards banished,
and always insinuated that he had some secret reasons for not
appearing publicly in London ; whether this was really the
 case, or whether he only hoped to give himself importance by

Ihis mysterious speeches, cannot determine.

  I have learnt these particulars from my father, whose family

had opportunities of being well acquainted with Gandy's
history, in consequence of his having resided a long time in
the house of my grandfather, who admired his talents, and
esteemed him as the greatest artist of his time.

  I have seen a portrait by Gaudy's father (of whom Pilking-

ton speaks) of the Duke of Ormond ; it is in the possession of
the Earl of Leicester, and this, as it was of his patron, may

Ibe supposed one of his best performances ; if so, must give

the preference in ability to the son ; for though this portrait is
finished with much more care than any by the younger Gandy,
yet it is very far from discovering so much genius.

  It is remarkable that the drapery in this portrait is so

exactly similar to that which wc so often find in Vandyke's
pictures, that it confirms Pilkington's supposition of Gandy,
the father, having been the assistant of Vandyke, and almost

                                                       3H
418 MEMOIR OP WILLIAM GANDY.

proves him to have frequently painted those parts in the
pictures of that celebrated painter.

It appears to me to be highly probable that this James

Gandy, the father, was a native of Exeter, as the son made

choice of it for his place of residence, and also because that it

is a   well known name    and family   "stiWll orrethmieasinionfgDienvtohna.'t* city.
      find the name also  in Prince's
We

  I cannot close the memoir of this man without noticing how

much it proves that the greatest abilities may become totally
useless to the possessor, and lost to the world at large, if not
directed by virtue and industry : and the lives of such persons,
as they exhibit an example of the distresses to which idleness
and want of moral principles may expose men of parts, may

be an useful lesson to the rising generation, and prove a more

powerful persuasive to industry, economy, and the right use
of great talents, than the most laboured argument ; and as

Johnson so exquisitely expresses it--

        Those who, in confidence of superior capacities or
attainments, disregard the common maxims of life, should be
reminded, that nothing will supply the want of prudence ; and
that negligence and irregularity long continued, will make

knowledge useless, wit ridiculous, and genius contemptible."

   The example of Sir Joshua Reynolds is an illustrious
contrast to this, where we see that great abilities, united to

virtue, have raised for him an everlasting monument of fame.

                                       VARIETIES

