Memoir of the Captain Joseph Huddart, F.R.S. &c.

Huddart, Joseph, the younger.
London, Printed by W. Phillips, 1821.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/nyp.33433008442075

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
                       (/I/

  NEW YORK PUBUC LIBRARY

               PURCHASED FROM THE

James Owen Proudfit Fund
f

  VYJ
        ' . '. ».:·:> a'j)  i
' I)'... iCi,<lu, iWl       I
                                                   \

                                                                                    V *V

TA1PTT JOSEPH HUDDAR.T, F.R.S.

/rrm ,ificturr fy lohn 7f,.f>fiirrKs^Tft.A,*'ntJirpsr'sefsrrr,i"f i,Ajr>*sffjrr'f,,frn Turnr" Es^1"
                MEMOIR

                                            OF THE LATE

CAPTAIN JOSEPH HUDDART,

                              F.R.S. &c.

                                 ~jo«.*r M viA.a«xvt ^

                                          LONDON :
     PRINTED BY W. PHILLIPS, GEORGE YARD, LOMBARD STREET.

               IhJ
                                        !
   .-- . ^

  »> ,.»;3 i^'v.^tJ

TI-Dl' 't i. I . '; >" OhS

           IPO?
To CHARLES HAMPDEN TURNER, Esq.

MY DEAR SIR,

      IIn dedicating to you the following pages perform

an act peculiarly congenial to my feelings for many reasons ;

amongst which, the kind and efficient assistance received from

you in their compilation, and the friendship long subsisting

Ibetween us, might have alone sufficed, had there not existed
another and a stronger inducement.  feel that in dedicating

to you a record of the life of my Father, the late Captain

IHuddart, offer a grateful tribute of respect to his memory ;

for the esteem and regard for you, cherished by him for many

years, knew no abatement to the latest period of his valuable

I am, with great truth,

                   My dear Sir,

            Your faithful and obliged friend,

                 JOSEPH HUDDART.

Brynkib, December 1821.
                             gitlttODUCtWiT,

         The plaudits of admiring nations attend the
Warrior and the Statesman, whose actions illumine
the page of enduring History, whilst the silent lapse
of time but too often consigns gradually to oblivion
the name of the philosopher who strengthened the
sinews of the one, and multiplied the powers of the

other, by scientific and mechanical improvements and
discoveries ; and are we not indebted for very many
of the useful arts of life to benefactors of whose ex
istence we are ignorant, except as regards its conse
quences, and but too frequently indifferent?

   Filial piety, and unshaken friendship, have united
their endeavours to rescue from the ebbing tide of
forgetfulness the name of Joseph Huddart, and to
combine it with his many useful works for which a
nation owes its tribute of thanks.
                                         vi

     Never perhaps did a nation boast a higher rank
in the lists of empire, or in the annals of science, than
Britain at this moment, in all that the intellect of man
has contributed to external glory, or to the advance
ment of the highest branches of practical knowledge.

The names of Watt, Rennie, and Huddart have been
long known to the enlightened of every European
country; the friendship which united them added

lustre to their individual acquirements, and was at
once a pledge of the utility of their undertakings, and
a proof of the liberality of their sentiments.

   The grave has closed over them all ; but, unlike the
bulk of mankind, they have left to their country innu
merable works of useful science and mechanism, which
must prove to posterity lasting records of their skill
and industry ; and their surviving friends possess the
pleasing and consoling reflection that, in them, su
perior talent, persevering exertion, and private worth
were intimately combined. Hence, we cannot but
regret, that the want of a due estimation of their
own importance should seem to have prevented their
                                         Ml

making such notes or leaving such memoranda, as
might have afforded the means of ascertaining the
progress of their discoveries, and of giving a faithful
history of their lives ; which now can only be exhi
bited, but as the one is exemplified in the beneficial
results of their labours, and the other is inscribed
on the memories of their contemporaries. The fol
lowing account of Captain Huddart must necessarily
therefore be incomplete, although it is hoped and
believed to be in no instance incorrect ; and as such,
it is presented with all its imperfections to a numerous
circle, each individual of which will acknowledge his
merit, and deplore his loss as a man, a philosopher,
and a Christian.
               MEMOIR, &c.

         CAPTAIN HUDDART was born at Allonby,

(a village in Cumberland much frequented as a bathing
place), on the 11th of January, 1740-1, O.S. : he was
an only child, and at the usual age was placed under
the care of the Reverend Mr. Wilson, at Allonby.
This gentleman had acquired a considerable know
ledge of Medicine and Astronomy at Glasgow College,
and possessed a share of learning superior to most
others who are emphatically styled country school
masters. The mind of Mr. Huddart, even at this
early period, seemed much inclined to the study of
Mathematics, a branch of science in which, unfortu
nately, Mr. Wilson was incapable of giving him any
instruction; this deficiency was, however, in some
measure compensated by the cultivation of his early

                                                        A
inclination for the study of Astronomy; an oppor
tunity being afforded him of making astronomical ob
servations with John Wilson (son of the Rev. Mr.
Wilson) a youth of great promise and talent, and the
present Sir Joseph Senhouse then at the same school,
who has since considerably distinguished himself as
a man of science.

   It has generally been observed that such men as

have, by means of their extraordinary talents, arrived
at elevated situations and consequence in the world,
from humble birth, have emitted some sparks of ge
nius in their infancy, announcing their future emi
nence. The subject of this memoir is known to have
given very signal proofs of precocious talent and per
severing application, of which the following anecdotes
are illustrative : for the first of them the author is in
debted to the recollection of his friend Sir Joseph

Senhouse.

   Being in a boat, and observing the great labour of
the rowers, it forcibly struck his mind that a machine
might be invented to propel the boat forward by
operating on the oars, and thereby supersede the ne

cessity of manual labour; he lost no time in endea

vouring to make one on this principle, and actually

succeeded so far as to construct a little boat which

rowed itself by means of some machinery within                                      it,

impelled by a spring. This invention was certainly

short of perfection nevertheless, as the production of
                it
a school-boy,          ;evinced a strong mechanical turn

which eventually produced most important results.

About the same time flour-mill was erecting at
                          a

AUonby, and the attention of our youth was caught

by its mechanism  :       occurred to him that he could

                     it

construct similar machinery himself he accordingly
                              ;

followed the workmen in their progress, and by the

time they had completed their task, the youth pro

duced his mill    in      miniature, the work of his own

hands, which proved an accurate imitation and was

set going with the original.

Machinery was not the only species of mechanics

on which the mind of young Huddart was bent his
attention was even thus early attracted towards Ship
                          a
                             2

                                                                                 ;
building also, which to the latest period of his life

was his favorite study, although much interrupted by

other useful undertakings in which he was engaged,

and which more immediately pressed on his attention.

  Having met with a " Treatise on Ship-building and

Navigation, by Mungo Murray," published in 1754,

he was so delighted with the accurate delineation and

clear style of that work, that he commenced building
the model of a seventy-four gun ship, exactly accord

ing to the rules and directions therein laid down, with

all the ribs, planks, bolts, rigging, &c. &c. of a real

vessel; this model he completed with indefatigable
labour and perseverance ; it is still in the possession
of the family, and is esteemed by every navigator who

it, it,has seen as a surprising instance of juvenile talent

and assiduity, particularly when
         a                        considered that

               it

                     is
he had not at that time seen ship of war.

These and other more serious occupations did not

prevent his amusing himself with the lighter and;

more fascinating study of music he was particularly
fond of and without any instruction whatever, but
merely from application and assiduity, he made con
siderable progress in this agreeable science ; he could
play on the violin, harpsichord, and flute.

   Several other anecdotes might be adduced, but as
the inventions and amusements of a school-boy can
not be generally interesting, these may suffice.

  It was the intention of Mr. Huddart (the father of

the gentleman whose life we are now recording) that
his son should be educated for the church ; the mind
of the youth had however taken a strong bias to other
pursuits ; he evinced thus early an anxious desire to
embrace a sea-faring life, sharpened probably by fre
quent opportunities of indulging this taste owing to

the vicinity of the sea. In the year 1756 the follow
ing circumstance occurred, which confirmed him in

his choice.

    Great shoals of herrings having come into the Sol-
way Firth, Mr. Huddart and some of his respectable
neighbours formed a Company for the purpose of
extending the fisheries there, and erecting the neces
sary buildings for curing fish ; in this concern, the
                                                    6

subject of this memoir was consequently much and
actively engaged, particularly in the catching of them ;
he had thus an opportunity not only of indulging in,
and permanently establishing his previous predilec
tion for the sea, but also of acquiring a dawn of that
practical knowledge which proved the harbinger of
his subsequent celebrity.

    In the year 1762 his father died, by which event

he succeeded to his father's interest in the fishery ; on
this occasion he took the command of a small brig for
the purpose of conveying to Ireland the fish cured by
the Company.

    Although his leisure moments were chiefly devoted

to the study of Ship-building and Astronomy, yet in
his coasting voyages he availed himself of every fa

vorable opportunity to survey the coasts, roadsteds,
and harbours ; this he found of great utility, when
he undertook the important survey of St. George's
Channel, a few years afterwards.

    In this year (1762) he married the younger daugh
ter of Mr. Johnston of Cowper, a respectable, though
small landed proprietor; the issue of this marriage
was five sons, two of whom died in their infancy ; of
the surviving three, the eldest and youngest (William
and Johnston) adopted their father's profession ; they
paid the tribute of nature before him ; the other,
named Joseph, is now the only survivor.

   In the year 1763, the shoals of herrings having
wholly left the Firth, Mr. Huddart directed his views
to other objects, and took the command of a brig

belonging to a relation, as a temporary employment,
until he had an opportunity of building one for him
self at Maryport : this undertaking he accomplished
in the course of the year 1768, according to a model
of his own, personally contributing with unwearied
exertion to its completion, and moulding every timber
with his own hands. In this vessel he traded success
fully to North America on his own account, making
an annual voyage to that country, and filling up the
intermediate time in the coal trade to Ireland.

    The experience he had acquired in the coasting
trade, enabled him to embark with safety in more
                                                    8

extended concerns, and to rely with confidence on his
own calculations : the following incident fully exem
plifies this observation. Being about to sail on his
first voyage to America, his friends were naturally
apprehensive that through inexperience he might not
reach his destined port in safety ; they therefore en
gaged a person to embark with him, who had fre
quently made the voyage. Mr. Huddart's observa
tions and reckoning induced him to believe that the
first land they made was the very port they were
bound to; the experienced person however who ac
companied him, insisted that it was not, and that the
coast had quite a different appearance ; Mr. Huddart
knew better, his accuracy enabled him to sail at once
into the river; his guide was then, and not till then,
reluctantly obliged to acknowledge his mistake.

    In the year 1771, being in London on a visit to
his paternal uncle, he was introduced by him to Sir

Richard Hotham, who had married his uncle's eldest
daughter. Sir Richard was a Ship-owner, and hus
banded two ships in the Honorable East India Com
pany's service: Mr. Huddart accompanied him to
Dudman's yard, to see a ship he was there building
for the Company's service ; at the same time, they in
spected several other Indiamen. Sir Richard was so
much pleased with the judicious remarks Mr. Huddart
made on this occasion, as to express a strong desire
that he should relinquish his present pursuits, and
enter into the Company's service, intimating that he
could not fail of meeting with great encouragement
and success. Mr. Huddart, however, finding that by
the existing regulations of the Company, he could
not enter into a higher station than fourth officer, and
feeling his situation in his own vessel very comfort
able and independent, at that time declined the pro

posal.

   In the year 1773, on his return from one of his
voyages to North America, he received a pressing

invitation from Sir Richard Hotham to revisit London ;
this he complied with, and Sir Richard proposed to
him that he should enter the Company's service as

fourth officer in the York, then nearly ready for

                                                            B
10

launching, bound to St. Helena and Bencoolen ; en

gaging, as an inducement, that he should succeed to

the command of that ship, upon the resignation of

Captain Hayter, and without purchase. Notwith

standing the apparent advantages of this offer, Mr.

Huddart was little inclined to accept                     not seeing
a
                                                     it,
any pecuniary benefit likely to accrue immediately

from such change in his situation, as many of the

captains and officers were losing money at that time

by their private trade. Being, however, urged by

some of his particular friends, he acceded to Sir

Richard's proposal so far, as to try one voyage, put

ting a Master into the command of his own vessel until

his return, when he could, he judged necessary,
resume his former occupation he accordingly entered
; if

                   it

into the Company's service in October, and sailed

from the Downs on Christmas eve 1773.

In the progress of this voyage Mr. Huddart invari

ably pursued the bent of his genius, occupying his

leisure time in scientific pursuits he made many use
    :

ful surveys, particularly on the west coast of Sumatra.
                                                            11

The York returned to England in October, 1775,

after a very successful voyage for the owners; the
markets were, however, so bad that the officers lost
by their private trade, and Mr. Huddart on settling
his accounts, found that the loss on his investment

amounted to £120; this inauspicious commencement
induced him to relinquish all thoughts of remaining

longer in the service ; he therefore continued with the

York only until she was cleared, and the stores de
livered ; he then returned to his family at Allonby,
and resumed the command of his own vessel.

   The contentions in America having at this period
assumed a serious aspect, Mr. Huddart was prevented
making his annual voyage to that country ; he there
fore confined himself to the coal trade from Maryport
to Ireland until October 1776, when, at the request
of Sir Richard Hotham, he undertook to superintend
the curing of provisions at Cork for his ships in the
Company's service ; when these were ready, he ship
ped them on board his own vessel, and arrived in
London in December.

                                        ·8
                                                   12

    At this time Mr. Sayer, an eminent chart-seller
in Fleet-street, having heard of the surveys made by
Mr. Huddart, obtained his permission to publish those
of the Sumatra coast, and at the same time engaged
him to complete a survey of St. George's Channel, of
which there was then no accurate chart : for this pur
pose, Mr. Huddart procured a small vessel, having
again put a Master into his own for a voyage to
Memel, and as soon as the season permitted he pro
ceeded to the Channel. This was an undertaking of
no ordinary moment; it required all the perseverance,
energy, and indefatigable industry, which a firm con
fidence in his own talents and qualifications could
alone inspire ; it was an undertaking in which strong
corporeal as well as mental exertions were indispen
sable ; and that the selection of the individual em

ployed on this occasion was judicious, is manifested by
the complete accuracy of the work, which, from long
experience, has received the sanction and approbation
of all navigators in that Channel. The emolument
 derived from this undertaking was inconsiderable,
13

the celebrity acquired by it was great, and Mr. Hud-

dart must have felt himself highly gratified in con

templating the beneficial consequences resulting to

navigation, from the exertion of his superior talents in

this important and invaluable survey.  He completed
the survey in the summer of 1777.

The vessel before alluded to as building at Dud-,

man's yard, was lost in her first voyage homeward

bound, having struck on some rocks on the coast

of Pelowar on the 17th of December 1773, upon
which Sir Richard Hotham petitioned the Court of

Directors for leave to build another in her place ; this

he found considerable difficulty in prevailing on the

Court to accede to; however, he at length obtained

leave, in great measure through the influence and in

terest of Mr. Dingwal (who had also married a daugh
ter of Mr. Huddart's uncle, and the sister of Lady

Hotham) upon the condition that Mr. Huddart should

succeed to the command of the new ship without pur
chase on the first vacancy,--an event very likely soon

to occur from the declining health of Captain Barrow
                                                   14

who had commanded the ship which was lost, and
was subsequently appointed to the command of the

new one, afterwards called the Royal Admiral. In
consequence of this arrangement, Mr. Huddart ac
cepted the situation of chief officer in that ship ; he

went into Cumberland, sold his vessel, settled his
other concerns there, and on his return in August
took a lodging in Deptford, where the Royal Admiral
was then building, in order more minutely to inspect
the finishing and fitting out of that ship. Ship build
ing having always been a favorite pursuit with him,
his whole time and attention were devoted to this
object, and he had the satisfaction of seeing her com
pleted entirely according to his own wishes.

    This vessel was chartered for Bombay, and sailed
from the Downs on the 27th of April 1778 ; she
put into Portsmouth, where Captain Barrow, whose
health had long been declining, died ; upon which, as
had been previously agreed on, the Court of Directors
was petitioned to appoint Mr. Huddart to the com
mand ; this was with some difficulty complied with,
                                                    15

as he had only performed one voyage previously to
India in the Company's service, the regulations re
quiring that two at least should be made.

    The command thus devolved on Mr. Huddart, but
under such peculiar circumstances as prevented him
from reaping the usual pecuniary advantages from it ;
for he was under the necessity of taking charge of
Captain Barrow's investment, of the profits on which,
together with every other incidental benefit accruing
to the commander, he had to render an account to
the executors; thus, though saddled with the heavy
charge and responsibility of the command, he could
only enjoy the profits arising from his own private
trade as chief officer; and perhaps it should be ob
served that, in the management of this trust, he ac
quitted himself to the entire satisfaction of Captain
Barrow's executors. He arrived in the Downs, after
a successful voyage, on the 13th January, 1780.

    On this voyage he took out his eldest son William
as Midshipman, being then seventeen years of age.
During the passage outward bound, Captain Huddart
                                                   16

and his son met with an accident which had nearly
proved fatal to both. As the ships were nearing the
Cape of Good Hope, the Colebrook, one of the con
voy, struck against an unknown sunken rock, by
which misfortune she was so much damaged that all
efforts to keep her above water were unavailing ; she
sunk about six hours afterwards, only affording time
for the other ship's boats to receive her passengers
and crew, who were saved with the exception of
about twenty persons. On their arrival at the Cape,
Captain Huddart, with his characteristic desire for
investigation, attempted to ascertain the true situa
tion of this rock, which was hitherto unknown even
to the Dutch ; for this purpose he got a Dutch pilot,
and a boat from the Resident, and attended by his
own pinnace, proceeded with his son and a few other

officers to survey it; to effect this it was necessary

previously to land, in order to get the true situation
of the headland and some adjacent rocks, &c. which
lay above water : as the surf ran high, they rested
on their oars until it appeared safe to land, when
                    17

they attempted to pull in ; then, as he himself stated,

" without the least warning, a high breaker tower

ing up, in less than three seconds of time upset the
pinnace;" being sensible of the danger, he sprung

from the boat, which being perceived by his son who

            it,
                        it,

                                                                            ;
was steering he jumped out also, and getting upon

his father's back, Captain Huddart in this situation

swam with that surf about fifty or sixty yards on its

return, having fortunately got ground, he was en

abled to withstand  and eventually landed safe;

seven people were covered in the boat, who, by their
own exertions, and the assistance he afforded them as

soon as he was able, were all fortunately saved. The

only loss sustained on this occasion, which might have
proved so fatal, was that of their instruments and

firelocks.

    Captain Huddart did not remain long in England
he again sailed from the Downs June 3d, 1780, for
;
                                                                                                     ;
Bombay on his arrival there, owing to the war, the

Royal Admiral was put under the orders of Admiral

Sir Edward Hughes: whilst acting with the British
                                                    18

fleet/, he was engaged in the reduction of Jagginault-
poram and Negapatam, two Dutch settlements, and
was otherwise actively employed for about two years
in the king's service : he did not arrive in the Downs
from this voyage till August 25th, 1783.

    This voyage, from Captain Huddart's having been
detained so long in India in consequence of the war,
was as unprofitable to himself as the former one ; and
it being now ten years since he first entered the Com
pany's service, he found on examining the state of
his affairs, that he had but in a very trivial degree
increased his property. A brighter prospect was
now however about to dawn, which in some measure
recompensed him for a life hitherto attended with
various hardships, and trying vicissitudes.

    The Directors have the sole appointment of the
voyages, beginning with the Chairman, who has the
first nomination ; this privilege was attended on this
occasion with a fortunate result to Captain Huddart,
whose independence of mind was such, that he always
revolted at the idea of soliciting favors, or exposing
                                                    19

himself to obligations ; his worthy friend Sir Henry
Fletcher, who then filled the Chair, kindly and volun
tarily (no application whatever having been made to
him) appointed him to one of the Bombay and China
voyages, then considered the best ; this may be fairly
noticed as a proof of highly disinterested friendship,
and it should be recorded in honor of that upright
character, that, on Captain Huddart's return, he could
not prevail on him to accept a pipe of choice wine
selected purposely for him at Madeira, as a small
token of acknowledgement for his disinterested and
liberal kindness. Captain Huddart sailed from the
Downs on the 27th of March 1784, and returned to
England in April 1786.

   In this voyage he was very successful, and as he

himself was known to observe, " this was the first

moment that he could say he had benefitted by enter
ing the Company's service, thirteen years before."

   During the passage, Captain Huddart was fortunate

enough to fall in with the " Basses de India," a ridge

of rocks, the true position of which was not until this

                              c2
                                             20

period known with sufficient accuracy : finding him
self about the latitude where he might expect them,
he sent the pinnace a-head to reconnoitre, when,
about eight o'clock on a fine clear morning, he was
rejoiced to observe the signal for soundings, on which
he took the necessary measures for an accurate ob
servation, and he was thus enabled to lay down their
true situation with unerring precision, as appears by
his survey.

    On his arrival in the Downs he received the afflict
ing intelligence of the death of Mrs. Huddart ; she
died on the 12th of February 1786, at Allonby, after
a very long and painful illness.

    His youngest son, Johnston, then fourteen years
of age, accompanied him on this voyage as Midship-
mad. His eldest son, William, having been with him
the two preceding voyages, he naturally wished to
promote him, but as he could not with propriety ad
vance him in the Royal Admiral over his own officers,
he got him appointed second officer with Captain
Frazer in the Mansfield, to Bengal, which vessel re
           21

turned to England in September 1785. At this time,
the York being chartered for an extra voyage to
St. Helena and China, Sir Richard Hotham very
kindly nominated him to the command, an offer too

flattering to a young man only twenty-two years old,
to be resisted, although his state of health was such

as almost to induce him to decline it; he however

           it,

                                 ;

                                        it
                                                                                  ;
did accept and proceeded on his voyage the event
but too well justified his apprehensions, and the trust

he undertook, bringing with                   much fatigue and

anxiety, probably hastened the melancholy catastrophe
which soon followed his health gradually growing
worse, he died in China on the 30th March 1787, and

was buried at Macao.

    The following Letter from John Henry Cox, Esq.
to Mr. Mills, Purser of the York, exemplifies the high

estimation in which this amiable young man was held.

Dear Sir,      Canton, 4th April, 1787.

         have just now received yours of the 31st March
last from on board the York Macao Roads, con
1

                                          in
                                             32

firming the melancholy intelligence of the death of

Captain William Huddart ; I do assure you that none

of his friends can more sincerely deplore this unfor
tunate and untimely event than myself, having, during

the little time I enjoyed the pleasure of his acquaint

ance, conceived a very great regard and friendship for

him; this, together with the respect I bear to his

father, had determined me before the receipt of your
letter to pay all possible honor to his memory, and
to have a handsome marble tablet placed over his

Igrave, with a short and suitable inscription. expect

to set off for Macao this afternoon, and will imme

diately upon my arrival give the necessary orders for
this purpose : should his friends in England be de
sirous of having any particular inscription placed over
his tomb, they may be assured of their wishes on this

head being most punctually attended to. With respect

to any expenses that may be incurred in carrying these

intentions into execution, I shall insist upon being

permitted to bear them myself, accepting with a me
lancholy satisfaction this opportunity of testifying my
                                             23

regard and attachment to so amiable and valuable a
character as was that of your friend.

                   I remain, dear Sir,

                                  Your obedient Servant,
                                                John Henry Cox.

    The death of this beloved son was a severe afflic
tion to his father ; he was a youth of great promise
and abilities, and had made considerable progress in
science under his paternal instruction. Captain Hud-
dart, communicating this melancholy event to a friend,
after enumerating the many excellent qualities of his

son, remarked " that it was the first and only time in

a life of hardships and vicissitude in which he had
repined at the dispensations of Providence, but that
he hoped the Almighty in his infinite mercy would
forgive him."

   On the return of the York to England, it appeared

there was a loss on his son's private trade amounting
to about £700 ; from a strong sense of probity, and
respect to the memory of a beloved son, he would not
         24

allow the creditors to suffer this loss, and although
at that time limited in his fortune, and in no manner

whatever bound, or expected to liquidate; he very

honorably and handsomely discharged the wholeit,

amount.

We are now arrived at that period when Captain

Huddart made his last voyage to India, being the

fourth in the Royal Admiral she was now stationed

by the Court of Directors to Madras and China, and

sailed from the Downs on the 20th January 1787, and

returned to England after another prosperous voyage

in July 1788.

Captain Huddart had now been constantly navi

gating for twenty-five years, reckoning from the time

he took the command of a Brig in 1763, and may
                                          it

be mentioned as a striking proof of his foresight and

prudence, under the protection of a kind Providence,
that, during the entire of this period, he never met

with any serious disaster. The following anecdote

illustrative of the principle on which he always acted,

has been communicated to the author by a friend.
                                              2b

Having on one occasion received his despatches for
Europe from the Governor and Council at Bombay,
he set sail, together with several other vessels, a fair
wind and fine weather promising a happy voyage :
two or three days afterwards, he returned singly to
port; the Governor, astonished and dissatisfied, sharply
remonstrated with him for not keeping at sea as the
others did, and said he would write to the Court of

Directors to represent his conduct. The appearance
of bad weather which induced Captain Huddart to
take this step, was followed by one of the most

violent storms ever remembered there, and which
strewed the coast with the wrecks of the vessels that
had sailed with him : when this tremendous storm had
subsided, and Captain Huddart saw he could pro
ceed with safety on his voyage, he called at the
Government House to take leave ; and accosting the

Governor jocularly, said " Governor, I am now ready

to sail, and only wait for your letter to the Court of
Directors."

    On his arrival in England he found Sir Richard
                       26

Hotham very desirous of retiring from his shipping

interests ; he was then in treaty for the sale of the

Royal Admiral, but found he could not dispose of it

with advantage, unless he could also sell the com

mand. Captain Huddart had then no intention of quit
ting the Company's service, but as he had on many
occasions experienced the kindness of Sir Richard, he

consented to withdraw from  ; it,thus to enable him

the more easily to accomplish his views an agree;
ment was accordingly entered into, by which Sir       ;

Richard engaged to give Captain Huddart £1000,

as compensation for the command a sum so very
a

inadequate to its value, as clearly to exemplify Cap

tain Huddart's easiness of disposition, and indifference

to the acquirement of wealth for in computing the
value of this ship, £8000 was paid to Sir Richard for

the command alone.

   Thus Captain Huddart retired from the Company'sit
service, having been engaged in for the space of
fifteen years, ten of which he served as commander

in the Royal Admiral.
                                              27

     After Captain Huddart's return from this his last
voyage, he obtained for his son Johnston the appoint
ment of third officer on board the Princess Amelia.

When this vessel returned to England in 1794, John
ston was in a very delicate state of health, being

threatened with that dreadful malady a consumption,
which proceeded from a neglected cold caught during
the voyage ; he was advised to try a milder climate, and
towards the close of that year went through Germany
to Italy, and died at Leghorn on the 29th January
following, aged twenty-four years. This was another
trying affliction to his father; he was a young man
of superior talents, very amiable in his disposition and
engaging in his manners ; his remains were interred
in the burial-ground of the British factory, where a
marble monument is erected to his memory.

    During the period of Captain Huddart's being en
gaged in the Company's service, it may be supposed
that a person of his genius and active mind would
have many opportunities of exercising his talents in
the wide field laid open for their employment in the

                                        d2
                                             28

eastern hemisphere ; of these he never failed to avail
himself, having employed every leisure interval in
hydrographical and astronomical pursuits.

     From the great knowledge he had acquired in
Astronomy, he was enabled, by the eclipse of Jupiter's
satellites, to ascertain the longitude of Bombay with
greater precision than had been done by any former
geographer.

     He observed an annular and central eclipse of the
sun when at China ; he went some distance to accom
plish this object, and thus determined with great ac
curacy the longitude.

    Together with several other Surveys, he completed
one of the whole Peninsula from Bombay to Coringo,
also one of the River Tigris from Canton to the
island of Sankeet, for which last in particular, and for
his exertions in improving the navigation to and from
 the East Indies and China, he received the thanks of
 the Court of Directors in a letter dated the 28th of
 October, 1786.

     The wonderful perseverance and indefatigable in
                                      29

dustry of Captain Huddart, the caution he evinced in

adopting any conclusion, however desirous he was of

                   it,
                                  it
arriving at        until he had thoroughly investigated

the principles on which was founded, were the great

causes of rendering his labours substantially useful.

On retiring from an active sea-faring life he pur

chased house in that healthy and elevated situation,
it
Highbury Terrace, distant only three miles from Lon
             a
don, where he erected an observatory, and furnished

with choice instruments for the purpose of making

celestial observations this agreeably divided his lei
                   ;

sure moments with a workshop fitted up with forge,
                                          a

lathe, &c. thus gratifying the taste for astronomical
                ;

and mechanical pursuits so congenial to his mind.

The mechanism of clocks and watches had always,

and early attracted his attention. The following

anecdote, which should perhaps have been sooner

inserted, may now be mentioned as illustrative of this.

On his first visit to London, when a boy, walking

with his uncle through St. Jame's Park, a day or two

after his arrival, a man having the appearance of      a
                                             30

tradesman, touched his hat to him ; " You surely
cannot know that man," said his uncle;" "Yes,".
replied the youngster, " he belongs to Westminster
Abbey, I gave him sixpence yesterday to shew me the

works of the great clock."
    This branch of mechanism he continued to take

great delight in ; he frequently cleaned and repaired
his own clocks and watches, taking the works to

pieces, and putting them together again, as if he had

served an apprenticeship to the art ; at a late period
of his life he made the pendulum of the astronomical
clock in his own observatory, for the purpose of ob

taining accurate astronomical observations.

   In the year 1790 he was employed in the important
survey of Hasbro' Gatt.

   In 1791 the Trinity Corporation, duly appreciating
the importance of the services he had rendered to

navigation in general, and at the same time desirous
of securing to that Corporation the advantages of his
superior talents, elected him an Elder Brother ; from
this time till his last illness, -- a period of twenty-five
                                                   31

years, he was one of the most active members of that
useful establishment. During this period, his attention
was constantly directed to the improvement and se

curity of the coasting navigation, the erection of light

houses, &c, and among many others, that of the

Longships, in the constructing of which his utmost

abilities were called forth : on this occasion the Trinity
Corporation unanimously voted him their thanks, as

expressed in the following Resolution.

    At a General Court of the Corporation of Trinity
House, held on Thursday the 8th October, 1795,

   Resolved unanimously,

        " That the thanks of this Court be returned to
" Captain Joseph Huddart for the important services
" he has rendered to this Corporation, and to Navi-
" gation in general, by proceeding twice this year
" from London to the Land's End, and there direct-
" ing the completion, and proper exhibition of the
" Light on the rocks called the Longships, and in
" devising with the utmost ingenuity, a method of
                                              32

" fixing poles or beacons on the Wolf Rock, and
" Rundle Stone, by which such beacons are now
" erected in the best and most permanent manner,
" after all the various modes of placing them, pursued
" for a great length of time by Lieutenant Smith and

" his agents had proved ineffectual ; And also for the

" directions Captain Huddart has formed for ships
" sailing by this light, and the poles or beacons, with
" a sketch of the same, and the land, which are de-
" signed with the greatest accuracy, and executed in
" the neatest manner.

                 " By Command of the Corporation,
                                             " David Court."

    In this year, 1791, Captain Huddart was elected a

Fellow of the Royal Society. Among other papers

written by him, and presented to this Society, as may

be seen in the " Philosophical Transactions," were

the following.

   " An account of Persons who could not distinguish
colburs : " in a letter to the Rev. Joseph Priestley,

LL.D. F.R.S. See Appendix, A.
                                              33

    " Observations on Horizontal Refractions which

affect the appearance of terrestrial objects, and the
dip, or depression of the horizon of the sea." This
communication was read in November, 1796, ordered
to be printed, and the thanks of the Society voted to
him. See Appendix, B.

    When it was determined to commence that great
national undertaking the London Docks, Captain
Huddart, having established his well earned fame as
an Engineer, was solicited to become a Director, the
projectors being desirous of procuring the advantage
of his talents in their construction : he accepted the
office, and took a most active part in the plan and
execution of these extensive works. Soon after this,
it was resolved to erect Docks for the accommo
dation of the East India trade. Captain Huddart
became a Director of this undertaking also, and
contributed materially to the plan and construction
of them ; the honor of laying the first stone of this
important work was delegated to him, in the absence
of the Right Honorable William Pitt, who had en»
                                              34

gaged to do it, but who was from some cause pre
vented attending.

    The period now arrived (1799) when the atten
tion of Captain Huddart was particularly called to an
object, the furtherance of which he had long had it in
contemplation to attempt.

     During the time he was engaged in the East India
service, he had frequently observed great imperfec
tions in the manufacture of cordage, especially in
cables and the larger ropes, by which many lives and
much valuable property were unnecessarily exposed
to danger; his attention had, therefore, been early
given to the discovery of some principle by which
deficiencies so apparent might be remedied ; and his
inventive genius, aided by his sound mechanical and
mathematical attainments, was not long in producing
the most valuable improvement in cordage.

    Soon after the subject of this memoir quitted the
sea, he explained his plan, and described the principle
of his improvement in cordage to Mr. Barnes, a rope-
maker in Maryport, Cumberland, and there personally
                                              33

assisted in the first experiments. Mr. Barnes being a
gentleman of confined capital, and Maryport a place
of small trade, it was not probable that his improve
ments could there be extensively applied; but, the
advantageous employment, in the neighbouring col
lieries, of some ropes made under Captain Huddart's
immediate inspection, satisfied him that the principle
on which they were constructed was a real improve
ment in the manufacture.

    His anxiety to forward every object connected with
the maritime interest of his country, induced him to
offer his invention to the East India Company for its
adoption by their rope manufacturers, who declined it
on the absurd and illiberal principle of not altering
what had been long practised, expressing at the same
time a difficulty in attempting a change in the manu
facture of an article so particularly in the power of
their workmen.

     Hence the improvement lay dormant six or seven
years, and might have remained so much longer, had
it not been suggested to Captain Huddart by some

                               e2
                                             36

gentlemen wholly unconnected with the manufacture
of cordage, that they were ready to adopt the prin
ciple in all its parts, provided he would superintend
the erection of the necessary buildings and machinery,
and that they would agree to such terms of remune
ration as he might require; to which he readily re
plied that, as the success of such an establishment
must be doubtful, he was not desirous of an arrange
ment by which he, the inventor, must be the only
certain gainer ; that, unwilling as he was generally to
embark in trade, he would nevertheless provide his
equal proportion of capital, and bear his chance of
success or failure in the proposed undertaking.

   In consequence of this, land was immediately pur

chased, and buildings were erected ; machinery was
constructed under Captain Huddart's immediate atten
tion, and every wheel, and every shaft were laid down
by his order.

    This engagement commenced in the latter part of
the year 1799, and continued till the hour of his death.

    In the early part of the year 1800, the machinery
                                                          37;

            was ready, and the first cordage manufactured byit,
            was a cable of large dimension. From the moment
is is it,   the machinery was put in action, there could remain    ;
          isno doubt of its success and indeed so correct was
                                                                          it it
                 as originally invented by Captain Huddart, that
            no improvement up to the hour in which this memoir

                written, has been suggested in its principle, which
               that of making every component part of the rope
            bear its proportion of strain.

               It not requisite here, neither would suit the

            brevity of this memoir, to enter into the various sug
            gestions which at times presented themselves to the
            fertile mind of Captain Huddart, to give the utmost
            effect to the principle of his invention but may be
            gratifying to the readers of this memoir to know some
            thing of the cause and construction of the latest and
            largest part of the machinery erected at the manufac
            tory at Limehouse, which, in point of stupendous and
            beautiful mechanism, aided by the soundest mathe
            matical calculation, stands unrivalled in this or any
            other country, with the exception of the steam engine,
                                             38

the invention of Captain Huddart's friend and cotem-
porary, the celebrated Mr. Watt.

   For some years after the establishment of the works,

Captain Huddart adopted machinery only so far as to
carry the principle into effect by putting each yarn
in the strand (or part composing the rope) into its
proper place, the strands were afterwards laid into a
rope or cable, by workmen in the ordinary way ; now,
although the greatest attention was given by the fore
man, that this part should be carefully executed, so
that the cordage produced was very far superior to
any hitherto manufactured, still Captain Huddart saw
the inconveniences which might arise, and the ease
by which his improvement might be thwarted, by
the inattention of workmen ; he therefore constructed
machinery by which the strands were laid into ropes,
and the ropes closed into cables, thus perfecting his
invention, and producing a manufacture equal and
complete in all its parts.

    This machinery, capable of making cables for the
largest ship in the navy, was erected wholly from
               39

drawings made and constructed by Captain Huddar t

himself, the various parts were wrought on the spot

under his own immediate attendance, and so perfectly

and completely had he arranged the whole, that, ex

tensive as it
it
       is,

                                                        ;

                                                             it
               and combining so many parts as

does, no alteration was necessary the cordage first
made by was complete, and till this moment no

addition to, or deviation from its original construction

has been found requisite.'
    Thus was perfected an invention of the highest

possible consequence, and Captain Huddart had the
satisfaction of knowing that, in sixteen years expe
rience, no one reasonable instance had occurred of

complaint or defectiveness in the cordage manufac

tured by the machinery of his own constructing.

During the period this object was attaining, Captain

Huddart found time to forward another improvement

connected with naval affairs, and which was in the
important science of naval architecture.

He had long observed the great deficiency of scien

tific knowledge in the construction of the forms of
                                         40

ships, and about the year 1797 he built a vessel at
Maryport, for the purpose of trying some experi
ments which he then caused to be made. About the
year 1802 he brought this vessel to London, and after
making such alterations as furthered the object he had
in view, he disposed of her, and commenced an exten
sive series of observations on the important points of
the motion and resistance of bodies in fluids.

     These experiments were made with great personal
labour, and at much expense ; and after a very care
ful and attentive consideration of the subject, he de
termined to build another vessel to prove the result of
his labours.

    This vessel was built at the ship-yard of his friend
Sir Robert Wigram ; the draft was drawn by himself,
every line was laid down, and every part completed
under his own immediate inspection ; and so accurate
had his experiments been, and so correct was his ma
thematical knowledge, that this vessel most satisfac
torily proved the truth of what he had done; she drew
precisely the draft of water he calculated, and her in
                                                    41

creased deepening was in exact conformity with what
his calculations led him to expect ; she sailed too, and
performed in every way, according to his best hopes,
and he was much pleased in the prospect of adding
another important improvement to the navy.

   Till within a very few months of his death, indeed

till the last hour his health would permit, he person
ally assisted in experiments on this pursuit, and had
his life been spared, no doubt can be entertained
that he would have produced most valuable results ;
indeed, so completely and accurately had he in
vestigated the material points connected with naval
architecture, that little more remained than to put
what he had done into form, and it was his full in
tention to have laid down a ship of each class in the
navy, the construction of which he had no doubt of
improving, having regard to the objects of stowage
and defence, so as to increase the rate of sailing one
knot an hour.

   The papers from which these results would have
been drawn are in the possession of his son, but it is
                                              42

to be feared that, owing to the application by Captain
Huddart of his high mathematical knowledge and lan
guage in noting the experiments, little can be made
of them.

    Captain Huddart was always anxious to keep the
principles on which his results had been arrived at,
from the eyes of foreigners ; and although he would
willingly have presented all his improvements to the
Admiralty, still he always expressed a determination
to have so done, with such injunctions as should have
prevented his various reasonings from being known ;
and this he would have insisted on, fully satisfied that
the mathematicians of other countries connected with
their naval establishments, would readily have availed
themselves of the means by which the improvements
had been effected, and his great object, viz. that every

British Man of War should be superior to its enemy,

would have been defeated.
    The works in which Captain Huddart was actively

engaged as an Engineer were very numerous, but the
particulars of them the author of this memoir is not
       43

well acquainted with ; it must therefore suffice to enu
merate the few following, which he is enabled to do

from documents in his possession. It may, at the

same time, be observed that Captain Huddart was fre

quently consulted by Government and by private in

dividuals on various important works ; on these occa

sions, he invariably gave his opinion and advice with

the utmost candour and liberality, without any other

view than that of promoting the public good.
   In December, 1789, Captain Huddart received the

thanks of the Trustees of the harbour of Whitehaven

for his plan for the improvement of that harbour.
   In March, 1791, the thanks of the Directors of the

British Society of Fisheries were voted to him for his

Survey and Chart of the islands and coast of Scot

land.

In September, 1793, he received the thanks of the

Mayor and Corporation of Boston, for his Survey of
the harbour and river at that place, which were con

veyed in a letter from Sir Joseph Banks ; and at the

same time the Corporation presented  him with a

                           f2
                                             44

handsome silver cup, as an acknowledgment of the
service thus rendered to them.

   In November, 1794, Captain Huddart received the
thanks of the Commissioners of Customs for his sur
vey of the port of Hull, with a view to the construc
tion of a new Dock there.

   In June, 1795, he received the thanks of the Trus
tees of the harbour at Swansea for the important com
munications made to them for the improvement of

that harbour, and which was carried into effect agree
ably to his suggestions.

    In March, 1796, after surveying the harbour of

St. Agnes, Cornwall, he furnished the Proprietors with

a plan for a new jetty. In the same year he surveyed

the harbour at Portsmouth.

   In 1800, at the request of the Magistrates and
Council of Edinburgh, he surveyed the harbour at

Leith, and made a report thereon, dated November
the 3rd; his suggestions were approved and carried
into effect, for which he received their thanks, con
veyed to him by the Right Hon. the Lord Provost.
                                             45

    In January, 1803, he received the thanks of the

Directors General of Inland Navigation for the " Con

sideration and Application" he gave to the improve
ment of the harbour of Dublin.

   In May, 1808, Captain Huddart surveyed Holy

head, from which place he sent a report on the proper
situation for the erection of a light-house, and in con
formity with his suggestions, that useful and import
ant light-house on the South Stack was erected.

    In the same year, he went to Ireland at the request
of Government, accompanied by Mr. Rennie, to sur
vey and give an opinion respecting the propriety of
establishing a harbour at Howth for the accommoda
tion of Packets, and at a subsequent period made
a report thereon.

   In August of that year, Captain Huddart, Mr. Mylne,
and Mr. Rennie, at the request of the Navy Board,
gave in an able report on the improvement of His
Majesty's Dock-yard at Woolwich, particularly with
regard to the accumulation of mud there.

    In September, also, of that year, he again went to
                                             46

Portsmouth, at the desire of Government, on account
of the projected improvements of the harbour, and
was accompanied by Mr. Mylne.

    In August, 1812, Captain Huddart received the
thanks of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty
for the assistance he gave in the survey of His Ma
jesty's Dock -yard at Sheerness.

   He determined the boundaries of the Oyster fisheries
near Whitstable, which had been a subject of litiga
tion for many years, the change in the magnetic poles
having altered the boundaries.

    In the year 1809, Captain Huddart purchased the
ancient demesne of Brynkir in Caernarvonshire, and in

the two following years he added to his former pur
chase the demesne of Wern, and other estates in the
 same county ; this property he placed entirely under

the management and direction of his son. It is a sin

 gular circumstance, that he never saw the purchases
 he had made ; he often talked of going into Wales,
 but the pressure of numerous avocations obliged him
 to postpone his visit from time to time, till at length
                                         47

his health beginning to decline, he was under the ne
cessity of relinquishing the intention altogether.

    The writer of this memoir, anxious to give as ac
curate a detail as possible of the late Captain Huddart's
surveys, applied for information on the subject to Mr.
Laurie, who published many of his works ; in conse
quence of this application, he received a letter from
that gentleman, of which the following is an extract.

   " Having mentioned your wishes to our geographer,

Mr. Purdy, he has sent the enclosed remarks, and as
no one is better qualified to give an opinion of your

Ilate father's nautical surveys, hope they will give

you satisfaction."
    The following is the letter alluded to as received

from Mr. Purdy, which, from the accuracy, clearness,
and ability with which the subject is treated by
that distinguished and eminent geographer, the author
is induced to copy verbatim, and at the same time
to express his grateful acknowledgments for the ready
and polite attention paid by him to the application.
                                              48

                                         London, 16th April, 1818.

Sir,

          Mr. Laurie has been pleased to refer to me the
expression of your wishes relative to the hydrographic
works of your honored parent, the late Captain Hud-

dart, and I sit down most willingly to fulfil them, --

not, indeed, with entire satisfaction, because inade
quately qualified ; but with an earnest wish to do
justice to a subject affecting the reputation of a gen

Itleman whose character have, for many years, held

in the highest respect.

   I have read, with great pleasure, the biographic

notices of Captain Huddart which have appeared in

several periodic publications ; particularly the memoir

given in the " Gentleman's Magazine," wherein the

large Chart of St. George's Channel is particularly
mentioned, as one of Captain Huddart's first efforts in
the improvement of hydrography. This work, ori
ginally dated on board the Royal Admiral, 31st March,
1778, still maintains its well established reputation;

and, perhaps, requires no farther comment. It is
                                              49

pleasant to find that, as the original survey, with re
quisite additions, it is yet preferred to all the imita
tions of it that have since been published.

    The same remarks apply, with at least equal force,
to the Chart of the western coasts and islands of
Scotland, which first appeared, and was dedicated to
the Society for the encouragement of the Fisheries,
between the years 1787 and 1794. This Chart,
in three sheets, comprises all the Coasts and Chan
nels between the Mull of Cantire and Cape Wrath,
and is therefore to be considered as a continuation

of the preceding one of the Irish Sea. It possesses,

exclusively, the merit of rectifying the geography
of this part of the British Empire in all succeeding
works, particularly the large Maps of Scotland, &c.
Without its limits, and immediately without them,
error has still been found to commence. Mr. Colin
Lamont, a respectable mathematician of Greenock,
has furnished me with his esteemed testimony in \\s
favour. This gentleman has employed himself oc
casionally, for many years past, in prosecuting an

                                              g
                                              50

extensive survey of the West of Scotland, and he
has particularly examined the points settled by Cap

tain Huddart. It is expressed on the face of the
Chart that, " the survey was carried on from obser

vations made at Campbelltown, Tobermory, Cana,
Ullapool, Laxford, Stornaway, Glash, Namaddy, and

Barra, to determine the latitude and longitude by as

tronomical instruments and chronometers, from which
a series of triangles, determined from the true meri
dian, was carried on, to find the situation of the inter
mediate places, &c." Upon this Mr. Lamont has said,

" As to the consistency of Captain Huddart's results

in latitude, and my humble attempts, nothing ever
afforded me more genuine satisfaction than the almost
incredible coincidence of two observers, at distant
periods, total strangers to each other ; insomuch that,
of the ten or eleven different positions which he set
tled in Scotland, and which are included in very nearly

Ifive hundred that have observed, none differ equal

....to the breadth of the lines usually drawn on Maps or

Charts." ... .
                                                    51

   The survey of the River Tigris, from Canton to the
island of Sankeet, is dated London, 10th of October,

1786, and comprises copious directions for the navi

gation of that river, appearances of land, &c. To

these are added the important determination of the
position of Canton, viz. Lat. 23° 6' 57" N. Lon. 113°
16' 15" E., as shewn in the Tables prefixed to the
Oriental Navigator, in 1816, and therein given, (from
reasonable conviction of its accuracy) in preference to
many other and later results, which have appeared to
the present time.

    This is particularly noticed, because the mouth of
the Tigris is the grand point of departure for all
vessels bound from Canton to every part of the adja
cent seas ; and, being finally settled, it serves for the
rectification of the whole.

    In 1788, Captain Huddart made his sketch of the
Straits of Gaspar. It was published as merely a sketch,

yet its longitudes varied but four minutes from the
longitudes since adopted, and it afforded an important
rectification of the previously existing Charts, &c. of

                               g2
                                             52

this navigation. An improved edition has been lately
published.

   False Bay, at the Cape of Good Hope, was surveyed
by Captain Huddart in 1797. He had previously sur
veyed Simon's or Seamon's Bay. Of False Bay there
is a new edition, with additions.

    Captain Huddart also made some surveys of the
Road of Bencoolen, and of a part of the Western

Coasts of Sumatra, with the detail of which I am not

correctly acquainted ; and he, at different times, ma

terially improved the " Oriental Navigator," or Di

rectory for the East Indies, the volume to which the
Tables of Positions, composed by myself, are now

affixed.

   The Charts above mentioned are, as I believe, all

the larger Charts that the Captain published : but the
honorable testimony of Major Rennell has shown that
his active mind was occasionally engaged on other

important objects.
    In the Preface to his Memoir of a Map of Hin-

doostan, this gentleman writes, " By the aid of a
53

series of observations of latitude and longitude, taken

by Captain Huddart, along the Malabar Coast, or
Western Coast of India, the form of the peninsula is

now brought very near to the truth." (Pref. page iv.)
And again, " As Captain Huddart's series of longitudes

commenced at Bombay, in lat. 18° 58', and were con

tinued to Anjenga, in lat. 8° 39', and then back again

to Bombay, by which the error of his timekeeper

was ascertained, and which was only as much as

amounted to 2% minutes of longitude, we have every
reason to be satisfied with this series, as far as respects

general positions : and, indeed, Geography is greatly
indebted to the labours of this gentleman, who has

presented us with the longitudes of sixteen places on

this coast, and by that means given the true general

figure of which exhibits, to those who have been in
it,

  it

                                   it,

                                        it
the habit of contemplating  a very different form

from what ever did before." (Memoir, edition of

1788, page 18.)

   To this remark of Major Rennell may be added
that the true longitude of Bombay appears to be 72*
                                              54

58' E; Captain Huddart made it 72° 54': so that thus,

in all this extent of coast, the approximation was to
about four minutes, from the results of our best ob

servers to the present day.
    A remarkable instance of Captain Huddart's merit

as an observer, occurs in Colonel Mudge's account of
the Trigonometrical Survey. The Scilly Islands had
previously and generally been placed twenty minutes,
and more than twenty minutes, of longitude, to the
west of their true meridian. In a note on this subject,

Colonel Mudge says, " In the Requisite Tables, pub

lished by order of the Board of Longitude, the latitude
of the Scilly Lights is said to be 49° 56' 0", and lon
gitude 6° 46' 0". The latitude, according to the sur
vey, is 49* 53' 36" 8, and longitude 6° 19' 23" 4.
An error of 2' 23" in the latitude, may not perhaps
be considered extraordinary ; but how, in a maritime
country like our own, where chronometers are in such
constant use, so great an error as 26' 37" (lm 46£s in
time) in the longitude, should have remained un

J.detected, excepting by one person, is surprising.
                                              55

Huddart, Esq. visited the Scilly Isles, having with
him a watch made by Arnold, and obtained his time
at that spot in the island of St. Mary, where the body
of Sir Cloudesly Shovel is said to have been thrown
ashore, by means of equal altitudes of the Sun's limb;
he then found, comparing his time with that shewn

by the watch, that & 25m 189 was the difference be

tween the meridians of Greenwich and this spot in
St. Mary's. Now St. Agnes' light-house is about 2'
of a degree west of the place to which Mr. Huddart

alludes; therefore, 25' 18"+8"=25' 26" is the lon

gitude of St. Agnes, through these means; which
differs only 4' 5 in time, or a little more than one

minute of longitude from that found by the survey."

   It would be superfluous for me to point out the

meritorious acts of Captain Huddart as an Elder

Brother of the Trinity House, or I might expatiate

considerably on the numerous and important services
which he has rendered to the country in that capacity.

   It is well known that, so long as his health per

mitted, he was one of the most active and useful
                                         56

members of that honorable and beneficial institution ;
and that, during this period, more improvement in
our light-houses, and other sea-marks, was made than
in any preceding, or than probably may be made in

any succeeding period of equal length. All were

improved, and many added, as those for the passage
of the Needles, &c.

    In 1790, when the new Lights of Hasborough, and
that off the Newarp were established, the adjacent

sea and shoals were accurately surveyed by Captain
Huddart, and a Chart was delivered, on paying light-
dues, to the northern Coasters, with complete direc

tions, &c. This Chart gave the longitude of Yar

mouth church, a most important position, which has
been adopted for all Maps and Charts since pub
lished ; for, previously, the longitude of the coast of
Norfolk was unknown.

    In 1794 the Light-vessel at the Owers was es
tablished for the guidance of all vessels bound up
and down the English Channel, and especially those
bound in to Spithead, &c; and, in 1795, the still
                                          5*

more useful one off the North Sand Head of the Good

Iwin. The description and uses of the latter were,

presume, drawn up by Captain Huddart.

   In the same year was established the very useful
Light-house of the Longships, near the Land's End of
England, for the purpose of guiding vessels from the
numerous dangers in the vicinity of the Cornish coast.
This was aided by a similar description, with direc

tions.

   In 1 802 a Floating Light was placed near the Sand
called the Sunk, in the King's or North Channel of
the Thames' mouth ; a survey of the adjacent shoals
and passages was made by Captain Huddart; copies
of which, with directions, were distributed to the

Mariners in the Coasting Trade.

    The year 1806 saw the new and most useful Light
house on Flamborough Head, on the coast of York
shire, the environs of which were, in like manner, sur

veyed and described by Captain Huddart.

    In the West, the Light-house on the South Stack,

near Holyhead, was established in 1809.

                                               H
58

    The works of Captain Huddart, above enumerated,

are the principal that I have any knowledge of. They

are not numerous in proportion to their consequence,

for they have, in every instance, obviated glaring de
ficiencies, they have filled up chasms of ignorance with

useful knowledge ; and they have been, invariably,
the results of arduous exertion, most skilfully applied,

in situations and circumstances of peculiar danger and

difficulty ; for who but he would voluntarily have se
lected the extremity of Africa, or the rugged cliffs of

Western Scotland, for the display of those talents

which might have been exhibited, in circumstances of

comparative safety, with more benefit to himself in

point of emolument, though proportionably with less
advantage to others. This evidently was not his ob

ject; and his motives seem to have been as pure, as
unsophisticated, as were his manners. He made no

parade of science, but he possessed  it,and was parti

                                                           ;
cularly distinguished as one of our earliest Lunarians.

Thousands have reason to bless his name for that

safety which has been derived from his labours and
59

the Navigators of all nations, may consider it as sy

nonymous with Benefactor.                            i

                  I have the honor to be,

                                               Sir,

Your humble Servant,

    John Purdy.

    As Captain Huddart advanced in life, he was not
exempt from some of the usual infirmities of old age :

they were not such, however, as to prevent his fulfill
ing several of the numerous duties which now pressed
on his attention ; he was always particularly zealous
in the performance of those which devolved on him
as an Elder Brother of the Trinity House Corpora
tion, and as a Director of the London and East India
Docks; all the leisure moments he could spare from
these engagements, were devoted to the experiments
before alluded to, for the improvement of Ship-build
ing, which, to the latest moment his health would
permit, he took the greatest possible interest in. The
farther he advanced into the vale of years, the more

                                     ii 2
                                             60

his reputation and celebrity increased, and the im
portance attached to his opinion as an Engineer was
such, that the applications made to him by Govern
ment and private individuals, exceeded what he could
have attended to, even though he had still been in the
possession of his former strength ; he was therefore
frequently obliged to decline them, and it no doubt
occasioned much regret to a person of his active and
benevolent disposition to find himself unable to com
ply with those demands, knowing the good that must
have resulted from his labours; such, however, was
the will of Heaven.

    We have now come to that period of our narrative
when the declining state of Captain Huddart's health
obliged him to forego all attention whatever to his

public duties ; he had persevered with an energy pe
culiar to himself in his attention to those he considered
the most important, but he had now reached the limit
beyond which his strength could not carry him. This
but too well foreseen and melancholy event occurred
in November 1815; when, finding his illness rapidly
                                             61

augmenting, he made his will, arranged his affairs,
and desired that his son, then in Wales, should be
apprized of his situation : at this time his appetite
had almost left him, his strength was rapidly declin
ing, and it was but too evident to his family and
friends, that he could not long survive. Dr. Babing-
ton, Sir William Blizard, Mr. Blizard, Sir Everard
Home, and Mr. Hole, attended him in the most assi
duous and friendly manner, but all their efforts could
only prolong his valuable life a few months.
. . At an early period of his disorder, when it first as
sumed a serious aspect, he turned his active and com
prehensive mind to the study of the anatomy of the
human body, with which he soon made himself well
acquainted ; he kept an exact journal of every symp
tom of his complaint, and of the medicine he daily
took : so long as he entertained any hopes of conquer
ing his disorder, he was indefatigable in seconding the
efforts of his medical advisers, but at length his com
plaint turning to a dropsy, he sunk under it after suf
fering the operation of tapping twice.
                                              62

    From the commencement of his complaint, he kept
an exact registry of his weight, and by weighing every
thing he took, together with what he lost, he marked
the progressive decay of his system ; he ascertained
by these means the exact quantity of weight carried
off by insensible perspiration and by the breath : these
minute calculations astonished his professional atten
dants, particularly Dr. Babington, who frequently
told him that had he originally turned his attention to
physic he must have reached the top of the profession.

    During his protracted illness his excellent and kind
friend Archdeacon Watson visited him frequently, and
about three weeks before his death administered the
holy Sacrament to him for the last time.

    Twelve hours previous to his decease, he lost in a
great measure his articulation, of which however he
was not himself sensible. He endeavoured, and ap
peared very anxious to say something to his son,
which neither he nor the attendants could understand;
and, imagining that he did not speak loud enough,
Captain Huddart exerted his voice as much as his
                                              63

weak state would allow. The by-standers compre
hended him so far as to learn that he could hear what
was said to him, and that he was surprized he could
not be heard by those around him. His son then
finding it necessary to apprize him that his articula
tion was not so distinct as usual, he immediately made
signs for paper, pen, and ink, and being raised up in
the bed, he took the pen and wrote, --but alas ! the
few words he attempted could not be deciphered :
after this effort he was laid down again, and from
that time did not attempt to speak.

    His illness had been so lengthened, and his suffer
ings so severe, that his form was very much reduced,
and his strength quite exhausted. He had been, through
life, accustomed occasionally to weigh himself; his
usual weight, for some years previous to his illness,
was about two hundred and twenty pounds : in the
month of January, seven months prior to his death,
he found himself weighing only one hundred and
thirty-four pounds; yet, notwithstanding his great
bodily weakness, he retained his faculties: he was
                                              64

perfectly tranquil and resigned to the will of his Crea
tor, and breathed his last apparently without much
pain, at nine o'clock a. m. on the 19th of August 1816.
He had expressed a wish to be buried at St. Martin's
ehurch, Westminster, where his uncle and family were
interred : he desired his funeral might be private, men
tioning a few particular friends only whom he wished
to be invited on the melancholy occasion, and on the
28th of August his mortal remains were deposited in
the vault of that church.

     Captain Huddart was tall and muscular in his
person, and his countenance was benign, open, and
placid : he was a man of pure and untainted morals,
and was particularly temperate and abstemious in his
habits : although the greater part of his life was spent
in the maritime profession, he was never known to
have been even once intoxicated ; he was in general
an early riser, usually breakfasted at eight o'clock,
dined at one, drank tea at five, supped at eight, and
retired to bed at ten ; he was kind and benevolent to
all around him, indeed his sole object through life
                65

seemed to have been the good of his fellow creatures.

One of the greatest gratifications he experienced, as an

Elder Brother of the Trinity House Corporation, was

the opportunity afforded him of placing on the pension

list of that excellent institution, those deserving but des

titute objects, old and decrepit Seamen (some of whom
he had perhaps known in early life), or their widows

and orphans ; his loss was justly deplored as a great

calamity in his native county, Cumberland, to which

his benevolence had been more particularly directed.

Smoking tobacco was recommended to Captain

Huddart, when a young man, for a complaint on his

chest, and he thus acquired a habit in which he gene

rally indulged; it was his first occupation on rising,

occasionally during the day, and again before he re

tired to rest. When his mind was engaged in serious

and deep reflection, his pipe was in more than usual

requisition; his dress was disregarded, and he paid

no attention either to the quality or the regularity of

his meals ; occasionally he appeared absorbed in his

                if,
                             i
own thoughts ;  at these times, a question was put
                                              66

to him, or an observation made by any of his family,
he would continue to muse, seemingly not aware that
he had been addressed, and frequently, after a lapse
of many minutes, would turn to the person who had
accosted him, and reply.

   His manners were simple and unaffected, and with
out appearance of conscious superiority. Though his
pursuits necessarily brought with them an extended ac
quaintance, he rarely mixed in general society ; there
were comparatively few who enjoyed his intimacy ; to
these he was ever most friendly and communicative,
and in his own social family circle, where the tem
per more freely developes itself, he displayed a perfect
equanimity of mind, and cheerfulness of disposition,
relating with good humour and satisfaction anecdotes
and incidents of his early life.

   A handsome monument has been erected to his me
mory in the Chapel of Ease at Allonby, the place of his
nativity. The following inscription, illustrative of his
character and talents, and commemorative of the emi

nent services rendered to his country, has been sup
plied by the friend to whom this Memoir is dedicated.
                             &accet> to ttje JHemorp of

              CAPTAIN JOSEPH HUDDART, F.R.S.

                                                   Formerly of the
                                Honorable East India Company's Service,
 And one of the Elder Brethren of the Corporation of the Trinity House, London ;

                                       HE WAS BORN AT THIS PLACE
                                                11th January, 1741,

                       AND DIED AT HIGHBURY TERRACE, NEAR LONDON,
                                                August 19th, 1816.

       He has left a memorial of his Fame far more lasting than this Monument,
                  in those numerous Works of Science by which he has done
                             Honor to his Country, benefitted Commerce,
                                          and improved Navigation.

             " Unto whom much is given, of them ihall much be required."

And of him it may be truly said that the pre-eminent powers of his mind, and his
          superior acquirements in Mathematics, Mechanics, and Astronomy,
                     were unceasingly devoted to the services of humanity,
                                               by pointing out a

                 J&ore <Secuce gatfj in tfje arracMe&s ©eep,

                                       and by increasing the facilities,
                                and lessening the dangers of those who
                41go down to the sea in S/ii/is, and occupytheir businessin great waters."

                        "THESE MEN SEE THE WONDERS IN THE DEEP."

They were strongly impressed on his capacious mind : he saw and acknowledged
                                 in them the wondrous works of God,

                          and meekly trusting in the merits of his Saviour,
                                  closed a life of unblemished integrity
                                         in the 75th year of his age.

                                                HIS ONLT SURVIVING SON
                  Erects this Monument in commemoration of those virtues,

                              which endeared him in all the relations of
                                                             private life.
             APPENDIX. A.

An account of Persons who could not distinguish Co
   lours. By Mr. Joseph Huddart ; in a Letter to the
   Rev. Joseph Priestley, LL.D. F.R.S.

                                Read February 13th, 1777.

                                    London, January 15th, 1777.
Sir,

      When I had the pleasure of waiting on you last
Iwinter, had hopes before now of giving you a more

Iperfect account of the peculiarity of vision which

then mentioned to you, in a person of my acquaint

ance in the North : however, if I give you now the
Ibest am able, I persuade myself you will pardon the

delay.
             · 70

   I promised to procure you a written account from
the person himself, but this I was unfortunately dis

appointed in, by his dying suddenly of a pleurisy a

short time after my return to the country.

   You will recollect I told you that this person lived

at Maryport in Cumberland, near which place, viz. at

Allonby, I myself live, and having known him about

ten years, have had frequent opportunities of con

versing with him. His name was Harris, by trade a

Ishoemaker.  had often heard from others that he

could discern the form and magnitude of all objects

very distinctly, but could not distinguish colours.

This report having excited my curiosity, I conversed

with him frequently on the subject. The account he

gave was this : That he had reason to believe other

persons saw something in objects which he could not

see ; that their language seemed to mark qualities

with confidence and precision, which he could only

guess at with hesitation, and frequently with error.

His first suspicion of this arose when he was about

four years old. Having by accident found in the
                                                    71

street a child's stocking, he carried it to a neighbour
ing house to enquire for the owner : he observed the
people called it a red stocking, though he did not
understand why they gave it that denomination, as
he himself thought it completely described by being

called a stocking. The circumstance, however, re

mained in his memory, and together with subsequent
observations led him to the knowledge of his defect.
As the idea of colours is among the first that enters
the mind, it may perhaps seem extraordinary that he
did not observe his want of it still earlier. This, how
ever, may in some measure be accounted for from the
circumstance of his family being Quakers, among
whom a general uniformity of colours is known to

prevail.
    He observed also that, when young, other children

could discern cherries on a tree by some pretended
difference of colour, though he could only distinguish
them from the leaves by their difference of size and
shape. He observed also, that by means of this dif
ference of colour they could see the cherries at a
                       n

greater distance than he could, though he could see
other objects at as great a distance as they ; that is,
where the sight was not assisted by the colour. Large
objects he could see as well as other persons; and

even the smaller ones if they were not enveloped in
other things, as in the case of cherries among the

leaves.
    1 believe he could never do more than guess the

name of any colour ; yet he could distinguish white
from black, or black from any light or bright colour.
Dove or straw-colour he called white, and different
colours he frequently called by the same name : yet
he could discern a difference between them when
placed together. In general, colours of an equal de
gree of brightness, however they might otherwise dif
fer, he frequently confounded together. Yet a striped
ribbon he could distinguish from a plain one ; but he
could not tell what the colours were with any tolerable
exactness. Dark colours in general he often mistook
for black, but never imagined white to be a dark
colour, nor a dark to be a white colour.
                     73

    He was an intelligent man, and very desirous of
understanding the nature of light and colours, for

which end he had attended a course of lectures in

natural philosophy.

He had two brothers in the same circumstances as

to sight ; and two other brothers and sisters who, as
well as their parents, had nothing of this defect.

    One of the first mentioned brothers, who is now

living, is master of a trading vessel belonging to

Maryport. I met with him at Dublin, in December

1776, and took the opportunity of conversing with

Ihim.  wished to try his capacity to distinguish the

colours in a prism, but not having one by me, I asked

him, Whether he had ever seen a rain-bow ? He re

plied, He had often, and could distinguish the different
colours ; meaning only, that it was composed of dif

ferent colours, for he could not tell what they were.

  I then procured and shewed him a piece of ribbon :

he immediately, without any difficulty, pronounced it

a striped and not a plain ribbon. He then attempted
to name the different stripes : the several stripes of

                     K
                                               74

 white he uniformly, and without hesitation, called
 white : the four black stripes he was deceived in, for
three of them he thought brown, though they were
exactly of the same shade with the other, which he
properly called black. He spoke, however, with diffi
dence as to all those stripes ; and it must be owned,
the black was not very distinct : the light green he
called yellow ; but he was not very positive : he said,

" I think this is what you call yellow." The middle

stripe, which had a slight tinge of red, he called a
sort of blue. But he was most of all deceived by the
orange colour ; of this he spoke very confidently, say

Iing, " This is the colour of grass; this is green."

also shewed him a great variety of ribbons, the colours
of which he sometimes named rightly, and sometimes
as differently as possible from the true colours.

   I asked him, Whether he imagined it possible for

all the various colours he saw, to be mere difference
of light and shade ; whether he thought there could
be various degrees between white and black ; and
that all colours could be composed of these two mix
             75

tures only ? With some hesitation he replied, No, he

did imagine there was some other difference.

   I could not conveniently procure from this person
an account in writing; but I have given his own

words, having set them down in writing immediately.

Besides, as this conversation happened only the 10th

of last month, it is still fresh in my memory. I have

endeavoured to give a faithful account of this matter,
and not to render it more wonderful than it really is.

   It is proper to add, that the experiment of the

striped ribbon was made in the day-time, and in a

good light.

             I am, Sir, &c.

             k2
              APPENDIX B.

Observations on Horizontal Refractions which affect

  the appearance of terrestrial objects, and the Dip,
   or Depression of the Horizon of the Sea. By Joseph
   Huddart, Esq. F.R.S.

              Read November 24th, 1796.

      The variation and uncertainty of the dip, in dif
ferent states of the air, taken at the same altitude

above the level of the sea, was the occasion of my
turning my thoughts to this subject ; as it renders the

latitude observed incorrect, by giving an erroneous

zenith distance of a celestial object.

  I have often observed that low lands and the extre

mity of head-lands or points, forming an acute angle
with the horizon of the sea, and viewed from a dis

              it,                                                   with an
                                                               it,
tance beyond  appear elevated above
                                              7?

open space between the land and the sea. The most

Iremarkable instance of this appearance of the land

observed at Macao, for several days previous to a
typhoon, in which the Locko lost her topmasts in
Macao Roads ; the points of the islands and low lands
appearing the highest, and the spaces between them

and the sea the largest, I ever saw. I believe it arises,

and is proportional to the evaporation going on from

Ithe sea; and in reflecting upon this phenomenon,

am convinced that those appearances must arise from
refraction, and that instead of the density of the at
mosphere increasing to the surface of the sea, it must
decrease from some space above it ; and that evapo
ration is the principal cause which prevents the uni
formity of density and refraction being continued, by
the general law, down to the surface of the earth :

and I am inclined to believe, though I mention it here

as a conjecture, that the difference of specific gravity
in the particles of the atmosphere may be a principal
agent in evaporation ; for the corpuscles of air, from
their affinity with water, being combined at the sur-

                                                                                                                          r
                                              78

face of the fluid from expansion, form air specifically

Kghter than the drier atmosphere ; and therefore float,

or rise, from that principle, as steam from water ; and
in their rising (the surrounding corpuscles from the
same cause imbibing a part of the moisture), become
continually drier as they ascend, yet continue ascend
ing until they become equally dense with the air.*

IHowever, these conjectures shall leave, and proceed

to the following observations upon refractions.
    In the year 1793, when at Allonby in Cumberland,

I made some remarks on the appearance of the Abbey

Head, in Galloway, which in distance from Allonby
is about seven leagues ; and from my window, at fifty
feet above the level of the sea at that time of tide,

I observed the appearance of the land about the Head

as represented in Tab. 1. fig. 1. There was a dry

     * Mr. Hamilton, in his very curious essay on the ascent of va
pours, does not allow of this principle, even as an assistant; though
by a remark (page 15) he takes notice of those appearances in the
horizon of the sea, and says they arise from a strong or unusual de

gree of refraction ; the contrary of which I hope to illustrate in the

course of this paper.
79

sand, x y, called Robin Rigg, between me and the

Head, at the distance from my house of between three

Iand four miles, over which saw the horizon of the

sea, H O ; the sand at this time was about three or

four feet above the level of the sea. The hummock

d is a part of the head-land, but appeared insulated

or detached from the rest, and considerably elevated

Iabove the sea, with an open space between.  then

Icame down about twenty -five feet, when had the

dry sand of Robin Rigg, x y, in the apparent horizon,
and lost all that floating appearance seen from above,

and the Abbey Head appeared every where distinct

to the surface of the sand ; this being in the afternoon,

the wet or moisture on the sand would in a great

measure be dried up. I have reason, therefore, to

conclude that evaporation is the cause of a less refrac

tion near the surface of the sea ; and when so much

so as to make an object appear elevated wholly above

the horizon, (as at d in fig. 1.) there will from every
point of this object issue two pencils of rays of light,

which enter the eye of the observer ; and that below

                                                           r
                      80

the dotted line A B (parallel to the horizon of the sea

H O), the objects on the land will appear inverted.
   To explain this phenomenon, I shall propose the

following theory, and compare it with the observa

tions which I have made. Suppose H O, fig. 2, to

represent the horizontal surface of the sea, and the

                      the laminae or strata of cor
it itparallel lines above

                  it,
                                   in
puscles, which next the fluid are most expanded, or

the rarest; and every lamina upwards increasing in

density till arrive at a maximum (and which shall
in future call the maximum of density) at the line D
                                       I

                                                C,

above which again decreases density, ad infinitum.

Though this in reality may be the case, do not
                                       I

wish to extend the meaning of the word density fur

ther, than to be taken for the refractive power of the

atmosphere that;      ray of light entering obliquely
   ;

             ; is,
                 a
a denser lamina to be refracted towards a perpendi
cular to its surface and in entering a rarer lamina,

the contrary which lamina? being taken at infinitely
small distances, the ray of light will form a curve,

agreeable to the laws of dioptrics.
               81

    In order to establish this principle in horizontal

refractions, I traced over various parts of this shore at

different times, when those appearances seemed favor

able, with a good telescope, and found objects suffi

cient to confirm it ; though it be difficult at that dis

tance of the land to get terrestrial objects well defined

so near the horizon, as will afterwards appear.

    One day observing the land elevated, and seeing a

small vessel at about eight miles distance, I from my

window directed my telescope to her, and thought her

Ia fitter object than any other had seen for the pur

pose of explaining the phoenomena of these refrac
tions. The telescope was forty feet above the level

of the sea, the boat's mast about thirty-five feet,

she being about twenty to thirty tons burthen. The

barometer at 29.7 inches, and Fahrenheit's thermo

meter at 54°.

The appearance of the vessel, as magnified in the

telescope, was as represented in fig. 3, and from the

Imast head to the boom was well defined.         pretty

distinctly saw the head and shoulders of the man at
                                              82

 the helm ; but the hull of the vessel was contracted,

confused, and ill defined : the inverted image began

Ito be well defined at the boom (for could not

clearly perceive the man at the helm inverted,) and
from the boom to the horizon of the sea the sails were

Iwell defined, and could see a small opening above

the horizon of the sea, in the angle made by the gaff

and mast ; and had the mast been shorter by ten feet
(to the height of y), the whole would have been ele

vated above the horizon of the sea, and from y to d
an open space. This drawing was taken from a sketch
I took at the time, and represents the proportion of

Ithe inverted to the erect object, as near as could

take it by the eye, the former being about two-thirds
of the latter in height, and the same breadth respec

tively; though at one time during my observation,

I Iwhich continued for about an hour, thought the

inverted nearly as tall as the erect object. The day
was fine and clear, with a very light air of wind, and

I found very little tremor or oscillation in viewing her

through the telescope.
                                               83

   I have laid down fig. 4. for the explanation of the

above phenomenon, in which A represents the window

I viewed B the vessel from ; H O, the curved surface

of the sea ; C D, parallel to H O, the height of the
maximum of density of the atmosphere ; the lines
marked with the small letters a a, b b, cc, dd} the
pencils of rays under their various refractions from
the vessel to the eye, or object glass of the telescope.

    The pencil of rays a a, from a point near the head
of the mainsail, is wholly refracted in a curve convex
upwards, being every where above the maximum of
density ; and the pencil of rays d d, which issues from
the same point in the sail, and passes near the horizon
of the sea at x, is convex upwards from the sail to W,
where it passes the line of maximum of density, which
is the point of inflection; there it becomes convex
downwards, passing near the horizon at x to y, where
it is again inflected, and becomes convex upwards
from thence to the eye. The pencil of rays b b, from
the end of the boom, passing nearly parallel to the
horizon, and near the maximum of density, suffers

                           t8
                                             84

very little deviation from a right line in the first part ;
but in ascending (from the curvature of the sea) will

be convex upwards to the eye. The pencil of rays c c,

from the same point in the boom, may have the small
part to c convex upwards, from c to z it will be con
vex downwards, and from z to the eye convex up
wards.

    From this investigation it appears, that two pencils
of rays cannot pass from the same point, and enter
the eye, from the law of refraction, except one pencil
pass through a medium which the other has not en
tered; and therefore the maximum of density was
below the boom, and could not exceed ten feet of
height above the surface of the sea at the time these
observations were made.

    Respecting the hull of the vessel being confused,
and ill defined in the telescope, as by fig. 3, it arises
from the blending of the rays, from the different parts
of the object, refracted through the two mediums;
some parts of the hull appearing erect, and some in

verted. Suppose the dotted line i i, fig. 4, an inde
                                              85

finite pencil of rays, passing from between the inverted
and erect parts of the object, or the upper part of the
hull of the vessel, to the eye, (for the lower part of
the hull could not be observed) : the objects cannot
appear inverted, except the angles at the eye a A c

and a A d, exceed the angle a A. i; for the interme

diate space could only be contracted by the secondary
pencils of rays. The lengths of the inverted, com
pared with the erect image of the sail, is as the sines

of the angles at the eye a A i to i A d ; and the angle

at the eye a A d, made by the two pencils of rays
from the same point near the head of the sail, must
be double the angle a A i, when the inverted image
is as tall as the erect. In this case, the sines of the
angles a A b, a A c, a A d, fig. 4, are proportional to
the altitudes a b, a c, ad, in the magnified view of

the vessel, fig. 3.

    Under this consideration no inverted image of the
sail will be formed, until the angle at the eye, made
by the two refracted pencils of rays a a and d d, ex
ceed the angle made by a a, and b b, the apparent
                         86

height of the sail of the vessel ; for were those angles

equal, the inverted sail would only be contracted into

the parallel of altitude of the boom b, and render the

appearance confused, as in the hull of the vessel.

Respecting the existence of two pencils of rays

entering the eye from every point of an object not

more elevated than a, or less than i, fig. 3, in this

Istate of the atmosphere,    cannot bring a stronger

proof than that of the strength of a light when the

rays pass near the horizon of the sea, proved by the

following observations.

Going down Channel about five years ago in the

Trinity yacht, with several of the elder brethren, to

inspect the light-houses, &c. I was told by some of

the gentlemen, who had been on a former survey,

that the lower light of Portland was not so strong as

the upper light, at near distances, but that at greater

Idistances it was much stronger.  suspected that this

difference arose from the lower light being at or near

the horizon of the sea, and mentioned it at the time ;

but afterwards had a good opportunity of making the
87

observation. We passed the Bill of Portland in the

evening, steering towards the Start, a fresh breeze

from the northward and clear night; when we had

run about five leagues from the lights, during which

time the upper light was universally allowed to be

the stronger, several gentlemen keeping watch to

make observations thereon, the lower light, drawing

near the horizon, suddenly shone with double lustre.
Mr. Strachan, whose sight is weak, had for some time

before lost sight of both lights, but could then clearly

Iperceive the lower light.  then went aloft, (as well

as others,) but before I got half mast up, the lower

light was weaker than the upper one ; on coming

Idown upon deck, found it again as strong as before.

We proceeded on, and soon lost the lower light from

the deck ; and upon drawing the upper light near the

horizon, it like the former shone exceeding bright.

I again went aloft, when it diminished in brightness ;

but from the mast-head I could then see the lower

light near the horizon as strong as before. This is in

consequence of the double quantity of light entering
                                             88

the eye by the two pencils of rays from every point.
To illustrate which, we compare the vessel, fig. 4, to
a light-house built upon the shore, and A the place of
the observer ; and having brought down the light so
low as to view it in the direction a a, another light
would appear in the horizon at x from the pencil d d ;
and had the vessel been still enough to have observed

Iit at this time with a good glass, doubt not but the

two images might have been distinctly seen : as the
light dropped, (by increasing the distance) the two
images would appear continually to approach each
other, till blended with double light in one, and dis
appear at the altitude i, above the apparent horizon

of the sea. But, as explained before, if the strength
of evaporation did not separate by refraction the pen

cils a a and d d to a greater angle than double the
angle that the lamps and reflectors appear under, the
two images would be blended, and the strong appear

ance of light would be of shorter duration. The dis-
tance run from the lights, during the time each of the

lights shone bright, would have been useful, but this
89

did not occur at the time, nor have I had the like

Iopportunity since. However,  recommend to the

mariner to station people at different heights in look
ing out for a light, in order to get sight of it near the
horizon, when it is always the strongest.

    Respecting the appearance of the Abbey Head
before mentioned, fig. 1, the dotted line A B repre
sents the limit, or the lowest points of the land that

can be seen over the sea ; for, as above stated, all the

objects appearing below this line, are the land above
it inverted ; and where the land is low, as at d and m,

it must appear elevated above the horizon of the sea.
   In fig. 5. let H O represent the curve of the ocean,

and d the extreme top of the mount visible at A by
the help of refraction ; the dotted pencil of rays c c
passing from d to the eye in some part a little below
the maximum of density, where inversion begins ;
therefore no land lower than this can be seen ; for
any pencil from a point in the land lower than this,

must in the refraction have a contrary flexure in the

curve, and therefore pass above the observer. Let

M
                          90

A D be a tangent to the curve at A, then the object d

will appear to be elevated by refraction to D; also

let A v be a tangent to the pencil A a; at A, then the

angle D A x will appear to be an open space, or be

tween D and the horizon of the sea. Suppose a star

should appear very near and over the mount d, as at #,

two pencils would issue from every point of and
                                                it,
                                                        d.
form a star below as well as above the hummock

There are always confused or ill defined images of the
objects at the height of the dotted line, fig. above
                                  ;
                                            1,
the level of the sea, as before mentioned and instead

of the points of ending sharp in that line, they ap
   Bd
pear blunted, and the Abbey Head frequently inAis
            O
sulated at the neck m.
               6,
I  have viewed, from an elevated situation, a point

or head land at a distance beyond the horizon of the

sea, forming, as in fig.    a straight line B, making
an acute angle            with the horizon of the sea.
                                  A

                                            I
Seeing the extreme point blunted and elevated,

descended; and though in descending the horizon

cut the land higher, as at H O, HO, yet the point
                                                   91

had always the same appearance as a, a, a, fig. 6,
though the land is known to continue in the direction
of the straight line A B to beneath the horizon, or
nearly so, as viewed from the height above.

  If then from a low situation we view this head land

through a telescope, the inclination of the surface A B
to the horizon being known to be a straight line, it
will appear as in fig. 7, the dotted line (at the height

of the point where a perpendicular x y would touch

the extreme of the land) being at the limit or lowest
point of erect vision. And if a tangent to the curved
appearance of the land a b, is drawn parallel to the
inclined surface of the land A B, fig. 6, touching it at
C, the point C will shew the height of the maximum
of density, where the pencil of the rays of light, from
thence to the eye, approach nearest the sea ; for pen
cils of rays from this land, taken at small distances
from C, will form parallel curves, nearly through the
refracting mediums, and C will be the point of greatest
refraction ; for above C, as at B, the refraction some
what decreasing, will appear below the line a b, or
                                             92

the parallel to the surface of the land, and the refrac
tions decrease below the point C ; for had they in
creased uniformly down to the surface of the sea, it
would render the apparent angle of the point of land
s more acute than the angle C a O, contrary to all
observations.

  IThus have endeavoured to explain the phoeno-

mena of the distorted appearance of the land near the
horizon of the sea, when the evaporation is great;

and when at the least, I never found the land quite
free from it when I used a telescope ; and from thence

infer, that we cannot have any expectation to find a
true correction for the effect of terrestrial refraction,
by taking any certain part of the contained arc ; for
the points z C B, fig. 7, will have various refractions,
though they are at nearly the same distance from the

observer. And if the observations are made wholly
over land, if the ground rises to within a small dis
tance of the rays of light in their passage from the
object to the eye, as well as at the situation of the
object and observer, the refractions will be subject to
                                              93

be influenced by the evaporations of rains, dews, &c,
which is sufficiently proved by the observations of
Colonel Williams, Captain Mudge, and Mr. Dalby,
Phil. Trans. 1795, p. 583.

    The appearances mentioned by Colonel Williams,
Captain Mudge, and Mr. Dalby, (Phil. Trans. 1795,
p. 586, 587,) cannot be demonstrated upon general
principles, as they arise from evaporation producing
partial refractions. In those general principles, it is
supposed that the same lamina of density is every
where at an equal distance from the surface of the
sea, at least as far as the eye can reach a terrestrial
object; but in the partial refractions, the lamina of
the expanded or rarefied medium may be of various
figures according to circumstances, which will refract
according to the incidence of the rays, and affect the

appearance of the land accordingly, which I have

often seen to a surprising degree. But my principal
view is to shew the uncertainty of the dip of the sea,
and that the effect of evaporation tends to depress the
apparent horizon at x, when the eye is not above the
                                              94

maximum of density ; and from hence the difficulty
of laying down any correct formula for these refrac
tions, whilst the law of evaporation is so little under
stood, which indeed seems a task not easy to surmount.
The effect indicated by the barometer and thermo
meter is insufficient : and should the hygrometer be
improved to fix a standard for moisture in the atmos
phere, and shew the variations near the surface of the
ocean, which certainly must be taken into the account,
(evaporation going on quicker in a dry than a moist
atmosphere,) the theory might still be incomplete for

correcting the tables of the dip. I shall therefore con
Iclude this paper, by shewing a method used in prac

tice, in order to obviate this error, in low latitudes.

   When I was desirous to attain more accurately the
latitude of any head-land, &c. in sight, I frequently

observed the angular distances of the Sun's nearest
limb from the horizons, upon the meridian both north
and south, beginning a few minutes before noon, and
taking alternately the observations each way, from the
poop, or some convenient part of the ship, where the
                            95

Sun and the horizon both north and south were not
intercepted ; and having found the greatest and least
distances from the respective horizons, which was at
the Sun's passing the meridian, and corrected both
for refraction, by subtracting from the least, and add
ing to the greatest altitude, the quantity given by the
table ; and also having corrected for the error of the
instrument, and the Sun's semi-diameter ; the sum of

these two angular distances, reduced as above, -- 180°,

is equal to double the dip, as by the following

                      EXAMPLE.

   The Sun's declination 4° 32' 30" north, and its semi-

diameter 15' 58" took the following observation :

The meridian distance of the

   Sun's nearest limb                             North

 ..... =horizon of the sea                     101° 1' 20"
                                                                11
=Refraction per table
                      from  the South          101 31
                                . 78° 36' 30"
                                               -f-
                                 -- 0 11            10
s =Distances corr. for refraction 78 36 19
Error of the Sextant               132 -f-132
                                +

Sun's semi-diameter             -4- 15 58      4- 15 58

...Carried over                 78 53 49       101 19   1
                            96

i Brought over                                 South .               North
   diff. or the dip found
                           .... 78" 53' 49"                      101° 19' 1"
                                                  6 25            78 58 49

Altitude reduced           = 78 47 24                            180 12 50
Zenith distance                                                  180
                           =11 12 36

= ..=.The Sun's declination N. . .                        diff.  *  12 50
                                                                     6 25
                                                 4 32 30

.. =Latitude of the ship N. . 15 45 06                              D,P.

   I regret that I cannot in this paper insert the dip
which I have found in my observations; for I only

retained the latitude of the ship determined thereby,

Ias is usual at sea; generally rejected the error of

the instrument, the dip, and semi-diameter, as they

affect both observations with the same signs, and re

duced the observation by the following method :

Sun's dist. as before        South                  North
Refraction             . 78° 36' 30"             101° V 20"

                         -- 0 11                  + 0 11

Dis. cor. for refraction 78 36 19                   To! 1 31 101" 1' 31"

                                                 + 78 36 19

Sum of S.diam. dip, &           Sum 179 37 50

  frefraction = diff. + 11      5 180                               + 11 5

                                       78 47 24  Diff.  22 10
                                       90
                                                  i     11 5 101 12 "36
iThe dist. as before =11 12 36                                         90

                                                        \ D. = 11 12 36
                                                    97

   It may be observed, that neither the dip, semi'

diameter, or index error, can affect the zenith dis
tance of the Sun's centre ; and the refraction being

small near the zenith, the result must be true if the

angles are accurately taken ; and it is only necessary
to observe, that when the sum of the distances is less
than 180°, the half difference must be added to the
distances, as by the last reduction. There is a diffi
culty in making this observation when the Sun passes
the meridian very near the zenith, as the change in
azimuth from east to west is too quick to allow suffi
cient time ; nor can it be obtained by the sextant
when the Sun passes the meridian more than 30 de

Igrees from the zenith ; for never could adjust the

back observation of the Hadley's quadrant with suffi
cient accuracy to be depended upon.

                                                            N
                    Mtgcttpt

                                                       -- QO--

     Perhaps it ought to have been more particularly
stated in the body of this memoir, that between the
late Captain Huddart and many of the highly scien
tific men who were his contemporaries, there existed
feelings of strong attachment; and that when either
he was jointly engaged with them, or opportunities
occurred in which kindness could be expressed towards
him, the best attention was always offered. Among
others, whose professions led them to act with Cap

tain Huddart, was the late Mr. Rennie, with whom
he was engaged in many of his most important reports
and public works; and it is in the knowledge of the
writer, that Mr. Rennie was at all times happy to have

the advice and sanction of Captain Huddaut, previous

to engaging in any work of consequence. To have

been thus consulted by one so sound in science and
                          100

so useful in its application as the late Mb. Rennie, will

be considered a valuable testimonial of his knowledge
and abilities ; and Captain Huddart was anxious,

while his powers remained, to further the undertakings
of his friend.

   With the late Mr. Watt of Soho, eminent as a

philosopher, and the greatest contributor to the ad
vancement of practical science that this country or
even Europe has ever known, Captain Huddart had

the happiness of being well acquainted ; and although

their individual pursuits had not in the earlier periods
of their lives led them to much personal intercourse,

so great was Mr. Watt's estimation of him, and so

                               that at a very advanced
anxious was he to evince  it,
                                                                  it
period of life, and without solicitation on the part of
Captain Huddart, he presented himself in London,

purposely to attend as an evidence in support of a

patent which had been infringed, and which was at the

time under litigation. This anecdote, trifling as

might appear under any other circumstance, serves
only to sanction the opinion which the recorder of
                                                   101

Captain Huddaiit's life entertains of his abilities. The
friendship and active co-operation of such men as the
late Mr. Watt and Mr. Rennie, cannot fail to shed a
lustre over his memory.

   It ought too, to have been known, that in his own

particular sphere, and in the East India Company's
service, where he passed so large a portion of his life,
he was equally beloved and respected, for he was ever
kind and ready to afford such assistance as was in his
power : and in relation to his anxiety to forward the
science of Navigation, it reflects credit on his memory,
that after a fire which destroyed the first edition of that

most excellent and accurate work, " Tables for Navi

gation and Nautical Astronomy, by Mendoza de Rios,"
Captain Huddart materially contributed to the print
ing of a second. As a member of the Trinity House,
his talents and acquirements were always at the service
of the Corporation ; and in the many and extensive
surveys undertaken by him for this most honourable
and useful Board, he displayed a knowledge of the
practical application of science, which few other men
                                             102
have attained ; and so plain, but so correct were the

instructions given by him for the various Lights and
Beacons erected under his immediate attention, that
mariners of slight acquirement cannot fail to under
stand them ; and so anxious was he to forward one of
the particular branches entrusted to the care of the
Trinity House, that of Light-houses, that in several
instances he attended their erection ; not suffering that
to be done by others which could be accomplished by
himself, when great responsibility or public utility de
manded his personal superintendance.

                                                   W. Phillips, I'i inter, Loudon.
jtli ' :. a
af.rrf.. LE« ' ' ·
V
        \&*p
 BUk*G.v* BtfT

tbceirc««»»t\*\»&9t
.

